Josep Living with liver cancer Barcelona, Spain © Ipsen 2020 / Toni Ricart / CAPA Pictures 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT SUMMARY INTRODUCTION 2 4.3 Enhancing integrity to maintain a trusted relationship with our stakeholders 154 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 3 4.3.1 Committed to protect personal data 154 4.3.2 Fighting corruption 155 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights 158 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 5 4.4 Driving our employees’ excellence and engagement 159 1.1 Group’s overview and strategy 6 4.4.1 Attracting the best talents 159 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement 160 1.1.2 Group Strategy 8 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace 163 1.2 Group’s activity and corporate structure 10 4.5 Minimizing our environmental impact 165 1.2.1 The Group’s Products 10 4.5.1 R educing our energy consumption and our impact 1.2.2 Major Contracts 17 on climate change 165 1.2.3 Research and Development 20 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions 166 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 24 4.6 Annex I: Scope of risks covered 168 1.2.5 Main Markets 28 4.7 Annex II: Correspondence table with GRI standards 168 1.2.6 Regulation 29 4.8 Annex III: Summary of our Key Performance 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 29 Indicators (KPIS) 2018 and 2019 171 4.9 Annex IV: Summary of our sustainable KPIs 173 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 31 4.10 Annex V: Reporting methodology and audit report 175 2.1 Risk Factors 32 2.1.1 Introduction 32 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 181 2.1.2 Business Risks 32 5.1 Framework for the implementation of corporate 2.1.3 Industrial and Environmental Risks 34 governance principles 182 2.1.4 Financial Risks 35 5.1.1 T he AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code 2.1.5 Regulatory and Legal Risks 36 as a reference code 182 2.2 Risk Management and Internal Control 37 5.1.2 S ummary table of the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations 2.2.1 Organization 37 which have not been applied 182 2.2.2 Information Management 39 5.1.3 Ethics of the Board of Directors and Executive Management 183 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework 40 5.2 Governance structure 185 2.2.4 Control Activities 41 5.2.1 The guiding principles 185 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control 42 5.2.2 The Board of Directors 189 5.3 Executive Management 212 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 43 5.3.1 O rganization and modus operandi of the Executive Management 212 3.1 Management report for the financial year 44 5.3.2 Executive Management 212 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 44 3.1.2 Analysis of results 45 5.4 Compensation of Corporate Officers 215 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 50 5.4.1 C ompensation policy of Corporate Officers 215 3.1.4 Appendices 53 5.4.2 C ompensation of Corporate Officers 3.1.5 Subsequent events 58 (Articles L.225-100 II and L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) 221 3.1.6 Group outlook 58 5.4.3 C omparative table of compensation of the Chairman 3.1.7 Subsequents events following the Accounts Settlement and Chief Executive Officer with respect to other Date of 31 December 2019 59 employees and put into perspective with 3.2 Consolidated financial statements 2019 60 the Company’s performance 233 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 60 5.4.4 C ompensation paid or awarded in 2019 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit 62 (Article L.225-100 III of the French Commercial Code) 235 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 63 5.5 Auditors’ Special Report concerning regulated 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 64 agreements 237 3.2.5 Notes 66 5.6 Share capital and shareholding 242 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial 5.6.1 Share Capital 242 statements114 5.6.2 Shareholding 248 3.3 2019 Company financial statements 119 5.6.3 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 253 3.3.1 Summary document 119 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 121 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 134 6 ANNEXES 255 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 137 6.1 Person responsible 256 6.1.1 Person responsible for the universal registration document 256 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 141 6.1.2 A ttestation by the person responsible for the universal registration document including 4.1 Ipsen’s Company Social Responsibility (CSR) vision the Annual Financial Report  256 and strategy 142 6.1.3 Persons responsible for financial information 256 4.1.1 Introduction and presentation of Ipsen’s Company Social 6.1.4 Person responsible for account audit and fees 256 Responsibility142 4.1.2 Ipsen’s Business Model 144 6.2 Third party information, statements by experts 4.1.3 The Group’s key CSR risks and opportunities 144 and declarations of interests 257 4.2 Improving patients’ lives by offering innovative 6.3 Consultation of legal documents 257 and safe medicines 146 6.4 Cross-reference tables 257 4.2.1 Bringing high quality product to patients 146 6.4.1 Universal registration document concordance table 257 4.2.2 Ensuring product safety 148 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 261 4.2.3 Committed to fight against counterfeit products 149 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of 4.2.4 Promoting products responsibly 151 the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 261 4.2.5 Enlarging access to medicine 152 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements 264 This universal registration document has been established in accordance with the Appendix 1 of the European Commission Regulation n° 809/2004 dated April 29, 2004. Société anonyme with a share capital of €83,814,526 Registered office: 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt 419 838 529 R.C.S. Nanterre 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report Pursuant to the provisions of its general regulations, in particular article 212-13, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) has registered this Universal Registration Document on 14 April 2020. This document may not be used in support of any financial operation unless it is accompanied by a prospectus approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer, and its signatories assume responsibility for its contents. Pursuant to Article 19 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of Council of 14 June 2017, the following financial information are included by reference : (i) historical consolidated financial statement for 2018 fiscal year (including the auditors’ reports) and management report for the financial year presented in the universal registration document registered by Autorité des marchés financiers on 26 March 2019 under number D.19-0205, and (ii) historical consolidated financial statement for 2017 fiscal year (including the auditors’ reports) and management report for the financial year presented in the universal registration document registered by Autorité des marchés financiers on 23 March 2018 under number D.18-0180. INTRODUCTION In this universal registration document, unless stated Investors are urged to pay careful attention to the risk factors otherwise, the terms “Company” and “Ipsen” refer to described in the second chapter of this universal registration Ipsen S.A. and the term “Group” refers to Ipsen and its document before making their investment decision. One subsidiaries and shareholdings. or more of these risks may have an adverse effect on the Group’s activities, condition, results of operations or on This universal registration document contains forwardits targets and forecasts. Furthermore, other risks not yet looking statements about the Group’s targets and forecasts, identified or considered as significant by the Group could especially in Chapter 3.1.6. Such statements may in certain have the same adverse effects. cases be identified by the use of the future or conditional tense or by forward-looking words including but not limited This universal registration document also contains details of to “believes”, “targets”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “should”, the markets in which the Group operates. This information “aims”, “estimates”, “considers”, “wishes” and “may”. These is notably taken from research produced by external statements are based on data, assumptions and estimates that organizations. Given the very rapid pace of change in the the Company considers to be reasonable. They are subject to pharmaceutical sector in France and the rest of the world, this change or adjustment owing to uncertainties arising from the information may prove to be erroneous or out of date. vagaries inherent in all research and development activities, Forward-looking statements, targets and forecasts shown as well as in the economic, financial, competitive, regulatory in this universal registration document may be affected by and climatic environment. In addition, the Group’s business risks, either known or unknown, uncertainties or other factors activities and its ability to meet its targets and forecasts may that may lead to the Group’s future results of operations, be affected if certain risk factors described in Chapter 2.1 – performance and achievements differing significantly from “Risk factors” of this universal registration document arise. In the stated or implied targets and forecasts. These factors addition, attainment of the targets and forecasts implies the may include changes in economic or trading conditions and success of the strategy presented in section 1.1.2 – “Strategy” regulations, as well as the factors set forth in Chapter 2.1 – of this universal registration document. “Risk factors” of this universal registration document. The Company makes no undertaking and gives no guarantee as to the attainment of the targets and forecasts shown in this universal registration document. 2 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 2019 Group Sales by therapeutic area 2019 Group Sales by geographic area Other Specialty European Care Oncology North America Countries 89.3% 71.6% 30.1% 19.4% Rest of Rares the World Diseases 18.0% 2.5% Neuroscience 15.2% Major Western European countries Consumer Healthcare 32.5% 10.7% Core Operating Income (in millions euros) and core Core consolidated Net Profit (in millions euros) operating margin (as a % of sales) 782.6 659.9 563.4 491.6 29.7% 30.4% 2018 2019 2018 2019 Dividend per share paid for the financial year (in euros)* Ownership of the Company’s share capital at 31 December 2019 Directors (others) Treasury shares 1.00 1.00 0.20% 0.9% Highrock 26.03% Free Float 41.30% MR Schwabe 4.34% MR HB 9.92% 2018 2019 MR BMH * Proposed by the Ipsen S.A. Board of Directors, for vote at the next 16.11% Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Other registered shareholders Employee FCPE 0.90% 0.30% 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 3 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES Share price performance on the stock exchange Ipsen has implemented a Sponsored Level I American Shares in Ipsen S.A. have been traded on the Eurolist by Depositary Receipt (ADR) program and trades on the overEuronext™ market (Compartment A) since 7 December 2005, the-counter market in the United States under the symbol when the IPO (Initial Public Offering) price was €22.20 per share. IPSEY. Ipsen shares joined the Deferred Settlement System on 28 March 2007 and joined the SBF120 index on 24 December 2007. Share information 2019 trading data ISIN Code FR0010259150 Average share price €105.52 Euronext Code IPN.PA Highest price (19/03/2019) €126.65 ADR Code IPSEY Lowest price (18/12/2019) €76.65 SRD / PEA Eligibility Yes / Yes Stock market capitalization (1) €6,621.34 M Total Shares (1) 83.8 M Average daily volume 127,097 (1) As of 31 December 2019. Comparison between Ipsen’s share price performance and the principal stock market indicators between 2 January 2019 and 31 December 2019 (Source : Onvista) Price (Base 100 on 2 January 2019) Volume 130 3,500,000 120 3,000,000 110 2,500,000 100 2,000,000 90 1,500,000 80 1,000,000 70 500,000 60 0 January 19 February 19 March 19 April 19 May 19 June 19 July 19 August 19 September 19 October 19 November 19 December 19 Volumes Ipsen SBF 120 S&P Pharma CAC Mid 60 4 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 6 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 1.1.2 Group Strategy 8 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 10 1.2.1 The Group’s Products 10 1.2.2 Major Contracts 17 1.2.3 Research and Development 20 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 24 1.2.5 Main Markets 28 1.2.6 Regulation 29 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 29 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company ■ 1.1.1.1 Legal Entity Overview Onivyde ® (irinotecan liposome injection), a differentiated product with overall survival benefit addressing a high Registered name unmet medical need in second-line pancreatic cancer; Ipsen and Decapeptyl® (triptorelin), an established and growing Registered office product in Europe and China for the treatment of prostate cancer; 65 Quai Georges Gorse, 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt, France • Neuroscience (15.2% of Ipsen’s sales) with the key Telephone number neurotoxin product Dysport® (botulinum toxin type A) for +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 the treatment of therapeutic and aesthetic indications; Legal Form and applicable laws • Rare Diseases (2.5% of Ipsen’s sales) with Nutropin ® The Company is a limited liability company incorporated (somatropin), a liquid formulation of recombinant human under French law with a Board of Directors governed by the growth hormone and Increlex® (mecasermin), a recombinant provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code. insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) of human origin. The Group’s recent acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals Registration details and the exclusive license agreement with Blueprint The Company is registered in the Trade and Companies Medicines supplement its Rare Diseases franchise. Registry in Nanterre under registration number 419 838 529. Consumer Healthcare Its Legal Entity Identifier number is The Consumer Healthcare business is the historical business 549300M6SGDPB4Z94P11. of the Group with several strong regional brands. It generated Date of incorporation and term sales of €276.8 million in 2019, or 10.7% of the Group’s sales. China, France and Russia account for 62% of Consumer The Company was incorporated on 28 July 1998, for a fixed Healthcare sales. period, except in the case of early dissolution or extension, of ninety-nine years from its registration in the Trade and The Consumer Healthcare business is transforming from a Companies Registry, or until 18 August 2097. prescription-based promotional model to a combination of prescription and over-the-counter (OTx). ■ 1.1.1.2 Group Overview Key brands include Smecta ® (diosmectite), a naturally Ipsen is a global biopharmaceutical group focused on extracted purified clay for the symptomatic treatment of acute innovation and Specialty Care. diarrhea; Tanakan® (Ginkgo biloba extract), a standardized The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba for the treatment in three key therapeutic areas – Oncology, Neuroscience and of various neurological and neuro-sensorial disorders; Rare Diseases. Ipsen also has a well-established Consumer Forlax® (macrogol 4000), an osmotic laxative indicated for Healthcare business. With total sales of €2,576.2 million in the symptomatic treatment of constipation in adults and 2019, Ipsen sells more than 20 drugs in over 115 countries, children; and Fortrans® (macrogol 4000), a colon cleansing with a direct commercial presence in more than 30 countries. solution indicated for patients in preparation for endoscopic, radiological examinations or colonic surgery. Specialty Care Ipsen has built its strength in Specialty Care through a robust ■ 1.1.1.3 History and Development portfolio of drugs with leading international research hubs and of the Company solid long-term partnerships. The Group was founded in 1929 when Doctor Henri Beaufour T h e S p e c i a l t y C a r e b u s i n e s s g e n e r a te d s a l e s o f created Laboratoires Beaufour in Dreux for the launch of €2,299.4 million in 2019, or 89.3% of the Group’s sales. The Romarène ®, a naturally-occurring product derived from Group focuses on: rosemary for the treatment of digestive disorders. The 1970s were marked by a period of expansion for the Group’s activities • Oncology (71.6% of Ipsen’s sales) with Somatuline ® in organic products during which Ipsen launched Tanakan and (lanreotide), a best-in-class somatostatin analog with a new Smecta, which remain within the Group products portfolio delivery system for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors today. and acromegaly; Cabometyx® (cabozantinib), the first and only monotherapy tyrosine kinase inhibitor demonstrating During the 1970s, the Group focused its activities on significant clinical improvements in both first-line and engineering peptide products and set up Biomeasure (now second-line renal cell carcinoma, and also a tyrosine kinase known as Ipsen Bioscience, Inc.), which became the Group’s inhibitor with proven, significant overall survival in a secondpeptide product research facility based close to universities line advanced hepatocellular carcinoma population; around Boston. Through Biomeasure, the Group established 6 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY and fostered strong relationships with several American In the third quarter of 2019, Ipsen signed an exclusive global universities. These partnerships led to the marketing of license agreement with BluePrint Medicines to develop and Decapeptyl, which was launched in 1986 and fueled the commercialize BLU-782 for the treatment of fibrodysplasia Group’s international expansion. ossificans progressiva (FOP) and potential other indications. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Group continued its Strong Foundation international expansion by setting up subsidiaries and offices outside of France and acquiring foreign companies. Ipsen is built on a strong foundation with a 90-year heritage of family ownership, a solid and diversified portfolio with In 1994, the Group acquired the UK-based company a fast-growing and dynamic Specialty Care business, a Speywood (known at the time as Porton International), solid Consumer Healthcare business, and with significant which was responsible for developing Dysport and in 1995, competitive advantages: the Group launched its second sustained-release peptide, Somatuline in France. • proven financial strength through a significant and recurring cash flow and strong balance sheet; The Group went public in December 2005 on the Eurolist market of Euronext™ in order to accelerate and support its • a global footprint in over 100 countries, with nearly 50% of growth in Specialty Care and to enter the world’s largest revenues generated outside Europe. The Group entered pharmaceutical market in the United States. the U.S. market in 2008 which now represents the fastestgrowing region and the top affiliate in terms of sales. The From 2010 onwards, the Group increased its focus and Group also benefits from an important historical presence investment in its toxin research platform. The Group’s active in markets such as China and Russia; policy of building partnerships to create value through the licensing of products that arise from its research but are not • proven expertise in cutting-edge technologies, such as deemed to be part of its core business (see part 1.2.2 “Major toxin engineering and advanced drug delivery systems, Contracts”). which can be employed together at an early stage of development; More recently, the Group completed important transactions to accelerate its evolution toward becoming a leading global • the geographic proximity of its research, development and biopharmaceutical company: innovation teams based in the United States (Cambridge, In 2016, the Group acquired the exclusive commercialization MA) and in Europe (Oxford, United Kingdom – Dublin, rights for cabozantinib, including future indications outside of Ireland – Berlin, Germany – Dreux and Paris Saclay, France) the United States and Japan from Exelixis. to highly-regarded university research centers which enable the Group to benefit from available scientific expertise and In early 2017, the Group acquired Onivyde, the oncology asset to hire highly-qualified personnel; from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. • a recognized ability to secure and manage large-scale In first half of 2019, the Group acquired Clementia partnerships with the world’s leading and innovative Pharmaceuticals including its key late-stage clinical asset pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as palovarotene, an investigational retinoic acid receptor gamma Exelixis, Lexicon, Servier, Teijin, Galderma and Menarini; (RARγ) selective agonist, for the treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), multiple osteochondromas • an effective management team with significant experience (MO) and other diseases. in the pharmaceutical industry. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 7 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY ■ 1.1.1.4 Group’s Main Products The following table presents the main therapeutic indications for the Group’s main marketed products. 2019 sales Therapeutic area (1) Product name (in million Principal therapeutic indications (2) euros) Specialty Care: 89.3% of full year sales Oncology Somatuline® 1,031.6 Neuroendocrine tumors; acromegaly Oncology Decapeptyl ® 407.4 Advanced metastatic prostate cancer; uterine fibroids; central precocious puberty; endometriosis; female infertility (in vitro fertilization), early stage breast cancer in combination with hormone therapy Oncology Cabometyx® 242.2 Renal cell carcinoma, second-line hepatocellular carcinoma Oncology Onivyde ® 134.7 Second-line metastatic pancreatic cancer Neuroscience Dysport® 388.3 Motor muscular disorders (cervical dystonia; adult and children spasticity, blepharospasms and hemifacial spasms) and medical aesthetics (glabellar lines, lateral canthal lines, hyperhidrosis) Rare Diseases NutropinAq® 41.8 Growth failure in children due to growth hormone (GH) deficiency, Turner syndrome or chronic renal insufficiency and GH deficiency in adults Rare Diseases Increlex® 21.9 Long-term treatment of growth failure in children and adolescents with severe primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (severe primary IGFD) Consumer Healthcare: 10.7% of full year sales Gastroenterology Smecta® 125.6 Acute diarrhea and chronic diarrhea; symptomatic treatment of pain associated with functional bowel diseases Gastroenterology Forlax® 42.1 Symptomatic treatment of constipation in adults or in children above the age of 6 months Gastroenterology Fortrans® / Eziclen® 36.8 Fortrans: Bowel cleansing prior to endoscopy, X-ray examination or colonic surgery Eziclen: Bowel cleansing Cognitive disorders Tanakan® 36.7 Symptomatic treatment of cognitive disorders in adults Adjunctive treatment of vertigo of vestibular origin in addition to vestibular rehabilitation Symptomatic treatment of tinnitus (1) Products are classified into therapeutic areas based on their primary indications. (2) Therapeutic indications of products vary from country to country. For more details about the sales geographical breakdown, see the management report (part 3.1.2 “Analysis of results”). 1.1.2 Group Strategy ■ 1.1.2.1 General Context • grow th in Big Data c apabilitie s, with te chnolog y advancements applied to science and medical fields having The pharmaceutical industry is facing several macro-trends the potential to vastly increase therapeutic options and transforming societies and economies, bringing positive accelerate personalized care delivery. perspectives as well as challenges. On one hand, the underlying drivers of the pharmaceutical At the same time, the pharmaceutical industry is impacted industry open up positive prospects: by the transformation of healthcare across the world and increasing innovation hurdles: • demographic and health shifts, with a growing and aging population and a more sedentary lifestyle driving a higher prevalence of unmet medical needs; • continuous increase of healthcare costs, leading to a focus on costs and productivity across healthcare • growing patient influence, with patients becoming central systems, resulting in the rise of value-based care, and to healthcare delivery due to increasing knowledge and the reconfiguration of healthcare delivery (e.g. through willingness to actively manage their health; consolidation); 8 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY • increasing innovation hurdles, with patent expiries than 115 countries) and its global commercial powerhouse generating an imperative to innovate in an environment to grow and roll out its Specialty Care portfolio in all key of rapid scientific advancements, supportive regulatory geographies. frameworks but with high evidence requirements. Consumer Healthcare These macro-trends, bringing both opportunities and In Consumer Healthcare, the Group maintains a sustainable challenges for pharmaceutical companies to continue to business, in an environment of increasing consolidation, save and improve patient lives, are closely monitored and impacted by changes in market dynamics, competitive accounted for in the Group’s strategy. environment and more stringent regulatory requirements. To sustain growth, Ipsen is completing its OTx model ■ 1.1.2.2 Group’s vision and ambition transformation and leveraging its three main market-leading Ipsen is a dynamic and growing global specialty-driven brands by enhancing consumer innovations, capturing biopharmaceutical group focused on innovation and Specialty the underlying market growth in emerging markets and Care that is improving people’s lives through differentiated and strengthening the European business. innovative medicines in Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases. The strong position in Specialty Care, combined A Development and Commercial Powerhouse driven by with the presence in Consumer Healthcare, provides the innovation Group with the scale, expertise and stability needed to make A Development and Commercial Powerhouse driven by a sustainable difference for people in a quickly-evolving innovation, building an innovative and sustainable pipeline is healthcare environment. essential for continued growth and is a key objective for the A strengthened leadership position in three therapeutic Group. Ipsen has focused its internal resources and efforts areas and a sustainable business in Consumer on becoming a Development Powerhouse while increasingly Healthcare turning toward external sourcing for new assets. Innovation is driving the business in a rapidly-transforming Ipsen is built around a culture of open innovation, which healthcare environment. The Group’s global footprint and drives research, development and commercialization. The recognized leadership across the core focus areas of Group identifies, develops and integrates innovative products Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases position it to take that are a strategic fit for its portfolio and that deliver value to on the challenges faced by patients and caregivers. patients. It brings together the best minds to tackle some of the most difficult diseases and it does so by developing longSpecialty Care lasting, mutually-beneficial partnerships and through open In Specialty Care, Ipsen is focused on three key therapeutic and smart collaborative innovation. areas: Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, where Ipsen can establish a leadership position and leverage its Externally-sourcing innovation (see part 1.2.3.1 “Research expertise from drug development to commercialization and and Development Activities”) is a key tenet of Ipsen’s business deliver sustainable long-term growth. model. This principle, along with its strong track record and growing U.S. presence has positioned the Group as a partner • Oncology where the Group currently has differentiated, of choice from early-stage development and academic best-in-class products in niche indications such as partnerships to late-stage and product commercialization. neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic With an open innovation model in mind, the Group has placed cancer, prostate cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. its three R&D centers at the heart of internationally-reputed Life Cycle Management programs are being pursued in scientific hubs: Paris-Saclay in France, Oxford in the United additional indications to further grow the existing brands Kingdom and Cambridge in the United States. and expand positioning on indications with high unmet needs. The Group’s biotech mindset, combined with the scale and advantages of a global pharmaceutical company, has helped • In Neuroscience Ipsen has exper tise in research, establish the company as a development and commercial development, manufacturing, commercialization, in both powerhouse in its core focus areas, with a proven ability to the therapeutic area mainly focused on spasticity currently, bring new, life-changing therapies to market. This approach and the aesthetics area through the partnership with is core to Ipsen’s ambition to launch at least one new drug or Galderma. meaningful indication every year. • Rare Diseases, including the acquisition in April 2019 of Business Development Clementia Pharmaceuticals, with its key late-stage drug candidate palovarotene for the treatment of rare bone Ipsen will continue to invest in business development in its diseases and with the exclusive license agreement with three key therapeutic areas. The Group continues to be active Blueprint Medicines in October 2019 for the development in its business development efforts and is evaluating assets in and commercialization of BLU-782, an investigational its key therapeutic areas in all phases of clinical development. treatment for similar rare bone diseases. All transactions should enable to achieve long-term sustainable • Across these three therapeutic areas, Ipsen ambition is value and growth potential, meet Group’s strategic ambition, to fully leverage its broad geographic presence (in more be financially viable and generate synergies for the Group. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 9 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY The ambition for external innovation is to fuel the R&D pipeline ■ 1.1.2.3 2022 Financial Outlook across the three therapeutic areas of focus, in order to deliver The Group has updated its 2022 outlook taking into account at least one new product or meaningful indication every year. the latest developments in its current business, mainly in the • In Oncology, the focus is on rare or niche solid tumors palovarotene development program: considering all stages of development candidates and • Group net sales greater than €2.8 billion, assuming marketed products. current level of exchange rates; • In Neuroscience, the priority is on new technologies/ • Core Operating margin greater than 28.0% of net sales solutions to enhance Ipsen’s neurotoxin therapies and R&D capabilities. The outlook has been updated assuming no approval of additional meaningful products or indications (including • In Rare Diseases, Ipsen targets different kind of rare no contribution from palovarotene), progressive entry of diseases including rare bone and musculoskeletal diseases additional octreotide and lanreotide generics globally from and their adjacencies, with all stages of development 2021 and excluding the impact of incremental investments in candidates and marketed products and all modalities. To pipeline expansion initiatives. further build this franchise, the Group will pursue attractive opportunities in the Rare Diseases space. 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.1 The Group’s Products ■ 1.2.1.1 Specialty Care Products inhibits the production of certain hormones secreted in excess by these tumors; Oncology – treatment of Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Somatuline® and Somatuline® Autogel® / Depot® Tumors (GEP-NETs) in adult patients with unresectable (lanreotide) locally advanced or metastatic disease to improve progression-free survival (PFS); Active substance and indications Somatuline ® (lanreotide) is a somatostatin analog which • Acromegaly inhibits the secretion of growth hormones and certain other treatment of acromegaly when circulating levels of growth hormones by the digestive system. hormone and /or Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 remain abnormal after surgery and/or radiotherapy, or in patients Somatuline Autogel® (marketed as Somatuline Depot® in the who otherwise require medical treatment. Somatuline U.S.) is the first semi-solid formulation for injection without any inhibits growth hormone release and thus improves control polymeric excipient since the active substance itself controls of this disorder by relieving the symptoms associated with the sustained release. Somatuline Autogel releases the active elevated levels of this hormone. substance over a duration of at least 28 days, thus requiring just one deep subcutaneous injection per month. This unique Marketing formulation was launched in 2001 and allows the product to Somatuline was initially launched in France in 1995. The be presented in a pre-filled, ready-to-use syringe for easier Somatuline Autogel formulation was launched in 2001 administration. A pre-filled ready-to-use device was launched for the treatment of acromegaly and carcinoid syndrome in 2011 with a retractable needle enabling the safe delivery of associated with neuroendocrine tumors. In 2015, the EMA the full dose with every injection. A new delivery system with approved Somatuline Autogel for the treatment of Gastroa further improved design was approved in 2019 in Europe Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors in adults with and in the U.S. unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. The main indications of Somatuline and Somatuline Autogel / Somatuline Depot was first approved by the U.S. Food Depot are the following: and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2007 for the treatment of • Neuroendocrine tumors acromegaly. In 2014, Somatuline Depot was approved for the anti-proliferative treatment of Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic – treatment of symptoms associated with carcinoid Neuroendocrine Tumors in adults with unresectable locally syndrome related to neuroendocrine tumors. Somatuline advanced or metastatic disease. The label was extended 10 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE in September 2017 for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome convenient regimen of one tablet daily as well as the first and associated with neuroendocrine tumors. Somatuline Depot only single agent targeted therapy in first-line treatment of a became the first and only somatostatin analog FDA-approved renal cell carcinoma to demonstrate superiority over sunitinib, for these two last indications. the former standard of care across progression free survival and disease control. Somatuline Depot received Orphan Drug Designation in the U.S. for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors with Cabometyx is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment exclusivity until 2021. of hepatocellular carcinoma in adults who have previously been treated with sorafenib. As of 31 December 2019, Somatuline Autogel / Depot was marketed in more than 60 countries for the treatment of Marketing acromegaly and neuroendocrine tumors. Cabometyx was first launched in Europe in Germany in 2016 In 2019, Somatuline Autogel / Depot was the first and fastest for second-line renal cell carcinom. As of 31 December 2019, growing product of the Group with sales of €1,031.6 million, of Cabometyx was available in 32 countries with reimbursement which 55% were generated in North America. in second-line treatment of renal cell carcinoma and in 11 countries with reimbursement in first-line treatment of renal Somatuline Autogel / Depot is prescribed mainly by cell carcinoma. endocrinologists, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and In November 2018, the European Commission approved digestive surgeons. Cabomet y x as a monotherapy for the treatment of Competition hepatocellular carcinoma in adults who have previously been treated with sorafenib. This approval allows for the marketing The main competitor of Somatuline Autogel is Sandostatin of Cabometyx in this indication in all 28 member states of the LAR, a somatostatin analog called octreotide developed by European Union, Norway and Iceland, and 12 other countries Novartis for the treatment of acromegaly and neuroendocrine have a market authorization for the treatment of hepatocellular tumors. However, the approved indications are not identical carcinoma in second line. As of 31 December 2019, as Sandostatin does not have the anti-proliferative indication Cabometyx was available in 6 countries with reimbursement for Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors in in second-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. the U.S. Other competitors in the acromegaly market are: Somavert®, a growth hormone receptor antagonist developed In 2019, total sales of Cabometyx amounted to €242.2 million. by Pfizer, and Signifor® LAR developed by Novartis. Cabometyx is prescribed primarily by oncologists. In April 2019, Teva received European approval under a decentralized procedure for an octreotide generic. The Cabomet y x stems from a par tnership with E xelixis approval included 27 countries, and the first octreotide (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). generic was launched in Germany in July 2019. Competition Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) Many other treatments are approved in Europe for renal cell carcinoma. Some products have been marketed for Active substance and indications several years like Sutent® (Pfizer), Nexavar® (Bayer), Afinitor® Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) is a small molecule administered (Novartis), and Inlyta® (Pfizer). Two other products received orally in the form of tablets that acts as a targeted tyrosine approval in 2016 in second-line treatment of renal cell kinase inhibitor (TKI). carcinoma: Opdivo ® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), and Kisplyx ® (Eisai) in combination with Afinitor®. With a unique mechanism of action targeting ME T (hepatocyte growth factor receptor) and AXL (tyrosine kinase In the most recent European Society for Medical Oncology receptor) beyond VEGFR (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (ESMO) renal cell carcinoma guidelines, only Cabometyx Receptor) and other molecular targets like RET, Cabometyx and Opdivo® are considered standard of care therapies in has the potential to overcome the resistance induced by second-line post-tyrosine kinase inhibitors use. Nexavar ®, prior antiangiogenic therapies. The mechanism of action for Afinitor ®, and Inlyta ® are only considered as treatment Cabometyx has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and the options, while Kisplyx® in combination with Afinitor ® was not migration and proliferation of tumor cells. Cabometyx has also included. been found to disrupt tumor vasculature and induce tumor cell death in pre-clinical models. In first-line treatment of renal cell carcinoma, five other therapies are currently approved as of 31 December 2019: Cabometyx is indicated for the treatment of advanced Sutent®, Votrient®, Fotivda® (Aveo Pharmaceuticals), Torisel® renal cell carcinoma in both treatment-naïve adults with ( Pfizer) and the combination of Avastin ® ( Roche) and intermediate or poor risk as well as in adults following prior interferon alfa. Only Cabometyx demonstrated superiority vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy. over sunitinib, which was considered as the standard of care to date. Cabometyx is the first and only targeted therapy in second-line renal cell carcinoma to demonstrate clinically and statistically In January 2019, the combination of Yervoy ® and Opdivo® significant improvement across three endpoints (progression (Bristol-Myers Squibbs) received European approval for the free survival, overall survival, overall response rate), with a initial treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma patients 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 11 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE with intermediate and poor risk. In September 2019, the oxaliplatin), Folfox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin), combination of Keytruda® (Merck) and Inlyta® (Pfizer) received and Folfiri® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan). European approval for the frontline treatment of patients with O n i v yd e is i n d i c ate d fo ll ow i n g g e m c i ta b i n e -ba s e d advanced renal cell carcinoma. therapy. The most common gemcitabine-based therapy is In Europe, Stivarga ® (Bayer), is approved for second-line gemcitabine in combination with Abraxane®, a microtubule hepatocellular carcinoma after sorafenib treatment as well as inhibitor, developed and marketed by Celgene, indicated Cyramza® (Lilly) indicated for the treatment of adult patients in combination with gemcitabine as first-line treatment for with advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma who advanced pancreatic cancer. have a serum alpha fetoprotein (AFP) of ≥ 400 ng/ml and who Decapeptyl® (triptorelin) have been previously treated with sorafenib. Active substance and indications Onivyde® (irinotecan liposome injection) Decapeptyl® (triptorelin) is a synthetic hormone with active ingredient triptorelin, a decapeptide analog of GnRH Active substance and indications (Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone). GnRH is a hormone Oniv yde ® ( irinotecan liposome injection) is a unique secreted by the hypothalamus, which initially stimulates the encapsulation formulation of irinotecan. Irinotecan sucrose release of pituitary gonadotrophins (hormones produced by octasulfate is a long-circulating liposomal form, which the pituitary gland) and in turn controls hormonal secretions is designed to increase the length of tumor exposure to by the testicles and ovaries. irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38. The indications of Decapeptyl are as follows: Irinotecan, a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor, is a derivative of • Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic prostate camptothecin that relieves torsional strain in DNA by inducing cance r: Decapept yl temporarily increases the single-strand breaks, rotating the cleaved strand around concentration of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, the double-helix axis and re-ligating the cleaved strand but continuous administration paradoxically leads to a to re-establish intact duplex DNA. Both irinotecan and its reduction in plasmatic testosterone concentration. After active metabolite SN-38 bind reversibly to the topoisomerase two to three weeks of treatment, testosterone is reduced I-DNA complex and prevent re-ligation of these single-strand to levels below the castration threshold, thereby depriving breaks. The liposome is a unilamellar lipid bilayer vesicle, prostate tumors of one of the main hormones promoting which encapsulates an aqueous space containing irinotecan tumor development; sucrose octasulfate. • Endometriosis: Decapeptyl is used as a treatment aimed at Onivyde is indicated, in combination with 5-fluorouracil and suppressing estrogen secretion, which deprives the ectopic leucovorin, for the treatment of patients with metastatic endometrial tissue of the critical stimulus it needs to grow; adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabine-based therapy. • Uterine fibroids: Decapeptyl is used to reduce the risk of blood loss following ablative surgery to remove uterine Marketing fibroids and to relieve symptoms such as abdominal pain, dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation), and menorrhagia Onivyde was approved in the US in 2015 for the treatment (excessive menstrual bleeding) associated with uterine of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease f i b ro i d s th ro u g h th e re d u c ti o n i n th e i r h o r m o n a l progression with gemcitabine-based therapy, in combination stimulation; with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. • In vitro fertilization: Decapeptyl is used in association with Onivyde was developed by Merrimack Pharmaceuticals gonadotrophins to induce ovulation for in vitro fertilization and acquired by Ipsen in April 2017. The Group currently followed by embryo transfer; markets Onivyde in the U.S. and retains exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to potential future indications for the • Central precocious puberty: Decapeptyl is used to inhibit drug. Servier has ex-U.S., ex-Taiwan commercialization rights over-secretion of hormones by the pituitary gland at a to Onivyde and PharmaEngine has commercialization rights premature age, which improves the height age/bone age in Taiwan. ratio; Onivyde sales reached €134.7 million in 2019 including • Endoc r i ne -re sp onsi ve e a r ly-stag e bre ast c a nce r: mainly direct sales in the U.S. but also sales at supply price Decapeptyl monthly is used in pre-menopausal women to Servier. at high risk of recurrence following chemotherapy, in combination with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. Onivyde is prescribed by oncologists in the U.S. Triptorelin leads to ovarian function suppression, which in combination with tamoxifen (anti-œstrogen) or aromatase Competition inhibitor (inhibitor of œstrogen synthesis) deprives the breast tumor of the main hormones promoting its development. The main competitors of Onivyde are fluorouracil-based combination regimens of generic chemotherapy agents • Decapeptyl is available in daily, monthly, three-month, and including: Folfirinox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan and six-month sustained-release formulations. 12 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Marketing cancer. After intravesical instillation of hexaminolevulinate, Decapeptyl was the Group’s second largest product in terms porphyrins will accumulate intracellularly in bladder wall of sales in 2019 with Major Western European countries (G5) lesions. The intracellular porphyrins (including Protoporphyrin accounting for 48% of total sales and China representing a IX or PpIX) are photoactive, fluorescing compounds which emit large portion of Decapeptyl sales (21%). red light upon blue light excitation. As a result, premalignant and malignant lesions will glow red on a blue background. At 31 D e c e m b e r 2019, D e c a p e pt y l h ad m a r keting False fluorescence may be seen as a result of inflammation. authorizations in over 76 countries, including 28 in Europe. Hexvix enhances the detection and guides the resection of tumors in patients with known or a high suspicion of bladder Decapeptyl is prescribed primarily by the following specialists: cancer. urologists, oncologists, radiation oncologists, pediatric endocrinologists, gynecologists and in vitro fertilization Marketing specialists. H ex v i x s te m s f ro m a p a r tn e r s h i p w i th P h oto c u r e Decapeptyl stems from a partnership with Debiopharm (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). The Group is responsible (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). for the commercialization of Hexvix primarily in Western European countries. Competition Cometriq® (cabozantinib) Competitors’ products vary depending on therapeutic indications. For prostate cancer, the main competitors are: Active substance and indications Enantone® (Takeda/Wyeth/ Abbott), Zoladex® (AstraZeneca), Cometriq® (cabozantinib) is a small molecule administered Eligard® (Astellas). orally in the form of capsules that acts as a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Xermelo® (telotristat ethyl) Active substance and indications Cometriq targets three important intracellular pathways in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC): RET, VEGFR, and MET, Xermelo ® (telotristat ethyl) is a novel, orally-administered, besides other molecular targets like AXL. The mechanism of inhibitor of the enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH). Through action for Cometriq has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis inhibition of TPH, the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of and the migration and proliferation of tumor cells. Cometriq serotonin, Xermelo is designed to reduce the production of has also been found to disrupt tumor vasculature and induce serotonin within neuroendocrine tumors, thus reducing the tumor cell death in preclinical models. presence of some of the symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome, in particular diarrhea and the secretion of 5HIAA Cometriq was approved in Europe based on the Phase 3, (5 hydroxy-indole acetic acid). international, multicenter, randomized, double-blind study (EXAM). Xermelo is indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in patients inadequately controlled by somatostatin This study demonstrated a statistically significant and analog therapy. clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival with Cometriq as compared to placebo, corresponding to a Marketing decrease of 72% of the risk of disease progression in patients Xermelo was approved by EMA in 2017 for the treatment with progressive locally advanced (not amenable by surgery) of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with a or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer. somatostatin analog. As of 31 December 2019, Xermelo is Cometriq is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with available in 22 countries, including 20 European countries. progressive, unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic Xermelo is prescribed by the same physicians that prescribe medullary thyroid carcinoma. Cometriq has orphan drug Somatuline and other somatostatin analogs (endocrinologists, status and fulfils an unmet medical need in medullary thyroid oncologists, gastroenterologists, and digestive surgeons), as cancer. the treatment is an add-on to this therapy. Marketing Xe r m e l o s te m s f r o m a p a r t n e r s h i p w i t h L e x i c o n As of 31 December 2019, Cometriq was approved in Pharmaceuticals (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). 30 countries and available in 12 countries. Competition Cometriq is prescribed primarily by oncologists and Xermelo currently has no direct competition as it is a first-inendocrinologists. class drug, with little or no other validated therapies available C o m e t r i q s te m s f ro m a p a r t n e r s h i p w i t h E xe l i x i s in this particular patient segment. (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Hexvix® (hexaminolevulinate) Competition Active substance and indications The main competitor for the product is Caprelsa® (Sanofi) Hexvix® (hexaminolevulinate) (85 mg) is a photosensitizing which is used to treat patients with medullary thyroid cancer agent used in blue-light cystoscopy as adjunct to standard that cannot be removed through surgery or that has spread to white contributing to the diagnosis and management of bladder other parts of the body. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 13 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Neuroscience Marketing Dysport® (botulinum toxin type A) Dysport was initially approved in the United Kingdom in 1990 Active substance and indications and had marketing authorization in over 90 countries as of 31 December 2019. Dysport® is a botulinum neurotoxin type A product, which is a substance derived from a bacterium (clostridium botulinum) In the United States, on 30 April 2009, the Food and Drug that blocks acetylcholine release from nerve endings resulting Administration ( FDA) approved the Biologics License in the relaxation of hyperactive muscles. Application ( BL A) for Dysport (abobotulinumtoxinA) in cervical dystonia and for the temporary improvement in the Dysport is approved in the following therapeutic indications appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines in adults in adults: aged 65 years and under. • Treatment of focal spasticity in adult upper and/or lower In 2015, the FDA approved the use of Dysport for injection for limbs. Spasticity is characterized by uncontrollable muscle the treatment of spasticity in adults, based on its supplemental overactivity, which leads to muscle contraction and soft Biologics License Application (sBLA) in upper limb spasticity. tissue shortening resulting in impairment of activities of In 2017, the FDA expanded the approved use of Dysport for daily living, function, mobility and social isolation. Spasticity injection for the treatment of spasticity in adults, based on its generally occurs in the first six months following an acute or supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) in lower progressive central or peripheral disorder such as stroke, limb spasticity. spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis or cerebral palsy. Dysport was approved in 2016 to treat pediatric patients with lower limb spasticity aged two and older, making it the • Treatment of Cervical Dystonia (CD), which is the most first botulinum toxin approved by the FDA for this indication. common adult-onset form of focal dystonia, an orphan In September 2019, the use of Dysport for injection in the neurological condition characterized by involuntary and treatment of upper limb spasticity in children two years of age sustained muscles spams. Symptomatic presentation of and older, excluding spasticity caused by cerebral palsy (CP) cervical dystonia can be abnormal neck posture and degree was granted by the FDA. This approval made Dysport the of head rotation, neck and shoulder pain and involuntary first botulinum toxin approved by the FDA for both pediatric twisting or jerking of the head. spasticity indications. • Treatment of blepharospasm. Blepharospasm is an abnormal and involuntary contraction of the eyelid, that can In esthetics, Ipsen and Galderma have been exclusive be chronic and persistent. partners since 2007 for the research, development and distribution of Ipsen’s botulinum toxin type A product for • Treatment of hemifacial spasm. Hemifacial spasm is a esthetic and dermatological indications in some European benign neuromuscular disease characterized by irregular, countries (under the brand name Azzalure ® ) and in other involuntary muscles contraction on one side of the face. territories including the United States and Canada since 2014 (these agreements are presented in detail in section 1.2.2 of • Treatment of severe primary hyperhidrosis of the axillae. this universal universal registration document). Hyperhidrosis (HH) is characterized by excessive sweating due to the overactivity of the sweat glands and affects Dyspor t is administered by trained physicians e.g. about 1%-3% of the population. neurologists, physical medicine & rehabilitation specialists, Dysport is also approved in children aged 2 years and older neuropediatricians, orthopedic surgeons, ENT specialists, for: ophthalmologists, dermatologists, and plastic surgeons. • treatment of focal spasticity in upper and/or lower limbs. Competition Dysport’s main competitors are Botox ® (Allergan) and Cerebral Palsy (CP) is the most frequent cause of spasticity Xeomin® (Merz) for both esthetic and therapeutic indications. in children and the leading cause of childhood disability Competitive intensity in the botulinum neurotoxin market is affecting movement and posture, causing limitation of increasing further as more competitors enter the U.S. and activity. European markets; such as Jeuveau® by Evolus which was Due to Orphan Drug Exclusivity in the US, treatment of upper launched in the US esthetics market ln May 2019. limb spasticity in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older, excludes spasticity caused by CP. Rare Diseases Dyspor t is approved in aesthetics for the temporar y NutropinAq® (somatropin) improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe: Active substance and indications • glabellar lines, NutropinAq ® ( somatropin ) is a liquid formulation of • lateral canthal lines (crow’s feet lines), recombinant human growth hormone administered using the “NutropinAq Pen”. Growth hormone is involved in several • in adult patients under 65 years, when the severity of these physiological processes, such as growth in stature and bone lines has an important psychological impact on the patient. development in children and other metabolic effects in adult. 14 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE NutropinAq is a ready-to-use liquid formulation for injection. ■ 1.2.1.2 Consumer Healthcare Products NutropinAq is indicated for the following: Smecta (diosmectite) ® • long-term treatment of growth failure in children due to Active substance and indications inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone; Smecta® (diosmectite) is an oral formulation of pharmaceutical clay indicated in the treatment of acute diarrhea in both adults • long-term treatment of growth failure associated with Turner and children, and in the symptomatic treatment of digestive syndrome in girls over 2 years old; pain and chronic diarrhea in adults. Smecta is a natural clay • treatment of grow th failure in prepuber tal children processed and purified for therapeutic use. Ipsen is actively associated with chronic renal insufficiency ahead of kidney working on the lifecycle management of its original oral transplantation; Smecta powder (vanilla and vanilla/orange) with new flavors and new galenic forms including: • treatment of adults with growth hormone deficiency of either childhood or adult onset. • Smectalia® (drug) /SmectaGo® (medical device), a liquid ready-to-use suspension in stick; Marketing • Smecta strawberry, powder for oral use. As of 31 December 2018, the Group had obtained marketing authorizations in 34 countries. The product has been launched Marketing in 23 countries across Europe since 2004. As of 31 December 2019, Smecta had market authorizations Growth hormones are prescribed by pediatric and adult in about 90 countries. In 2019, Smecta sales represented endocrinologists. 4.9% of total Ipsen sales, of which 73% were generated in China, France, and Russia, the product’s main markets. NutropinAq stems from a partnership with Genentech in 2002 (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Smecta is Ipsen’s leading Consumer Healthcare product in terms of sales. Competition S i x ot h e r c o m p a n i e s h ave m a r ke te d r e c o m b i n a n t Smecta is prescribed by general practitioners, growth hormones: Pfizer with Genotropin ®, Eli Lilly with gastroenterologists, and pediatricians. The product can also Humatrope ®, Novo Nordisk with Norditropin ®, Merck be dispensed without prescription under pharmacist advice Serono with Saizen ® and Ferring with Zomacton®. Sandoz or as an OTC self-medication for patients. commercialized Omnitrope ®, a biosimilar product of Pfizer’s Competition Genotropin ®. Smecta’s main competitors are Imodium ® (Johnson & Increlex® (mecasermin) Johnson), Ercéfuryl® (Sanofi), Ultralevure ® (Biocodex), and Active substance and indications Tiorfan ® (Bioproject Pharma). French authorities granted reimbursement to a generic player of Smecta in Q3 2019. The active substance in Increlex ( mecasermin) is a recombinant DNA-derived human insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1). IGF-1 is the direct hormonal mediator of stature and Probiotics bone growth and must be present for normal growth of bones Smebiocta®/SmectaFlora Comfort® and cartilage in children. Active substance and indications Increlex is approved for the treatment of Severe Primary IGF-1 Smebiocta ® /SmectaFlora Comfort ® is a food supplement deficiency in children and adolescents (from 2 to 18 years of composed of a new combination of the well-documented, age), an extremely rare disease affecting less than 1/10,000 with high dosage, probiotic strain Lactobacillus plantarum children. 299v. The probiotic colonizes the gut microbiota and can be Marketing taken in the case of irritable bowel syndrome. Increlex was granted marketing authorization in 2005 in the Marketing United States and under a centralized marketing authorization Ipsen signed a license and supply agreement in 2016 with in 2007 in Europe under exceptional circumstances. Increlex Probi for the commercialization of its probiotic strain LP299V® is also marketed in a number of other countries. (lactobacillus plantarum 299v). Probi is a Swedish publiclyR e c o m b i n a n t I G F -1 i s p r e s c r i b e d b y p e d i a t r i c traded bioengineering company that develops effective endocrinologists. and well-documented probiotics. The agreement covers 20 countries, many with high-growth potential, with an option Competition to include additional countries. Increlex is the only treatment available for patients living with Competition Severe-Primary IGF-1 deficiency in the U.S. and European union. There are no other competitors in these territories. The main competitor is Symbiosis® (BIOCODEX). 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 15 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Smebiocta/SmectaFlora Protect® linear polymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular Active substance and indications weight with added electrolytes. Smebiocta®/Smecta Flora Protect® is a new food supplement Marketing composed of a new combination of the well-documented, Fortrans is indicated for bowel cleansing preparation before with high dosage, yeast and probiotic strains Saccharomyces endoscopy, X-ray examination or colonic surgery. boulardii and Lactobacillus rhamnosus manufactured by Lallemand. The product can be taken during antibiotic As of 31 December 2019, For trans held marketing therapy. authorizations in more than 50 countries. Marketing Russia and Poland are the two largest markets for Fortrans. The probiotic Smebiocta /SmectaFlora Protect has been Eziclen® launched in France and Czech Republic in 2019. Active substance and indications Competition BLI-800 commercialized under Ipsen trademarks Eziclen® Smebiocta/Smecta Flora Protect’s main competitors are Ultra or Izinova® is a new-generation osmotic laxative, indicated in Levure® (Biocodex) and Lactibiane ATB® (Pileje). adults, for cleaning the bowel before endoscopy procedure (coloscopy), surgery or radiology. Since 2019, Eziclen is Forlax® (macrogol 4000) included in the European Society of Gastrointestinal Active substance and indications Endoscopy (ESGE) guidelines. Forlax (macrogol 4000) is an oral osmotic laxative, designed Marketing and developed by Ipsen, and indicated for the symptomatic On 31 December 2019, Eziclen was marketed by Ipsen or its treatment of constipation in both adults and children (from local partners in 19 countries. 6 months). Forlax is a linear polymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular weight. Ipsen acquired in 2009 from Braintree ( now Sebela Pharmaceuticals) the exclusive manufacturing, marketing Marketing and distribution rights of BLI-800 for the European Union, Forlax was first registered in France in 1995. The marketing the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), some Asian authorization was later extended to EU countries through a countries (including China) and some North African and South mutual recognition procedure and is now approved in 17 EU American countries. The agreement is presented in detail in countries. section 1.2.2 “Major Contracts” of this universal registration document. As of 31 December 2019, Forlax was granted marketing authorizations in almost 60 countries. In 2019, around 47% of Etiasa® (mesalazine) Forlax sales were generated in France. Active substance and indications Forlax is also marketed in a ready-to-use stick under the Etiasa® is indicated in inflammatory bowel diseases (ulcerative name ForlaxGo®/Forlib®. colitis and Crohn’s disease), for the treatment of mildly to moderately-active condition and maintenance of remission. Forlax is primarily prescribed by general practitioners, gastroenterologists, gynecologists and pediatricians. The Marketing product can also be dispensed without a prescription under In 2015, Ipsen has renewed its exclusive agreement with pharmacist advice or as an OTC self-medication for patients. Ethypharm for Etiasa in China. The drug is manufactured by To position Forlax as an OTC self-medication product, a liquid Ethypharm in its Shanghai subsidiary and Ipsen has exclusive form has been launched in selected European markets. rights for the distribution activities and promotion of Etiasa. Competition Competition Forlax’s main competitors are other osmotic laxatives, The drug’s principal competitors in China are other 5-ASA including lactulose products such as Duphalac ® (Solvay products such as Pentasa ® (Ferring Pharmaceuticals), Pharma), other PEGs such as Transipeg® (Roche Nicholas) S a lofa lk ® ( V i for Pha r m a ) , m e s a la zine g e ne r ic, a nd and Movicol® (Norgine Pharma), and stimulant laxatives (e.g. sulfasalazine. bisacodyl) such as Dulcolax® (Boehringer Ingelheim). Tanakan® (Ginkgo biloba extract) In France, Forlax generics are marketed by competitors. Active substance and indications Today, Ipsen produces two generic products marketed by Biogaran and Sandoz. Tanakan® (Ginkgo biloba extract) is indicated for the treatment of various neurological and neuro-sensorial disorders. Fortrans® (macrogol 4000) Tanakan contains natural substances with antioxidant and Active substance and indications neuro-protective properties. Fortrans® is aimed at intestinal cleaning before endoscopy Tanakan is indicated in the symptomatic treatment of cognitive procedure (coloscopy), surgery, or radiology. Fortrans is a disorders (memory or attention deficit) in adults. 16 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE The active substance in Tanakan– EGb 761® – is a standardized undergoing chemotherapy for hematologic malignancies at extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba (dioecious tree in the intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). Ginkgoaceae family) cultivated and extracted under controlled conditions. Marketing The product was in-licensed from Teijin Pharma Ltd in 2003 for Marketing European countries, including EU and Russia. In 2009, Ipsen As of 31 December 2019, Tanakan was approved in almost gained EU Marketing Authorization, and in October 2009, 60 countries, mainly in Europe, Russia, and Asia. the Group granted exclusive licensing rights to the Menarini Group for Adenuric in 41 countries. The product has now In 2019, 27% of Tanakan sales were generated in Russia, generic versions in certain European Union countries. where the product is offered as a self-medication OTC Competition product. Generics entered the market in April 2019 and revenues have Adenuric® (febuxostat) been strongly negatively impacted in 2019. Active substance and indications Other Consumer Healthcare Products Adenuric® (febuxostat) (80 mg and 120 mg) is indicated for the Ipsen Consumer Healthcare has other products mainly in the treatment of chronic hyperuricemia with clinical manifestations gastro-intestinal area, including those commercialized in Italy of urate deposition (including a history or presence of tophus following the acquisition of Akkadeas and some selected OTC and/or gouty arthritis). products acquired from Sanofi in 2017: Buscopan® (hyoscine butylbromide), Clin4000 ®, Prontalgine ® (paracetamol), In 2015, some indications were added for Adenuric 120 mg for Suppositoria Glycerini, and Mucothiol® (diacetylcysteine) and the prevention and treatment of hyperuricemia in adult patients Mucodyne® (carbocysteine). 1.2.2 Major Contracts The Group markets its products either directly through its cancer, endometriosis, uterine fibroids, central precocious sales force or through third parties under licensing or other puberty and endocrine-responsive early-stage breast cancer. agreements. Furthermore, the Group has earned the confidence The agreement covers Debiopharm’s expertise and patents of third parties that have entrusted it with selling their products related to the active substance triptorelin and its various salts such as Cabometyx, Decapeptyl, Hexvix, and NutropinAq. In (particularly the pamoate formulation), which are sold under certain cases, the Group has entered into agreements with third the Decapeptyl® and Pamorelin® trademarks, both of which party companies to manufacture drugs or raw materials. were assigned to Ipsen in 2010. The daily, one-month, and three-month acetate and pamoate formulations of Decapeptyl T he Group complements the implementation of its are no longer protected by any patents. internal Research and Development program by entering into partnership agreements with university teams and The licensing agreement with Debiopharm grants the Group pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These the right to collaborate with Debiopharm on the development partnerships help the Group gain access to cutting-edge of Decapeptyl as well as the right to manufacture and technologies in complex areas of expertise. market Decapeptyl worldwide with the exclusion of North America and certain other countries, principally Israel, Japan, This partnership strategy helps the Group finance the and English-speaking African countries. Pursuant to the development of its products while extending its range of agreement, the Group commercializes Decapeptyl under existing products. The Group is constantly looking for higha daily formulation as well as under monthly, 3-month, and quality, complementary, and long-lasting marketing, research 6-month sustained-release formulations. A separate license and development partnerships. agreement exists between the Group and Debiopharm for the commercialization by Ipsen of triptorelin under the trade ■ 1.2.2.1 Agreements in Specialty Care names Salvacyl®, Salvacyl LP®, Moapar ®, and Salvapar ® for 1.2.2.1.1 Agreements in Oncology the treatment of paraphilia (sexual perversions). Debiopharm (Lausanne, Switzerland) Exelixis (San Francisco, California, USA) The Group has maintained an ongoing relationship with In 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an exclusive Debiopharm since 1983 when it entered into its first licensing licensing agreement for the commercialization and further agreement to manufacture and market Decapeptyl in development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead oncology asset. locally-advanced cancer or metastatic prostate cancer. This The parties agreed to collaborate on the development of licensing agreement was renewed in June 2019 to extend the cabozantinib for current and potential future indications, collaboration through 2034 for the treatment of metastatic and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights worldwide and non-metastatic patients with locally advanced prostate outside the United States and Japan. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 17 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE This agreement includes the rights to Cometriq currently In 2014, the Dysport distribution rights in the U.S. and Canada, approved in the United States and the European Union (EU) for initially held by Valeant, were granted to Galderma. The the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unresectable, agreement was further expanded to include new neurotoxins locally-advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer in addition to Azzalure and Dysport, namely their respective (MTC), and Cabometyx currently approved in a number of liquid formulations. Ipsen gained control of the intellectual countries, among others the U.S., the European Union (EU) property for Galderma’s liquid toxin in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, and Canada for the second-line treatment of patients with and Europe, while Galderma retained commercialization advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have received firstrights. In addition, the distribution rights were extended until line antiangiogenic therapy, and for the first-line treatment of 2036. adults with intermediate or poor risk advanced RCC, and for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma in adults who have In the context of the first rights of negotiations granted previously been treated with sorafenib. to Galderma to further expand the territories, the Group granted to Galderma exclusive rights, to promote and Under the agreement Exelixis received a $200 million upfront distribute under the trademark Dysport® certain formulations payment, several regulatory milestone payments as well as of botulinum toxin in aesthetic indications in Brazil, Argentina, up to $545 million of potential commercial milestones and Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, China, India, South Korea, tiered royalties to Exelixis of up to 26% on Ipsen’s net sales of Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Singapore and Thailand. In cabozantinib in its territories. consideration among others for such expansion granted MD Anderson Cancer Center (Houston, Texas, USA) to Galderma, Ipsen has acquired the title to the intellectual property for Galderma’s liquid toxin in the partnership In 2018, Ipsen and The University of Texas MD Anderson countries. Cancer Center entered into a global licensing agreement for a pre-clinical oncology drug candidate discovered The Group supplies the finished product to Galderma, and by researchers in MD Anderson’s Institute for Applied Galderma pays Ipsen royalties based on sales of the product. Cancer Science (IACS). MD Anderson will progress the drug candidate through Phase I clinical development with Public Health England (PHE) (Porton Down, Ipsen being responsible for further global development and United Kingdom) commercialization. The Group entered a licensing agreement with the PHE in Photocure (Oslo, Norway) 1994 covering the botulinum toxin type A complex, which is In 2011, the Group signed a marketing and supply agreement the active substance in Dysport. Until December 2036, the with Photocure, a specialty pharmaceutical company Group holds an exclusive worldwide license to use and sell specializing in photodynamic technologies applied to cancer the botulinum neurotoxin type A produced by the PHE and and dermatology. Under the agreement, the Group was the co-exclusive right with the PHE to manufacture this toxin granted an exclusive license to commercialize Hexvix for the using the PHE processes. Further to an amendment in 2001, diagnosis and resection of bladder cancer. Ipsen obtained the the Group began producing botulinum toxin type A in 2004. exclusive license worldwide, except in the United States, the The Group is now discharged from the obligation to purchase Nordics, and certain other countries where Ipsen has decided botulinum toxin from PHE. to return the rights to Photocure. The product is designed to improve the detection and resection of non-invasive bladder Under this agreement, the Group pays the PHE royalties cancer by inducing specific fluorescence in malignant cells in based on revenues generated from the sale of products the bladder during a cystoscopic procedure. containing botulinum toxin type A, particularly those realized under the Dysport brand name, together with minimum 1.2.2.1.2 Agreements in Neuroscience royalty clauses. Galderma (Lausanne, Switzerland) 1.2.2.1.3 Agreements in Rare Diseases In 2007, under the terms of a development and distribution agreement, Ipsen granted Galderma Pharma S.A., a Allergan GI (Madison, New Jersey, USA) Swiss company, exclusive rights to develop, promote, and distribute specific formulations of its botulinum toxin In 2013, Rhythm was split into two entities to continue the type A product in aesthetic medicine indications in the development of separate programs and the Group granted European Union and certain Eastern European countries Motus Therapeutics an exclusive worldwide license for the and Central Asia. The Group also granted Galderma first research, development and commercialization of Ipsen’s rights of negotiation for aesthetic medicine indications compounds and intellectual property related to its peptide outside Galderma territories. ghrelin agonist. Motus Therapeutics was acquired by Allergan in 2016. Allergan GI (formerly Motus Therapeutics) The product is distributed in Europe under the Azzalure ® is developing relamorelin for the treatment of diabetic trademark owned by Galderma. A z zalure is mainly gastroparesis, chronic idiopathic constipation, and anorexia commercialized in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, nervosa. Under the terms of the license agreement, Ipsen Portugal, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and Poland. Ipsen owns will receive progressive payments of up to $40 million upon all regulatory approvals and all data arising from development the achievement of certain development and commercial activities. milestones and royalties on future sales of the products. 18 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Blueprint Medicines (Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA) treatment of rare genetic disorders of obesity. Under the On 15 October 2019, the Group and Blueprint Medicines terms of the license agreement, Ipsen will receive progressive entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement for payments of up to $40 million upon the achievement of certain the development and commercialization of BLU-782, an development and commercial milestones and royalties on oral, highly selective investigational ALK2 inhibitor being future sales of the products. developed for the treatment of Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) Progressiva (FOP). Blueprint Medicines will be eligible The Group granted Teijin exclusive rights in Japan to to receive up to $535 million, including an upfront cash develop and market Somatuline Autogel for the treatment of payment of $25 million and up to $510 million in potential acromegaly, SSTR-2 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy, payments related to development, regulatory and salesand BIM 44058 (PTHrP analogue) in the treatment of severe based milestones. osteoporosis. Genentech (San Francisco, California, USA) In 2012, Teijin received marketing approval in Japan for The Group entered into a distribution agreement with Somatuline 60/90/120 mg for subcutaneous injection for the Genentech in 2002 which covers NutropinAq, a liquid treatment of acromegaly and pituitary gigantism. formulation of human growth hormone for daily use produced using recombinant DNA technology. Under this agreement, In 2017, Teijin received approval from the Japanese Ministry the Group has the exclusive right to market worldwide (with of Health, Labour and Welfare for Ipsen’s subcutaneous drug the exception of North America, Mexico, Brazil, and Japan) Somatuline for the treatment of Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic NutropinAq and the NutropinAq Pen Cartridge ® (i.e. the Neuroendocrine Tumors (GEP NET). configuration used for the daily administration of the liquid formulation of NutropinAq) and any improvement made to ■ 1.2.2.2 Agreements in Consumer Healthcare these products for a period of 20 years starting from the date Braintree Laboratories (Braintree, Massachusetts, USA) on which NutropinAq was launched in the market. In 2009, the Group signed a licensing agreement with The Group agreed to pay Genentech milestone payments Braintree Laboratories Inc., a U.S. company specialized in when certain net sales figures are reached. The Group the development, manufacturing, and marketing of specialty also agreed to pay royalties based on the total amount of pharmaceuticals. Pursuant to the agreement, the Group annual sales of each product in the territory covered by the acquired exclusive distribution, marketing and manufacturing distribution agreement. The European patent owned by rights to Braintree’s proprietary formulation, BLI 800, in Genentech protecting the product expired on 29 July 2013. colonic cleansing before colonoscopy, a diagnostic procedure for colorectal cancer screening. This agreement covers Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, (The Woodlands, Texas, USA) countries within the European Union, Russia and certain In 2014, the Group entered into an exclusive licensing Commonwealth of Independent States, selected Asian agreement with Lexicon Pharmaceuticals for Ipsen to countries (including China), and some North African and Latin commercialize Xermelo outside North America and Japan, American countries. with a focus on the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. Through Braintree is to receive royalties on Ipsen’s sales as well as an amendment in March 2015, Ipsen was granted exclusive payments upon the achievement of certain milestones such rights in Canada. Lexicon retains sole rights to commercialize as product launches and commercial sales thresholds. The Xermelo in the U.S. and Japan. product is marketed under the Eziclen® trademark in most Under the agreement, Lexicon is eligible to receive up to countries of the European Union and under the Izinova ® $148.5 million, comprising a $24.5 million upfront payment trademark in some other countries, including France and the and additional payments contingent upon achievement of United Kingdom. clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. In addition, Ethypharm (Saint-Cloud, France) Lexicon is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of Xermelo in the licensed territory. In 1997, the Group entered into an exclusive agreement with Ethypharm a French pharmaceutical company for the In addition to this European submission, Ipsen continues the distribution and promotion in China of the product mesalazine implementation of its global regulatory filing applications for (5ASA) developed and manufactured by Ethypharm. The marketing authorization in the territories where the Group product is commercialized under the trademark Etiasa® for operates. the treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Rhythm Pharmaceuticals (Boston, Massachusetts, USA) Schwabe (Karlsruhe, Germany) I n 2010, th e G ro u p g r a nte d R hy th m a n exc l u s i ve The Group has longstanding links with Schwabe, particularly worldwide license for the research, development and concerning Ginkgo biloba extracts and EGb 761, the active commercialization of Ipsen’s compounds and intellectual substance in Tanakan. The relationship between the Group property related to analogs of the peptide hormone MSH and Schwabe are based on the 2005 cooperation agreement and ghrelin, which regulate food intake, energy homeostasis, concerning, among other things, the procurement and supply and gastrointestinal function. Rhythm Pharmaceuticals is of Ginkgo biloba leaves, and the manufacture of Ginkgo biloba developing setmelanotide, an MC4 receptor agonist for the extracts, notably EGb 761. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 19 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) In 2009, the Group sublicensed its exclusive development and commercialization rights for febuxostat in Europe, In 2006, the Group and Teijin signed a distribution and including Russia and certain Commonwealth of Independent promotion agreement which determined the definitive terms of States ( CIS ) countries to Menarini. In addition, Ipsen Ipsen’s exclusive rights to febuxostat in Europe. Febuxostat’s continues to promote the product alongside Menarini in development costs in Europe are the responsibility of the France. Group, except for any costs associated with conducting clinical trials that may be requested by the regulatory Febuxostat was launched by Menarini in 2010 in Europe and authorities prior to the registration of febuxostat in Europe, 2017 in Russia, under the trademark Adenuric®. which are shared between Teijin and the Group. 1.2.3 Research and Development The Group is transforming and enhancing its R&D operating The R&D team in Milton Park is very experienced in botulinum model with a focus on accelerating priority internal projects, toxin biology, and the team’s innovations are reflected in an effectively managing the R&D portfolio and actively externally extensive patent portfolio. Additionally, the Group is one of sourcing assets through business development. The mission the few to master the manufacturing and testing of botulinum of the R&D organization is to deliver at least one new molecular toxins at its plant in Wrexham (United Kingdom) as well as entity or meaningful indication every year. the technologies needed to explore new applications and to develop new toxin-based products. The Group is developing ■ 1.2.3.1 Research and Development Activities novel recombinant fast-acting and long-acting neurotoxins The Group’s R&D efforts aim to respond to unmet medical that have potential advantages of better control, robustness needs to develop innovative therapeutic solutions and as well as quality and process manufacturing. It also allows utilizing an entrepreneurial, collaborative approach to build a the Group to leverage its development, manufacturing and sustainable portfolio. commercialization expertise in the neurotoxin market. Research and Development primarily focuses on two areas: Pharmaceutical development is located at the Dreux, Berlin, Dublin and Wrexham sites and aims to design and develop • discovery, development, and regulatory approval of new formulations and innovative delivery systems for new chemical molecular entities; entities or for marketed products. These novel technologies • lifecycle management of products marketed by the Group can optimize the efficacy of active ingredients while improving through the: the quality of life of patients and facilitating the use of these products by health care professionals. – extension and expansion of labelled indications; Investment in translational sciences – development of new indications; Research and Development at Ipsen strives to be at the – development of new formulations and delivery systems; forefront of major advances emerging in science and medical practice such as the progression of molecular medicine – registration in new geographical areas. and biomarkers which are revolutionizing the diagnosis and Additionally, the Group partners on in-licensing development prognosis of diseases and the selection of the best treatment opportunities when appropriate to deliver its strategy. leading based on genetic markers to the emergence of personalized medicine. This commitment to translational As of 31 December 2019, more than 720 employees sciences is reflected in a willingness to invest in biobanking were employed in Research and Development including during clinical trials, bioinformatics, predictive biometry 200 employees in Pharmaceutical Development. based on simulation modelling and requiring large data For the financial year 2019, Research and Development banks, in-depth knowledge of pathophysiological/molecular expenses totaled €388.8 million, compared to €302.1 million mechanisms of diseases and from the outset to identify in 2018. biomarkers which will accompany the development of candidate drugs with the potential to become companion Novel botulinum toxin-based drug discovery diagnostics. in Neuroscience The engineering of new botulinum toxins is primarily carried Partnership policy and open innovation out in Ipsen’s R&D facilities in Milton Park (Oxford, UK), in Internal Research and Development efforts are also supported partnership with Les Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or in collaboration through an active partnership policy, from basic research with academic research centers and biotechnology companies. through clinical development. The Group’s partnership Botulinum toxins have a unique potential for very broad philosophy stems from the recognition that Ipsen’s R&D therapeutic applications in many areas including neurology, staff members are highly skilled in their fields but are a tiny urology, oncology, endocrinology, regenerative medicine, etc. fraction of the expertise available worldwide in the scientific 20 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE community. Thus, it is essential to look for synergies between The Group has clinical Research and Development teams internal projects and skills and those of other leading-edge whose task is to coordinate and perform global clinical players in medical and pharmaceutical R&D in the context of research related to Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare a strong-willed open innovation policy. Diseases, and a dedicated regulatory group that focuses on the Group’s regulatory activities with the FDA. At the research stage, the Group has established numerous academic collaborations with Massachusetts General The Research and Development Centers in Westmount Hospital, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical (Canada) and Newton (Massachusetts, United States) School, Boston Children’s Hospital in Boston, U.S. MD Clementia Pharmaceuticals, an Ipsen company located Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, U.S. Stockholm in Westmount (Canada) and Newton ( Massachusetts, University in Stockholm, Sweden and in France with United States), is focusing on developing palovarotene, an InnoBio 2, Inserm, Institut Gustave Roussy and Institut investigational retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARγ) selective Curie. Since 2008, Ipsen has been involved in a long-term agonist, for the treatment of individuals who are affected partnership with the prestigious Salk Institute (La Jolla, by fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), multiple California) on basic research in areas of Ipsen’s interest. The osteochondromas (MO) and other diseases. Group has also forged partnerships on specific projects with innovative biotechnology companies, thereby accessing new The Research and Development Center in Milton Park compounds and promising technologies for the discovery of (Oxford, UK) new drug candidates. Ipsen Bioinnovation, located in a leading innovation hub at Ipsen is considering different ways to invest in innovation the Milton Park campus in Oxfordshire, represents Ipsen’s and in 2018 contributed to a venture capital fund investing technological platform for toxins, with expertise in engineering in pre-IND (Investigational New Drug) to late clinical phase recombinant and modified toxins for new therapeutic solutions assets. In 2018, Ipsen also partnered with Arix Bioscience, in Neuroscience and co-locates research scientists with the MD Anderson and BioLabs. major R&D activities of clinical development, regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance, project management, and publication. ■ 1.2.3.2 Research and Development Centers The Research and Development Center in Shanghai The Group has strategically established an international (China) network of research and development centers in geographical Ipsen Innovation Hub in Shanghai, located in the Hong Kou areas where it has access to world-class expertise in scientific district, has opened in 2019. The Group is establishing a and clinical research. The Group believes its Research and Global R&D organization including Clinical Development, Development programs and the geographical distribution Biometr y, Regulator y Af fairs, Pharmacovigilance and of its Research and Development centers allow it to attract Quality departments. This team will support the design and talented scientists, which makes the Group highly competitive execution of the appropriate development strategy to register in the field of pharmaceutical R&D compared with other in China new indications and new compounds. The Shanghai groups of similar size. Innovation hub will also collaborate closely with Global The Research and Development Center in Paris-Saclay External Innovation and Partnering to pursue opportunities (France) in China Ipsen Innovation, the Research and Development Center in ■ 1.2.3.3 The Portfolio of Research and Les Ulis, located in the Paris-Saclay hub, was opened in 1969 and a new facility was built in 1996. The scientists focus on Development Projects novel medicines in the fields of Neuroscience and Oncology. 1.2.3.3.1 The research and development process Notably, the Pharmacodynamic and Metabolism group in Les At the end of the research stage that results in the selection Ulis has expanded to support Ipsen projects from discovery of a candidate molecule for development, the process of to commercialization. The Group has also established a presecuring approval for this new molecule or compound by the clinical and clinical development organization together with regulatory authorities may take eight to twelve years and is the Global Regulatory Affairs, Pharmacovigilance and Quality typically broken down into five stages: the pre-clinical stage, departments to support the design and execution of the Phase 1 FIH clinical trial (Phase 1 or first-in-human study) to worldwide development strategy to bring to market the new assess safety and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of compounds developed by Ipsen. the compound; Phase 2 to characterize safety and efficacy The Research and Development Center in Cambridge across a dose-range of the tested compound in patients; (Massachusetts, United States) Phase 3 to confirm both safety/efficacy and therapeutic benefit in a large patient population and Phase 4 (post-approval). Ipsen Bioscience is located in the heart of the Cambridge biotech hub in order to allow broader access to external During the research stage, which usually lasts three to resources and knowledge in terms of innovative molecules five years, the Group’s researchers synthesize innovative and drug candidates. Cambridge is a “Center of Innovation” molecules and study their effects on cell systems or isolated combining activities of research and assessment of these new organs, in vitro, or in animal subjects, to better understand molecules based on a strategic and operational partnership their pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological between the R&D and Business Development teams. properties. An analysis of the study results makes it possible 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 21 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE to select the compound that meets the set treatment goals to Exploratory development benefits from innovative questionmove forward in development. based development plans, adaptive design, modeling and simulation, biomarkers, and translational science/medicine. The pre-clinical stage of development aims to gather the pre-clinical safety toxicological and pharmacokinetic data This approach allows: 1) shortening of the time to decision essential for initial administration in humans and for preparing (Go/No-Go) to proceed to confirmatory trials using a parallel the regulatory dossier to start clinical trials that are subject to rather than sequential development path, 2) de-risking approval from regulatory authorities and ethics committees. projects before large investments are made, and 3) more efficient management of the project portfolio. The development continues with clinical trials that are principally intended to provide evidence of the safety and 1.2.3.3.2 The development programs efficacy of the drug in humans. When the results support the The table below lists the Group’s clinical programs. This table targeted indication, a registration dossier is then submitted is subject to change depending on numerous factors that to the regulatory authorities to assess and decide on its can be extremely unpredictable. The Group might experience marketing authorization. delayed completion of clinical trials, treatment failures, absence of marketing authorization, and the occurrence At Ipsen, once a clinical candidate has been selected, the next of a technical or administrative event beyond the Group’s stage of project centric and cross-functional development reasonable control. A summary of risks is described in approaches is conducted. The scope of the Exploratory Chapter 2.1 “Risk Factors” of this document and a detailed Development phase is up to the clinical proof of concept (PoC). description of the products development programs is given in Once both early efficacy and short-term safety have been part 1.2.1 “The Group’s Products”. established from the PoC and meet the Product Target Profile, the drug can proceed to the confirmatory development phase. The molecule portfolio in development is the following: Product under development Indications Development stage Oncology Decapeptyl® 3M Endometriosis – China Phase III Cabometyx in combination with ® Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Phase III nivolumab (1) Cabometyx® in combination with Solid tumors Phase Ib atezolizumab (2) Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 1L Phase III Onivyde ® Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) 2L Phase III Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 1L Phase III Satoreotide Gastro-Entero-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors Phase I/II Non-Neuroendocrine Tumors indications Phase I/II IPN-01087 NTSR1 solid tumors Phase I IPN60090 (MD Anderson) Phase I Neuroscience Dysport® Paediatric Upper Limb Spasticity (PUL) Approved US and EU Glabellar Lines – China Submitted Hallux Valgus Phase II Vulvodynia Phase II Dysport Solution (liquid) ® Glabellar Lines Submitted Fast acting toxin rBoNT/E Glabellar Lines Phase I Long acting toxin rBoNT/A Multiple therapeutic and esthetic indications Pre-clinical Long acting toxin rBoNT/A’ Multiple therapeutic and esthetic indications Pre-clinical (1) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (2) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Roche. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. 22 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product under development Indications Development stage Rare Diseases Somatuline® Autogel® Acromegaly – China Approved New delivery system Approved (US) IPN60120 (palovarotene) Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP) Phase II Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP) chronic Phase III (3) (4) Multiple Osteochondromas (MO) Phase II (3) BLU-782 (ALK2 inhibitor) Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP) Phase I (1) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (2) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Roche. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (3) Partial clinical hold from the FDA since 5 December 2019 for patients under the age of 14 years. (4) Trial paused following prespecified interim futility analysis; pending further assessment. Oncology combination with other treatments for different types of Decapeptyl ® cancer. The Group continues to develop new indications and Onivyde® formulations of Decapeptyl in China. The Group continues to advance the Onivyde clinical development program, including clinical studies in patients with Cabometyx ® previously untreated, metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, The Group opted to participate in the funding of several trials patients with small cell lung cancer who have progressed on with Exelixis and other partners to explore the combination of or after platinum-based first-line therapy, and patients with cabozantinib with other agents in different solid tumors: metastatic breast cancer. Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in first-line In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies advanced renal cell carcinoma. The Phase III CheckMate 9ER are ongoing to explore Onivyde in monotherapy and in study, sponsored by Bristol-Myers Squibb and co-funded by combination with other treatments for different types of Exelixis and Ipsen, was initiated in July 2017. This trial evaluates cancer. Cabometyx in combination with nivolumab (Opdivo®) versus IPN-60090 sunitinib in patients with previously untreated, advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). In 2018, Ipsen and The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center announced a global licensing and joint Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in patients development agreement for a pre-clinical oncology drug with advanced liver cancer. The Phase I/II Checkmate 040 candidate discovered by researchers in MD Anderson’s sponsored by Bristol-Myers Squibb and co-funded by Exelixis Institute for Applied Cancer Science (IACS). IPN-60090 is and Ipsen is an open label multi-cohort study nivolumab now in Phase I clinical development. in combination with other agents including Cabometyx in patients with advanced liver cancer. Systemic Radiation Therapy (SRT) Systemic Radiation Therapy (SRT) uses the ability of one Cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab (Tecentriq®) single molecule (peptide or chemical entity) to target in previously untreated advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. specific receptors to deliver a radionuclide directly to a The Phase III COSMIC-312 study, sponsored by Exelixis tumor aiming to either diagnose or treat, depending on and co-funded by Ipsen, was initiated in December 2018. the radioactive agent. This targeting approach provides a The pivotal trial evaluates Cabometyx in combination with theranostic opportunity for both detection and treatment of atezolizumab versus sorafenib in previously untreated the disease with the possibility to reach precision medicine advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). and to differentiate as per other current therapeutic solutions Cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab in locally available. advanced or metastatic solid tumors. The dose-escalation Satoreotide stage of a Phase I trial sponsored by Exelixis and co-funded by Ipsen was initiated in June 2017 to evaluate cabozantinib The Group acquired rights to 177Lu-satoreotide tetraxetan in combination with atezolizumab (Tecentriq®) in patients with and 68Ga-Satoreotide trizoxetan following the acquisition of locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. OctreoPharm Sciences in 2015. OctreoPharm Sciences was a private German life sciences company focusing on the In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies are development of innovative radioactive-labelled compounds ongoing to explore Cabometyx in monotherapy and in for mole cular imaging diagnostic s a nd the rapeutic 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 23 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE applications. Satoreotide is a novel potent peptide Ipsen’s world class R&D centers are pushing technological antagonist with high affinity for tumor cells expressing boundaries to develop the next generation of recombinant SSTR2+ receptors. toxins, including fast and long-acting neurotoxins, expected to address a broad range of clinical conditions. As 68 Ga-satoreotide trizoxetan is a NET imaging tool utilizing of 31 December 2019, Ipsen is the only company with positron emission tomography (PET, PET/CT) and is currently recombinant toxins in preclinical and Phase I trials. in clinical development, and 177Lu-satoreotide tetraxetan is a Systemic Radiation Therapy leveraging beta emission Rare Diseases from lutetium 177 to generate double strandbreak in tumor cells DNA. Both products are primarily developed Somatuline Autogel in acromegaly for neuroendocrine tumors indications, with additional The Group continues to expand the potential of this product development in other tumor types. with the regulatory approval for the acromegaly indication in IPN-01087 China in December 2019 In 2016, the Group entered into a licensing agreement with Palovarotene 3B Pharmaceuticals, a German company, to develop novel radiopharmaceuticals in oncology. Ipsen acquired exclusive In April 2019, Ipsen completed the acquisition of Clementia worldwide rights to develop and commercialize a novel small Pharmaceuticals to complete its Rare Diseases portfolio. molecule radiopharmaceutical targeting the neurotensin Ipsen acquired Clementia Pharmaceuticals’ late-stage receptor-1. The key objective of the Phase I dose-escalation drug candidate palovarotene, with pediatric disease and trial is to evaluate the safety and activity, as well as to identify breakthrough therapy designations for the treatment ultrathe optimum systemically-administered dose of radiation to rare and rare bone disorders, fibrodysplasia ossificans treat patients in many solid tumors expressing NTSR1. progressiva (FOP) and multiple osteochondromas (MO). Neuroscience On 6 December 2019, following discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), a partial clinical hold was Dysport issued for patients under the age of 14 for studies evaluating The Group has now completed several Phase III trials palovarotene for the chronic treatment of fibrodysplasia worldwide including the United States since 2011 to reinforce ossificans progressiva (FOP) and multiple osteochondromas therapeutic indications, focusing on spasticity. The indication (MO). for pediatric upper limb spasticity (PUL) has received an approval in the US following a last spasticity Phase III trial On 24 January 2020, the Group announced it decided to requested by the FDA for all neurotoxin manufacturers. pause dosing in the palovarotene trials based on results of a futility analysis reviewed by the Independent Data Monitoring Ipsen continues to explore the potential for new Dysport Committee (IDMC) as part of the prespecified interim analysis. (abobotulinum toxin A) indications in two new therapeutic The Group will conduct further assessment of the complete areas to address unmet patient needs with the launch data set. of Phase II clinical trials studies assessing Dysport in the treatment of hallux valgus and vulvodynia in 2018 and also BLU-782 by fostering the development of alternative formulations (e.g. liquid formulation that is a ready-to-use and convenient In October 2019, Ipsen finalized an agreement with alternative to the current dry formulation) Blueprint Medicines to in-license the global rights to BLU782, an investigational ALK2 inhibitor for the treatment of Since first approval in 2018 in the EU and in 2019 by FDA, Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP). Now, with the the cell-based assay is replacing the in vivo mouse-based addition of BLU-782, which recently completed dosing in a LD50 assay for establishing the stability and the potency Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, Ipsen has the potential of Ipsen’s toxin-based product (Dysport and Azzalure) to offer a broader suite of treatment options for patients with showing. FOP. 1.2.4 Intellectual Property ■ 1.2.4.1 Patents protections provided by intellectual property rights licensed by the Group from the owner. The Group’s intellectual property – including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and know-how – is of Patent exclusivity material importance to the success of the business. In some cases, these intellectual property rights are directly owned To protect the Group’s investments in research and by the Group, and in other cases, the Group benefits from development, Ipsen files patent applications covering 24 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE significant inventions made throughout the drug discovery periods run in parallel to any patent protection that may exist and development process. These may include inventions for the product. relating to: new active substances (biologics or small molecules); salt forms and polymorphs; pharmaceutical United States compositions; formulated drug products; therapeutic In the United States, new small molecule products benefit indications and methods of use, including dosing regimens; from five years of New Chemical Entity (NCE) exclusivity. manufacturing processes and synthetic intermediates; and For five years after the first marketing authorization of an general technologies, such as assay methods. Ipsen files active substance, FDA will not approve another product patent applications in all countries of importance to the containing the same active molecule unless the second Group’s business. applicant has generated its own clinical data demonstrating safety and efficacy. If a New Drug Application (NDA) or The duration of patent protection generally is 20 years supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) contains from the filing date, although the United States provides reports of new clinical investigations that are conducted or a patent term adjustment (PTA) to compensate for patent sponsored by the applicant and essential for FDA approval, office delay. Because the pharmaceutical development and but the product contains an active substance that has been regulatory review process requires many years, and because previously approved, the applicant is awarded three years pharmaceutical patents often are filed early in the process, of data exclusivity. For three years after the NDA or sNDA is the patent term remaining at the time of market authorization approved, FDA may not approve a generic drug application typically is significantly less than 20 years. that relies upon the new clinical information. In some countries, notably including the United States, Europe, Different exclusivity periods apply for biological products. The and Japan, mechanisms exist to extend pharmaceutical abbreviated pathway for approval of biological products that patent protection following product approval to partially are shown to be biosimilar to a reference biological product compensate for the term lost during clinical development that has been licensed by FDA is governed by the Biologics and regulatory review. The law and procedures governing Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCIA). Under such extensions of patent protection vary considerably from the BPCIA, an application for approval of a biosimilar product country to country. In the United States, up to five years may not be submitted until four years after the reference of patent term extension (PTE) is available, provided the product was first licensed, and the biosimilar product may not total extended patent term does not exceed 14 years from be approved until 12 years after the reference product was the NDA approval date. In Europe, a patent protecting a first licensed. pharmaceutical product may be granted a supplementary protection certificate (SPC) of up to five years, provided that Small molecule or biological products that receive FDA the extended patent term does not exceed 15 years from approval for the treatment of a disease or condition affecting the first marketing authorization for the product in the EU. In fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. may be protected Japan, up to five years of patent term extension is available. by Orphan Drug Exclusivity (ODE). For a period of seven years Recently, the Canadian patent law was amended to provide after approval of the product for the orphan indication, FDA up to two years of extended patent protection in the form of a may not approve any similar product (containing the same certificate of supplementary protection (CSP). active molecule) for the same orphan indication. The protection a patent provides to a product depends on Europe the type of patent and its scope. Protection also may vary In Europe, new drugs are eligible for a combination of data from country to country. For a pharmaceutical product, and market exclusivity, according to an “8+2+1” formula. a patent that covers the active substance itself provides The same formula applies to both small molecule and the strongest protection, since it is effective to prevent a biological products. For a period of eight years after the first competitor from marketing another product containing the marketing authorization of an active molecule, the European same active substance in any formulation for any method of Medicines Authority (EMA) will not accept for review another use. By contrast, patents that cover formulations or methods application that references the originator’s pre-clinical and of use (so-called “secondary patents”) do not prevent a clinical data, and the generic product cannot be placed on competitor from marketing a product containing the same the market for an additional two years. This means that a active substance, but in an alternative formulation or for a product that contains a new active molecule will not face different method of use. generic competition in Europe for at least 10 years after its Regulatory exclusivity first marketing authorization, irrespective of patent protection. If the originator drug receives marketing authorization for a In addition to patent protection, the Group’s products also significant new indication during the first eight years after the may benefit from regulatory exclusivity protections. During initial marketing authorization, then the exclusivity period is the exclusivity period, a generic manufacturer is not able to extended by one additional year. rely on the Group’s clinical data demonstrating drug safety and efficacy. Regulatory exclusivity is particularly important to Small molecule or biological products that receive EMA incentivize the investment in clinical development of products approval for the treatment of a seriously debilitating or lifefor which patent protection is limited. Regulatory exclusivity threatening condition that affects fewer than 5 in 10,000 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 25 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE individuals in the EU are eligible for orphan drug exclusivity. Exclusivity Protections for Ipsen Products For a period of 10 years after marketing authorization for Regulatory and patent exclusivity protections for Ipsen’s the orphan indication in the EU, the EMA will not accept for marketed products and products in Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical review an application for marketing authorization of a similar development are summarized in table below. Only patents product (not necessarily containing exactly the same active that cover the active molecule, the formulated drug product, molecule) for the same orphan indication. However, orphan or a method of using the drug are included in table. For some drug exclusivity will not prevent marketing authorization of a products, patents that cover manufacturing processes or key second product that is shown to be safer, more effective, or synthetic intermediates may provide additional protection. otherwise clinically superior. Product United States Europe Specialty care Oncology Somatuline® Depot/ Somatuline® Autogel® (lanréotide) – compound Expired Expired – formulation Mar-2020 (with PTE) Expired – regulatory exclusivities ODE (acromegaly) expired; ODE (GEP-NET) Expired Dec-2021; ODE (carcinoid syndrome) Sep-2024 Decapeptyl® (triptorelin) • 1and 3-month formulations N/A All exclusivities expired • 6-month formulation – formulation N/A Jun-2028 (Europe) (1) – regulatory exclusivities N/A Expired Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) – compound N/A Sep-2024 (Mar-2029 with SPC) – polymorphic form N/A Jan-2030 (2) – formulation N/A Jul-2031 (if granted) – eegulatory exclusivities N/A NCE Mar-2025 Cometriq® (cabozantinib) – compound N/A Sep-2024 (Mar-2029 with SPC) – polymorphic form N/A Jan-2030 (2) – formulation N/A Feb-2032 (if granted) – regulatory exclusivities N/A NCE Mar-2025 Hexvix® (hexaminolevulinate) – Medical use N/A Mar-2016 (Sep-2019 with SPC) (3) – Regulatory exclusivities N/A Expired Onivyde® (irinotecan liposome injection) – compound May-2025 (Aug-2028 with PTA) (Oct-2029 or May-2025 (May-2030 with SPC, when Jan-2027 with PTE, if granted) and where granted) (4) – Medical use (2L PDAC indication) Jun-2033 Jun-2033(5) – Medical use (other indications) 2035-2037 (if granted) 2035-2037 (if granted) – formulation Oct-2036 Oct-2036 (if granted) – regulatory exclusivities ODE (2L PDAC) Oct-2022 ODE (PDAC) Oct-2026 Xermelo® (telotristat ethyl) – compound N/A Dec-2027 (Sep-2032 with SPC, when and where granted (6)) – polymorphic form N/A Sep-2028 (7) – formulation N/A Oct-2032 (if granted) – Regulatory exclusivities N/A NCE Sep-2027 177 Lu-satoreotide tetraxetan – compound Oct-2027 (Sep-2029 with PTA) Oct-2027 (SPC possible after product (PTE possible after product approval) approval) 68 Ga-satoreotide trizoxetan – compound Oct-2027 (Sep-2029 with PTA) Oct-2027 (SPC possible after product (PTE possible after product approval) approval) 26 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product United States Europe Neuroscience Dysport® (abobotulinumtoxinA) – regulatory exclusivities ODE (pediatric lower limb spasticity) Jul-2023 Dysport® (abobotulinumtoxinA) – formulation juil-25 Jul-2025 (8) Rare Disease NutropinAq® (somatropine) N/A All exclusivities expired Increlex® (mecasermine) – Medical use Expired Expired – Medical use Aug-2025 Sep-2024 – Formulation Expired Expired – Regulatory exclusivities Expired Expired Palovarotene – compound Oct-2021 Oct-2021 – medical use Aug-2031 (PTE possible after approval) Aug-2031 (SPC possible after approval) – medical use Jun-2037 (if granted) Jun-2037 (if granted) Consumer HealthCare Smecta® (diosmectite) – formulation N/A Aug-2028 – formulation N/A Apr-2030 – Regulatory exclusivities N/A Expired Forlax® (macrogol 4000) N/A all exclusivities expired Tanakan (Ginkgo biloba extract) ® N/A all exclusivities expired Nisis® (valsartan) and Nisisco® N/A all exclusivities expired (valsartan + hydrochlorothiazide) Adenuric® (febuxostat) – compound N/A Expired – polymorphic form N/A Jun-2019 (Apr-2023 with SPC) (9) – formulation N/A Mar-2023 (Apr-2023 with SPC) (10) – regulatory exclusivities N/A Expired Eziclen® / Izinova® (Magnesium Sulfate heptahydrate/Sodium sulfate/Potassium Sulfate) – composition N/A April-2023 (Feb-2028 with SPC) (11) – Regulatory exclusivities N/A Feb-2023 (1) One EP patent has been revoked and an appeal is pending. Opposition filed against another EP patent. A divsional patent application is still pending. (2) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form which still covers the product. Opponents appealed the decision. (3) The European patent is extended (via SPC) until 2021 in Switzerland and until 2019 in the other countries (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands and Portugal). (4) Patent maintained in original form following Opposition. Opponent appealed the decision. Applications for an extension via SPC are pending in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Poland, and Portugal, and have been granted in Italy, Luxembourg, Sweden, and Slovenia. (5) One EP patent was revoked following Opposition. An appeal is pending. A divisional application is pending. (6) Applications for extension via SPC are pending in Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Poland, Romania, Switzerland and Great Britain, and have been granted in Czech Republic, Germany, Denmark, Spain, France, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Sweden. (7) In Bulgaria, an SPC has been granted which extends the patent term until Sep-2032. (8) Patents maintained in amended form following Opposition. (9) An extension via SPC is granted in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungaria, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. It is still pending in Bulgaria. (10) An extension via SPC is granted in Estonia. (11) An extension via SPC is granted in Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Spain. The SPC application is still pending in Belgium. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 27 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE ■ 1.2.4.2 Brand Names and Trademarks Mandarin, etc.) wherever relevant. These trademarks provide Trademarks identify and build the notoriety of the Group and its protection for “pharmaceutical products” included in Class 5 products worldwide. They contribute to the business success of the International Classification of Products and Services. of the Group, especially for Consumer HealthCare products To protect its image and reputation, the Group also holds and products that have lost their patent and regulatory registrations for Ipsen and the Ipsen logo. exclusivity protections. They are also key to patients’ safety by helping to differentiate medicines. The Group monitors trademark registries and defends its trademark rights by initiating administrative proceedings or Trademark protection varies from country to country. In some taking legal action against any infringement. countries, this protection is based primarily on the use of the trademark, while in others it results from its registration. The Group’s key products are protected by trademarks In the latter case, trademark rights are obtained through owned by the Group (e.g. for Consumer HealthCare products national, international or regional routes (e.g. European Smecta®, Smectago® and Smebiocta®, Tanakan®, Forlax®, Union trademarks). Registrations are generally granted for a Fortrans®, Eziclen® and Izinova®; for Specialty Care products period of ten years and are indefinitely renewable, although in Somatuline® and Somatuline® Autogel® / Somatuline® Depot®, some cases, maintenance requires the continued use of the Dysport®, Onivyde ®, Increlex® ) or used under license (e.g. trademark. Cabometyx® and Cometriq® are trademarks of Exelixis, Inc., Xermelo® is a trademark of Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., To support the timely launch of new products, the Group NutropinAq® is a trademark of Genentech, Inc.). proceeds to trademark clearance searches and files trademark applications in accordance with commercialization To strengthen the protection of its trademarks and support its plans. The Group seeks protection for the product names digital visibility, the Group also registers domain names in the in Latin characters as well as in local characters (Cyrillic, extensions of interest. 1.2.5 Main Markets ■ 1.2.5.1 Market Data ■ 1.2.5.2 Competitive Position Sectorial information by therapeutic area and region is The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In recent detailed in section 3 of this universal registration document for years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced an the 2019 and 2018 financial years. increasing level of horizontal and vertical concentration. Within this competitive environment, the Group faces The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines competition from other companies to develop and secure in three key therapeutic areas – Oncology, Neuroscience and marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical specialties Rare Diseases. Its commitment to Oncology is exemplified in targeted therapeutic areas, as well as for specific products through its growing portfolio of key therapies for prostate that generate similar therapeutic results to those generated cancer, neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, by medicines marketed by the Group. Numerous companies hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic cancer. Ipsen also that compete with the Group to develop and secure marketing has a well-established Consumer Healthcare business. The authorizations for new medicines are significantly larger than Group’s main drug markets and their sizes are detailed in the Group and are accordingly able to invest more resources section 1.2.1 of this universal registration document (“The in Research and Development as well as in marketing, which Group’s Products”). may provide them with the advantage of offering a larger Additionally, in terms of marketing, this strategy has led range of products and having access to larger sales forces. the Group to concentrate its efforts on key prescribing For example, Dyspor t faces competition from Botox ® physicians, mainly specialists, who are responsible for drug (Allergan ), a well-established botulinum toxin, while prescriptions or who may induce such a prescription from Somatuline faces competition from Sandostatine® (Novartis) other practitioners. By developing a strong reputation with and generic of octreotide (Teva) in Europe. The Group also these prescribing specialists in highly specific and specialized competes with other pharmaceutical companies in its search areas, the Group believes it is able to direct its marketing for suitable partners to ensure the growth of its research activities selectively and cost efficiently, thereby reducing the and development and marketed products portfolio. The need for a large sales force. Group’s competitive position is detailed in section 1.2.1 of this universal registration document. 28 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.6 Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulation reimbursement policies and price setting in most of the covers nearly all aspects of the Group’s activities from countries in which the Group operates, particularly in Europe. Research and Development to manufacturing facilities, Measures intended to curb direct costs come in various forms, processes, and marketing. In each country where Ipsen which include mandatory price cuts (or a refusal to accept markets its products or conducts research, the Group has to price increases), a larger share of the cost being covered by comply with the standards of local regulatory authorities and the patient (reduction in the amount reimbursed by the third by any other national regulatory authority. These authorities party), the withdrawal of certain products from the lists of namely include the European Medicines Agency (EMA), reimbursable products, the alignment of reimbursed prices the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health with the lowest product price in a given therapy category, Products (ANSM), the UK Medicines & Healthcare Products analysis of the cost/benefit ratio of drugs prescribed, and Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, and the efforts to promote growth in the generic drugs market as Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States as the co-pay regulation (“tiers-payant contre génériques”) well as various other regulatory bodies, depending on the introduced in July 2012 in France. relevant market. In some European countries, governments also influence Price-setting and control the prices of drugs indirectly through control of national Regulation may cover the setting and control of selling prices health systems that fund a significant portion of costs related in certain countries in which the Group markets its products. to these products. In France, for instance, a government These controls are implemented pursuant to law or because authority sets the price of reimbursable drugs taking into the government or other healthcare agencies in a given account the product’s value. The price set for a drug depends country are the principal purchasers of products or reimburse notably on the improvement in medical performance of the purchasers for their cost. Price control mechanisms vary new drug with existing treatments. In addition, when fixing the in the way they operate from country to country. This may price of a product, the national agency takes into account the lead to significant differences between markets, which may price of the same drug in other countries. be amplified by exchange rate fluctuations. These pricing The governments of many countries in which the Group differences may also be exploited by parallel import companies operates continue to introduce new measures to reduce which buy branded products in markets where prices are low public health expenses, some of which have affected the and sell them in markets where prices are higher. Group sales and profitability over the last years. In recent years, ef for ts by government authorities to curb healthcare spending have led to tighter controls on 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure Ipsen S.A. acts as a holding company with regards to its affiliated Ipsen S.A. is controlled by a company incorporated in companies and has no operational activities. Certain senior Luxembourg, Mayroy S.A. Description of this company and managers are employed by Ipsen S.A. under certain conditions its shareholding is to be found in chapter 5.2.3. and invoicing provisions described in paragraph 3.3.4. The Group comprises 59 consolidated affiliates, which are shown ■ 1.2.7.1 Organizational Structure as such in note 29 in paragraph 3.2.5. The stated percentages in the following chart indicate the These companies are categorized as Research proportion of both non-diluted, share capital and voting and Development, manufacturing, management, or rights (1) held in each company. commercialization entities. (1) The stated percentages for Ipsen S.A. shareholders indicate the proportion of share capital. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 29 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Group Organization chart as of 31 December 2019 Free Float MR HB MR BMH Highrock MR Schwabe Others 41.30% 9.92% 16.11% 26.03% 4.34% 2.30% IPSEN S.A. France 100% IPSEN PHARMA S.A.S. France 0.0001% 100% 1% BEAUFOUR IPSEN INDUSTRIE S.A.S. 100% IPSEN PRODUTOS 75% IPSEN FARMACEUTICA BV IPSEN POLAND LLC France FARMACEUTICOS S.A. The Netherlands 99% Poland 100% 0.0001% Portugal 24.99% 100% INSTITUT PRODUITS IPSEN MANUFACTURING IPSEN PHARMSCIENCES S.A.S. IPSEN SpA SYNTHESE (Ipsen) 100% IRELAND Ltd France 100% 100% Italia Sweden Ireland IPSEN KOREA 99.99% IPSEN PHARMA GmbH IPSEN RÉ S.A. IPSEN OOO Luxembourg 100% 100% South Korea Russia 0.01% 100% Germany 10% 100% 100% IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS Inc. IPSEN PHARMACEUTICALS Ltd U.S.A. 100% BEAUFOUR IPSEN Int. H.K. Ltd Ireland OCTREOPHARM SCIENCES GmbH 90% Hong-Kong Germany IPSEN PHARMA BIOTECH S.A.S. 100% IPSEN BIOSCIENCE Inc. 0.0001% France 100% IPSEN CONSUMER U.S.A. IPSEN UKRAINE SERVICES LLC 1% HEALTHCARE Srl 99% Ukraine ST JEAN D’ILLAC S.C.A. Italia 100% IPSEN Ltd France 50% IPSEN PHARMA KAZAKHSTAN 50% 100% U.K. 50% Kazakhstan IPSEN INNOVATION S.A.S. IPSEN CONSUMER 100% IPSEN PHARMA TUNISIE SARL 0.0001% France 100% HEALTHCARE S.A.S. ELSEGUNDO Ltd Tunisia 100% France Ireland 100% PETERSFIELD Ltd 89.85% IPSEN EpE. 39.75% Hong-Kong 50% IPSEN N.V. Greece 100% 0.001% Belgium WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY 10% 0.003% 10.14% LINNEA S.A. IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS Ireland Switzerland 50% IPSEN PHARMA SRL CANADA Inc. 0.10% Romania 100% 0.399% 100% 100% Canada WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY Ltd 50% LINNEA Inc. BEAUFOUR IPSEN 100% 0.01% IPSEN DEVELOPMENTS Ltd Ireland U.S.A. FARMACEUTICA LTDA U.K. 99.99% Brasil 90% GARNAY Inc. IPSEN PHARMA S.A. U.S.A. 50% IPSEN MEXICO S. DE RL DE CV PERECHIN COMPANY 100% Spain Ireland 99.99% Mexique 0.01% NAIAPHARM S.A.S. STERIX Ltd 10% France 100% IPSEN PHARMA KFT U.K. 100% 90% Hungary PORTPIRIE COMPANY 100% IPSEN (BEIJING) PHARMACEUTICAL Irlande SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Co. Ltd IPSEN BIOINNOVATION LIMITED IPSEN PHARMA SRO U.K. 10% China 100% 9.16% 90.84% CARA PARTNERS 100% Czech Republic 0.399% Ireland IPSEN PHARMA SINGAPORE IPSEN PHARMA SCHWEIZ GmbH IPSEN BIOPHARM Ltd 0.001% Singapore U.K. 100% 39.75% 100% 100% Switzerland 0.10% 100% BB & Cie S.A.S. BEAUFOUR IPSEN TIANJIN 96% 11188291 Canada Inc IPSEN Pty Ltd 100% France PHARMACEUTICALS Co. Ltd Australia 100% Canada China 100% MONTANA Ltd 50% 100% POTHOLD Ltd Ireland IPSEN TIANJIN U.K. PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE Co. Ltd CLEMENTIA PHARMACEUTICALS INC China 100% Canada 100% SPECWOOD Ltd 0.0001% U.K. IPSEN PHARMA ALGERIE 100% CLEMENTIA PHARMACEUTICALS Algeria 48.996% USA, INC. U.S.A. 100% CLEMENTIA PHARMACEUTICALS FRANCE SARL France ■ 1.2.7.2 Incorporations In April 2019, Ipsen Group acquired the listed company To contribute to the development of the Group, mainly in Clementia Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: CMTA), a clinicalEurope, Ipsen Pharma SAS acquired 100% of the shares of stage biotech company located in Montreal (Canada) its Greek subsidiary, Ipsen E.p.E, previously held at 80%. The focused on the development of therapies for ultra-rare bone Group also created a subsidiary in Switzerland to develop its diseases. A dedicated legal entity (11188291 Canada Inc.) activities nationally. was incorporated, directly owned by Ipsen SA, in order to acquire and fully owned the shares from the listed company until its integration of this activity within the Ipsen Group. 30 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 2.1 RISK FACTORS 32 2.1.1 Introduction 32 2.1.2 Business Risks 32 2.1.3 Industrial and Environmental Risks 34 2.1.4 Financial Risks 35 2.1.5 Regulatory and Legal Risks 36 2.2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 37 2.2.1 Organization 37 2.2.2 Information Management 39 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework 40 2.2.4 Control Activities 41 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control 42 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS 2.1 RISK FACTORS 2.1.1 Introduction The Group operates in a rapidly evolving environment which the Group. Other risks and uncertainties of which the Group is may pose many risks to the Group, some of which are outside not currently aware or of which it does not consider material or of its control. Investors are advised to carefully review each specific may also have an unfavorable impact on its business, of the risks described below as well as all the information financial situation and results. Materiality is a combination of contained in this universal registration document. The risks probability and impact after considering measures adopted and uncertainties set out below are not the only ones faced by by the Group to manage it. Industrial and # Risk name CSR Business risks environmental risks 2.1.2.1 Market competition and dependence on products 2.1.2.2 Risks of failure in Research & Development 2.1.2.3 Risks of cyberattacks X 2.1.2.8 2.1.3.2 2.1.2.4 Failure of third parties 2.1.2.5 Risks related to drug approval, pricing and 2.1.2.4 2.1.3.1 reimbursement 2.1.2.5 2.1.2.1 2.1.2.6 Risks associated with international activities 2.1.2.6 2.1.2.2 2.1.2.7 Risks related to acquisition and integration activities 2.1.2.7 2.1.2.3 2.1.2.8 Business Ethics risks X 2.1.3.1 Supply shortages and other disruptions risks X High materiality 2.1.4.1 2.1.3.2 Environment and safety risks X 2.1.5.1 2.1.4.2 2.1.4.1 Exchange rate risks 2.1.5.3 2.1.5.2 2.1.4.3 2.1.4.2 Interest rate risks 2.1.5.4 2.1.4.4 2.1.4.3 Liquidity and counterparty risks 2.1.5.5 Moderate materiality 2.1.4.4 Share price fluctuation 2.1.5.1 Risks related to intellectual property Regulatory 2.1.5.2 Undesired disclosure of critical information X Financial risks and legal risks Low materiality 2.1.5.3 Counterfeiting risks X 2.1.5.4 Product liability risks X 2.1.5.5 Legal and administrative proceedings 2.1.2 Business Risks # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.2.1 Market competition The Group operates in well-stablished, rapidly-evolving, and very competitive High and dependence on markets, in particular, Oncology: products • the Group’s competitors include major international pharmaceutical groups whose size, experience, and capital resources exceed those of the Group; • the Group may have to face competition from generic products. In the United States, Somatuline is protected until March 2020 under the Autogel formulation patent and until December 2021 for the NET indication based on orphan drug status; • the Group may adapt quickly to new technologies, scientific changes, digital and advanced analytics introduced by competitors. Since a few products make up the majority of Group sales, with Somatuline, Decapeptyl, Dysport, Cabometyx and Onyvide representing two thirds of sales in 2018, the competitive threat to Ipsen’s business model and performance is accrued. Details of the competitive environment of the Group’s main products are set out in section 1.2.1 of this universal registration document. 2.1.2.2 Risks of failure In order to build an innovative and sustainable pipeline the Group invests substantial High in Research and amounts in Research and Development. In 2019, the Group spent €388.8 million on Development Research and Development, representing around 15.1% of consolidated sales.The Group is also investing in intangible assets and companies related to its Research and Development activities. Ipsen will be unable to recover these investments if the Group’s clinical trials are not as successful as anticipated or if such products do not receive regulatory approval. In 2019, for instance, clinical trials for palovarotene had to be suspended, resulting in an impairment of this asset. This significantly impacted the Group’s financial statements, as outlined in note 13.2.1 of Chapter 3. The Research and Development process is long and there is a substantial risk that drugs may not be approved. 32 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.2.3 Risks of The Group’s activities are largely dependent on information systems. Due to Ipsen High cyberattacks increased visibility and despite all the measures in place to secure its processes, the Group may have to deal with incidents, notably connected to malicious acts CSR against such information systems, such as cyberattacks that could lead to activity disruptions, fraud, the loss or alteration of critical data, or theft or corruption of data. For further details, please refer to the section 4.3.1 “Committed to protect personal data” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.2.4 Failure of third Ipsen depends on third parties: Moderate parties • to optimize the Research and Development portfolio: the Group enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to carry out pre-clinical and clinical trials; • to manufacture certain products: the Group subcontracts the production of certain active ingredients to third parties or purchases finished products directly from its partners or their subcontractors; • to develop and market certain products: third parties could behave in ways that are damaging to the Group’s business (see paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”); • related to intellectual property: (1) the Group’s intellectual property: third parties collaborating with Ipsen may claim the benefits from intellectual property rights for the Group’s inventions or may not ensure that the Group’s unpatented technology remains confidential; (2) Third party intellectual property: The Group is dependent on intellectual property rights held by third parties in order to manufacture and market several of its products. 2.1.2.5 Risks related The Group is dependent on prices that are set for drugs and is vulnerable to the Moderate to drug approval, potential withdrawal of certain drugs from the list of reimbursable products by pricing and governments and the relevant regulatory authorities in the countries in which it reimbursement operates. In general terms, the Group is faced with uncertainty related to the prices set for its products, since pharmaceutical prices have come under severe pressure over the last few years (recommendation to use generic drugs, lower prices or reimbursement, other restrictive measures that limit increases in the cost of medical services, parallel imports). Price pressure is particularly high in Ipsen therapeutic areas (Specialty Care). 2.1.2.6 Risks associated The Group operates throughout the world (52% in the European Union, 30% in North Moderate with international America and 18% in the rest of the world in 2019). As such, the Group faces various activities risks specific to its international activities, in particular, and the following: • risks arising from unexpected regulatory or political changes such as changes in tax regulation and regulations on trade and tariffs, such as Brexit, protectionist measures; • risks arising from limitations on the repatriation of earnings; • risk of financial default on the part of certain public and private operators with which the Group conducts business; • risks arising from the validity of various intellectual property rights being deferred; • risks arising from various labor regulations; • risks arising from political or economic changes affecting a given region or country; • risks arising from increased difficulties in recruiting staff and managing operating entities abroad; • risks arising from the absence of an international agreement on regulatory standards; • risk incurred by employees when travelling for their missions; • risks arising from the occurrence of natural disasters, epidemics or even pandemics, in the areas at risk in which the Group and/or its major partners do business; • risks linked to the COVID-19 pandemic observed by the authorities in early 2020. Regarding this, the Group is taking all necessary measures to guarantee business continuity while ensuring the safety of its employees. At the time of publication of this document, Ipsen has instituted home office policies at the vast majority of its sites around the world. In China, some sites have reopened; in Europe and in the United States, R&D and production sites have adapted and implemented their business continuity plans. The Group is rigorously monitoring emergency stocks, goods and services from our suppliers and our own production capabilities. Thanks to these measures, the Group does not currently forsee a risk of product shortages. Ipsen has a robust product portfolio, composed of diverse therapeutic solutions with highly-differentiating and long-acting formulations for critical chronic conditions. Ipsen therefore judges that the impact of the pandemic will be limited. However, given the uncertainty about the duration and scale of the health crisis, it is not possible to quantify its impact on the Group’s financial statements at the date of submission of this document. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 33 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.2.7 Risks related To continue to build a sustainable pipeline of innovative assets, the Group has been Moderate to acquisition and transforming the R&D model by accelerating focused internal projects, de-prioritizing integration activities select internal programs and externally sourcing assets. In this respect, the Group has been investing in business development through innovative deal structures in its three key therapeutic areas. Despite dedicated processes in place, acquisitions could fail or underperform in case of inappropriate due diligence or unsuccessful integration. 2.1.2.8 Business Ethics Despite its continued commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards, Ipsen Low risks could face various Business Ethics risks, such as: • risk of off-label promotion: The Group’s employees or third parties involved in the CSR promotion of Ipsen products could fail to observe the ethical principles laid down by the Group, and promote products off-label; • risk of improper influence / conflict of interests: Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities could put themselves in a situation where there is an actual, apparent or perceived conflict of interest between their role within Ipsen and their own financial or personal situation, which could influence their ability to act in the best interest of Ipsen. These conflicts of interest could involve external stakeholders such as HCPs, HCOs, payers, members of regulatory bodies or government officials; • risk of corruption: Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities could promise, offer, give, receive or solicit any kind of value or advantage to another person to distort someone’s conduct or to obtain an undue favor or advantage; as a matter of fact, Ipsen operates in risky countries with history for corruption and white-collar crime; • risk of non-compliance with pharmaceutical regulations / code: There is a risk for Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities to be non-compliant with requirements of international and country regulations and Pharma Codes (e.g. IFPMA, EFPIA, PhRma, country codes, U.S. price reporting) in interactions with HCPs, HCO and other stakeholders, in all promotional and non-promotional interactions (e.g. meetings, congresses, fee for services, etc.). For further details, please refer to the sections 4.3.2 “Fighting corruption” and 4.3.3 “Promoting and defending Human Rights within Ipsen’s value” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.3 Industrial and Environmental Risks # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.3.1 Supply shortages Despite a strong end-to-end supply chain organization, the marketing of certain Moderate and other products by the Group has been and could be affected by supply shortages and disruptions risks other disruptions. Such difficulties may be of both a regulatory nature (e.g. the need to correct certain technical problems in order to bring production sites into CSR compliance with applicable regulations) and a technical nature (e.g. difficulties obtaining supplies of satisfactory quality, difficulties manufacturing active ingredients, or drugs complying with their technical specifications on a sufficiently reliable and uniform basis at the required volume). Supply shortages and other disruption risks may impact patients and may result in a significant reduction in sales for one or more products. For further details, please refer to the section 4.2.5 “Enlarging access to medicine” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.3.2 Environment and Environmental laws in various countries impose real and potential obligations on the Low safety risks Group with regards to repairing environmental damage or refurbishing contaminated sites. CSR Stricter laws relating to the environment, health, and safety as well as more rigorous enforcement measures than those in force currently could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group and make the Group’s handling, production, use, reuse, or processing of substances or pollutants subject to more rigorous inspection measures than those currently observed. The Group uses dangerous substances in performing its business, and claim related to the Group’s handling, storage, use or reuse of those substances could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group. The Group is exposed not only to environmental risks related to environmental contamination but also to health risks (accidental contamination or occupational disease) linked to the fact that Ipsen’s employees handle active or toxic substances in the course of their research or production activities. These risks also exist for third parties with which the Group works. For further details, please refer to the section 4.5 “Minimizing our environmental impact” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 34 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS 2.1.4 Financial Risks # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.4.1 Exchange rate risks A significant share of sales comes from countries where the Group’s reporting Low currency, the euro, is the functional currency. However, due to its international business, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates that may impact its results. Several types of risks can be distinguished: • the transactional exchange rate risk related to business and operational activities; • exchange rate risk associated with financing contracted in a currency different from functional currencies. The Group’s policy is to hedge against the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on its net income compared to its budget. Exposure to currency risk is assessed by the subsidiaries before being forwarded to the Treasury Department. The Group hedges, based on the estimates, the major currencies. To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates, Ipsen uses derivative instruments such as forward sales or purchase contracts, currency swaps, and NDF (Non-Deliverable Forwards). 2.1.4.2 Interest rate risks Given its current mix of level of long-term debt as of 31 December 2019 (note 23 to the Low consolidated financial statements in chapter 3 of the universal registration document), the Group has limited exposure to interest rate risks. The financial impact of interest rate risks is described in note 24 “Financial Instruments” to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2019 in chapter 3 of this universal registration document. 2.1.4.3 Liquidity and The Group’s policy consists of diversifying its counterparties so as to avoid excessive Low counterparty risks concentration and in dealing with first rate counterparties. As of 31 December 2019, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents amounted to €339.0 million largely invested in term accounts and term deposits. More detailed analysis of the Group’s liquidity position is described in section 3.1.3.2 related to the Group’s net cash position. 2.1.4.4 Share price The Company’s share price could fluctuate significantly in response to the following Low fluctuation types of events: • changes in the Group’s or its competitors’ financial performance from one period to another; • the announcement by the Group or one of its partners of the success or failure of one of the Group’s Research and Development programs conducted either on its own or in conjunction with a third party / failure of the commercial launch of a new product; • announcements by competitors or announcements concerning the pharmaceutical industry; • announcements regarding changes in the Group’s executive team or key personnel. An indication of the share price evolution for fiscal year 2019 is available in the introduction on page 4. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 35 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS 2.1.5 Regulatory and Legal Risks # Risk name Risk description Materiality 2.1.5.1 Risks related The expiration of a patent may result in substantial competition due to the emergence Moderate to intellectual of a generic drug. property The Group cannot be certain that: • it will be able to develop other patentable inventions; • patents for which it has applied will be granted; • any patents granted to it or that are the subject of licenses granted to it will not be challenged and judged to be invalid or unenforceable; • the protection afforded by a patent will be sufficiently broad so as to exclude competitors; • other persons or entities will not claim rights including ownership rights over patents and other intellectual property rights owned by the Group or which are the subject of licenses granted to it; • the Group’s competitors will not infringe its patents or circumvent them through innovations in design. The information related to the patents held by the Group is detailed in section 1.2.4.1 “Patents”. 2.1.5.2 Undesired The Group cannot be certain that it will not be faced with undesired or uncontrolled Moderate disclosure of critical disclosure of critical information including private data or strategic information, which information might adversely affect the Company’s financial position, competitive situation, or share value. CSR The Group has set up procedures to control the dissemination of this information to protect either the confidentiality of sensitive information, particularly to protect its intellectual property or competitive positions, or to ensure that privileged information is disseminated to investors in a manner that complies with the legislation in force. For further details, please refer to the section 4.3.1 “Committed to protect personal data” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.5.3 Counterfeiting risks As a manufacturer of medication, the Group is exposed to the risk that third parties Low might attempt to counterfeit its products and sell counterfeit products as if they were CSR the Group’s products. Counterfeit products are not approved by the competent regulatory authorities and could prove dangerous for the patients. To the extent that counterfeit products are sold as being those of the Group, its reputation could be affected and the patients’ confidence in the Group’s products could be undermined. In addition, some of the Group’s products could be withdrawn from the market if counterfeit products are sold. For further details, please refer to the section 4.2.3 “Committed to fight against counterfeit products” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.5.4 Product liability The Group’s business exposes it to product liability risk, and its insurance coverage Low risks could be insufficient to protect it against such risks should the need arise. Product liability constitutes a substantial risk for the Group and one that increase with the CSR Group’s business expanding into new markets and continuing to grow in the United States (where the costs associated with product liability claims can be particularly onerous). Although the Group is not currently involved in any substantial proceedings arising from product liability and including significant damages claims, the Group could be faced with claims related to the safety of its products, and in particular products relating to neurology (marketed under the brand names Dysport ® and Azzalure®) which may cause, or appear to cause, serious side effects or potentially dangerous interactions with other drugs if misused or not properly prescribed. For further details, please refer to the sections 4.2.1 “Bringing high quality product to patients” and 4.2.2 “Ensuring product safety” in the “Company Social Responsibility” chapter. 2.1.5.5 Legal and In the normal course of business, the Group is or may be involved in legal or Low administrative administrative proceedings. Financial claims are or may be brought against the Group proceedings in connection with some of these proceedings. In particular, the Group is aware of an investigation from competition authorities related to practices of some Linnea’s employees. At this stage, the Group has limited information about the possible consequences of this investigation. 36 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Ipsen aims to continuously improve its internal control and risk • compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; management environment to be compliant with the “Cadre de Référence” issued by “l’Autorité des marchés financiers” • implementation of the instructions and directives provided (AMF) and with measures described in the COSO II standard by the Executive Leadership Team; (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway • effectiveness of Group internal processes, notably those Commission). aimed at protecting Group assets; Introduction • reliability of financial data and, more generally, of all data Risk management objectives are to: included in published statements. • secure the general Group objective of improving patient health and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic The Group’s internal control rules apply to all Company solutions for unmet medical needs; entities under exclusive control within the meaning of the IFRS standards. The main internal control components that are • create and preserve the value, assets and reputation of the further explained in this report are as follows: Group; • an organization that gives a clear definition of responsibilities, • make decisions and processes secure to reach Group with competent and adequate resources using appropriate objectives by taking into account risk factors; information systems, procedures, processes, tools and • ensure consistency between the Group’s actions and its rules; values; • reliable and relevant information management that enables • mobilize employees around a shared vision of the every employee, whatever his/her level to fulfil his/her Company’s main risks and around the specific risks in their responsibilities; own area of activity; • a risk management framework; • protect people and the environment. • control activities aimed at monitoring risks and securing Internal control and Compliance is implemented by objectives; operational management and employees to provide Executive Management and shareholders with reasonable assurance • a regular review and assessment of the internal control about the achievement of the following objectives: framework. 2.2.1 Organization General framework • Act as an efficient decision-making body: If necessary, local management is in charge of applying, – monitor financial performance and review division/ adapting and supplementing Group procedures. The constant function corrective action plans, endorse recommended collaboration between the Global Quality, Risk and Insurance, financial communication and guidance, Global Internal Audit and Business Ethics and Corporate – align the organization, processes, talent and capabilities Social Responsibility departments at various levels and on to deliver on Ipsen’s annual objectives, numerous subjects is an important consistency factor for internal control. – assess talent and ensure succession planning, – endorse the launch of key cross-functional projects, fund Operational Committees them adequately and monitor progress made on a regular Executive Leadership Team (ELT) basis, The ELT is leading the strategic direction of Ipsen and its – implement Deal Review Board (DRB) decisions on Merger implementation. The ELT is chaired by the Chief Executive and Acquisitions (M&A) / Business Development and Officer and meets on a monthly basis. Licensing (BD&L) deals; Scope of responsibility of the ELT: • Promote ef ficient governance and decision-making process: • Set Ipsen’s strategy and ambition: – set Ipsen’s long-term strategy and ambition and endorse – ensure Ipsen policies and procedures are consistent, the corresponding 10-year strategic plan and 5-year built on ethical principles, appropriate organizational business plan in line with the strategy, structures, well-defined responsibilities and demonstrated competencies, – approve R&D pipeline priorities, – coordinate with GlobalBusiness Ethics and Corporate – translate Ipsen’s strategic vision and ambition into annual Social Responsibility, Global EHS, Global Quality, Global objectives for the organization, Internal Audit functions and Enterprise Risk Management, – validate annual budget; to ensure adequate level of risk mapping and mitigation, 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 37 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL – monitor deployment of enterprise-wide robust and The Group’s Chief Business Ethics Officer periodically reports effective internal control and audit, quality and risk on the state of progress of the Business Ethics program to the management systems, Board of Directors’ Ethics Committee. – monitor performance achieved inBusiness Ethics and Risk Management organization Corporate Social Responsibility , EHS and Global The following organization supports the framework described Quality. in section 2.2.3. • Promote and enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility. Risk Management and Insurance department The composition of the ELT is given in Chapter 5 of this Reporting to the Executive Vice President General Counsel, universal registration document. the Risk Management and Insurance department’s role is to guarantee that a relevant process of identification and Deal Review Board (DRB) management of the Group’s major risks is in place. Its main The DRB assists Ipsen’s managament in decision-making for objectives are: M&A and Corporate Business Development activities. • to promote a risk culture and to ensure Group’s resiliency The permanent members are ELT members including: the through a consistent approach to risk management, in EVP Chief Business Officer, the EVP Chief Financial Officer, compliance with the Group’s policies and risk appetite; this the EVP General Counsel, the EVP Head of R&D, the EVP objective includes the definition of an annual Group Risk Chief Commercial Officer Specialty Care and the EVP Map; Strategy & Transformation. • to provide Ipsen divisions with methodological and technical Specialty Care Innovation Board (SCIB) support (risk identification and quantification, analysis and processing, engineering prevention and protection, The SCIB assists Ipsen’s managament in decision-making business continuit y management & risk exposure on Ipsen’s R&D portfolio within budget / 5Y Business Plan monitoring); envelope as approved by the ELT. • to define and manage the Group’s insurance programs as The SCIB is co-chaired by the EVP R&D, Chief Scientific described in the paragraph 2.2.3; Officer and the EVP Chief Commercial Officer Specialty Care. • to pilot the Group crisis management process and corporate Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility security organization. A Code of Ethical Conduct governs all Group employees. Risk Committee The Code of Ethical Conduct is one of the key elements of the Business Ethics program which is more precisely defined The Risk Committee includes individuals representing through Policies, Procedures and Education. The Company’s transversal Group functions with its members reporting Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility to either an ELT member or directly to the Chief Executive department, reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Its Officer. The Risk Committee’s mission is to facilitate the mission is to: implementation of the risk management approach and to control its efficiency. The Risk Committee members meet at • maintain an effective compliance and ethics program least once a quarter. that ensures a culture of integrity enabling the Company Quality and Safety to conduct its global business with the highest ethical standards, in full compliance with all applicable laws and Global Quality Function regulations and the Group Code of Conduct; The Company has one Global Quality Function that reports to the Executive Vice President, Technical Operations, with a • regularly review and improve our compliance and ethics dotted reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. This function program to ensure it remains current with respect to supports the research, development, manufacturing and significant risks, developments and trends; distribution activities across the product life cycle and is • communicate and train employees and relevant third parties accountable for Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and to these standards; Good Distribution Practices (GDP) compliance across the Group. Its role is to establish, improve and maintain an • monitor the enforcement of these standards within the integrated global Quality Management System that complies Group entities; with Good Laborator y Practices (GLP), Good Clinical Practices (GCP), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good • develop and maintain Business Ethics due diligence for Distribution Practices (GDP) and Good Pharmacovigilance third parties; Practices (GVP) for clinical and commercial products. • develop a continuous improvement approach with the The Global Regulatory Safety and Quality (GRSQ) group update of these standards; is accountable for Good Vigilance Practices (GVP), Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and Good Laboratory Practices • act as the point of contact for anyone who would like to (GLP) and is well-aligned with the global quality function, with address Business Ethics issues, and to address them in a shared responsibility (and functional reporting) for quality confidential manner. oversight, specifically related to R&D GXP compliance. The Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility Each manufacturing plant and development unit has a Quality team covers all geographies where the Group operates. Group that is on site and is responsible for assuring site GMP 38 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL and GDP compliance. These manufacturing plants have a knowledge of all Company drug products, so that benefitlocal auditing program, integrated with the global program, risk is optimized for patients, both in clinical development and site-specific procedures and processes that are aligned and after market launches. To do this Ipsen maintains a with the Group Quality Manual. Site Quality heads have a sustainable cross-functional Pharmacovigilance System that functional reporting to the Senior Vice President Quality. is compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation worldwide. The Pharmacovigilance System, described in detail in the Quality Governance Pharmacovigilance System Master File, operates throughout A Group Quality Council meets on a semi-annual basis the full life cycles of our products and extends across the entire to discuss quality vision and strategy for the Company. It company, including all affiliate staff, specifically, but not limited includes the Chief Executive Officer, ELT members and the to, those with direct pharmacovigilance responsibilities. Senior Vice President Quality. Quality Systems Evaluation Board (QSEB) Quality Management system The QSEB is chaired by the Senior Vice President of The Quality Management System is described in the Group Global Quality. The European Union Qualified Person for Quality Manual which: Pharmacovigilance is also a permanent member of this Board. QSEB’s role is to decide on non-routine global issues • gives an overview of the Company’s Quality Management that impact the quality and/or safety of Company products System; that require awareness beyond the site level. The QSEB: • defines the GXP policies and procedures used to ensure • ensures resolution of critical product quality issues; that the Company’s products and services meet GXP regulatory requirements and business objectives in a • ensures reporting of relevant issues to key stakeholders; consistent, compliant and reliable manner; • ensures or proposes corrective actions; • defines the Quality governance structure, which includes a Group Quality Council, a Quality Leadership Team, • ensures follow up on relevant actions; manufacturing site Quality Councils, Global R&D Quality and Commercial Operations Quality Councils; • ensures issues are communicated to the ELT and CEO. • defines the GXP documentation system; Expenditures and Cash control financial framework Financial authorization • defines the roles of Group GXP personnel as well as senior management. The financial authorization procedure lays down the financial approval levels for managers who are authorized to enter into The Group Quality Manual is co-signed by the Chief Executive commitments. Officer and Senior Vice President of Quality. Financing and Treasury Pharmacovigilance The Company has a centralized cash management system to The Global Patient Safety (Pharmacovigilance) Department is optimize its financial assets and liquidity. Exchange rate and part of the Research and Development Division that reports interest rate risk exposures are centralized by the Treasury to the Senior Vice President Head of Global Regularity, department in order to cover the risks related to commercial Safety and Quality, and is led by a Vice President, who and industrial activities, the variations of perimeter and/or i s a l s o t h e Eu r o p e a n U n i o n Q u a l i f i e d Pe r s o n fo r financing structure. Pharmacovigilance. With patient safety central to Ipsen’s work, the Global Patient Safety department ensures the A Treasury charter defines the rules and principles for proactive evaluation and communication of evolving safety managing financing, treasury, and risks. 2.2.2 Information Management Reliable and relevant information, provided to the right people Information on product Quality and Safety at the right time is a key element in the internal control and risk Information on product Quality and Safety is ensured by the management. Quality and Safety functions as presented in paragraph 2.2.1. Information on Risk Management and Insurance Financial information A Group Risk Map, defining major risks of the Company with Reporting to the Finance Department, internal control over their action plans is validated by the ELT and presented once financial reporting is responsible for: a year for approval to the Board of Directors Audit Committee. • preparing consolidated financial statements in accordance The action plans include risk transfer to the insurance market. with the applicable laws and regulations; Information on Audit findings and conclusions • managing the budgeting and forecasting processes; Internal Audit reports are communicated as presented in • reviewing Group performance and any variance against section 2.2.4. forecasts and providing the ELT with the relevant Key 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 39 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Pe r fo r m a n c e I n d i c ato r s to s u p p o r t th e s tr ate g y The Group Finance Department also verifies that the financial implementation; and accounting information reported externally by the Company is fair and comprehensive. • reviewing periodical management reporting for each of the Company’s entities; The Company has implemented an ERP system, which is contributing to the optimization of financial processes • managing fiscal affairs; and activity management. This ERP system has been implemented across the majority of the Company’s research • ensuring effective treasury management and financing for and commercial entities. Further deployment is planned in the all Company entities; coming years to the extend ERP’s geographical coverage. • controlling the integrity of financial reporting. External Communications Committee The Investor Relations department, which is overseen by Preparation of consolidated financial statements the Executive Vice President Finance, and the Corporate Communications department, which is overseen by the The Group Finance Department centralizes information Chief Executive Officer, are both responsible for preparing reported by the Finance department of each Company entity external communications documents for approval by the and produces consolidated financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer, ELT and the Chief Medical Officer. Group. The Corporate Disclosure Committee meets as required The financial statements reported by each Company entity to prepare communications and statements related to are analyzed before consolidation. unforeseen events, which could potentially have a significant impact on the value of Company shares, and to decide, when The financial statements are reconciled with the management appropriate, if communications must be postponed. indicators monitored by the Group Finance Department. Financial controlling As part of its responsibility for producing consolidated Financial controlling is organized on the basis of the Group’s financial statements, the Group Finance department draws business activities. The Group Finance Department issues up accounting manuals, management reporting packages budgets and forecasts instructions and controls the quality and the chart of accounts to be used for preparing the of information related to the Actuals and Planning exercises. consolidated financial statements. The Group Finance Department also ensures that all Company entities produce The Group’s Finance Department analyses the Group’s actual consistent information that complies with the Company performance and variances against forecasts and identifies accounting policies. A Finance Handbook is made available to and quantifies the risks and opportunities involved in budget all employees to provide them with the reference information and forecast information. The Finance Department also they need. advises the operational managers on financial matters. 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework described below has Once a year, a Group Risk Map is validated by the ELT and been defined in accordance with measures described in the submitted for approval to the Chief Executive Officer and to COSO II standard (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations the Board of Directors Audit Committee. of the Treadway Commission) and refers to the “Cadre de Référence de l’AMF”. Risk factors The Group’s main risk factors are described in chapter 2.1 of Risk Management Components this universal registration document. The Group’s Risk Management Policy Statement and Framework describes Risk Management objectives and Risk treatment and insurance terminology, defines roles & responsibilities, and documents For every major risk identified, an owner at ELT level is approaches to risk identification, assessment, prioritization, designated to monitor it and to ensure that the relevant treatment, and monitoring. corrective action plan is implemented. The process and all related information are coordinated by the Group’s Risk The Risk Management organization is described in Management and Insurance Department. Some risks are section 2.2.1. transferred to the insurance market. Risk identification and analysis The Group has put in place worldwide insurance coverage Risks are identified and analyzed through an annual risk with top-ranking insurance companies. mapping process that documents the main risks of the Group’s divisions and prioritizes them in terms of impact and Product liability insurance covers all products manufactured, level of control. marketed, and sold by the Group as well as all clinical trials that the Group conducts. The level of coverage for clinical Risk mapping now covers all entities and critical processes trials generally exceeds that required under applicable local within the Group. regulations. 40 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL In order to mitigate risk volatility of product liability risk in the options). The instruments purchased to hedge exposure are insurance market, a part of the Group’s liability insurance primarily denominated in USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, program is financed through its reinsurance subsidiary. The PLN, CZK, HUF, RON, AUD, CHF. The Group’s policy is to reinsurance subsidiary is a regulated company ruled by the hedge for the budget period to come. Detailed information Luxembourg Control authorities. can be found in section 2.1.3.1 of this report. The Group also maintains insurance cover relative to its • Interest rate risks: general activities, which mainly industrial and Research and Development sites insurance, business interruptions as well As part of its interest rate risk management, the debt of the as environmental liability insurance. Group is mainly composed by fixed interest rate following the issuance of public bond in June 2016 for €300 million. An actuarial study made in 2018 by an external consultant has shown a relevant adequation between the limitations of the • Counterpart and liquidity risks: main insurances of the Group and its insurable risks. Within the scope of its activities, the Finance Department Generally speaking, the Group’s policies carry certain makes forecasts regarding the Group application of funds restrictions, exclusions, limitations, and deductibles that are and resources and implements financial instruments common practice for policies of this type. aligned with these forecasts, which are duly submitted to and approved by the Board of Directors. This cash position The Group considers the limitations of its insurance coverage is mainly centralized and the selection of investment options as reasonable and conservative given the Group’s business is carried out by the Treasury Department in pursuance of a activities and the potential risks. formalized charter which defines: Financial Risk Management – the treasury management objectives; Financial Risk Management hedges the following risks: – the criteria in terms of asset allocation and risk diversification; • Foreign exchange risks: – the methodology for monitoring the performance and Due to its global business, the Group is exposed to position of the Group cash flow. fluctuations in exchange rates that may impact its results. The Group hedges the budgeted amount of foreign In accordance with its treasury charter, the Group Treasury currency cash flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate Department is in charge of optimizing liquidity, overseeing changes through standard currency derivatives. Detailed the selection of banking establishments with which it information can be found in section 2.1.3.1 of this report. subscribes to foreign exchange derivatives, and ensuring financial asset allocation is safe and liquid. A “Market Committee” managed by the Vice President Treasury and composed also of the Executive Vice President Within the scope of its commercial operations, the Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President General Group’s Treasury Department ensures that the credit limits Counsel and Vice President Chief Risk Officer meets every applicable to its international customers are respected semester, or upon request of any of its members, to review (notably distributors and agents), in particular upon the and approve the forex policy, provide guidelines, and receipt of new orders. It also monitors the overall status of validate the hedging strategy. average payment timescales of customers in its entities. In 2018, the Group hedged the budgeted amount of foreign Within the scope of its partnerships, and with the support of currency cash flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate the Group’s Legal Department and respective Development changes. Departments, the Group’s Finance Department approves contractual provisions that aim to protect the Group from In 2018, the Group Treasury department bought currency the potential negative consequences of the possible failure derivatives (forward exchange contracts and “vanilla” of its partners. 2.2.4 Control Activities Audits Global Internal Audit The pharmaceutical industr y is regulated at both the Global Internal Audit provides the independent assurance national and international level. A strict framework of laws that key business risks are being managed appropriately and and standards govern all Company business activities. that the risk management and internal control frameworks are These laws govern the Group’s research and development, operating effectively. Global Internal Audit reports to the Chief manufacture of active substances and drugs, promotion and Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer. Global distribution into the global market, financial reporting, and Internal Audit also has direct and regular access to the Audit business ethics and compliance requirements. Global audits Committee of the Board (referred to as the Audit Committee). within Ipsen are conducted by two functions; Global Internal Audit and Quality Audit. In addition, industrial and research As part of Global Internal Audit governance, an Audit and development sites are responsible for their own site level Charter (approved by the Chief Executive Officer and the audit plans. Audit Committee) is in effect. This Audit Charter defines the 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 41 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Global Internal Audit’s scope of audit services as covering Laboratory Practices, Good Distribution Practices and Good all areas of Ipsen’s activities, functions, and processes. Pharmacovigilance Practices. These audits may include, but are not limited to, audits of The GXP Quality Audit Group reports into the VP of Quality country managed units, Group functions, global processes, System, Technical Operations who reports to the SVP Global internal control frameworks, compliance requirements, Quality, Technical Operations. GXP Quality Audit assures Information Technology, Environmental, Health and Safety and audits of all GXP (Good Practices) areas are performed, independent assessments of the effectiveness of Ipsen’s Good including on many of the Group sites as well as service Quality Systems across the Good Pharmaceutical Practices providers and suppliers where GXPs apply. Audit frequencies (GXPs) where GXPs apply (Note: in this case GXPs refer to are proceduralized using a risk-based approach. Annual audit the quality systems related to Good Manufacturing Practices, schedules are determined at the start of the year. Critical audit Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practices, Good observations are escalated for prompt attention. Corrective Distribution Practices and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices). and Preventative Action plans are developed and owned by The GXP good practices audits (quality audits) are covered management in response to audit observations and the status under the GXP Quality Audit program as described below. of all quality audit action plans are tracked to completion. The Global Internal Audit plan is risk-based and developed Audit compliance to quality targets is measured routinely and using a variety of inputs including a bottom-up approach for Global Internal Audit is provided with regular status updates quantitative data, the Group Risk Map and inputs from key from the Quality Audit program. stakeholders (e.g., the Finance Leadership and Executive teams, Global Business Ethics and Corporate Social The GXP Quality Audit Group also coordinates with the Responsibility and other relevant Company’s managers). This Global Internal Audit department to assure efficiencies are audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee on an annual maximized. basis. External Audit Audit repor ts containing findings and specific In accordance with the law, Group financial statements recommendations are generated and distributed to relevant are audited by Statutory Auditors. Their responsibility management with a copy to the ELT members responsible encompasses all Group companies included in the scope of for the audited areas. Key findings and main conclusions consolidation. Each company, with the exception of certain are communicated within an Executive Summary report to companies which are not material to the consolidated financial the Audit Committee and to ELT members. Corrective and statements, is subject to an audit or limited review as required. Preventative Action plans are developed and owned by management in response to audit observations and the status Apart from the legal requirements, the Statutory Auditors of all actions is tracked to completion. produce a report on their work summarizing all key audit points identified and their resolution, as well as recommendations on Global Internal Audit works with other internal assurance the Group internal control system. The Statutory Auditors’ type functions such as Internal Controls, Risk Management, Report is presented to the Audit Committee and the Board Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility and of Directors. Quality Audit to enable consistency of objectives. Global Internal Audit liaises with the Company’s external Statutory In addition, Group manufacturing plants, clinical research Auditors on a periodic basis to ensure their respective work programs and information systems are also frequently will be complementary. inspected by regulatory agencies and periodically by the Company’s partners. GXP Quality Audit G XPs refer to the qualit y systems related to Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Good 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control Global Internal Audit periodically presents a summary of key including dashboard and trend data, on the progression of observations and trend analysis resulting from its internal the respective audit plans along with an assessment as to the audit assignments to the Global Internal Audit Council. The overall level of internal control. SVP Quality is responsible for providing regular updates on Statutory Auditors and Global Internal Audit met periodically quality audit outcomes to the ELT. throughout 2019 including as part of the Audit Committee Global Internal Audit met with the Audit Committee twice in updates. 2019 and provided summary reports and status updates, 42 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 44 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 44 3.1.2 Analysis of results 45 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 50 3.1.4 Appendices 53 3.1.5 Subsequent events 58 3.1.6 Group outlook 58 3.1.7 Subsequents events following the Accounts Settlement Date of 31 December 2019 59 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 60 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 60 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit 62 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 63 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 64 3.2.5 Notes 66 Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 68 Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 69 Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement 69 Note 4 Operating segments 80 Note 5 Personnel 82 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses 86 Note 7 Other operating income and expenses 87 Note 8 Restructuring costs 87 Note 9 Net financial income (expense) 87 Note 10 Income taxes 88 Note 11 Net profit from discontinued operations 90 Note 12 Goodwill 90 Note 13 Other intangible assets 92 Note 14 Property, plant & equipment 95 Note 15 Leases 96 Note 16 Equity investments 97 Note 17 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 97 Note 18 Non-current financial assets and other non-current assets 98 Note 19 Detail of the change in working capital requirement 99 Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents 101 Note 21 Shareholders’ equity 101 Note 22 Provisions 103 Note 23 Bank loans and financial liabilities 104 Note 24 Financial instruments 105 Note 25 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet 107 Note 26 Information on related parties 108 Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities 109 Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 111 Note 29 Consolidation scope 111 Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 113 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements 114 3.3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 3.3.1 Summary document 119 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 121 Note 1 Significant events during the year 121 Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods 122 Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet 124 Note 4 Notes to the income statement 129 Note 5 Other information 131 Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates 133 Note 7 Cash flow statement 133 Note 8 Subsequent events 133 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 134 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 137 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.1 Significant events during the year All press releases are available on the Group’s website 06 December 2019 – Ipsen announced, following discussions (www.ipsen.com). with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that a partial clinical hold effective immediately, for the pediatric population Acquisitions and Agreements under the age of 14 was issued for studies conducted under IND120181 and IND135403 evaluating the investigational drug 16 October 2019 – Ipsen and Blueprint Medicines Corporation candidate palovarotene for the chronic treatment of FOP and announced an exclusive, worldwide license agreement for the MO, respectively. development and commercialization of BLU-782, an oral, highly selective investigational ALK2 inhibitor being developed 08 September 2019 – Ipsen and Ser vier announced for the treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva initial safety and efficacy data from Part 1 of the Phase II/ (FOP). III RESILIENT study of investigational liposomal irinotecan (Onivyde) in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who 12 June 2019 – Debiopharm and Ipsen announced renewal progressed following a first-line platinum-based regimen. of their Decapeptyl agreement, which ex tended and strengthened their strategic partnership through 2034 for the 05 July 2019 – Ipsen and Servier announced preliminary development, manufacturing and distribution of Decapeptyl data from the Phase I/II study of the investigational use across Europe and certain Asian and African markets. Under of liposomal irinotecan (Oniv yde) in combination with the renewed agreement, both parties would co-develop 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (5-FU/LV) and oxaliplatin (OX) in novel formulations and explore additional indications for other study patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic patient populations with high unmet needs. ductal adenocarcinoma cancer (PDAC). 18 April 2019 – Ipsen and Clementia Pharmaceuticals 06 March 2019 – Ipsen announced the EU launch of a announced the closing of Ipsen’s acquisition of Clementia new pre-filled syringe for Somatuline Autogel (lanreotide) for following approval of the arrangement by Clementia patients with neuroendocrine tumors (NETs), acromegaly or shareholders and the Quebec Superior Court. symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome. 25 February 2019 – Ipsen and Clementia Pharmaceuticals announced that they have entered into an agreement for Regulatory Ipsen to acquire Clementia Pharmaceuticals, including its Governance key late-stage clinical asset palovarotene, an investigational retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARγ) selective agonist, for 18 December 2019 – Ipsen announced that David Meek has the treatment of FOP and MO and other diseases. Ipsen resigned as the company’s Chief Executive Officer and will acquired all outstanding shares of Clementia for a purchase step down from the Board of Directors, effective 31 December price of US$25.00 per share in cash upfront plus a contingent 2019. The Board has decided to appoint Aymeric Le Chatelier, value right (CVR) of US$6.00 per share related to the multiple currently Chief Financial Officer as Interim CEO to replace osteochondromas indication for a total transaction value of up David Meek as of 1 January 2020. The newly-created office to US$1.31 billion. of the CEO comprised of Harout Semerjian, Executive Vice President & Chief Commercial Officer, and Richard Paulson, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen Research and Development North America, will work closely with the Interim CEO and the 24 January 2020 – Ipsen announced the decision to pause Board of Directors. dosing patients in the global Phase III (PVO-1A-301) study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of palovarotene 05 November 2019 – Ipsen announced the appointment of in patients with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), Dr. Howard Mayer as Executive Vice President and Head of as well as the ongoing Phase II (PVO-1A-202/204) extension Research and Development. Based in Cambridge, Mass, studies. In both the Phase III and Phase II extension studies, U.S., Dr. Mayer will report directly to David Meek, CEO, Ipsen palovarotene is dosed both chronically (daily) and episodically and serve on the Executive Leadership Team. (during flare-ups). The decision to pause dosing patients in Other the trial is based on results of a futility analysis reviewed by the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) as part 05 November 2019 – The Board of Directors of Ipsen takes of the prespecified interim analysis. The results of a futility note of the proposed demerger of Mayroy and the internal analysis indicated that the Phase III FOP trial was unlikely to reclassification of its Ipsen shares, resulting in a request for a meet its primary efficacy endpoint upon completion. waiver to the obligation to file a public offer. 44 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.2 Analysis of results ■ 3.1.2.1 Comparison of Consolidated Sales for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2019 and 2018 Sales by therapeutic area and by product 4th Quarter Full Year % Variation % Variation (in million euros) at constant at constant % % 2019 2018 currency and 2019 2018 currency and Variation Variation consolidation consolidation scope (1) scope (1) Oncology 505.2 414.6 21.8% 19.8% 1,844.4 1,503.0 22.7% 20.2% Somatuline ® 288.7 227.2 27.1% 24.2% 1,031.6 846.7 21.8% 18.3% Decapeptyl ® 110.1 100.2 9.9% 9.1% 407.4 372.6 9.3% 8.8% Cabometyx ® 65.9 47.4 39.0% 39.2% 242.2 148.2 63.5% 63.5% Onivyde ® 34.2 33.7 1.7% -1.4% 134.7 109.4 23.1% 16.9% Other Oncology 6.3 6.2 2.0% 2.0% 28.5 26.0 9.5% 9.3% Neuroscience 105.5 88.7 18.9% 17.4% 391.3 351.5 11.3% 9.9% Dysport® 104.6 87.3 19.8% 18.4% 388.3 347.8 11.6% 10.2% Rare Diseases 14.6 16.9 -13.8% -14.5% 63.7 70.0 -8.9% -10.1% NutropinAq ® 9.7 10.5 -7.4% -7.4% 41.8 45.9 -8.9% -8.8% Increlex ® 4.9 6.4 -24.4% -26.4% 21.9 24.1 -9.0% -12.5% Specialty Care 625.3 520.3 20.2% 18.3% 2,299.4 1,924.5 19.5% 17.2% Smecta ® 33.6 31.3 7.2% 5.2% 125.6 126.5 -0.8% -1.8% Forlax® 12.6 11.2 12.6% 11.5% 42.1 39.8 5.9% 5.4% Tanakan® 10.3 12.1 -14.8% -16.1% 36.7 37.7 -2.5% -3.2% Fortrans/Eziclen® 11.7 9.3 25.6% 23.4% 36.8 31.4 17.2% 16.0% Other Consumer Healthcare 8.4 20.1 -58.2% -41.8% 35.6 64.9 -27.6% -17.5% Consumer Healthcare 76.6 84.1 -8.9% 1.7% 276.8 300.3 -7.8% -1.2% Group Sales 701.9 604.4 16.1% 16.2% 2,576.2 2,224.8 15.8% 14.8% Full year 2019 sales highlights major products and geographies. Over the period, Oncology sales represented 71.6% of total Group sales, compared to Group sales reached €2,576.2 million, up 14.8% (1), driven 67.6% in 2018. by Specialty Care sales growth of 17.2% (1), while Consumer Healthcare sales decreased by 1.2% (1). Somatuline – Sales reached €1,031.6 million, up 18.3% (1) yearSpecialty Care sales amounted to €2,299.4 million, up on-year, driven by 21.3% (1) growth in North America primarily 17.2% (1) . Oncology and Neuroscience sales grew by from volume growth, as well as continued double-digit growth 20.2% (1) and 9.9% (1), respectively, while Rare Diseases sales in Europe with limited impact from the octreotide generic decreased by 10.1% (1). Over the period, the relative weight of launch since Q3 2019. Specialty Care continued to increase to reach 89.3% of total Group sales, compared to 86.5% in 2018. Decapeptyl – Sales reached €407.4 million, up 8.8% (1) yearon-year, driven mainly by steady growth in China, volume In Oncology, sales reached €1,844.4 million, up 20.2% (1) yeargrowth in Major Western Europe countries and in Algeria as on-year, driven by continued strong performance across all well as solid sales performance in southeast Asia. (1) Year-on-year growth excluding foreign exchange impact established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the rate used for the previous period. Sales growth adjusted for consolidation scope including: subsidiaries involved in the partnership between Ipsen and Schwabe Group consolidated in accordance with the equity method since 1 January 2019; and 2018 Etiasa® (mesalazine) sales adjusted for the new contractual set up. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 45 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Cabometyx – Sales reached €242.2 million, up 63.5% (1) yearIn Rare Diseases, sales of NutropinAq reached €41.8 million, on-year, driven by good performance in all European countries, down 8.8% (1) year-on-year, impacted by the market slowdown as well as launches in Canada and in several countries in Asia across Europe. Sales of Increlex reached €21.9 million, down and Oceania. 12.5% (1) year-on-year mainly due to lower demand in the U.S. Over the period, Rare Diseases sales represented 2.5% of Onivyde – Sales reached €134.7 million, up 16.9% (1) year on total Group sales, compared to 3.1% in 2018. year, including growing demand in the U.S. and growing sales to Ipsen’s ex-U.S. partner. Consumer Healthcare sales reached €276.8 million, down 1.2% (1), impacted by a decline in Smecta sales of 1.8% (1) yearIn Neuroscience, sales of Dysport reached €388.3 million, on-year mainly due to the new hospital competitive up 10.2% (1), driven by good performance in the U.S. in the environment in China and lower sales in Algeria. Fortrans/ therapeutics and aesthetics markets, solid performance of Eziclen sales were up 16.0% (1) year-on-year driven by China. Galderma in the aesthetics market in Brazil, as well as higher Tanakan year-on-year sales were down 3.2% (1), due to lower sales in Russia and in the Middle East. Over the period, demand in China. Over the period, Consumer Healthcare Neuroscience sales represented 15.2% of total Group sales, sales represented 10.7% of total Group sales, compared to compared to 15.8% in 2018. 13.5% in 2018. Sales by geographical area 4th Quarter Full Year % Variation % Variation (in million euros) at constant at constant % % 2019 2018 currency and 2019 2018 currency and Variation Variation consolidation consolidation scope (1) scope (1) France 80.7 80.8 -0.1% -0.2% 320.8 282.0 13.7% 13.3% Germany 46.3 51.1 -9.3% 1.7% 188.0 184.1 2.1% 13.1% Italy 27.8 22.9 21.4% 21.4% 115.6 101.5 13.9% 13.9% Spain 28.9 24.8 16.6% 16.6% 106.0 91.1 16.3% 16.3% United Kingdom 29.4 24.5 20.0% 17.1% 105.3 95.0 10.8% 10.0% Major Western EU 213.2 204.1 4.4% 7.0% 835.7 753.8 10.9% 13.3% countries Eastern Europe 73.1 57.0 28.3% 24.8% 229.3 198.0 15.8% 14.7% Other Europe 72.8 60.2 21.0% 22.7% 271.3 245.7 10.4% 11.3% Other EU Countries 145.9 117.2 24.5% 23.8% 500.6 443.7 12.8% 12.9% North America 219.1 176.3 24.3% 19.8% 776.3 615.6 26.1% 19.5% Asia 59.7 56.5 5.5% 12.1% 230.2 207.3 11.0% 11.9% Other countries in Rest of 64.1 50.3 27.5% 27.0% 233.4 204.3 14.2% 13.7% the World Rest of the World 123.7 106.8 15.8% 19.4% 463.6 411.7 12.6% 12.8% Group Sales 701.9 604.4 16.1% 16.2% 2,576.2 2,224.8 15.8% 14.8% Sales in Major Western European countries reached Onivyde sales to Ipsen’s ex-U.S. partner since September €835.7 million, up 13.3% (1) year-on-year. Over the period, 2018. sales in Major Western European countries represented Germany – Sales reached €188.0 million, up 13.1% (1) year32.4% of total Group sales, compared to 33.9% in 2018. on-year, driven by Cabometyx, supported by the launch France – Sales reached €320.8 million, up 13.3% (1) year-onin first-line renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and second-line year, driven by the Cabometyx ramp-up, continued growth hepatocellular cell carcinoma (HCC) and the continued solid of Somatuline and Decapeptyl as well as the contribution of volume growth of Somatuline. (1) Year-on-year growth excluding foreign exchange impact established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the rate used for the previous period. Sales growth adjusted for consolidation scope including: subsidiaries involved in the partnership between Ipsen and Schwabe Group consolidated in accordance with the equity method since 1 January 2019; and 2018 Etiasa® (mesalazine) sales adjusted for the new contractual set up. 46 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Italy – Sales reached €115.6 million, up 13.9% (1) year-onrepresented 19.4% of total Group sales, compared to 19.9% year, driven by the increasing contribution from Cabometyx, in 2018. as well as the solid volume growth of Somatuline and strong Sales in Nor th America reached €776.3 million, up performance of Decapeptyl. 19.5% (1) year-on-year driven by continued strong demand Spain – Sales reached €106.0 million, up 16.3% (1) year-ongrowth of Somatuline, steady growth of Onivyde and Dysport year, driven by the increasing contribution of Cabometyx and the increasing contribution of Cabometyx in Canada. and the strong growth of Somatuline supported by the new Sales in 2019 in North America represented 30.1% of total delivery system launch. Group sales, compared to 27.7% in 2018. United Kingdom – Sales reached €105.3 million, up Sales in the Rest of the World reached €463.6 million, up 10.0% (1) year-on-year, driven by the solid performance of 12.8% (1) year-on-year, driven by Cabometyx launches in Somatuline and Decapeptyl. some countries and the good performance of Decapeptyl and Somatuline, partly offset by lower Smecta sales in China. Over Sales in Other European countries reached €500.6 million, the period, sales in the Rest of the World represented 18.0% up 12.9% (1) year-on-year, driven by the launch of Cabometyx of total Group sales, compared to 18.5% in 2018. in certain countries, and the continued strong growth of Somatuline and Dysport. Over the period, sales in the region ■ 3.1.2.2 Comparison of Core consolidated income statement for 2019 and 2018 Core financial measures are performance indicators. Reconciliation between these indicators and IFRS aggregates is presented in Appendix 4 “Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit”. 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 % (in million % (in million % Variation euros) of sales euros) of sales Sales 2,576.2 100% 2,224.8 100% 15.8% Other revenues 116.5 4.5% 123.6 5.6% -5.7% Revenue 2,692.8 104.5% 2,348.4 105.6% 14.7% Cost of goods sold (488.0) -18.9% (454.2) -20.4% 7.4% Selling expenses (838.6) -32.6% (787.4) -35.4% 6.5% Research and development expenses (388.8) -15.1% (302.1) -13.6% 28.7% General and administrative expenses (181.4) -7.0% (165.7) -7.4% 9.5% Other core operating income 0.7 0.0% 21.1 0.9% N.A. Other core operating expenses (14.0) -0.5% (0.3) 0.0% N.A. Core Operating Income 782.6 30.4% 659.9 29.7% 18.6% Net financing costs (28.0) -1.1% (5.3) -0.2% N.A. Other financial income and expense (28.8) -1.1% (20.1) -0.9% 43.5% Core income taxes (166.2) -6.5% (144.1) -6.5% 15.4% Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using 3.7 0.1% 1.1 0.0% 243.6% the equity method Core consolidated net profit 563.4 21.9% 491.6 22.1% 14.6% – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 562.9 21.9% 491.9 22.1% 14.4% – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 0.0% (0.4) 0.0% N.A. Core EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. 6.74 5.91 14.1% shareholders (in € per share) (1) Year-on-year growth excluding foreign exchange impact established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the rate used for the previous period. Sales growth adjusted for consolidation scope including: subsidiaries involved in the partnership between Ipsen and Schwabe Group consolidated in accordance with the equity method since 1 January 2019; and 2018 Etiasa® (mesalazine) sales adjusted for the new contractual set up. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 47 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Reconciliation from Core consolidated net profit to IFRS consolidated net profit (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Core consolidated net profit 563.4 491.6 Amortization of intangible assets (excl software) (60.2) (53.2) Other operating income or expenses (25.1) (25.5) Restructuring (20.7) (16.0) Impairment losses (668.8) (15.0) Other 161.2 7.2 IFRS consolidated net profit (50.2) 389.1 IFRS EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in € per share) (0.61) 4.68 Sales with the acquisition and integration of Clementia since April 2019. At the end of December 2019, the Group Net Sales reached €2,576.2 million, up 15.8% year-on-year or up 14.8% (1) at General and administrative expenses constant currency rate and scope of consolidation. In 2019, General and administrative expenses amounted Other revenues to €181.4 million, compared to €165.7 million at the end of December 2018, with a stable ratio of sales year-onOther revenues for the financial year 2019 totaled €116.5 million, year. The increase resulted primarily from the reinforcement down 5.7% versus €123.6 million at the end of December of corporate functions, the impact of the Group’s positive 2018. The evolution was attributable to lower royalties paid performance on variable compensation and some additional by Menarini for Adenuric® partially compensated by higher expenses from Clementia. royalties received from partners, mainly Galderma for Dysport and Servier for Onivyde. Other core operating income and expenses Cost of goods sold At year-end 2019, Other core operating income and expenses amounted to an expense of €13.3 million versus an income of At the end of December 2019, Cost of goods sold amounted €20.8 million in 2018. This evolution is due to the impact of the to €488.0 million, representing 18.9% of Net sales, compared currency hedging policy. to €454.2 million or 20.4% of Net sales at the end of December 2018. The favorable impact of Specialty Care growth on the Core Operating Income product mix continued to drive a decrease in the cost of Core Operating Income in 2019 reached €782.6 million, goods sold as a percentage of sales, partly offset by the representing 30.4% of sales, compared to €659.9 million in increase of royalties paid to partners. 2018, representing 29.7% of sales, a growth of 18.6% and an increase in profitability of 0.7 point. Selling expenses In 2019, Selling expenses amounted to €838.6 million, up Net financing costs and Other financial income and 6.5% versus 2018, representing 32.6% of Net sales versus expense 35.4% in 2018, an improvement of 2.8 pts year on year. In 2019, the Group incurred Net financial expenses of The increase in expenses reflects the commercial efforts €56.8 million, versus €25.3 million in 2018. deployed to support the Cabometyx growth in Europe, the Net financing costs increased by €22.7 million, driven by growth of Somatuline in the United States and in Europe, as financing costs linked to the Clementia acquisition and to well as commercial investments for Onivyde ® in the United IFRS16 – Leases standard implemented on 1 January 2019. States. Other financial income and expense increased by €8.7 million, Research and development expenses mainly attributable to the reevaluation, of the future payments For the financial year 2019, Research and development related to acquisitions and to the depreciation of financial expenses totaled €388.8 million, compared to €302.1 million assets. in 2018. The Group continued to invest in Research and development in Oncology, especially for Cabomety x, Core income taxes Onivyde and the systemic radiation therapy (SRT) programs, In 2019, Core income tax expense of €166.2 million resulted in Neuroscience, mainly for Dysport life cycle management from a core effective tax rate of 22.9% on core profit before and the new neurotoxin programs, but also in Rare Diseases tax compared to a core effective tax rate of 22.7% in 2018. (1) Year-on-year growth excluding foreign exchange impact established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the rate used for the previous period. Sales growth adjusted for consolidation scope including: subsidiaries involved in the partnership between Ipsen and Schwabe Group consolidated in accordance with the equity method since 1 January 2019; and 2018 Etiasa® (mesalazine) sales adjusted for the new contractual set up. 48 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Core consolidated net profit cash flows resulting from the different scenarios over the In 2019, Core consolidated net profit increased by 14.6% to product expected lifetime. The calculation integrates the new €563.4 million, with €562.9 million fully attributable to Ipsen clinical data, the potential sales developments as well as S.A. shareholders. This compares to Core consolidated net estimated approval dates for the different indications. profit of €491.6 million, with €491.9 million fully attributable to In 2018, the Group recognized an impairment loss of Ipsen S.A. shareholders in 2018. €15.0 million before tax on the intangible asset of Xermelo®. Core Earning per share Other (Financial income and expenses, Income taxes In 2019, Core EPS fully diluted came to €6.74, up 14.1% and net profit from discontinued operations) versus €5.91 per share in 2018. 2019 other financial income and expenses included a financial ■ 3.1.2.3 F rom Core financial measures to IFRS income of €114.6 million related to the Contingent Value Rights (CVR) and milestones revaluation on Clementia, reported figures partially offset by a financial expense of €59.7 million related Reconciliations between IFRS 2018/2019 results and the to Onivyde earn-out revaluation resulting from the update of Core financial measures are presented in Appendix 4. probabilities of success of certain R&D studies. In 2019, the main reconciling items between Core consolidated 2019 Income taxes included an expense of €71.9 million net income and IFRS consolidated net income were: corresponding to the write-off of deferred tax assets related Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) to Clementia given the limited probability of recoverability within 5 years; and an income of €177.2 million related to Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) in the revaluation of the deferred tax liabilities along with the 2019 amounted to €83.8 million before tax, compared to impairment of the intangible assets of palovarotene. €73.1 million before tax in 2018. The variation mainly relates to the amortization of Cabometyx and Onivyde intangible In 2019, net profit from discontinued operations amounts to assets. €4.2 million, compared to €2.0 million in 2018. Other operating income and expenses As a consequence, IFRS reported indicators are: Other non-core operating income and expenses for 2019 Operating income amounted to an expense of €35.8 million before tax, mainly related to Clementia integration costs and costs arising from In 2019, a €33.4 million operating loss was recorded versus the Group’s transformation programs. a €519.4 million net income in 2018. This decrease mainly results from the impairment recorded on the intangible asset Other non-core operating income and expenses for 2018 of palovarotene. amounted to an expense of €30.4 million before tax, mainly related to the termination of R&D studies, costs arising from Consolidated net profit the Group’s transformation programs and a settlement with Galderma in Brazil, partially compensated by a favorable The Consolidated net loss was €50.2 million in 2019, settlement with a U.S. partner. compared to a €389.1 million net profit in 2018. Restructuring costs Earnings per share In 2019, restructuring costs came to €27.7 million before tax, Fully diluted EPS was a net loss per share amounting to €0.61 mainly impacted by the costs related to the relocation of the net loss per share in 2019 versus €4.68 net profit per share Onivyde manufacturing site from Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 2018. to Signes in France and the remaining costs for the U.S. commercial affiliate relocation. ■ 3.1.2.4 Operating segments: Core Operating In 2018, restructuring costs came to €21.9 million before tax, Income by therapeutic area impacted by the relocation of the U.S. commercial affiliate to Segment information is presented according to the Group’s Cambridge, Massachusetts. two operating segments, Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. Impairment losses In 2019, the Group recognized an impairment loss of All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in €668.8 million before ta x on the intangible asset of the key performance indicators. Only corporate overhead palovarotene. costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are not allocated to the two operating segments. To appreciate the recoverable value of the intangible asset palovarotene, the Group has considered various scenarios The Group uses Core operating income to measure its to which a probability of occurrence has been allocated. performance. Core operating income is the indicator used by The recoverable value has also been determined taking into the Group to measure operating performance and to allocate consideration the discounted value of the expected future resources. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 49 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Sales, Revenue and Core Operating Income are presented by therapeutic area for the 2019 and 2018 financial years in the following table: Variation (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Change % Specialty Care Sales 2,299.4 1,924.5 374.9 19.5% Revenue 2,373.9 1,987.1 386.8 19.5% Core Operating Income 938.6 740.4 198.2 26.8% % of sales 40.8% 38.5% Consumer Healthcare Sales 276.8 300.3 (23.5) -7.8% Revenue 318.9 361.3 (42.4) -11.7% Core Operating Income 55.1 83.9 (28.8) -34.3% % of sales 19.9% 27.9% Total Unallocated Core Operating Income (211.1) (164.5) (46.6) 28.3% Group total Sales 2,576.2 2,224.8 351.4 15.8% Revenue 2,692.8 2,348.4 344.4 14.7% Core Operating Income 782.6 659.9 122.8 18.6% % of sales 30.4% 29.7% In 2019, Specialty Care sales grew to €2,299.4 million, up Core Operating Income for Consumer Healthcare amounted 19.5% over 2018, reaching 89.3% of total consolidated sales to €55.1 million, representing 19.9% of sales, compared at 31 December 2019, versus 86.5% a year earlier. to 27.9% in 2018, reflecting lower sales and commercial investments to support the transformation and the strategy. In 2019, Core Operating Income for Specialty Care amounted to €938.6 million, representing 40.8% of sales. The In 2019, Unallocated Core Operating Income came to a improvement reflects the continued growth of Somatuline in negative €211.1 million, compared to a negative €164.5 million the United States and Europe, the contribution of Cabometyx in the year-earlier period. The evolution is mainly attributable to and Oniv yde as well as the per formance of Dyspor t, the positive impact from the currency hedging policy in 2018, after increased Research & Development investments to as well as the reinforcement of the corporate infrastructure support the development of the growing pipeline including and the impact of the Group’s positive performance on palovarotene. variable compensation. In 2019, Consumer Healthcare sales came to €276.8 million, down 7.8% year-on-year. 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing The implementation of IFRS 16 – Leases standard has led to an The Group had a net debt increase of €684.9 million over increase in financial liabilities of €188.2 million as of 1 January 2019 after Clementia acquisition, bringing closing net debt to 2019 bringing the opening net debt to €430.7 million. €1,115.6 million. 50 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■ 3.1.3.1 Analysis of the consolidated net cash flow statement (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Opening net cash / (debt) (430.7) (463.3) Core Operating Income 782.6 659.9 Non-cash items 76.4 41.2 Change in operating working capital requirement (7.2) 3.6 (Increases) decreases in other working capital requirement 38.5 5.3 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (172.5) (120.4) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 0.9 Operating Cash Flow 718.7 590.5 Other non-core operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (45.5) (31.7) (cash) Financial income (cash) (53.3) (25.9) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (150.2) (89.3) Other operating cash flow (2.0) 14.9 Free Cash Flow 467.7 458.4 Dividends paid (83.5) (83.5) Net investments (Business Development and milestones) (1,127.4) (120.2) Share buyback (16.8) (24.6) FX on net indebtedness 72.6 (10.2) Other (discontinued operations and financial instruments) 2.4 0.9 Shareholders return and external growth operations (1,152.6) (237.6) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (684.9) 220.8 Closing net cash / (debt) (1,115.6) (242.5) Operating Cash Flow At the end of 2019, other working capital requirement needs decreased by €38.5 million, mainly driven by an increase in At the end of 2019, Operating Cash Flow totaled €718.7 million, tax liabilities. up €128.2 million (+21.7%) versus 2018, mainly driven by higher Core Operating Income (up €122.8 million) and Net capital expenditure amounted to €172.5 million at the end favorable working capital requirements compensated by of 2019, €14.9 million of which was due to IFRS 16 – Leases higher capital investments. implementation, compared to €120.4 million in 2018, and mainly included projects to support increased production Non-cash items increased, in 2019, by €76.4 million versus capacity at industrial sites in the United Kingdom and France, an increase of €41.2 million in 2018, impacted by €30.8 million investments related to the U.S. affiliate relocation as well as as a result of IFRS 16 – Leases standard implementation on corporate investments in information technology and digital 1 January 2019. projects. Working capital requirement for operating activities increased Free Cash Flow by €7.2 million at the end of 2019, compared to a decrease of Free Cash Flow at the end of 2019 came to €467.7 million, up €3.6 million at the end of 2018. The increase in 2019 stemmed €9.3 million versus 2018, mainly driven by higher Operating mainly from: Cash Flow combined with higher cash out from restructuring costs, financial result and current income tax. • a €25.6 million increase in inventories during the year, to support business growth; Other non-core operating income and expenses and restructuring costs of €45.5 million mainly included the • a €79.9 million increase in trade receivables, in-line with the integration costs related to Clementia acquisition as well phasing of sales and impacted by longer payment terms in as cash out from the U.S. relocation and from the Group’s some countries; transformation programs. • a €98.4 million increase in trade payables as of December The €53.3 million in financial expenses paid in 2019, increased 2019, as compared to an increase of €62.4 million in 2018 by €27.4 million compared to 2018, due to higher financing and in line with the phasing of operating expenses. costs related to the Clementia acquisition and hedging costs. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 51 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The change in current income tax stemmed mainly from the milestones of €101 million paid to Exelixis and of €13 million to increase in Operating Income combined with higher financial MD Anderson Cancer Center. expenses and the end of the use of U.S. tax losses. Net investments in 2018 amounted to €120.2 million, including Shareholders return and external growth operations additional milestones paid to Exelixis for €98 million, an equity investment in Arix Bioscience for €17 million, the In 2019, the dividend payout to Ipsen S.A. shareholders milestones paid following the license agreement signed with amounted to €83.2 million. MD Anderson Cancer Center in May 2018 and additional milestones paid to 3B Pharmaceuticals for a total of €14 million Net investments in 2019 amounted to €1,127.4 million, and the final payment for the acquisition of Akkadeas Pharma including the acquisition of Clementia for €986 million for €8 million, partly offset by the milestone received from (including transaction fees), the in-licensing of BLU-782 from Servier for Onivyde for €20 million and from Galderma for the Blueprint Medicines Corporation for €22 million and additional territory extension in Asia for a net total of €12 million. ■ 3.1.3.2 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net cash (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Current financial assets (derivative instruments on financial operations) 0.1 0.7 Closing cash and cash equivalents 339.0 310.9 Non-current loans (568.2) (297.9) Other financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) (**) (286.6) (88.1) Non-current financial liabilities (854.7) (386.0) Credit lines and bank loans (270.8) (4.0) Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) (**) (329.3) (164.1) Current financial liabilities (600.0) (168.1) Debt (1,454.7) (554.1) Net cash / (debt) (*) (1,115.6) (242.5) (*) Net cash / (debt): derivative instruments booked in financial assets and related to financial operations, cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts, bank loans and other financial liabilities and excluding financial derivative instruments on commercial operations. (**) Financial liabilities mainly exclude €7.2 million in derivative instruments related to commercial operations in 2019, compared with €15.8 million one year earlier. Analysis of Group cash indicators linked to Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) to On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, be assessed annually. seven-year public bonds. The bonds mature on 16 June 2023 On 31 December 2019, the RCF was drawn for €271 million with a coupon at an annual interest rate of 1.875%. and the Group was complying with its covenant ratio. On 23 July 2019, Ipsen S.A. issued $300 million through a The Ipsen S.A. program of emission of NEU CP – Negotiable U.S. Private Placement (“USPP”) in two tranches of 7 and EUropean Commercial Paper of €600 million was drawn for 10-year maturities. €260 million on 31 December 2019. Ipsen S.A. has refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) Impact of IFRS 16 – Leases and existing bilateral bank facilities. The new Revolving Credit Facility of €1,500 million signed on 24 May 2019 has a fiveThe application of IFRS 16 – Leases has led to an increase year maturity and includes two one-year extension options. in tangible assets of €169.4 million and financial liabilities of The previous RCF was fully terminated on 28 June 2019. €188.2 million as of 1 January 2019. In both the new RCF and the USPP, the Group has to comply The impact on the Operating Income reached a profit of with a Net Debt / EBITDA covenant to remain below 3.5 times €4.3 million as of 31 December 2019; the impact on the at each financial closing and the facility includes specific Consolidated Net profit reached a loss of €1.4 million. 52 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.4 Appendices ■ 3.1.4.1 Appendix 1 – Consolidated income statement (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Sales 2,576.2 2,224.8 Other revenues 116.5 123.6 Revenue 2,692.8 2,348.4 Cost of goods sold (488.0) (454.2) Selling expenses (838.6) (787.4) Research and development expenses (388.8) (302.1) General and administrative expenses (181.4) (165.7) Other operating income 15.6 39.0 Other operating expenses (148.5) (121.7) Restructuring costs (27.7) (21.9) Impairment losses (668.8) (15.0) Operating Income (33.4) 519.4 Investment income 2.0 3.1 Financing costs (30.0) (8.4) Net financing costs (28.0) (5.3) Other financial income and expense 22.8 (20.1) Income taxes (19.6) (108.1) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 3.7 1.1 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations (54.4) 387.0 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 4.2 2.0 Consolidated net profit (loss) (50.2) 389.1 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. (50.7) 389.5 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 (0.4) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) (0.66) 4.67 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) (0.66) 4.65 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.05 0.02 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.05 0.02 Basic earnings per share (in euros) (0.61) 4.70 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) (0.61) 4.68 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 53 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■ 3.1.4.2 Appendix 2 – Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 ASSETS Goodwill 632.6 395.6 Other intangible assets 1,383.2 1,011.9 Property, plant & equipment 679.3 474.5 Equity investments 64.9 65.2 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 18.8 15.5 Non-current financial assets 27.7 92.9 Deferred tax assets 149.4 131.9 Other non-current assets 4.5 4.4 Total non-current assets 2,960.4 2,191.8 Inventories 214.0 198.5 Trade receivables 565.0 463.0 Current tax assets 22.8 47.7 Current financial assets 59.3 5.5 Other current assets 132.2 126.4 Cash and cash equivalents 353.3 344.5 Total current assets 1,346.5 1,185.6 TOTAL ASSETS 4,306.9 3,377.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 83.8 83.8 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,656.1 1,366.0 Net profit (loss) for the period (50.7) 389.5 Foreign exchange differences 61.8 1.8 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,751.0 1,841.1 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2.0 2.3 Total shareholders' equity 1,753.1 1,843.4 Retirement benefit obligation 60.7 63.8 Non-current provisions 30.5 44.5 Other non-current financial liabilities 854.7 386.0 Deferred tax liabilities 107.7 19.7 Other non-current liabilities 47.8 61.0 Total non-current liabilities 1,101.4 574.9 Current provisions 9.1 21.1 Current financial liabilities 609.5 184.2 Trade payables 508.5 379.8 Current tax liabilities 13.7 11.4 Other current liabilities 297.4 329.0 Bank overdrafts 14.3 33.6 Total current liabilities 1,452.5 959.2 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 4,306.9 3,377.4 54 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■ 3.1.4.3 Appendix 3 – Cash flow statements Appendix 3.1 – Consolidated statement of cash flow (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Consolidated net profit (loss) (50.2) 389.1 Share of profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 (0.2) Net profit (loss) before share from entities accounted for using the equity (49.3) 388.9 method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 161.2 142.6 – Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income 670.7 15.0 – Change in fair value of financial derivatives (11.0) (2.0) – Net gains or losses on disposals of non–current assets 3.7 4.8 – Unrealized foreign exchange differences (7.2) (6.5) – Change in deferred taxes (130.6) 19.2 – Share–based payment expense 15.8 12.8 – Other non–cash items (46.0) (1.1) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 607.3 573.8 requirement – (Increase) / decrease in inventories (25.6) (29.8) – (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (79.9) (29.0) – Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 98.4 62.4 – Net change in income tax liability 30.4 26.5 – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities (2.8) (33.0) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities 20.4 (2.9) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 627.7 570.9 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (144.5) (107.4) Acquisition of intangible assets (136.1) (180.1) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 0.6 3.2 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (10.6) (30.2) Payments to post-employment benefit plans (10.0) (1.2) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (817.2) (7.4) Change in working capital related to investment activities (36.8) 49.6 Other cash flow related to investment activities (2.7) (0.8) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (1,157.3) (274.3) Additional long-term borrowings 286.3 0.9 Repayment of long-term borrowings (0.6) (3.9) Net change in short-term borrowings 357.7 (107.3) Capital increase 0.1 2.6 Treasury shares (16.8) (10.3) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. (83.2) (83.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.3) (0.5) Change in working capital related to financing activities 6.7 (0.7) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 550.0 (202.2) CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 20.4 94.4 Opening cash and cash equivalents 310.9 209.3 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 7.7 7.3 Closing cash and cash equivalents 339.0 310.9 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 55 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Appendix 3.2 – Consolidated net cash flow statement (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Opening net cash / (debt) (1) (430.7) (463.3) CORE OPERATING INCOME 782.6 659.9 Non-cash items 76.4 41.2 (Increase) /decrease in inventories (25.6) (29.8) (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (79.9) (29.0) Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 98.4 62.4 Change in operating working capital requirement (7.2) 3.6 Change in income tax liability 30.4 26.5 Change in other operating assets and liabilities (excluding milestones received) 8.2 (21.2) Other changes in working capital requirement 38.5 5.3 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (144.5) (107.4) Acquisition of intangible assets (excluding milestones paid) (29.8) (26.7) Disposal of fixed assets 0.6 3.2 Change in working capital related to investment activities 1.1 10.5 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (172.5) (120.4) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 0.9 Operating Cash Flow 718.7 590.5 Other non-core operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (45.5) (31.7) Financial income (cash) (47.6) (25.9) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (150.2) (89.3) Other operating cash flow (2.0) 14.9 Free Cash Flow 467.7 458.4 Dividends paid (including payout to non-controlling interests) (83.5) (83.5) Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (2) (11.1) (25.3) Acquisition of other financial assets – – Impact of changes in consolidation scope (3) (984.8) (8.0) Milestones paid (4) (143.7) (117.2) Milestones received (5) 7.5 36.0 Other Business Development operations 4.8 (5.7) Net investments (Business Development and milestones) (1,127.4) (120.2) Share buyback (16.8) (24.6) FX on net indebtedness and change in earn out 72.6 (10.2) Other (discontinued operations and financial instrument) 2.4 0.9 Shareholders return and external growth operations (1,152.6) (237.6) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (684.9) 220.8 Closing net cash / (debt) (1,115.6) (242.5) (1) The opening net cash / (debt) includes the impact of the application of IFRS 16 – Leases for an amount of €188.2 million. (2) Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies mainly reflected investments in external innovation funds. (3) Impact of change in consolidation scope notably reflects Clementia acquisition. (4) Milestones paid in 2019 correspond to payments subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Group’s partnership agreements including €101 million milestone paid to Exelixis and €13 million paid to MD Anderson as well as €22 million upfront paid to Blueprint Medicines Corporation for the in-licensing of BLU-782. The amounts paid were recorded as an increase in intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The transactions were included in the “Acquisition of intangible assets” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 4.1). (5) Milestones received are amounts collected by Ipsen from its partners including €7 million from Galderma related to Mexico territory received in 2019, while the Group received €21 million from Servier, in 2018, related to the Onivyde® acquisition closed in 2017. The milestones amounts (except for Servier) are recorded as “Deferred income” in the consolidated balance sheet and then recognized in the income statement as “Other revenues” in case of dynamic license or directly in “Other revenues” in case of static license. In the consolidated balance sheet, the Servier milestones not yet received are booked in “Current financial assets” and in “Non-current financial assets”, depending on the forecasted cash-in timing. Servier milestones received are included in the “Other cash flow related to investment activities” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 3.1). 56 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■ 3.1.4.4 Appendix 4 – Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit IFRS Other CORE Amortization of operating Impairment (in million euros) 31 December intangible assets Restructuring Other 31 December income or losses 2019 (excl software) 2019 expenses Sales 2,576.2 2,576.2 Other revenues 116.5 116.5 Revenue 2,692.8 – – – – – 2,692.8 Cost of goods sold (488.0) (488.0) Selling expenses (838.6) (838.6) Research and development expenses (388.8) (388.8) General and administrative expenses (181.4) (181.4) Other operating income 15.6 (14.9) 0.7 Other operating expenses (148.5) 83.8 50.7 (14.0) Restructuring costs (27.7) 27.7 – Impairment losses (668.8) 668.8 – Operating Income (33.4) 83.8 35.8 27.7 668.8 – 782.6 Net financing costs (28.0) (28.0) Other financial income and expense 22.8 (51.6) (28.8) Income taxes (19.6) (23.6) (10.6) (7.0) – (105.4) (166.2) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 3.7 3.7 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing (54.4) 60.2 25.1 20.7 668.8 (157.0) 563.4 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 4.2 (4.2) – operations Consolidated net profit (50.2) 60.2 25.1 20.7 668.8 (161.2) 563.4 – Attributable to shareholders of (50.7) 60.2 25.1 20.7 668.8 (161.2) 562.9 Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.5 0.5 interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (0.61) 0.72 0.30 0.25 8.01 (1.93) 6.74 (in € per share) The reconciliation items between Core consolidated net paragraph “From Core financial measures to IFRS reported profit and IFRS consolidated net profit are described in the figures”. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 57 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR IFRS Other CORE Amortization of operating Impairment (in million euros) 31 December intangible assets Restructuring Other 31 December income or losses 2018 (excl software) 2018 expenses Sales 2,224.8 2,224.8 Other revenues 123.6 123.6 Revenue 2,348.4 – – – – – 2,348.4 Cost of goods sold (454.2) (454.2) Selling expenses (787.4) (787.4) Research and development expenses (302.1) (302.1) General and administrative expenses (165.7) (165.7) Other operating income 39.0 (17.9) 21.1 Other operating expenses (121.7) 73.1 48.3 (0.3) Restructuring costs (21.9) 21.9 – Impairment losses (15.0) 15.0 – Operating Income 519.4 73.1 30.4 21.9 15.0 – 659.9 Net financing costs (5.3) (5.3) Other financial income and expense (20.1) (20.1) Income taxes (108.1) (20.0) (4.9) (6.0) – (5.2) (144.1) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 1.1 1.1 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 387.0 53.2 25.5 16.0 15.0 (5.2) 491.6 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 2.0 (2.0) – operations Consolidated net profit 389.1 53.2 25.5 16.0 15.0 (7.2) 491.6 – Attributable to shareholders of 389.5 53.2 25.5 16.0 15.0 (7.2) 491.9 Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling (0.4) (0.4) interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 4.68 0.64 0.31 0.19 0.18 (0.09) 5.91 (in € per share) 3.1.5 Subsequent events There were no significant subsequent events. 3.1.6 Group outlook 2020 Financial guidance coronavirus, with very different and evolving situations from On the 13 February 2020, the Group has set the following one country to another. Ipsen sees a limited financial impact financial targets for the current year, assuming no impact in today given its resilient product portfolio comprised mostly 2020 of new somatostatin analog (SSA) generic entry: of diversified treatments with highly-differentiating and longacting formulations for critical chronic conditions. However, • Group sales growth year-on-year greater than +6.0% at given the general economic slowdown, its performance constant currency; no impact of currency expected based year-to-date in China, reduced interactions with healthcare on the current level of exchange rates; professionals and the uncertainty about the duration and • Core Operating margin around 30.0% of net sales, scale of the health crisis, Ipsen has decided to suspend excluding incremental investments in pipeline expansion its 2020 financial guidance announced in February as it is initiatives. not possible at the time of submission of this document On 25 March 2020 Ipsen provided an update related to the to quantify its impact on the Group’s financial statements. impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on its global business which Further updates will be provided as the situation evolves. is affected in varying degrees in the countries impacted by the 58 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The Group has a very solid financial position with sound • Core Operating margin greater than 28.0% of net sales. cash and financing in place. Ipsen confirms its proposed The outlook has been updated assuming no approval of distribution of €1.00 per share for the 2019 financial year. additional meaningful products or indications (including Updated 2022 Outlook: The Group has updated its 2022 no contribution from palovarotene), progressive entry of outlook taking into account the latest developments in its additional octreotide and lanreotide generics globally from current business, mainly in the palovarotene development 2021 and excluding the impact of incremental investments in program: pipeline expansion initiatives. • Group net sales greater than €2.8 billion, assuming current level of exchange rates; 3.1.7 S  ubsequents events following the Accounts Settlement Date of 31 December 2019 25 March 2020 – Ipsen provided an update related to the of age and older. Ipsen has taken the decision to terminate impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on its global business (see its MO-Ped trial (PVO-2A-201) conducted under IND135403 paragraph 3.1.6). to analyze the accumulated data to better inform on the efficacy, safety and future of palovarotene in MO, and to 26 March 2020 – Ipsen announced it will begin to reinitiate potentially establish a path forward for palovarotene in this palovarotene dosing in patients 14 years of age and older indication, including an assessment as to the potential for an currently par ticipating in its fibrodysplasia ossificans NDA submission to the FDA. A. Ipsen believes however that progressiva (FOP) clinical program. The Food and Drug an NDA submission for the treatment of MO based on the Administration (FDA) in the U.S. has confirmed they have no MO-Ped trial (PVO-2A-201) conducted under IND135403 is safety concerns with restarting dosing in patients 14 years highly unlikely. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 59 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Sales 4.2 & 4.3 2,576.2 2,224.8 Other revenues 4.4 116.5 123.6 Revenue 2,692.8 2,348.4 Cost of goods sold (488.0) (454.2) Selling expenses (838.6) (787.4) Research and development expenses (388.8) (302.1) General and administrative expenses (181.4) (165.7) Other operating income 7 15.6 39.0 Other operating expenses 7 (148.5) (121.7) Restructuring costs 8 (27.7) (21.9) Impairment losses 6 (668.8) (15.0) Operating Income 4.1 (33.4) 519.4 Investment income 9 2.0 3.1 Financing costs 9 (30.0) (8.4) Net financing costs 9 (28.0) (5.3) Other financial income and expense 9 22.8 (20.1) Income taxes 10 (19.6) (108.1) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity 17 3.7 1.1 method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations (54.4) 387.0 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 11 4.2 2.0 Consolidated net profit (50.2) 389.1 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. (50.7) 389.5 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 (0.4) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 21.2 (0.66) 4.67 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 21.3 (0.66) 4.65 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 21.2 0.05 0.02 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 21.3 0.05 0.02 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 21.2 (0.61) 4.70 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 21.3 (0.61) 4.68 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comprehensive income statement (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Consolidated net profit (50.2) 389.1 Actuarial gains and (losses) on defined benefit plans, net of taxes (7.6) 7.6 Financial assets at fair value through other items of comprehensive income (OCI), (6.4) (3.7) net of taxes Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to the (14.0) 3.8 income statement Revaluation of financial derivatives for hedging, net of taxes (1.0) (18.1) Foreign exchange differences, net of taxes 59.8 4.3 Other items of comprehensive income likely to be reclassified to the income 58.8 (13.7) statement Comprehensive income: Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and (losses) (5.5) 379.2 recognized directly in equity – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. (6.0) 379.6 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 (0.4) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 61 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 ASSETS Goodwill 12 632.6 395.6 Other intangible assets 13 1,383.2 1,011.9 Property, plant & equipment 14 & 15 679.3 474.5 Equity investments 16 64.9 65.2 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 17 18.8 15.5 Non-current financial assets 18.1 27.7 92.9 Deferred tax assets 10.2 149.4 131.9 Other non-current assets 18.2 4.5 4.4 Total non-current assets 2,960.4 2,191.8 Inventories 19.2.1 214.0 198.5 Trade receivables 19.1 565.0 463.0 Current tax assets 19.1 22.8 47.7 Current financial assets 19.2.2 59.3 5.5 Other current assets 19.2.3 132.2 126.4 Cash and cash equivalents 20 353.3 344.5 Total current assets 1,346.5 1,185.6 TOTAL ASSETS 4,306.9 3,377.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 21.1 83.8 83.8 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,656.1 1,366.0 Net profit (loss) for the period (50.7) 389.5 Foreign exchange differences 61.8 1.8 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,751.0 1,841.1 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2.0 2.3 Total shareholders’ equity 1,753.1 1,843.4 Retirement benefit obligation 5.3.2.2 60.7 63.8 Non-current provisions 22 30.5 44.5 Non-current financial liabilities 23 854.7 386.0 Def erred tax liabilities 10.2 107.7 19.7 Other non-current liabilities 19.2.4 47.8 61.0 Total non-current liabilities 1,101.4 574.9 Current provisions 22 9.1 21.1 Current financial liabilities 23 609.5 184.2 Trade payables 19.1 508.5 379.8 Current tax liabilities 19.1 13.7 11.4 Other current liabilities 19.2.4 297.4 329.0 Bank overdrafts 20 14.3 33.6 Total current liabilities 1,452.5 959.2 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 4,306.9 3,377.4 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Consolidated net profit (50.2) 389.1 Share of profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 17 0.9 (0.2) Net profit (loss) before share from companies accounted for using the (49.3) 388.9 equity method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 6.1 161.2 142.6 – Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income 6.1 & 6.2 670.7 15.0 – Change in fair value of financial derivatives (11.0) (2.0) – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets 3.7 4.8 – Unrealized foreign exchange differences (7.2) (6.5) – Change in deferred taxes 10.2 (130.6) 19.2 – Share-based payment expense 15.8 12.8 – Other non-cash items 9 (46.0) (1.1) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 607.3 573.8 requirement – (Increase)/decrease in inventories 19.1 (25.6) (29.8) – (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables 19.1 (79.9) (29.0) – Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 19.1 98.4 62.4 – Net change in income tax liability 19.1 30.4 26.5 – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities 19.1 (2.8) (33.0) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities 20.4 (2.9) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 627.7 570.9 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment 14 & 15 (144.5) (107.4) Acquisition of intangible assets 13.1 (136.1) (180.1) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 0.6 3.2 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (10.6) (30.2) Payments to post-employment benefit plans 5.3.2.6 (10.0) (1.2) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (817.2) (7.4) Change in working capital related to investment activities 19.1 (36.8) 49.6 Other cash flow related to investment activities (2.7) (0.8) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (1,157.3) (274.3) Additional long-term borrowings 23 286.3 0.9 Repayment of long-term borrowings 23 (0.6) (3.9) Net change in short-term borrowings 23 357.7 (107.3) Capital increase 0.1 2.6 Treasury shares (16.8) (10.3) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. 21.5 (83.2) (83.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.3) (0.5) Change in working capital related to financing activities 6.7 (0.7) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 550.0 (202.2) CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 20.4 94.4 OPENING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 20 310.9 209.3 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 7.7 7.3 CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 20 339.0 310.9 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 63 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity Reserves Equity Foreign related to Cash flow Net profit Total attributable (in million Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total exchange retirement hedge (loss) for Group to noneuros) capital premiums reserves (2) shares equity differences benefit reserves the period equity controlling obligations interests Balance at 31 December 83.8 741.7 716.2 1.8 (25.1) (3.4) (63.3) 389.5 1,841.1 2.3 1,843.3 2018 Consolidated net (50.7) (50.7) 0.5 (50.2) profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized (6.4) 59.7 (7.6) (1.0) 44.7 0.1 44.8 directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses — — (6.4) 59.7 (7.6) (1.0) — (50.7) (6.0) 0.5 (5.5) recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from 389.5 (389.5) 0.0 0.0 the prior period Capital increases 0.0 0.1 (0.0) — 0.1 0.1 (decreases) Share-based 8.2 7.4 15.6 15.6 payments Own share purchases and (16.6) (16.6) (16.6) disposals Dividends (83.2) (83.2) (0.3) (83.5) Change in consolidation 0.0 0.0 (0.5) (0.4) scope Other changes (0.3) 0.3 0.0 — 0.0 Balance at 31 December 83.8 741.9 1,024.0 61.8 (32.8) (4.5) (72.5) (50.7) 1,751.0 2.0 1,753.1 2019 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. (2) The main sources of consolidated reserves were as follows: • Reserves on financial assets at fair value; • Retained earnings. 64 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves Equity Foreign related to Cash flow Net profit Total attributable (in million Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total exchange retirement hedge (loss) for Group to noneuros) capital premiums reserves (3) shares equity differences benefit reserves the period equity controlling obligations interests Balance at 31 December 83.7 739.1 534.8 (2.3) (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,525.4 10.5 1,535.9 2017 First-time application of IFRS 15 – Revenue from — — 14.0 — — — — — 14.0 — 14.0 Contracts with Customers (see note 3.2.1) Balance at 83.7 739.1 548.8 (2.3) (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,539.4 10.5 1,549.9 1 January 2018 Consolidated net — — — — — — — 389.5 389.5 (0.4) 389.1 profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized — — (3.7) 4.3 7.6 (18.1) — — (9.8) (0.0) (9.9) directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses — — (3.7) 4.3 7.6 (18.1) — 389.5 379.6 (0.4) 379.2 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from — — 272.3 — — — — (272.3) — — — the prior period Capital increases 0.1 2.6 0.0 — — — 0.0 — 2.7 — 2.7 (decreases) Share-based — — (18.3) — — — 43.5 — 25.2 — 25.2 payments Own share purchases and — — — — — — (22.8) — (22.8) — (22.8) disposals Dividends — — (83.0) — — — — — (83.0) (0.4) (83.4) Other changes (2) — — 0.2 (0.2) — — — — (0.1) (7.5) (7.5) Balance at 31 December 83.8 741.7 716.2 1.8 (25.1) (3.4) (63.3) 389.5 1,841.1 2.3 1,843.3 2018 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. (2) The decline in minority interests resulted from the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Akkadeas Pharma S.R.L.’s capital not already owned.. (3) The main sources of consolidated reserves were as follows: • reserves on financial assets at fair value; • translation reserves; • retained earnings. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 65 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.5 Notes NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS 3.29.2 Research and Development acquired separately 79 DURING THE PERIOD HAVING AN IMPACT ON 3.29.3 Research and Development acquired in a business THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS combination 79 AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 68 3.29.4 Research tax credits 79 3.30 Other operating income and expenses 79 1.1 Palovarotene 68 3.31 Taxes 79 1.2 Exclusive global license agreement for 3.32 Earnings per share 79 the development and commercialization BLU-782 68 1.3 Reclassification of Ipsen shares held by Mayroy 68 NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS 80 1.4 Departure of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer 68 4.1 Core operating income by operating segment 80 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 69 4.2 Sales by geographical region 80 4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product 81 2.1 2019 69 44.4 Other revenues 81 2.2 2018 69 4.5 Other information 81 NOTE 3 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND METHODS, NOTE 5 PERSONNEL 82 AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 69 5.1 Headcount 82 3.1 General principles and compliance statement 69 5.2 Employee expenses 82 3.2 Standards and interpretations that became applicable 5.3 Long-term employee benefits 82 as of 1 January 2019 69 5.3.1 Benefit plans 82 3.2.1 Application of IFRS 16 – Leases 70 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations 82 3.2.2 Application of IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty of Income Tax 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits 82 Treatment 70 3.3 Standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities 82 by the European Union and not early adopted 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used 83 by the Group 70 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 83 3.4 Standards, amendments and interpretations published 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 83 but not yet endorsed by the European Union 71 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized 3.4.1 IASB publications not yet endorsed in the balance sheet 84 by the European Union 71 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 84 3.4.2 IASB publications following the closing date 71 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 84 3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 85 the consolidated financial statements 71 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits 85 3.6 Use of estimates 71 5.4 Share-based payments 85 3.7 Consolidation methods 71 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 85 3.8 Business combinations 71 5.4.2 Bonus share plans 85 3.9 Operating segments 72 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans 86 3.10 Translation of financial statements in foreign currencies 72 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans 86 3.11 Translation of receivables, payables, transactions, and flows denominated in foreign currencies 72 NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION, PROVISIONS 3.12 Other intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 73 AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 86 3.13 Property, plant & equipment 73 6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment 3.14 Leases 73 losses included in the cash flow statement 86 3.14.1 IFRS 16 Lease application from 1 January 2019 73 6.2 Impairment losses included in Operating result 87 3.14.2 Application of IAS 17 Lease to 2018 Financial 6.2.1 2019 87 Statements 74 6.2.2 2018 87 3.14.2.1 Finance leases 74 3.14.2.2 Operating leases 74 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 87 3.15 Impairment of assets 74 3.15.1 Type of asset tested 74 NOTE 8 RESTRUCTURING COSTS 87 3.15.1.1 Goodwill 74 3.15.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 74 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 87 3.15.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 74 3.15.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial assets 74 3.15.2 Impairment tests – methods used by the Group 74 NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES 88 3.15.2.1 Goodwill 74 10.1 Tax expenses 88 3.15.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 75 10.1.1 Effective tax rate 88 3.15.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 75 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal 3.16 Government grants 75 tax expense 88 3.17 Financial assets 75 10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 89 3.17.1 Financial assets at amortized cost 75 10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance 3.17.2 Financial assets at fair value through sheet and the income statement 89 other comprehensive income 75 3.17.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 76 NOTE 11 NET PROFIT FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 90 3.17.4 Fair value of financial instruments 76 3.18 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued NOTE 12 GOODWILL 90 operations 76 12.1 Goodwill valuation 90 3.19 Inventories 76 12.2 Impairment of goodwill 90 3.20 Cash and cash equivalents 76 12.3 Analysis of Clementia Pharmaceuticals acquisition cost 91 3.21 Stock option plans 76 3.22 Retirement benefit obligations 77 NOTE 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 92 3.22.1 Post-employment benefits 77 3.22.2 Other employee benefits 77 13.1 Movements 92 3.23 Provisions 77 13.2 Impairment tests of intangible assets 94 3.24 Financial liabilities 77 13.2.1 2019 94 3.25 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 77 13.2.2 2018 94 3.25.1 Hedge accounting 77 13.3 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 95 3.25.2 Other derivative instruments 78 3.26 Sales 78 NOTE 14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 95 3.27 Other revenues 78 3.28 Cost of sales 78 NOTE 15 LEASES 96 3.29 Research and Development 78 3.29.1 Internal Research and Development 78 NOTE 16 EQUITY INVESTMENTS 97 66 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 17 INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES ACCOUNTED 24.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk 105 FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD 97 24.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk 106 24.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk 107 NOTE 18 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 24.3 Derivative financial instruments reported AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 98 in the balance sheet 107 18.1 Non-current financial assets 98 NOTE 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS REPORTED 18.2 Other non-current assets 98 IN THE BALANCE SHEET 107 NOTE 19 DETAIL OF THE CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL NOTE 26 INFORMATION ON RELATED PARTIES 108 REQUIREMENT 99 26.1 Director and Executives compensation 108 19.1 Movements 99 26.2 Transactions with related parties 109 19.2 Breakdown 100 26.2.1 In the income statement 109 19.2.1 Inventories 100 26.2.2 In the balance sheet 109 19.2.2 Current financial assets 100 26.2.3 Off-balance sheet commitments 109 19.2.3 Other current assets 100 19.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities 101 NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 109 NOTE 20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 101 27.1 Operating commitments 109 27.1.1 Operating commitments given 110 NOTE 21 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 101 27.1.2 Operating commitments received 110 27.2 Financial commitments 110 21.1 Share capital 101 27.3 General risks 110 21.2 Basic earnings per share 101 27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk 111 21.3 Diluted earnings per share 102 27.5 Other commitments 111 21.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 102 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments 111 21.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.5.2 Risk of acceleration of borrowings 111 to calculate basic earnings per share 102 27.5.3 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given 111 21.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.5.4 Commitments arising from Research to calculate diluted earnings per share 102 and Development agreements 111 21.5 Dividends paid 102 NOTE 28 POST CLOSING EVENTS WITH NO IMPACT ON NOTE 22 PROVISIONS 103 THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.1 Movements 103 AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 111 22.2 Impact on consolidated income 103 NOTE 29 CONSOLIDATION SCOPE 111 NOTE 23 BANK LOANS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 104 29.1 Fully consolidated companies 112 29.2 Companies consolidated using the equity method 113 NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 105 24.1 Interest rate risk hedging 105 NOTE 30 FEES PAID TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS 113 24.2 Exchange rate risk hedging 105 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 67 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 S  ignificant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 ■ 1.1 Palovarotene Moreover, the fair value of Contingent Value Rights (CVR) and other contingent liabilities have been reviewed considering the On 17 April 2019, Ipsen completed the acquisition of 100% of reassessment of probability of success of the indications and Clementia Pharmaceuticals to significantly enhance its Rare timing of triggering events. The Group recognized a financial Disease portfolio. Ipsen acquired Clementia Pharmaceuticals’ gain of €114.6 million. late-stage drug candidate palovarotene, with pediatric disease and breakthrough therapy designations for the treatment of Deferred tax assets have been written-off given the limited an ultra-rare bone disorder. probability of recoverability within 5 years, negatively Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen paid $25 per share impacting income taxes by €71.9 million. in cash upfront on the completion of the transaction, for an initial aggregate consideration of $953 million, plus deferred As of December 31, 2019, the remaining Ipsen’s risk exposure payments on the achievement of future regulatory milestones to palovarotene amounts to €177.1 million. in the form of contingent value rights (CVRs) of $6 per share, which will be paid upon U.S. Food and Drug Administration‘s ■ 1.2 E  xclusive global license agreement for (FDA) acceptance of the regulatory filing for palovarotene for the development and commercialization the treatment of multiple osteochondromas, representing an BLU-782 additional potential payment of $263 million. On 16 October 2019, Ipsen and Blueprint Medicines The transaction has been fully financed by Ipsen’s available Corporation announced that Ipsen, through its subsidiary cash and existing credit lines and has significantly increased Clementia Pharmaceuticals, and Blueprint Medicines have its level of net debt. entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement for O n 6 December 2019, Ipsen announced, following the development and commercialization of BLU-782, an oral, discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration highly selective investigational ALK2 inhibitor being developed (FDA), that a partial clinical hold effective immediately, for for the treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva the pediatric population under the age of 14 was issued (FOP). for studies conducted under IND120181 and IND135403 Subject to the terms of the license agreement, Blueprint evaluating the investigational drug candidate palovarotene for Medicines will be eligible to receive up to $535 million in the chronic treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva upfront, milestone and other payments, including an upfront (FOP) and multiple osteochondromas (MO), respectively. cash payment of $25 million and up to $510 million in potential The partial clinical hold applies to the pediatric population milestone payments related to specified development, (patients under the age of 14 years) currently participating in regulatory and sales-based milestones for licensed products the Phase 2 (PVO-1A-202/204 and PVO-2A-201) and Phase 3 in up to two indications, including FOP, and royalties. (PVO-1A-301) studies in all clinical sites at global level. The FDA is allowing the studies to continue to treat patients 14 years of age and older. ■ 1.3 Reclassification of Ipsen shares held by Mayroy On 24 January 2020, Ipsen announced the decision to pause dosing patients in the global Phase III (PVO-1A-301) study On 5 November 2019, the Board of Directors of Ipsen took designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of palovarotene note of the proposed demerger of Mayroy and the internal in patients with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), reclassification of its Ipsen shares, resulting in a request for as well as the ongoing Phase II (PVO-1A-202/204) extension a waiver to the obligation to file a public offer. On the same studies. day, this project was announced by Mayroy, controlling shareholder of Ipsen. Despite the results of the prespecified interim analysis, signals of encouraging therapeutic activity were observed in The family shareholdings controlling Ipsen will remain preliminary post-hoc analyses of the Phase III trial and shared unchanged following these operations, with the ongoing prewith and acknowledged by the IDMC which is recommending eminence of the concert formed by Anne and Henri Beaufour. not to discontinue the study. Ipsen has also paused dosing patients in the trials and ■ 1.4 D  eparture of David Meek as conducted further assessment of the complete data set. Chief Executive Officer Based on the IDMC’s observations and recommendations, Ipsen will discuss these findings with regulatory authorities On 18 December 2019, Ipsen announced that David Meek to determine the path forward for the palovarotene program has resigned as the company’s Chief Executive Officer in FOP. and will step down from the Board of Directors, effective 31 December 2019. Therefore, Ipsen recognized an impairment loss of €668.8 million on the intangible asset of Palovarotene. Deferred The Board has decided to appoint Aymeric Le Chatelier, tax liabilities have been revised along with the impairment, currently Chief Financial Officer as Interim CEO to replace positively impacting income taxes by €177.2 million. David Meek as of 1 January 2020. 68 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation ■ 2.1 2019 The Clementia Pharmaceuticals France S.A.R.L. company, part of the acquisition and 100% Clementia Pharmaceuticals In January 2019, Ipsen Group purchased the minority Inc.’s subsidiary was dissolved at 31 December 2019. interests of its Greek subsidiary raising its ownership to 100%. Ipsen was already controlling Ipsen E.P.E. entity before At 30 November 2019, Sutrepa S.A.S. was wound up after the acquisition of the residual interests. its assets were transferred to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. As a consequence, Sutrepa S.A.S. does not longer exist in the In light of new facts and circumstances, Ipsen has reassessed consolidation scope 31 December 2019. the nature of the partnerships between Ipsen and Schwabe Group. Subsidiaries involved in this partnership, previously ■ 2.2 2018 consolidated as joint operations are now consolidated During the 2018 financial year, the Group established applying the equity method; the Group does not have any subsidiaries in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, more direct rights on the partnership’s assets and liabilities. Kazakhstan, and Algeria. At 31 December 2018, the ownership percentage in the Algerian subsidiary came to 49%, and the During the first half of 2019, the Group has incorporated Ipsen interest was fully consolidated following an evaluation of Pharma Schweiz GmbH in Switzerland. This subsidiary as well the Group’s control over the subsidiary, in accordance with as the Czech Republic subsidiary, created in 2018, have been IFRS 10. The Romanian and Kazakh subsidiaries are 100% integrated in the scope of consolidation and consolidated owned and were fully consolidated in the 2018 financial for 100% applying full integration method. Finally, Akkadeas statements. The Hungarian and Czech subsidiaries are 100% Pharma Srl has been renamed Ipsen CHC Srl. owned but were not consolidated owing to their insignificant size at 31 December 2018. The acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals led to a 100% integration of three new entities in the consolidation scope, Socapharma S.A.S., not previously consolidated, was applying the full integration method: renamed Ipsen Consumer Healthcare S.A.S. and was fully consolidated at 31 December 2018. • Entity 11188291 Canada Inc. newly incorporated in Canada which holds Clementia Pharmaceuticals shares, Olisapharm S.A.S., not previously consolidated, was renamed Ipsen PharmSciences S.A.S. and was fully consolidated at • Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc. in Canada, 31 December 2018. • Clementia Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the United States, a During the 2018 financial year, the Group’s interest in 100% Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s subsidiary. Akkadeas Pharma S.R.L. was increased from 49% to 100%. Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement Preliminary remarks: prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting • all amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union on the otherwise stated; date of preparation of these consolidated financial statements. The IFRS as endorsed by the European Union differ in certain • the closing date of the consolidated financial statements aspects from the IFRS published by the IASB. is 31 December of each year. Individual statements incorporated into consolidated statements are prepared International accounting standards include International at the closing date of the consolidated statements, i.e. Financial Repor ting Standards ( IFRS ), International 31 December, and cover the same period; Accounting Standards (IAS), as well as the interpretations issued by the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), and • the Group’s consolidated financial statements were the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations approved by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2020 Committee (IFRS IC). and will be submitted for approval at the Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for 29 May 2020. A l l th e tex ts ad o pte d by th e Eu ro p e a n U n i o n a re ava il a b l e o n th e Eu ro p e a n C o m m is s io n’s we bs i te : ■ 3.1 G  eneral principles and compliance ht tp s : //e c.e u ro p a .e u / i nfo / b u s i n e s se c o n o mye u ro / statement company-repor ting-and-auditing /company-repor ting / financial-reporting_en#ifrs-endorsement-process. The main accounting methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless otherwise stated, these methods were used consistently for ■ 3.2 Standards and interpretations that became all financial years presented. applicable as of 1 January 2019 In compliance with European regulation n°1606 / 2002 The mandatory standards, amendments and interpretations adopted on 19 July 2002 by the European Parliament and published by the IASB and applicable as of the 2019 financial the European Council, the Group’s consolidated financial year are listed below. statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 were • IFRS 16 – Leases; 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 69 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments; marginal incremental interest rate has been applied. The Group has used a swap curve adjusted for Ipsen’s financing • Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features with spread depending on the currency zone in which the lessee Negative Compensation; operates; • Amendments to IAS 28 – Long Term Interests in Associates • pending the IFRS IC conclusions, Ipsen considered that the and Joint Ventures; IAS 12 exemption for the initial recognition of deferred taxes • Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan Amendment, Curtailment or should apply to the recognition of the right of use and the Settlement; lease liability during the transition to IFRS 16. As a result, no deferred tax has been recognized. • Annual Improvements – 2015-2017 Cycle. Lease contracts are recognized in the balance sheet at Consequences of IFRS 16 Leases and IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty commencement date for the discounted value of future over Income Tax Treatments on the Group’s financial cash outflows. These contracts are booked as “Nonstatements are described in notes 3.2.1 and 3.2.2. The review current financial liabilities” and “Current financial liabilities” of the other amendments or annual improvements applicable for the liability and “Property, plant and equipment” for the as of 1 January 2019 showed that their application had a nonasset. They are amortized according to the lease term of material impact on the Group’s financial statements. the contract which corresponds to the economic life of 3.2.1 Application of IFRS 16 – Leases similar tangible assets. In the consolidated income statement, amortization expenses are accounted for on each line of the IFRS 16 standard, effective from 1 January 2019, replaces Operating income to which lease contracts relate (“Cost of IAS 17 standard and establishes accounting principles goods sold”, “Selling expenses”, “Research and development applicable for the recognition, measurement, presentation expenses”,…) and interests expenses in “Net financing costs”. and disclosures of leases contracts. The main impact of the standard on the Group’s financial statements results in IFRS 16 transition led to an increase in tangible assets the introduction of a single accounting model for the lessee, recognized as a right of use as of 1 January 2019 for leading to the recognition of assets and liabilities arising €169.4 million and to an increase in financial liabilities of from lease contracts. IAS 17 Leases remains applicable to €188.2 million. The impact on the Operating Income reached comparative data for 2018 financial year. a profit of €4.3 million as at 31 December 2019; the impact In line with IAS 17, most lease contracts were previously on the Consolidated net profit reached a loss of €1.4 million. classified as operating leases. When IFRS 16 has been first The impact of the first IFRS 16 application has also been applied, those contracts have been recognized in the balance taken into account to perform Group’s impairment tests. The sheet (i) as a right of use on one hand (ii) as a debt on the modification of the accounting approach applied to those other hand corresponding to future lease payments. contracts had no impact on the impairment tests results. The main contracts impacted by the standard included For 2019 financial statement, the methodology developed to property and vehicle leases. The Group has applied the realize impairment tests has been amended as follows: simplified retrospective approach for IFRS 16 first-time application on 1 January 2019. In compliance with IFRS 16 • rights of use and liabilities on lease payments have provisions, the aggregate impact, at the date of transition has respectively been included and excluded of the net book been recognized in equity, and comparative data have not value of the cash generating units; been restated. • the impact of the first application of IFRS 16 has been taken In accordance with the options authorized by the standard, into consideration in the estimated future cash flows and on lease agreements with a term of less than twelve months the weighted average capital cost (WACC). or whose original asset value is less than five thousand U.S. 3.2.2 Application of IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income dollars have not been restated. Tax Treatment The review of commercial leases relied on contractual IFRIC 23 interpretation, effective from 1 January 2019, clarifies provisions to determine the assumptions used for estimating how to apply IAS 12 – Income taxes and how to account for right-of-use assets or lease liabilities: and measure income tax uncertainties, when an uncertainty • the term of the lease used corresponds to the nonexist on the way to account for income tax. cancellable period provided for in the agreement unless the This interpretation had no impact on Group’s current and Group is reasonably certain that it will exercise an extension differed tax assessment. Applying the September 2019 option; IFRS IC decision, the provision for income tax uncertainties has • the term of the lease used for properties have been assessed been reclassified as a differed tax liability as of 31 December consistently with the term used for the depreciation of 2019. fixtures and fittings recognized as an asset for these properties; ■ 3.3  tandards, amendments and S interpretations endorsed by the European • lease liabilities have been measured at the present value of remaining lease payments and discounted using each Union and not early adopted by the Group lease agreement incremental borrowing rate and taking into The Group did not opt for early adoption of the standards, account the remaining term of the lease commitment. The amendments and interpretations endorsed by the European 70 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Union for which the application was not mandatory on The main material estimates made by management concern 1 January 2019, namely: employee benefits (see note 5), any impairment of goodwill (see note 12) or intangible assets (see note 13), deferred • Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS8 – Definition of Material; tax asset assessments (see note 10), and provisions (see • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework note 21). in IFRS; ■ 3.7 Consolidation methods • Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7. Subsidiaries controlled by the Group are fully consolidated. A review of these amendments was under way by the Group Companies controlled jointly with one or several outside at the close of the 2019 consolidated financial statements. partners are either consolidated as a joint venture using the equity method, or as a joint operation, whereby Ipsen recognizes its assets and liabilities proportionally to its rights ■ 3.4 Standards, amendments and and obligations in the arrangement, in accordance with the interpretations published but not yet provisions under IFRS 11. endorsed by the European Union An associated company is an entity in which the Group has 3.4.1 IASB publications not yet endorsed by significant influence over the entity’s financial and operating the European Union policy decisions but without control or joint control. A joint Standards, amendments and interpretations published but venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control not yet endorsed by the European Union are listed below. and rights over the arrangement’s net assets but no direct rights on its assets or obligations arising from its liabilities. • Amendments to IFRS 3 – Business Combinations – Definition of a Business; Companies over which the Group exercises significant • IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts. influence are accounted for using the equity method. A review of these standards, amendments and interpretations If the accounting methods used by subsidiaries, joint was under way by the Group at the close of the 2019 operations, joint ventures, and companies accounted for consolidated financial statements. using the equity method do not comply with those used by the Group, all necessary changes are made to ensure that 3.4.2 IASB publications following the closing date the financial statements of those companies are compatible Standards and interpretations published by the IASB since with the Group’s accounting principles. Transactions the closing date and before the approval of the consolidated between consolidated companies and intra-group results are financial statements are listed below. eliminated. • Amendments to IAS 1 – Classification of liabilities as current Investments in companies that are not consolidated are or non current. recognized as equity investments. ■ 3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing ■ 3.8 Business combinations the consolidated financial statements Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase The consolidated financial statements were prepared using method. The cost of an acquisition is based on the fair value the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain asset of the assets acquired, instruments of equity issued, and and liability classes in accordance with IFRS. The related liabilities incurred or assumed from the previous owners at classes are described in the notes below. the date of the combination. The costs directly attributable to the combination are accounted for as “Other operating expenses” in the period during which they are incurred. ■ 3.6 Use of estimates To prepare its financial statements in accordance with On first-time consolidation of an exclusively controlled international financial reporting standards, the Group is company, identifiable assets and liabilities are valued at required to make estimates and uses certain assumptions their fair value except exceptions specifically provided for by likely to impact the carrying value of assets and liabilities, IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. shareholders’ equity, income and expense items, and Goodwill recorded in the consolidated balance sheet is the information provided in the notes to the financial statements. difference between: Management has regularly made these estimates and • the total amount of the following elements: assumptions on the basis of its past experience and other factors deemed reasonable. Changing assumptions, in – the cost of acquisition at the date when control is particular as a result of the economic or financial environment, obtained; which could weaken some of the Group’s partners and make it difficult to estimate future outlook, could ultimately lead to – the total of non-controlling interests in the acquired different amounts. company determined either at fair value at the acquisition date (full goodwill method), or on the basis of their share The estimates were made based on information available at in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and the closing date, after taking into account post closing events. liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method). This option 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 71 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS is reviewed by the Group on a transaction-by-transaction impairment losses on intangible assets and property, basis; plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s – for business combinations achieved in stages, the fair performance from one year to another. The reconciliation of value at the acquisition date of the share held by the Core operating income and operating income is presented Group before the date when control is obtained; in note 4.1. – and the estimated impact of any adjustments in the acquisition costs, such as earnout payments. These These performance indicators are not substitute to IFRS contingent considerations are measured by applying the indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used criteria set out in the purchase agreement, such as sales and in addition to IFRS indicators. Although used by the Executive earnings targets, to forecasts deemed to be highly probable. Leadership Team as important factors for setting targets and The contingent considerations are then re-measured at measuring the Group’s performance, these indicators are not each closing date, with any changes recognized on the required nor defined by IFRS. income statement after the acquisition date (including the As internal per formance measures, these operational one-year period following the acquisition date, as long as indicators have limitations, and management of the Group’s they do not result from existing facts and circumstances at performance is not limited solely to these indicators. the transaction date). They are discounted over their useful life if the impact is material. Any discounting adjustments to the carrying amount of the liability are recognized in “Other ■ 3.10 T  ranslation of financial statements financial income and expense”; in foreign currencies • and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and Ipsen’s consolidated financial statements are denominated identifiable liabilities assumed, measured at their fair value in euros. In compliance with IAS 21, the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the closing If the values of the assets and liabilities are recognized on date. No Group entity operates in a hyper-inflationary a provisional basis, adjustments resulting from facts and economy. Their income statements and the items in their circumstances existing at the transaction date and made statements of cash flows are translated at the average rate for within one year from the acquisition date, are adjusted the year, which approximates, in absence of any significant retrospectively, in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business fluctuations, the prevailing exchange rate at the date of the Combinations. different transactions. The same applies to the components of the cash-flow statement. After initial recognition, goodwill is tested for impairment at least once a year and whenever there is an indication that it Exchange differences are transferred to the cumulative may be impaired (see note 3.15). translation reser ve, which forms an integral par t of shareholders’ equity, and to non-controlling interests for the In the case of companies accounted for using the equity share attributable to third parties. These differences arise method, goodwill is included in the amount invested in from: companies accounted for using the equity method. The costs directly attributable to the combination are included in the • any difference between the rates used for the opening assessment of the investment acquisition price. and closing balance sheets arising from exchange rate differences; When the acquisition price is below the fair value of the Group’s share in the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities • any difference between the year’s average rate and closing assumed from the acquired subsidiary, the difference is rate. recognized directly in revenue on the income statement. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising upon acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the ■ 3.9 Operating segments foreign entity. Accordingly, they are expressed in the entity’s In accordance with IFRS 8 – Operating segments, reported functional currency and translated at the rate prevailing on the segment information is built on the basis of management data closing date. used for business performance analysis and for allocation of resources by the “chief operating decision maker”, i.e. the During consolidation, exchange differences due to the Executive Leadership Team. translation of net investments in businesses abroad and of loans and other exchange instruments designated as The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care hedging instruments for these investments are recognized in and Consumer Healthcare. Only general and administrative equity. When a foreign entity is disposed of, these translation expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges are not differences, initially treated as equity, are recognized in profits allocated to the two operating segments. or losses on disposals. The Group uses Core operating income to measure its segment performance. Core operating income is the internally ■ 3.11 Translation of receivables, payables, used indicator to measure operating performance and to transactions, and flows denominated allocate resources. in foreign currencies Core operating income excludes amortization expense for Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, are initially translated at the exchange rates prevailing on 72 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the transaction date and then revalued at the closing rates useful lives, which in practice is between 8 and 20 years. prevailing on the reporting date. These useful life periods vary depending on cash flow forecasts, which are based on the underlying patentExchange differences on monetary assets denominated in protection period. foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses on intangible assets are repor ted Exchange differences arising from the elimination of foreign together with losses on property, plant and equipment, currency transactions between fully consolidated companies and losses on goodwill in a specific line item on the income are transferred to the cumulative translation reserve under statement. shareholders’ equity and to non-controlling interests for the share attributable to third parties, to eliminate their impact The gains and losses on disposals of assets are determined on consolidated results. Exchange differences arising by comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the from foreign currency cash flow movements between fully disposed asset. consolidated companies are accounted for under a separate line item in the consolidated statement of cash flows. ■ 3.13 Property, plant & equipment Property, plant and equipment items are accounted for at ■ 3.12 O  ther intangible assets (excluding acquisition price, at fair value for business combinations, goodwill) or at production cost less cumulative depreciation and any “Other intangible assets” are accounted for at acquisition impairment loss. price or fair value for business combinations, less cumulative Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying value, amortization and any impairment losses. or, if applicable, they are recognized as a separate asset if the An asset’s useful life is the period of time over which the future economic benefits associated with the asset are likely Group expects to use that asset. Intangible assets with a to go to the Group, and the cost of the asset can be measured defined useful life are amortized over a period corresponding reliably. to useful lives estimated by the Group. Amortization periods Depreciation is usually calculated on a straight-line basis are determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the over the assets’ estimated useful lives. Fixtures and fittings type of asset concerned. Rights on products commercialized related to lease assets have their lease term determined by the Group are amortized on a straight-line basis for the in consistency with the term of the lease contract itself. duration of their useful lives. Useful life is determined based Some industrial assets are depreciated based on production on cash flow forecasts that take into account the underlying volumes. patent-protection period, among other factors. Estimated useful lives are as follows: Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but are systematically tested annually for impairment (see • Buildings, fixtures and fittings 5 to 30 years note 3.15). • Industrial plant & equipment 5 to 10 years The accounting treatment of research and development • Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years expenses for internally generated intangible assets and for research and development work acquired separately is Land is not depreciated. described in note 3.29. Residual values and the duration of the assets’ useful lives are Acquired patents are recognized as intangible assets at revised and, if applicable, adjusted at each closing. acquisition price, or at fair value for business combinations, and amortized over their period of economic use, which does The carrying value of an asset is depreciated immediately not exceed the period of protection. to bring it back to its recoverable amount when the asset’s carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable The development costs of software developed internally are amount (see note 3.15). identified as intangible assets as soon as they comply with the criteria defined in IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Such expenses Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are include mainly the salaries of personnel involved in the project reported together with losses on intangible assets and losses and the fees of external consultants. They are amortized on a on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. straight-line basis over the duration of their useful lives. The gains and losses on disposals of assets, included in other operating income and expenses, are determined by Software licenses acquired under a SaaS distribution model comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the (Softaware as a Service) are recognized in the Income disposed asset. Statement and are not recognized as an intangible asset or a lease contract. ■ 3.14 Leases Acquired software licenses are amortized on a straight-line 3.14.1 IFRS 16 Lease application from 1 January 2019 basis over the duration of their useful lives (from 1 to 10 years). In line with IFRS 16 standard applicable from 1 January 2019, Identified rights regarding intellectual property are amortized lease contracts have been accounted for applying a single on a straight-line basis over the estimated duration of their recognition model that led to the recognition of an asset, the 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 73 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‘right of use’. Leases have been booked in “tangible assets” 3.15.1.1 Goodwill and lease liabilities have been broken down and booked in For impairment testing purposes, starting from the acquisition current and non-current financial liabilities (see note 3.2.1). date, goodwill acquired under a business combination is In line with the standard, Ipsen applies IFRS 16 provisions allocated to one of two of the Group’s cash generating units to all lease contracts except low value and short term (less (Specialty care and Consumer Healthcare). than twelve months) lease contracts. Payments related to Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a company accounted contracts (rents) benefiting from the exemption are recognized for using the equity method is included in the carrying as operating expenses. amount of the investment and is not separately recognized, in 3.14.2 Application of IAS 17 Lease to 2018 Financial accordance with IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Statements Ventures. As a consequence, it is not tested for impairment separately, as described in IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. The transition method elected for the first application of The full carrying amount of the investment, including goodwill, IFRS 16 is the simplified retrospective method. 2018 is tested for impairment. In line with paragraph 23 of IAS 28 comparative data have not been accordingly adjusted. The – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, appropriate standard applicable to previous years Financial Statements adjustments to the Group’s share of the profits or losses after is IAS 17 standard – Lease. Different accounting treatments acquisition of companies accounted for using the equity apply depending on the nature of the contract which can method are made for impairment losses related to goodwill whether be an operating lease or a finance lease. and intangible assets. 3.14.2.1 Finance leases 3.15.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized when Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life i.e. mainly the lease contract transfers to the Group substantially all risks intellectual property rights and licenses to use intellectual and rewards incidental to ownership. Criteria used to assess property rights, are tested annually for impairment and whether a contract should be classified as a finance lease whenever there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. include: 3.15.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life • the term of the lease compared with the useful life of the Intangible assets with a finite useful life are tested annually for asset; impairment and whenever events or changed circumstances • total discounted future lease payments compared with the indicate that an asset may be impaired. fair value of the asset financed; 3.15.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial • whether or not ownership of the asset is transferred at the assets end of the lease term; Other non-current assets, including tangible fixed assets and long-term financial assets, are also tested for impairment • the existence of a purchase option favorable to the lessee; when events or changed circumstances indicate that an asset • the specific nature of the asset leased. may be impaired in line with IAS 36 – Impairment and IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. Leased assets capitalized as finance leases are depreciated 3.15.2 Impairment tests – methods used by the Group over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the lease contract. Impairment tests consist of comparing an asset’s carrying value (asset groups or cash-generating units) with its 3.14.2.2 Operating leases recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair Operating leases are lease contracts that are not classified as value less costs to sell and value in use. finance leases. Rental payments are recorded as expenses in Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows the income statement on a straight-line basis. expected to be derived from continuing use of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit and its ultimate ■ 3.15 Impairment of assets disposal. 3.15.1 Type of asset tested Fair value less selling costs is the amount obtainable from the Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life sale of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit in (such as intangible rights acquired from a third party for an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing drugs not yet commercialized) are tested for impairment in parties, less the costs of disposal. accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets, at least once a year and whenever there is an indication that the asset may Impairment tests are carried out annually or whenever an be impaired. event indicates that an asset may be impaired. Indicators of impairment loss can be related namely 3.15.2.1 Goodwill to the success of successive phases of clinical trials, to Regarding goodwill, the Group calculates recoverable pharmacovigilance, to patent protection, to the arrival of amounts of cash-generating units from their value in use. competing products and/or generics and the comparison This is determined by discounting their estimated future between actual and forecast sales. cash flows to present value. These cash flow estimates are 74 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS based on five-year or, if warranted, longer estimates and are Financial assets, excluding cash and derivative financial made for each operating segment (i.e. Specialty Care and assets used for hedging purposes, are classified in one of the Consumer Healthcare) by the Group’s operating entities. In three following categories: addition, tests are performed to assess the sensitivity of the recoverable amount of cash-generating units or groups of • financial assets at amortized cost; cash-generating units to changes in certain assumptions, • financial assets at fair value through other items of primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%), sales growth comprehensive income; (range -1% to -2%) and the long-term growth rate (range +/1%). • financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 3.15.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life Financial assets are classified upon initial recognition based When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of on the characteristics of their contractual cash flows and the a particular fixed asset, the Group determines the recoverable Group’s management model. amount of the cash-generating unit that holds it. More 3.17.1 Financial assets at amortized cost specifically, for an intangible right in the early development phase, the asset is tested for impairment only if an indication Financial assets at amortized costs consist mainly of Groupof loss of value arises between the date of its acquisition and issued loans and receivables. The Group measures financial the annual closing date. assets at amortized cost: 3.15.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life • if the asset is owned within a business model whose objective is to maintain assets for contractual cash flows; For other intangible assets, the period taken into account for estimating anticipated cash flows is based on the economic • if its contractual conditions give rise to cash flows on set life intrinsic to each intangible asset. When the economic dates that are solely payments of principal and interest on life exceeds Group forecasts, the terminal value may be the principal amount outstanding. used. Tests are also performed to assess the sensitivity of Interest income from financial assets is calculated according the recoverable amount to changes in certain assumptions, to the effective interest rate method. Upon initial recognition, primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%) and to sales financial assets at amortized costs are subject to impairment growth (range -1% to -2%) and the long-term growth rate recognized in the income statement for the amount of the (range +/1%). expected losses, and are subsequently measured each year. Cash flows are discounted to present value using the Gains and losses are recognized in the income statement weighted average cost of capital of each cash-generating unit whenever the asset is derecognized or modified. (Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare), except in specific cases when additional risk premiums are taken into account The Group uses the expected loss model, as introduced based on the asset tested. by IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments, for its trade receivables. The impairment allowance for trade receivables is based When the recoverable amount of an asset (or group of assets) on a historical loss rate observed over the three previous or a cash-generating unit is lower than its carrying value, years on a receivable-by-receivable basis and adjusted for an impairment loss is recorded on a separate line in the prospective events that take into account individualized income statement. When an impairment loss is identified for a credit risks and the economic forward looking of the relevant cash-generating unit, it is deducted in priority from goodwill. market. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversible. 3.17.2 F inancial assets at fair value through other Methods and key assumptions for impairment tests for the comprehensive income period ending on 31 December 2019 are presented for Financial assets representative of debt instruments are goodwill and intangible assets of indefinite useful life in notes measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 12 and 13 respectively. when: ■ 3.16 Government grants • they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash Government grants received by the Group are treated as flows and sell financial assets; deferred income and recognized in the income statement over the estimated useful lives of the assets financed by the • the contractual conditions of the financial asset give rise to grants. cash flows on set dates that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. ■ 3.17 Financial assets The Group does not hold any financial assets measured at fair A financial asset is an asset that meets the definition IAS 32 value through other comprehensive income with the recycling – Financial Instruments and can be cash (see note 3.20), of cumulative gains and losses. an equity instrument of another entity, a contractual right to receive and exchange cash, or another equity instrument, Fur ther, IFRS 9 provides an option to classif y equity or a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own instruments irrevocably on an instrument-by-instrument equity. basis as instruments measured at fair value though other 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 75 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS comprehensive income, as long as these instruments meet For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of the IAS 32 definition of equity. management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group), and an active program to locate a buyer and The Group opted to irrevocably classify its investments in complete the plan must be initiated. non-consolidated companies in this category, as they are representative of equity instruments. They are measured at An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a business, fair value through equity without later recycling gains or losses which the Group has sold or is classified as held for sale, and: to the income statement. These financial assets are presented • which represents a principal and distinct business line or under “Equity investments”. The associated dividends are geographic region; recognized in the income statement. • is part of a specific and coordinated plan for disposal of a 3.17.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss principal and distinct business line or geographic region; or Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, assets designated upon • is a subsidiary acquired exclusively for resale. initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and other assets belonging to this category ■ 3.19 Inventories in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 9 – Financial Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realizable Instruments. value. The internal cost price is determined using the weighted average cost method. At the reporting date, financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss consisted primarily of: Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to • short-term investments. These investments are held for make the sale. trading and do not meet the definition of cash equivalents (as per IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows) but which The cost of finished goods includes all purchasing costs, nonetheless show limited volatility; transformation costs and other costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and current condition. • interests owned by the Group in investment funds. The interests held in these funds do not meet the definition ■ 3.20 Cash and cash equivalents of equity instruments but do meet the definition of debt instruments instead; Cash includes cash on hand and demand deposits with banks. • contingent milestone payments already recognized in the financial statements of an acquired entity or resulting from a Cash equivalents include term deposits, short-term, highly business combination. liquid investments (with a maturity of less than three months), and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value in Financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss the event of interest rate variations. are accounted for as an asset in the balance sheet for their Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets at fair value fair value amount. Changes in fair value are recognized in the held for transactions. They are measured at fair value and any income statement. changes are recognized in the income statement. Given the 3.17.4 Fair value of financial instruments nature of these assets, their fair value is generally close to their net carrying value. The financial instruments held by the Group are measured at fair value. These include such instruments as derivative ■ 3.21 Stock option plans instruments, listed and unlisted financial assets and variable payments recognized as part of business combinations. Stock options and bonus share plans are awarded to executive officers and some employees of the Group. As For investments in listed equity instruments, fair value is required by IFRS 2 – Share-based Payments, these options the quoted market price. For investments in unlisted equity and shares are measured at their fair value on the date of instruments, fair value is determined by reference to recent grant. The fair value is calculated with the most relevant market transactions or using a valuation technique that formula regarding the settlement and the conditions of each provides reliable and objective price estimates in line with stock options plan or share award (“Black and Scholes” those used by other players active in the market. or “Monte Carlo”). The fair value is recorded in personnel expenses (allocated by function in the income statement) on ■ 3.18 Non-current assets held for sale and a straight-line basis over the vesting period (period from the discontinued operations date of grant to maturity of the plan) with a corresponding increase in equity. A non-current asset, or group of assets and liabilities, is classified as held for sale if its carrying value will be At each closing date, the Group re-examines the number recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than of options likely to become exercisable and the number of through continuing use. The asset or disposal group must shares likely to be awarded. If applicable, the impact of the be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly review of the estimates is recognized in the income statement probable. with a corresponding adjustment in equity. 76 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 3.22 Retirement benefit obligations ■ 3.25 Derivative financial instruments and 3.22.1 Post-employment benefits hedge accounting Depending on the laws and practices of the countries 3.25.1 Hedge accounting where the Group operates, employees may be entitled to As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange compensation when they retire or to a pension following their risks, the Group completed a number of transactions involving retirement. the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group uses The liability corresponding to the employees’ vested rights is derivatives instruments designated as cash flow hedge covered by: instruments. The Group has also set-up net investment hedge transactions in foreign countries and have accounted • contributions to independent organizations (insurance for them in a similar way as cash flow hedges. Exchange rate companies) responsible for paying the pensions or other exposure in foreign subsidiaries has been hedged with debt benefits; or instruments. • balance sheet provisions. The Group has not designated any derivative instruments as For State-managed plans and other defined contribution fair value hedge. plans, the Group records them as expenses when they become payable, the Group’s commitment being limited to The Group buys and sells derivative financial instruments its contributions. with a view to managing and reducing its exposure to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The Group deals only with For defined benefit plans, the Group’s liability is estimated first-class financial institutions. Hedge accounting is applied by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method. to instruments formally designated as such and subject to Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an structured documentation from their inception. Under IFRS 9 additional unit of benefit entitlement and each unit is valued – Financial Instruments, hedge accounting requires that the separately to obtain the final obligation. following conditions be met: The final amount of the liability is then discounted. The main • there is an economic relationship between the hedged item assumptions used to calculate the liability are: and the hedging instrument; • discount rate; • the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes • inflation rate; that result from that economic relationship; • future salary increases; • the effectiveness of the hedging relationship does not • employee turnover. reflect an imbalance that could result in an accounting 3.22.2 Other employee benefits outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. In some countries, employees are entitled to awards for long service. The Group records a provision in the balance sheet Derivative instruments recognized as hedging instruments to cover its liability in this respect. are recognized in accordance with IFRS 9 hedge accounting criteria. ■ 3.23 Provisions A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to cash flow Provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 37 – fluctuations, which stem from a particular risk associated with Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets a recognized asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast to cover all liabilities to third parties that are not financial transaction, and which could affect profit or loss. Changes guarantees or commitments but are likely or certain to in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized give rise to an outflow of resources embodying economic in equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive benefits, provided the amount of the provision can be reliably income for the effective portion of the hedging relationship. estimated. These provisions are estimated on the basis of the For the ineffective portion, changes in the fair value of hedging most likely assumptions at the closing date. instruments are recognized in “Other financial income and In the case of restructurings, a liability is recorded as soon expense” on the income statement. as the restructuring has been announced and the Group has Aggregate changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument drawn up or started to implement a detailed restructuring that were previously recognized in equity are recycled into plan. the income statement in the same period(s) in which the Provisions are discounted if the time value is material. The hedged transaction affects profit or loss. For hedges related discount rate reflects current market assessments of the to operating activities, the recycled gains and losses are time value of money and the risks inherent to the liability. The recognized in “Other core operating income and expenses”. provision increase resulting from the restatement at historical This line item also includes foreign exchange translation value is recorded as a financial expense. differences generated by operating receivables and liabilities. When the hedging instrument expires, the aggregate gains or ■ 3.24 Financial liabilities losses previously recognized in equity remain in equity and Financial liabilities consist of loans and are initially recognized are recycled into the income statement only after the forecast at their fair value. Subsequently they are measured at transaction has been effectively completed. However, when amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. the Group no longer expects the forecast transaction to be 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 77 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS completed, aggregate gains and losses previously recognized ■ 3.27 Other revenues in equity are immediately recognized in the income statement. Other revenues include royalties, revenues received from The Group mainly uses forward currency contracts to hedge licensing agreements concluded with partners and revenues its transactional foreign exchange risk. The Group excludes generated by various services provided. swap points and foreign currency basis spread components Royalties received are recognized as “Other revenues” based of foreign exchange contracts from its hedge designation and on sales achieved by the partners and contractual royalty recognizes changes in the fair value of these components rates during the period. directly in net financial income (expense). Licensing Agreements are recognized in “Other revenues” The Group has realized foreign net investment hedge and can be broken down into two distinct types, as follows: transactions. Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are directly recognized in equity regarding the • static licenses are contracts whose control has been effective portion. Change in the fair value related to the transferred to the customer and to which the Group has an ineffective portion of the hedge is recognized in the Income enforceable payment right. Revenue from these licenses is Statement. recognized at the date when control of the licensed asset has been transferred; If an investment that qualifies for foreign net investment hedge • dynamic licenses are licenses in which the royalties is disposed of, amounts previously booked in equity are received correspond to the right held by the customer to recycled to the Income Statement. use an intangible asset without a transfer of control, or to a 3.25.2 Other derivative instruments situation where licensing agreement cannot be separated from the sale of the goods and services. Such revenue is Derivative instruments that do not qualify as hedge accounting spread over the lifespan of the licensing agreement. Upfront are initially and subsequently measured at fair value. Changes payments and milestone payments are spread over the in fair value are recognized in “Other financial income and licensing contract period to which they relate. expense”. Revenues generated by various services provided are ■ 3.26 Sales recognized based on the goods or services delivered to the The Group’s revenues are generated mainly by the sale other contracting party. of pharmaceutical products. Sales are recognized when control of the goods or services has been transferred to the ■ 3.28 Cost of sales customer. Sales are recognized for an amount reflecting the Cost of sales primarily includes the industrial cost of goods sums the Group expects to collect. Revenue from the sale sold and royalties paid under licenses. The industrial cost of pharmaceutical products is recognized when control has of goods sold encompasses the cost of the raw materials been transferred, generally upon delivery, in accordance consumed, including freight-in costs, direct and indirect with the delivery and acceptance clauses provided in the costs for production services personnel, manufacturingcontract with the customer. Note 4 – Operating Segments related depreciation, all types of external costs related presents a breakdown of the sales by cash generating unit, to manufacturing activities, such as electricity, water, by geographical area and by therapeutical area, evidencing maintenance, and equipment costs, and indirect costs, such the portion of sales each product marketed by the Group as the share of purchasing, human resources and IT costs. represents. Production costs also include quality control, production quality assurance, engineering, and logistics services Revenue from product sales consists of the sale of expenses. pharmaceutical products, net of returns, rebates and discounts granted to customers, as well as certain payments ■ 3.29 Research and Development payable to health authorities and determined on the basis of sales. Rebates and discounts are recognized at the same 3.29.1 Internal Research and Development time as the accompanying sales to which they pertain. Internal research costs are expensed. Internal pharmaceutical According to IFRS 15, they are identified as being variable development costs are expensed in the period during which price components. they are incurred as long as capitalization criteria are not deemed to be met. When another party is involved in completing the sales of goods or services, the Group assesses the degree to which In accordance with IAS 38, internal development costs are the third party acts as an agent or principal. If the products recognized as intangible assets only if the following six criteria are sold on consignment, or if the third party is acting as the have been met: agent, the revenues are recognized upon the sale to the end • the technical feasibility of completing the development customer. Paid commissions are recognized in the “Selling project; expenses” line item. • the Group’s intention to complete the project; Off balance-sheet commitments corresponding to milestones • its ability to use the intangible asset; payments to be received and arising from the main agreements between the Group and the third parties are presented in the • the probable future economic benefit of the asset can be note 27.1.2. Payments received on these milestones are demonstrated; recognized at the date when the regulatory triggering event • the availability of technical, financial and other resources to occurs and after validation by the parties. complete the project; and 78 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • the reliable measurement of development costs. industry. In accordance with IAS 20 – Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Due to the risks and uncertainties associated with regulatory Assistance, operating grants are recognized in operating approvals and the research and development process, the six income, after the R&D expenses to which they are directly criteria for intangible assets are not deemed to be fulfilled until linked have been deducted. marketing authorization for the drugs has been granted, i.e. approval of the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA). ■ 3.30 Other operating income and expenses As a result, internal development expenses, primarily Other operating income and expenses include primarily consisting of clinical study costs arising before approval amortization expense for intangible assets (excluding of the MAA, are generally recognized in “Research and sof tware), the impact of cash flow hedges related to development expenses” as soon as they are incurred. commercial operations, capital gains and losses on asset Some industrial development costs are generated after disposals, and any item not directly linked to operations. the MAA has been approved to improve the process for manufacturing an active ingredient. If the six IAS 38 criteria ■ 3.31 Taxes are deemed to have been met, these costs are included in Applying the variable carryover method, deferred taxes are the measurement of the project’s costs and recorded as recorded on all temporary differences between the carrying “Other intangible assets” on the asset side of the balance value and tax base of assets and liabilities, and on tax loss sheet, as soon as they are incurred (see note 13.3). Likewise, carryforwards. some clinical study costs, such as those arising from efforts to extend the geographical access of a molecule that has The main temporary differences in the Group’s consolidated already obtained MAA approval in a major market, may in financial statements stem from tax loss carry forwards, certain cases meet the six intangible asset recognition criteria restatements to eliminate internal margins on inventory and under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. In such cases, those costs provisions for retirement benefits. are recorded as other intangible assets on the asset side of Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary the balance sheet, as soon as they are incurred. differences only when it is probable that taxable profits will be 3.29.2 Research and Development acquired separately available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. Payments made to separately acquire research and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued using the development work are recognized as other intangible assets expected tax rate for the period in which the asset will be when they meet the definition of an intangible asset, i.e. a realized and the liability will be settled, on the basis of the tax controlled resource with probable future economic benefits rates enacted or virtually enacted at the balance sheet date. to the Group that is identifiable, either being separable or Deferred tax assets are subject to a recoverability analysis arising from contractual or other legal rights. In application of based on Group forecasts. paragraph 25 of IAS 38, the first recognition criterion related to the probability of the intangible asset generating future Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted, in economic benefits is presumed to be met when research accordance with IAS 12 – Income Taxes. and development work is acquired separately. The second recognition criterion related to the reliable measurement of Amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements the asset is satisfied as well when payment amounts are are calculated at the level of each tax entity included in the determined. consolidation scope. Accordingly, amounts paid to third parties in the form of an The Group elected to recognize the CVAE business tax upfront payment or milestone payments for proprietary drugs (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) as income are recognized on the asset side of the balance sheet. These tax expense in the income statement. Accordingly, and in rights are amortized on a straight-line basis over the duration line with provisions of IAS 12, the total amount of current and of their useful lives beginning on the date the products are deferred expenses related to the CVAE is presented on the commercialized. “Income Tax” line. 3.29.3 Research and Development acquired in ■ 3.32 Earnings per share a business combination A basic earnings per share is calculated on the weighted Other intangible assets related to research and development average number of shares outstanding during the period. work in progress and acquired within the scope of a business combination, and which can be reliably measured, are The weighted average number of shares outstanding is identified separately from goodwill and recognized as other calculated according to movements in share capital, less any intangible assets, in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business treasury shares held by the Group. Combinations and IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. A related deferred tax liability is also recognized, if applicable. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing consolidated net profit for the year attributable to equity 3.29.4 Research tax credits holders of Ipsen S.A. by the weighted average number of Research tax credits are classified as operating grants, in ordinary shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive accordance with common practice within the pharmaceutical ordinary shares not yet issued. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 79 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4 Operating segments Segment information is presented according to the Group’s Core operating income excludes amortization expense for two operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, Healthcare. impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s the key performance indicators. General and administrative performance from one year to another. expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges are not allocated to the two operating segments. These performance indicators do not replace IFRS indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used in addition The Group uses Core operating income to measure its to IFRS indicators. performance. Core operating income is the indicator used by the Group to measure operating performance and to allocate resources. ■ 4.1 Core operating income by operating segment Consumer Other 31 December (in million euros) Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) 2019 Sales 2,299.4 276.8 – 2,576.2 Other revenues 74.5 42.1 – 116.5 Revenue 2,373.9 318.9 – 2,692.8 Core operating income 938.6 55.1 (211.1) 782.6 Consumer Other 31 December (in million euros) Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) 2018 Sales 1,924.5 300.3 – 2,224.8 Other revenues 62.6 61.0 – 123.6 Revenue 1,987.1 361.3 – 2,348.4 Core operating income 740.4 83.9 (164.5) 659.9 In 2019, unallocated core operating income (expenses) came The expenses stemmed mainly from unallocated general and to (€211.1) million, compared with (€164.5) million in 2018. administrative expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges. The reconciliation of Core operating income and Operating Income is presented in the following table: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Core operating income 782.6 659.9 Amortization of intangible assets, excluding software (83.8) (73.1) Other operating income and expenses (35.8) (30.4) Restructuring costs (27.7) (21.9) Impairment losses (668.8) (15.0) Operating Income (33.4) 519.4 ■ 4.2 Sales by geographical region 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Amounts % share Amounts % share Major Western European countries 835.7 32% 753.8 34% Rest of Europe 500.6 19% 443.7 20% North America 776.3 30% 615.6 28% Rest of the World 463.6 18% 411.7 19% Sales 2,576.2 100% 2,224.8 100% 80 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Oncology 1,844.4 1,503.0 Somatuline® 1,031.6 846.7 Decapeptyl ® 407.4 372.6 Cabometyx® 242.2 148.2 Onivyde® 134.7 109.4 Other Oncology 28.5 26.0 Neuroscience 391.3 351.5 Dysport ® 388.3 347.8 Rare diseases 63.7 70.0 NutropinAq ® 41.8 45.9 Increlex® 21.9 24.1 Specialty Care 2,299.4 1,924.5 Smecta® 125.6 126.5 Forlax ® 42.1 39.8 Tanakan ® 36.7 37.7 Fortrans/Eziclen® 36.8 31.4 Other Consumer Healthcare 35.6 64.9 Consumer Healthcare 276.8 300.3 Sales 2,576.2 2,224.8 ■ 44.4 Other revenues (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Royalties received 75.2 78.1 Milestone payments – Licenses 23.4 27.5 Other (co-promotion revenues, re-billings) 17.9 18.0 Other revenues 116.5 123.6 In 2019, other revenues amounted to €116.5 million, down Menarini for Adenuric®, partially offset by royalties received 5.7% over the €123.6 million reported in 2018. This change from Group partners, mainly Galderma for Dysport, and was attributable to the decrease in royalties received from Servier for Onivyde. ■ 4.5 Other information 31 December 2019 (in million euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (115.9) (18.0) (10.6) (144.5) Acquisition of intangible assets (109.7) (5.1) (21.3) (136.1) Total investments (225.6) (23.1) (31.8) (280.5) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (100.8) (15.8) (8.8) (125.4) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact on – – (15.8) (15.8) cash flow NB: Excluding scope changes. NB: Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 81 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (83.5) (19.4) (4.5) (107.4) Acquisition of intangible assets (157.6) (2.1) (20.4) (180.1) Total investments (241.1) (21.5) (24.9) (287.5) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (92.0) (15.3) (34.7) (142.0) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact on – – (12.8) (12.8) cash flow NB: Excluding scope changes. NB: Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. Note 5 Personnel ■ 5.1 Headcount ■ 5.2 Employee expenses At the end 2019, the Group totaled 5,807 employees, Employee expenses, which are included in the cost of goods compared to 5,723 at end 2018 sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses and restructuring costs The average headcount in 2019 was 5,662 employees, encompass the following items: compared to 5,518 in 2018. (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Wages and salaries (515.3) (459.0) Employer's Social security contributions and payroll taxes (156.7) (133.8) Sub-total (672.0) (592.8) Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (2.3) (6.6) Expenses associated with share-based payments (note 5.4) (*) (15.8) (12.8) Social security contributions on share-based payments (1.1) (4.1) Share-based payment expenses sub-total (16.8) (16.9) Em ployee profit-sharing (14.1) (11.4) Total (705.3) (627.8) (*) Including in 2018 a €1.5 million expense associated with the 2018 employee shareholding plan. In 2019, the average rate of employer’s Social security The main countries concerned are France and the United contributions and payroll taxes amounted to 30.4% of gross Kingdom. In France, a limited number of employees also payroll. benefit from a supplementary pension plan. The Group’s French companies have an employee profitThe Group provides these benefits either via defined sharing agreement as required by law. Employees may invest contribution or defined benefit plans. their entitlement in either an interest-bearing savings account Under defined contribution plans, the Group has no within the company or in a company savings plan invested in obligation other than to pay the agreed contributions, with the collective investment funds managed by a financial institution. corresponding expense charged to income for the year. In 2019, a three-year incentive agreement was set up in 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits France to supplement the above-mentioned agreement. The Group also pays out bonuses intended to reward ■ 5.3 Long-term employee benefits employees based on length of service. These long service awards relate mainly to the Group’s employees in France. 5.3.1 Benefit plans 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities In some countries, the Group’s employees are eligible for The Group’s liabilities related to employee benefits are supplementary pension payments paid annually to retirees, calculated by an external actuary using the assumptions that or to lump sum retirement allowances paid on retirement. are applicable in the relevant countries. 82 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Discount rates are determined by reference to a market Some liabilities are covered by financial assets held in funds rate based on bonds issued by first class issuers. The main invested with insurance companies (plan assets). benchmark index used is the iBoxx Corporate AA for the The impact on the income statement of the return on plan Eurozone and the United Kingdom. assets for retirement schemes is measured by applying the Assumptions with regard to staff turnover and mortality rates discount rate used for the liabilities. are specific to each country. Unfunded liabilities and plan deficits are recognized in the balance sheet under “retirement benefit obligations”. 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used The main actuarial assumptions applied as at 31 December 2019 are as follows: Europe United Kingdom Asia-Oceania (excluding UK) Discount rate 0.5% 1.8% 1.5% Inflation rate 1.8% 2.3% N/A Rate of increase in salaries, net of inflation Varies by SSC Plan frozen 5.6% Rate of increase in pensions 1.5% 2.0% N/A A 1% increase in the discount rate would lead to decreases in employee benefit obligations of 11.8% in France, 19.1% in the UK, and 15.6% in Asia-Oceania. 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Breakdown of net balance sheet amount Present value of liabilities 86.7 5.2 91.9 106.4 Fair value of plan assets 31.2 – 31.2 42.6 Net liabilities (a) 55.5 5.2 60.7 63.8 Effect of asset ceiling (b) – – – – Net liability (a b) 55.5 5.2 60.7 63.8 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Current service costs 4.3 (0.1) 4.1 6.9 Contributions by plan participants – – – (0.1) Interest expense on obligations 1.3 0.2 1.6 1.8 Interest income on plan assets (0.6) – (0.6) (0.8) Past service costs (plan amendments and (1.8) – (1.8) 0.0 curtailments) Actuarial (gains) and losses recognized as expense – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) Total 3.2 (0.1) 3.1 7.6 – of which – Operating expenses 2.5 (0.1) 2.3 6.6 – of which – Interest expense 0.7 0.1 0.8 1.0 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 83 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized in the balance sheet 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening net liability 58.2 5.5 63.8 67.6 Scope change (4.5) – (4.5) – Charge for the year (note 5.3.2.3) 3.2 (0.1) 3.1 7.6 Actuarial gains and (losses) recognized in other 10.4 – 10.4 (9.4) comprehensive income Employer's contributions to plan assets (10.0) – (10.0) (1.2) Benefits paid from internal reserve (2.3) (0.1) (2.4) (0.8) Other 0.4 (0.1) 0.3 – Exchange differences 0.0 – 0.0 (0.1) Closing net liability 55.5 5.2 60.7 63.8 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 100.8 5.5 106.4 118.5 Scope change (18.5) (18.5) 0.0 Current service costs 4.3 (0.1) 4.1 6.9 Interest expense on obligations 1.3 0.1 1.4 1.8 Past service costs (plan amendments and (1.8) – (1.8) 0.0 curtailments) Benefits paid from plan assets (11.1) – (11.1) (9.3) Benefits paid from internal reserve (2.3) (0.1) (2.4) (0.8) Actuarial (Gains) and losses – experience 1.1 (0.4) 0.7 (5.7) adjustments Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes to discount 11.6 0.3 11.8 (4.3) rate Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes to other – 0.0 0.0 (0.6) assumptions Other 0.4 – 0.4 – Exchange differences 0.8 – 0.8 (0.3) Closing balance 86.7 5.2 91.9 106.4 At 31 December 2019, defined benefit plan obligations broke down primarily among France 75.0% and the UK 22.1%. 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 42.6 – 42.6 51.0 Scope change (14.0) – (14.0) – Interest income on plan assets 0.6 – 0.6 0.8 Benefits paid from plan assets (11.1) – (11.1) (9.3) Employee contributions to plan assets – – – 0.1 Employer's contributions to plan assets 10.0 – 10.0 1.2 Actuarial gains and (losses) 2.2 – 2.2 (0.9) Exchange differences 0.8 – 0.8 (0.3) Closing balance 31.2 – 31.2 42.6 At 31 December 2019, plan assets broke down primarily among France 41.8% and the UK 56.1%. 84 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 31 December 2019 (in million euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 7.0 5.7 0.3 13.1 United Kingdom 10.7 6.5 0.3 17.5 Asia-Oceania 0.5 0.1 – 0.6 Total 18.2 12.4 0.6 31.2 Total (as a percentage) 58% 40% 2% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 10.8 10.0 6.4 27.2 United Kingdom 9.2 5.6 0.2 15.0 Asia-Oceania 0.3 0.1 – 0.4 Total 20.3 15.7 6.6 42.6 Total (as a percentage) 48% 37% 15% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits Post-employment Other long-term (in million euros) Total benefits benefits 2020 0.8 0.6 1.4 2021 2.8 0.6 3.4 2022 4.1 0.7 4.8 2023 3.5 0.9 4.4 2024 2.1 0.7 2.8 2025-2029 12.4 2.9 15.3 ■ 5.4 Share-based payments At 31 December 2019, the annual charge for bonus share payments came to €15.8 million, versus €12.8 million at Ipsen granted various bonus share option and bonus share 31 December 2018. plans within the scope of IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment, that were still vesting at 31 December 2019. 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen All stock options plans expired in 2019. For all these plans, the changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Opening balance 36,085 664,558 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (7,765) (418,953) Options expired (28,320) (209,520) Closing balance – 36,085 5.4.2 Bonus share plans • 117,160 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, On 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors granted 25,880 subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as bonus shares to Group employees, subject to seniority and performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific service conditions. to a Group entity, On 28 May 2019, the Board of Directors granted: • 128,200 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions but not performance • 11,730 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to length of service conditions as well as performance entity. conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, On 30 March 2018, the Board of Directors granted: • 31,790 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 9,230 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions to length of service conditions as well as performance as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group specific to a Group entity, entity, 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 85 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • 30,160 bonus shares to members of the Executive performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions to a Group entity, as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or • 87,310 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, specific to a Group entity, subject to length of service conditions but not performance • 84,240 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as entity. 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 1 June 2016 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 41,640 44,070 37,980 28,200 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 Fair value of bonus shares €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 €101.47 €97.01 €99.27 €97.00 Plan dated 30 May 2018 Plan dated Plan dated 28 May 2019 13 February 2019 Tranches 1.1 1.5 1.6 1.1 1.5 1.6 Number of bonus shares 39,390 84,240 87,310 25,880 43,520 117,160 128,200 50% to 2 ans 50% to 2 ans Vesting period (in years) 2 3 50% to 3 ans 50% to 3 ans Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 €109.60 €112.10 €112.10 €112.10 Fair value of bonus shares €134.90 €134.90 €131.84 €109.60 €90.25 €87.83 €109.57 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chief Officers, the Deputy CEO, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the American subsidiaries. 1.5 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries subject to performance conditions 1.6 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries not subject to performance conditions 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in million euros) 29 March 30 May 13 February 28 May Total 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Opening valuation 4.4 10.5 13.3 25.3 2.8 25.5 2019 expense 0.0 0.3 0.6 9.7 1.1 4.4 16.0 2018 expense 0.2 1.3 4.2 5.6 11.3 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses ■ 6.1 D  epreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses included in the cash flow statement The following table shows the amount of depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses added back to determine gross cash flow from operations: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Operating – excluding current assets (160.4) (142.0) Financial (0.8) (1.0) Tax – 0.4 Depreciation and amortization before impairment and excluding current (161.2) (142.6) assets Impairment losses included in operating income (note 6.2) (668.8) (15.0) Impairment losses included in financial result (1.9) (0.1) Impairment losses (670.7) (15.1) 86 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 6.2 Impairment losses included in Operating 6.2.2 2018 result In 2018, Ipsen recognized a €15 million impairment loss on the 6.2.1 2019 Xermelo intangible asset (see note 13.2). In 2019, Ipsen recognized a €668.8 million impairment loss on palovarotene intangible asset (see note 13.2). Note 7 Other operating income and expenses In 2019, other operating expenses amounted to €132.9 million, In 2018, other operating expenses totaled €82.7 million, mainly related to amortization expense on the Cabometyx mainly owing to amortization expense on the Cabometyx and and Onivyde intangible assets, Clementia integration costs, Onivyde intangible assets, the discontinuation of research costs arising from the Group’s transformation programs and and development studies, the impact of Group transformation the impact of cash flow hedges. programs, and the payment of an indemnity to Galderma in Brazil that was partially offset by an indemnity received from a U.S. partner and the impact of cash flow hedges. Note 8 Restructuring costs In 2019, restructuring costs amounted to €27.7 million In 2018, restructuring costs came to €21.9 million, including mainly impacted by the costs related to the relocation of the expenses to move the U.S. commercial affiliate to Cambridge, Onivyde manufacturing site from Cambridge, Massachusetts, Massachusetts. to Signes in France and the remaining costs for the U.S. commercial affiliate relocation. Note 9 Net financial income (expense) (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Income from loans and receivables 2.0 3.1 Investment income 2.0 3.1 Interest on debt (29.9) (8.3) Total expenses on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (30.0) (8.4) Financing costs (30.0) (8.4) NET FINANCING COSTS (28.0) (5.3) Other exchange differences (2.6) (0.5) Income and expenses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value (2.6) (0.5) Impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies (1.9) (0.1) Income and expenses on investments in non-consolidated companies (1.9) (0.1) Financial income on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) 0.6 0.8 Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (1.4) (1.8) Other financial elements 28.1 (18.5) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE 22.8 (20.1) FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) (5.2) (25.3) Of which total financial income 211.7 71.1 Of which total financial expenses (216.9) (96.5) In 2019, the Group had net financial expense of €5.2 million, • The net financing costs showed expense of €28.0 million versus net financial expense of €25.3 million in 2018. in 2019, compared with €5.3 million in expense reported 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 87 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in 2018. The financing costs included interests paid an income of €114.6 million related to the revaluation of related to the Group financing resulting from Clementia contingent liabilities and fair value of Contingent Value Right Pharmaceuticals acquisition, and interest expenses related (CVR) issued in connection with its acquisition of Clementia to IFRS 16 – Leases. Pharmaceuticals following the recent decisions concerning clinic studies; and an expense of €62.6 million related to • In 2019, other financial income and expense totaled the change in fair value of contingent assets and liabilities €22.8 million versus a €20.1 million expense reported in related to Onivyde acquisition. 2018. The other financial elements stemmed mainly from Note 10 Income taxes ■ 10.1 Tax expenses 10.1.1 Effective tax rate (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations (54.4) 387.0 Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 3.7 1.1 Net profit from continuing operations before share of results from (58.2) 386.0 companies accounted for using the equity method Current tax (150.2) (88.9) Deferred tax 130.6 (19.2) Income taxes (19.6) (108.1) Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from (38.6) 494.1 companies accounted for using the equity method Effective tax rate -50.8% 21.9% In 2019, income tax expense of €19.6 million resulted in an This variation is mainly explained by the absence of tax effect effective tax rate of -50.8% on pre-tax profit from continuing related to the change in fair value of contingent assets and operations, excluding the share of profit (loss) from companies liabilities on Onivyde. accounted for using the equity method. 10.1.2 R  econciliation between the effective and nominal Excluding the impact of palovarotene impairment (in tax tax expense base and in tax), as well as the depreciation of deferred tax The following table shows the reconciliation between the assets recognized in the opening balance sheet of Clementia effective and nominal tax expense based on pre-tax profit Pharmaceuticals, the effective tax rate stands at 24.2%, to from continuing operations taxed at the standard French rate compare with an effective tax rate of 21.9% in 2018. of 34.43% for the two years presented: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results (38.6) 494.1 from companies accounted for using the equity method Group tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Nominal tax expense 13.3 (170.1) (Increase)/decrease in tax expense arising from: – Tax credits 9.5 8.5 – Non-recognition of tax impact on certain losses during the year (1) (71.9) (1.5) – Utilization of tax losses not recognized as deferred tax assets 0.7 – – Recognition of deferred tax assets (0.8) (3.3) – Other permanent differences (2) 29.5 58.4 Effective tax expense (19.6) (108.1) Effective tax rate -50.8% 21.9% (1) This item includes the non-recognition of deferred tax assets of Clementia Pharmaceuticals. (2) Other permanent differences in 2018 stemming from: • the difference between the Group tax rate of 34.43% and local tax rates where Group subsidiaries are based; • the absence of tax effect related to the change in fair value of: – contingent assets and liabilities on Onivyde ®, contingent liabilities of Clementia Pharmaceuticals; – Contingent Value Right issued in connection with its acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals. 88 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2019 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 December Income 31 December (in million euros) Deferred taxes Changes in Foreign 2018 statement Other 2019 recorded directly SoRie consolidation exchange income / movements to reserves scope differences expense Deferred tax assets 131.9 (41.8) – 2.2 55.1 4.2 (2.2) 149.4 Deferred tax liabilities (19.7) 172.4 0.9 0.3 (255.3) (6.6) 0.2 (107.7) Net assets / (liabilities) 112.2 130.6 0.9 2.5 (200.2) (2.4) (1.9) 41.7 A breakdown of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) by type is The variation in “Income statement income / expense” of presented in note 10.3. €130.6 million notably includes: The variation in “Changes in consolidation scope” results from • a €71.9 million expense related to the impairment of deferred the deferred tax booked with the acquisition of Clementia tax liabilities of Clementia Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals in April 2019. This variation includes: • a €177.2 million income related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities due to the impairment of palovarotene intangible • €55.1 million of deferred tax assets related to tax loss carryassets; forward and temporary differences; • a €33.8 million expense related to the end of tax loss carry• €(255.3) million of deferred tax liabilities related to intangibles forward in the United States; assets. • a €32.8 million income related to consolidation restatements of margins on inventory. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 1st application 1 January Income (in million euros) December taxes Changes in Foreign of IFRS 15 2018 statement Other December 2017 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2018 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 142.0 (2.6) 139.4 (20.5) 1.6 (1.6) – 2.1 10.9 131.9 Deferred tax liabilities (21.5) – (21.5) 1.3 11.8 (0.3) – (0.4) (10.6) (19.7) Net assets / (liabilities) 120.5 (2.6) 117.9 (19.2) 13.5 (1.9) – 1.6 0.3 112.2 The €19.2 million decrease recognized in “Income statement income / expense” includes the use of €18.4 million in tax loss carryforward in the United States. ■ 10.3 T  ype of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet and the income statement Movements during the year 31 December Income 31 December (in million euros) Deferred taxes Changes in Foreign 2018 statement Other 2019 recorded directly SoRie consolidation exchange income / movements to reserves scope differences expense Consolidation restatements 54.0 32.8 – – – 1.1 – 87.9 of margins on inventory Tax loss carryforwards 47.9 (82.1) – – 48.1 1.7 – 15.6 Provision for retirement and other 13.3 0.7 – 2.1 – 0.0 – 16.1 benefits Other (3.0) 179.1 0.9 0.4 (248.3) (5.2) (1.9) (78.0) Net assets / (liabilities) 112.2 130.6 0.9 2.5 (200.2) (2.4) (1.9) 41.7 The Group recognized tax loss carry-forward of €15.6 million Deferred tax assets are recognized based on results forecasts at 31 December 2019 (versus €47.9 million at 31 December for each tax consolidation group. These forecasts are in 2018). This decrease is due to the use of tax loss carryforward line with Ipsen’s long and medium-term plans and take into in the U.S. account the time frames notably in relation to the duration of 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 89 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the tax loss carryforwards and the specific situation of each The item “Other” includes the deferred tax liabilities related to tax consolidation group. palovarotene intangible assets. Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 1st application 1 January Income (in million euros) December taxes Changes in Foreign of IFRS 15 2018 statement Other December 2017 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2018 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Consolidation restatements 51.0 – 51.0 3.3 – – – (0.2) – 54.0 of margins on inventory Tax loss carryforw ards 84.1 – 84.1 (19.5) – – – 1.8 (18.4) 47.9 Provision for retirement 13.4 – 13.4 1.5 – (1.6) – (0.0) – 13.3 and other benefits Other (28.0) (2.6) (30.6) (4.4) 13.5 (0.3) – 0.1 18.7 (3.0) Net assets / (liabilities) 120.5 (2.6) 117.9 (19.2) 13.5 (1.9) – 1.6 0.3 112.2 At 31 December 2018, the Group recognized €47.9 million €37.4 million in the U.S.), versus €84.1 million at 31 December in deferred tax assets on tax loss carry forwards (including 2017. Note 11 Net profit from discontinued operations In 2019, net profit from discontinued operations totaled Inspiration assets in 2013, and corresponds to the rebilling €4.2 million, compared to €2.0 million in net profit from of production costs for OBI-1 clinical samples as well as discontinued operations in 2018. The net profit from royalties from the sales of that product received from Baxalta, discontinued operations arose from agreements to sell a company spin-off from Baxter International. Note 12 Goodwill ■ 12.1 Goodwill valuation €225.8 million as of December 31, 2019. This goodwill was fully allocated to Specialty Care CGU (see note 12.3). The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, goodwill is allocated to • Impact of exchange rate dif ferences amounted to these two Cash Generating Units (CGUs) in accordance with €11.7 million on gross goodwill. the Group’s organization. During 2019, movements in goodwill comprise : • The purchase price allocation for Clementia Pharmaceuticals resulting in the recognition of goodwill measured at Movements during the year 31 December Changes in Foreign 31 December (in million euros) 2018 Increase consolidation Decrease Other exchange 2019 scope differences Gross goodwill 403.7 – 225.8 – – 11.7 641.2 Impairment losses (8.1) – – – – (0.4) (8.5) Net goodwill 395.6 – 225.8 – – 11.3 632.6 ■ 12.2 Impairment of goodwill are Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, goodwill is allocated in line with the Group’s organization. For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units defined by the Group. The cashThe recoverable value of the respective cash-generating units generating units identified for the allocation and performance corresponds to the value in use based on discounting the of goodwill-related impairment tests correspond to the related estimated future cash flows. These cash flow estimates operating segments. The Group’s two operating segments are based on five-year estimates and a terminal value for 90 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS each operating segment (i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer At 31 December 2019, no impairment losses related to Healthcare) and are made by the Group’s operating entities. goodwill were recorded. The previously recorded impairment loss related to solely the goodwill arising from the acquisition The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Clementia has been of Sterix Ltd. included in the Specialty Care CGU impairment test. The carrying value of the respective cash-generating units and the key assumptions are shown below : (in million euros) Specialty Care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2019 Goodwill 535.7 96.9 632.6 Net underlying assets 1,883.8 245.4 2,129.1 Total 2,419.5 342.3 2,761.7 Perpetuity growth rate 2.5% 2.5% – Discount rate 8% 8% – (in million euros) Specialty Care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2018 Goodwill 298.7 96.9 395.6 Net underlying assets 1,296.0 244.5 1,540.5 Total 1,594.7 341.4 1,936.1 Perpetuity growth rate 2.5% 2.5% – Discount rate 9% 8% – The discount rate used for Specialty Care impairment test in The goodwill of the transaction has reached €225.8 million 2019 was 8% compared with 9% in 2018. The discount rate allocated to Specialty Care. This goodwill results from an used for Consumer Healthcare remained unchanged at 8%. entity value of €1,002.4 million less the fair value of the net assets and liabilities acquired. It encompasses deferred The perpetual growth rate applied to future cash flows tax assets and liabilities for a net amount of €213.5 million, remained unchanged at 2.5% in view of the expected growth acquired workforce for €2.6 million and the residual economic of the Group’s business activities. goodwill fair value of €(8.3) million. Tests were performed to assess the sensitivity of the Accounting for the business combination related to Clementia recoverable amount to changes in cer tain actuarial Pharmaceuticals’ acquisition led the Group to: assumptions, primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%), sales growth (range -1% to -2%) and the long-term growth • re c o g nize a n inta ng ib l e a s set fo r €9 6 5.7 m illi o n rate (range +/-1%). The implementation of those sensitivity corresponding to the value of the intellectual property tests would not lead to the recognition of significant goodwill acquired (palovarotene and other intangible assets); impairments. • as se s s the fa ir va lue of the defe r re d c ontinge nt payments related to the Contingent Value Rights (CVR) ■ 12.3 A  nalysis of Clementia Pharmaceuticals for €139.6 million, which may be paid upon the U.S. acquisition cost Food and Drug Administration (FDA) acceptance of the regulatory filing of palovarotene for the treatment of multiple On 17 April 2019 Ipsen completed the signing of the agreement osteochondromas. This CVR of $6 per share has been to acquire Clementia Pharmaceutical with the view to enhance assessed at the acquisition date, weighted by the probability its Rare Disease portfolio. Ipsen has acquired 100% of the of success to obtain market approval of the compound on entity and controls it since this date. The acquisition has been this additional indication and discounted; analyzed as a Business Combination as defined in IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. • assess at fair value, for €23.4 million, the additional regulatory and commercial milestones related to contracts The purchase price allocation has been performed and the signed between Clementia Pharmaceuticals and its impacts have been included in 31 December 2019 financial partners Roche and Thomas Jefferson University (TJU); statements. The Group may adjust this allocation within • recognize other intangible and tangible assets as well as twelve months following the acquisition. working capital. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 91 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of acquisition price are presented below : (in million euros) Cash paid for the acquisition 839.4 Fair value of deferred contingent consideration (CVR) 139.6 Fair value of contingent liabilities (Roche / TJU milestones) 23.4 Fair value of the acquisition 1,002.4 At the acquisition date, the Group has assessed its goodwill and the acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals assets and liabilities as follows: (in million euros) Fair value of the Clementia Pharmaceuticals acquisition 1,002.4 Intangible assets (965.7) Tangible assets (0.1) Other non-current assets (0.5) Other current assets (5.4) Cash and cash equivalent (25.0) Deferred tax asset (55.1) Other non-current liabilities 1.3 Current liabilities 18.2 Deferred tax liability 255.7 Goodwill 225.8 Between 17 April 2019 and 30 June 2019 Clementia Had Clementia Pharmaceuticals been acquired on 1 January Pharmaceuticals contributed to the Consolidated net 2019, the impact on the Consolidated net profit would have profit for an loss of €(503.1) million. As the product is not been a loss of €(522.1) million . commercialized yet, the acquisition of these entities had no Costs related to the acquisition have been accounted for in impact on sales recognition. the Operating Income for €(16.9) million, mostly representing lawyers’ and bank fees, and integration costs. Note 13 Other intangible assets ■ 13.1 Movements In 2019, movements can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2018 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2019 movements scope differences Intellectual property 1,542.6 114.1 (44.3) 965.6 53.5 9.2 2,640.7 Intangible assets 19.7 21.9 (0.1) – 0.3 (10.1) 31.7 in progress Gross assets 1,562.3 136.1 (44.4) 965.6 53.7 (0.9) 2,672.4 Amortization (358.1) (99.0) 3.9 0.1 (7.0) (7.6) (467.7) Impairment losses (192.3) (669.5) 38.5 – (5.8) 7.7 (821.5) Net assets 1,011.9 (632.5) (2.0) 965.7 41.0 (0.9) 1,383.2 92 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2019, the change in net intangible assets assets and €15.2 million in amortization expense for resulted notably from the following items: software; • Ipsen recognized €965 million of intangible assets relating • Ipsen recorded a €668.8 million provision for impairment of to the acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals in April palovarotene assets (note 13.2.1). 2019 (note 12.3); At 31 December 2019, the Group’s intangible assets with an • Ipsen recognized €50 million in intangible assets arising indefinite useful life and classified under “Licenses” had a total from additional milestone payments to Exelixis as part of an carrying value of €411 million. exclusive licensing agreement signed in 2016; These assets concerned intellectual property or rights • Ipsen recognized €40 million in intangible assets under acquired for proprietary Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare an exclusive license agreement signed in 2019 with Disease drugs that were in an advanced phase of development Blueprint Medicines Corporation for the development but had not yet been commercialized. As a result, the assets and commercialization of BLU-782 in the treatment of have not been amortized yet, in accordance with the Group’s fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP); accounting principles (see note 3.12). For these intangible assets, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in • amor tization expense on intangible assets came to use based on estimated expected future cash flows. €99 million, mainly arising from the Onivyde and Cabometyx Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2017 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2018 movements scope differences Intellectual property 1,371.8 163.8 (12.0) – 6.9 12.1 1,542.6 Intangible assets in 13.9 16.3 – – (0.0) (10.5) 19.7 progress Gross assets 1,385.7 180.1 (12.0) – 6.9 1.5 1,562.3 Amortization (273.9) (86.6) 11.7 – (3.8) (5.4) (358.1) Impairment losses (181.5) (15.0) – – (1.5) 5.8 (192.3) Net assets 930.2 78.5 (0.3) – 1.6 1.9 1,011.9 At 31 December 2018, the change in net intangible assets Xermelo was approved by the European Medicines Agency resulted notably from the following items: (EMA) for the treatment of diarrhoea associated with • Ipsen recognized €130 million in intangible assets arising carcinoid syndrome in combination with a somatostatin from additional milestone payments to Exelixis as part of an analogue (SSA) in adults insufficiently controlled on SSA exclusive licensing agreement signed in 2016; therapy. The sales outlook has been revised downwards as a result of a narrower label and lower price. Xermelo • Ipsen recognized €6 million in intangible assets arising from remains a good companion product to Somatuline and additional milestone payments to 3B Pharmaceutical; a therapeutic solution for patients with neuroendocrine • Ipsen recognized €13 million in intangible assets as part tumors with limited options for the treatment of diarrhea of partnership with the University of Texas’ MD Anderson associated with carcinoid syndrome. The residual net book Cancer Center. This asset corresponds to various payments value of Xermelo assets amounts to €15.6 million. under a global licensing and joint development agreement, signed 29 May 2018, for a pre-clinical oncology drug At 31 December 2018, the Group’s intangible assets with an candidate discovered by researchers in MD Anderson’s indefinite useful life and classified under “Licenses” had a total Institute for Applied Cancer Science (IACS). As part of carrying value of €44.1 million. this collaborative effort, MD Anderson will progress the The assets concerned intellectual property or rights acquired drug candidate through Phase I clinical development, for proprietary Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Disease with Ipsen responsible for further global development and drugs that were in an advanced phase of development but commercialization; had not yet been commercialized. As a result, the assets • amor tization expense on intangible assets came to have not yet been amortized, in accordance with the Group’s €86.6 million, mainly arising from the Oniv yde and accounting principles (see note 3.15). For these intangible Cabometyx assets and €13.4 million in amortization assets, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in expense for software; use based on estimated expected future cash flows. • Ipsen recorded a €15 million provision for impairment relating to the Xermelo asset. On 19 September 2017, 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 93 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 13.2 Impairment tests of intangible assets product expected lifetime. The calculation integrates the 13.2.1 2019 new clinical data, the potential sales developments as well as estimated approval dates for the different indications. The On 6 December 2019 Ipsen announced, following discussions different scenarios and their related probability of occurrence with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that have been established based on management best estimate a partial clinical hold effective immediately was issued and presented to the Board of Directors. for studies conducted under IND120181 and IND135403 evaluating the investigational drug candidate palovarotene. In addition to the risk adjustment of the future cash flows, the The partial clinical hold applies to the pediatric population Group has used a 9% discount rate considering the specific (patients under the age of 14 years) currently participating in risk to palovarotene asset. the Phase II studies (PVO-1A-202/204 and PVO-2A-201) and In line with the IAS 36 – Impairment of assets requirements, Phase III studies (PVO-1A-301) in all clinical sites at global the test realized led the Group to partially impair the value of level. The FDA is allowing studies to continue to treat patients palovarotene intangible asset for an amount of €668.8 million. 14 years of age and older. The net book value of this asset, taking into account the In addition, Ipsen decided on 24 January 2020 to pause dosing impairment loss, reaches €316.3 million as of 31 December patients in the global Phase III (PVO-1A-301) study designed 2019. to evaluate the efficiency and safety of palovarotene in patients The probability of occurrence related to the different scenarios with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) as well as on have been established based on the management best the ongoing Phase II extension studies (PVO-1A-202/204). estimate. A change in these probabilities could significantly The decision is based on results of a futility analysis reviewed impact the value of the tested asset, upwards or downwards. by the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) as A 5% increase of the probability of the most favorable part of the prespecified interim analysis. The results of a futility scenario would increase the recoverable value by €45 million. analysis indicated that the Phase III FOP trial was unlikely to Conversely, a 5% increase of the probability of the less meet its primary efficacy endpoint upon completion. favorable scenario would reduce the recoverable value by Despite the results of the prespecified interim analysis, €45 million. signals of encouraging therapeutics activity were observed in With constant probability assumptions, a variation of more preliminary post-hoc analyses of the Phase III trial, and shared or less 5% of sales of the various scenarios would lead to a with and acknowledged by the IDMC which is recommending change in the recoverable value of more or less €25 million. not to discontinue the study. Sensitivity analysis has been performed based on a change Ipsen has therefore decided to pause dosing patients in the of one sole parameter. Therefore, these sensitivity analysis trials to conduct further assessment of the complete data set. correspond to a mechanical mode of computation that does Based on the IDMC’s observations and recommendations, not reflect a consistent change of all parameters (commercial Ipsen will discuss these findings with regulatory authorities and regulatory), nor incorporates additional measures the to determine the path forward for the palovarotene program Group could take in such circumstances. in FOP. 13.2.2 2018 As these circumstances constitute a triggering event of impairment, an impairment test has been performed. Ipsen recorded a €15 million provision for impairment relating to the Xermelo asset. On 19 September 2017, Xermelo was The tested intangible asset corresponds to the intangible asset approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the from Clementia Pharmaceuticals’ acquisition recognized for treatment of diarrhoea associated with carcinoid syndrome 988.3 million euros as of 31 December 2019. in combination with a somatostatin analogue (SSA) in adults The recoverable value takes into account assumptions on insufficiently controlled on SSA therapy. The sales outlook future expected cash flows, based on various scenarios to has been revised downwards as a result of a narrower label which a probability of occurrence has been allocated. and lower price. Xermelo remains a good companion product to Somatuline and a therapeutic solution for patients with The recoverable value has been determined taking into neuroendocrine tumors with limited options for the treatment consideration the discounted value of the expected future of diarrhea associated with carcinoid syndrome. The residual cash flows resulting from the different scenarios over the net book value of Xermelo assets amounts to €15.6 million. 94 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 13.3 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Gross Amortization & Gross Amortization & Net value Net value value Impairment value Impairment Brands and trademarks 67.4 (38.1) 29.3 77.1 (49.1) 28.0 Licenses 2,385.7 (1,124.6) 1,261.1 1,281.9 (381.0) 900.9 Patents 9.4 (9.4) 0.1 9.4 (9.2) 0.1 Know-how 32.6 (14.7) 17.9 39.4 (20.5) 18.9 Software 141.2 (99.4) 41.8 130.7 (88.0) 42.7 Other intangible assets 4.3 (3.2) 1.2 4.2 (2.6) 1.6 Intangible assets in progress 31.7 – 31.7 19.7 – 19.7 Total 2,672.4 (1,289.2) 1,383.2 1,562.3 (550.4) 1,011.9 Of which impairment losses (821.5) (192.3) Note 14 Property, plant & equipment Movements in 2019 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 1st 31 1 January Change in Foreign (in million euros) December application Other December 2019 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2018 of IFRS 16 movements 2019 scope differences Assets excluding IFRS 16 Land 23.9 – 23.9 0.0 (0.0) (6.3) 0.1 0.7 18.3 Buildings 342.2 – 342.2 26.7 (9.3) (9.4) 4.4 13.5 368.1 Plant & equipment 374.4 – 374.4 12.8 (4.4) (38.6) 6.6 24.7 375.5 Other assets 88.5 – 88.5 21.6 (4.3) (5.3) 1.7 7.2 109.4 Assets in progress 105.3 – 105.3 68.4 – (0.0) 1.3 (45.2) 129.8 Advance payments 0.2 – 0.2 0.0 (0.1) – 0.0 (0.1) 0.0 Gross assets excluding IFRS 16 934.5 – 934.5 129.6 (18.2) (59.5) 14.0 0.7 1,001.2 Depreciation (455.3) – (455.3) (45.4) 15.1 40.2 (4.4) (0.1) (449.8) Impairment losses (4.7) – (4.7) (7.9) 2.3 – (0.1) 0.1 (10.3) Depreciation & impairment losses (460.0) – (460.0) (53.3) 17.4 40.2 (4.5) 0.1 (460.1) excluding IFRS 16 Net assets excluding IFRS 16 474.5 – 474.5 76.3 (0.7) (19.3) 9.6 0.8 541.1 Assets IFRS 16 Buildings – 156.3 156.3 6.6 (15.0) 0.1 3.7 (2.5) 149.2 Plant & equipment – 0.6 0.6 0.6 (0.1) – 0.0 0.0 1.1 Other assets – 12.6 12.6 7.7 (2.0) – 0.9 0.0 19.2 Gross assets IFRS 16 – 169.4 169.4 14.9 (17.0) 0.1 4.7 (2.5) 169.4 Depreciation – – – (32.4) 1.4 – (0.3) 0.0 (31.3) Impairment losses – – – – – – – – – Depreciation & impairment losses – – – (32.4) 1.4 – (0.3) 0.0 (31.3) IFRS 16 Net assets IFRS 16 – 169.4 169.4 (17.5) (15.6) 0.1 4.4 (2.5) 138.2 Total net assets 474.5 169.4 643.9 58.7 (16.4) (19.2) 14.0 (1.8) 679.3 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 95 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2019, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment manufacturing sites in France and the United Kingdom, as totaled €144.5 million, compared with €107.4 million in 2018. well as investments made to move the U.S. sales subsidiary Excluding IFRS 16, the increase resulted primarily from capital to Cambridge, Massachusetts. spending needed to boost production capacity at the Group’s Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2017 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2018 movements scope differences Land 23.0 1.5 (0.8) – 0.0 0.1 23.9 Buildings 335.9 5.8 (13.9) – (0.5) 14.9 342.2 Plant & equipment 357.5 15.0 (18.7) – (1.8) 22.4 374.4 Other assets 81.4 9.8 (10.4) – (0.2) 7.9 88.5 Assets in progress 77.2 75.0 (0.0) – 0.0 (46.9) 105.3 Advance payments 0.3 0.2 (0.2) – 0.0 (0.0) 0.2 Gross assets 875.2 107.4 (44.1) – (2.5) (1.5) 934.5 Depreciation (451.8) (39.8) 36.4 – 0.8 (1.0) (455.3) Impairment losses (4.6) (1.2) 0.1 – (0.0) 1.0 (4.7) Depreciation & (456.3) (41.0) 36.5 – 0.8 0.0 (460.0) impairment losses Net assets 418.9 66.4 (7.6) – (1.7) (1.5) 474.5 In 2018, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment in France and the United Kingdom, as well as investments totaled €107.4 million, compared to €84.9 million in 2017. The made to relocate the US sales’ subsidiary to Cambridge, increase resulted primarily from capital spending needed to Massachusetts. boost production capacity at the Group’s manufacturing sites Note 15 Leases • Right of use Movements during the year 31 1 January Changes in Foreign (in million euros) Increase / Other December 2019 consolidation Depreciations exchange Decrease movements 2019 scope differences Buildings 156.3 (8.3) 0.1 (23.9) 3.5 (2.5) 125.1 Cars 12.6 5.7 – (6.8) 0.9 0.0 12.3 Other 0.6 0.5 – (0.3) 0.0 0.0 0.8 Total right of use 169.4 (2.2) 0.1 (31.0) 4.4 (2.5) 138.2 IFRS 16 • Lease liability €204.8 million discounted over the remaining term of the leases and adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease (in million euros) 31 December 2019 payments. Non-current 128.1 The analysis of lease liability variation is realized in note 23. Current 31.8 • Total cash out booked in the Cash-flow statement Total 159.9 (in million euros) 31 December 2019 The amount of Lease liability represents the Group’s Net change in short-term borrowings (30.3) lease payment commitments at 31 December 2018, i.e. 96 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 16 Equity investments Movements in 2019 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2018 and exchange 2019 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments at fair value 38.8 4.5 (0.0) 0.0 (6.9) 36.3 through other comprehensive income Equity investments at fair value 26.4 6.2 (0.3) – (3.7) 28.6 through profit and loss Equity investments 65.2 10.6 (0.3) 0.0 (10.6) 64.9 At 31 December 2019, equity investments at fair value through • a €2.3 million interest in Akrevia Therapeutics Inc. acquired other comprehensive income notably included the following: during the period. • a €8.0 million interest in Arix Bioscience plc, including an At 31 December 2019, equity investments at fair value through adjusted decrease in fair value of €4.3 million for the period; profit and loss notably included the following: • a €17.3 million interest in Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, including • a €10.5 million interest in the Innobio venture capital funds, an adjusted decrease in fair value of €2.4 million for the including an adjusted decrease in fair value for €0.7 million period; for the period; • a €4.7 million interest in Radius Health Inc., including an • a €17.6 million interest in the Agent Capital fund, including adjusted increase in fair value of €1.0 million for the period; an additional investment of €6.2 million and a €0.9 million adjusted decrease in fair value for the period. • a €2.2 million interest in Pyxis Oncology Inc. acquired during the period; Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2017 and exchange 2018 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments at fair value 29.8 17.0 – – (8.0) 38.8 through other comprehensive income Equity investments at fair value 13.5 13.2 (0.3) – (0.0) 26.4 through profit and loss Equity investments 43.3 30.2 (0.3) – (8.0) 65.2 Note 17 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method At 31 December 2019, the Group owned a 50% interest At 31 December 2019, the value of these shares on the in Linnea S.A., Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A., Cara Partners, Group’s balance sheet totaled €18.8 million, with contributing Perechin Company, Wallingston Company Ltd, Wallingston €3.7 million to the Group’s net profit. The companies paid out Company, Portpirie Company and Garnay Inc. consolidated €4.6 million in dividends to the Group in 2019. using the equity method. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 97 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The information presented below corresponds to the financial method, prepared in accordance with Group accounting statements of companies accounted for using the equity principles (for amounts taken at 100%). 31 December 2019 (in million euros) Liabilities, excluding Net profit (loss) Assets Sales shareholder’s equity for the year Linnea S.A. 42.8 12.2 31.3 0.1 Saint-Jean d'Illac S.C.A. 8.0 3.7 2.4 0.2 Cara Partners 49.0 54.2 25.0 3.8 Perechin Company 0.1 0.0 – (0.0) Wallingstown Company Ltd 0.3 0.0 – 0.0 Wallingstown Company 29.6 27.5 23.4 2.2 Portpirie Company 0.0 – – – Garnay Inc. 7.0 1.4 3.4 0.8 Total 136.8 99.1 85.6 7.1 An anti-competitive practices investigation has been launched assurance the potential financial impact this could have on its in 2019 against the company Linnea. As the authorities have accounts. For these reasons, no provision has been recorded provided little information at this stage on the allegations in Linnea’s accounts at 31 December 2019. made, Linnea cannot predict with a reasonable level of Note 18 Non-current financial assets and other non-current assets ■ 18.1 Non-current financial assets by €65.2 million on the period following the reassessment the underlying milestones’ probabilities of occurence for At 31 December 2019, non-current financial assets totaled €46.4 million and following the reclassification for an amount €27.7 million corresponding to probability-weighted and of €21.9 million in “Current financial assets”. discounted future payments that the Group may receive following the 3 April 2017 Onivyde acquisition. They decreased ■ 18.2 Other non-current assets (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Liquidity agreement (1) 2.0 1.8 Deposits paid 2.5 2.6 Total other non-current assets (2) 4.5 4.4 (1) Changes are due to the liquidity agreement with Natixis Bleichroeder, a subsidiary of Natixis, signed in February 2007 and tacitly renewed thereafter. The liquidity agreement consists of cash, not treasury shares. (2) The fair value of “Other non-current assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date, less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). 98 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 19 Detail of the change in working capital requirement ■ 19.1 Movements Movements in 2019 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the period 31 Change in Change in Change in 31 1st application 1 January w/cap w/cap w/cap Change in Foreign (in million euros) December Other December of IFRS 16 2019 related to related to related to consolidation exchange 2018 movements 2019 operating investing financing scope differences activities activities activities Inventories 198.5 – 198.5 25.6 – – (13.5) 3.0 0.3 214.0 Trade receivables 463.0 – 463.0 79.9 – – (3.5) 10.9 14.6 565.0 Current tax assets 47.7 – 47.7 2.6 – – 3.1 0.7 (31.3) 22.8 Other current assets (see 126.4 (0.5) 125.9 2.8 (0.0) – 1.0 1.7 0.9 132.2 note 19.2.3) WCR assets (1) 835.6 (0.5) 835.1 110.9 (0.0) – (12.8) 16.3 (15.5) 933.9 Trade payables (379.8) – (379.8) (98.4) – – (15.2) (5.0) (10.0) (508.5) Current tax liabilities (11.4) – (11.4) (33.0) – – 0.0 (0.5) 31.3 (13.7) Other current liabilities (329.0) 2.9 (326.1) 9.4 36.9 – (0.4) (4.2) (13.0) (297.4) (see note 19.2.4) Other non-current (61.0) 16.4 (44.6) (9.4) – – – (2.5) 8.7 (47.8) liabilities (see note 19.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (781.2) 19.3 (761.9) (131.4) 36.9 – (15.6) (12.3) 16.9 (867.4) Total 54.3 18.8 73.2 (20.4) 36.8 – (28.4) 4.0 1.4 66.5 (1) The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Deferred income amounts received under partnership In the application of the standard IFRS 16 – Lease, rent-free agreements are recorded in “Other non current liabilities”. periods and tenant improvement allowances have been Milestone payments received by the Group under partnership restated from “Other non-current liabilities” for €16.4 million agreements related to dynamic licenses are recognized on a (see note 3.2.1). straight-line basis over the life of the contracts. The portion At 31 December 2019, gross trade receivables past due unrecognized as income is recorded as “Other non-current totaled €46.1 million: liabilities” if due after 12 months, and as “Other current liabilities” if due within one year. Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in million euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables – gross value 46.1 17.4 20.8 1.6 6.4 Trade receivables – net value 39.0 17.4 20.8 – 0.8 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 99 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the period 31 1st Change in 31 1 January Change in Change in (in million euros) December application w/cap Foreign December 2018 w/cap related w/cap related Other 2017 of IFRS 15 (3) related to exchange 2018 to investing to financing movements operating differences activities activities activities Inventories 167.4 – 167.4 29.8 – – 1.3 – 198.5 Trade receivables 437.2 – 437.2 29.0 – – (4.0) 0.8 463.0 Current tax assets 58.0 – 58.0 (10.8) – – 0.6 (0.2) 47.7 Other current assets (see 96.3 – 96.3 27.7 (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) 2.9 126.4 note 19.2.3) WCR assets (1) 758.8 – 758.8 75.7 (0.1) (0.1) (2.3) 3.6 835.6 Trade payables (319.1) – (319.1) (62.4) – – (1.2) 2.9 (379.8) Current tax liabilities (2.4) – (2.4) (15.7) – – 0.2 6.5 (11.4) Other current liabilities (see (290.2) 3.1 (287.1) 21.6 (49.5) 0.8 1.6 (16.4) (329.0) note 19.2.4) Other non-current liabilities (71.7) 13.5 (58.2) (16.2) – (0.0) 0.4 13.1 (61.0) (see note 19.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (683.3) 16.5 (666.8) (72.8) (49.5) 0.8 1.0 6.1 (781.2) Total 75.5 16.5 92.0 2.9 (49.6) 0.7 (1.3) 9.6 54.3 (1) The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. (3) Impacts of the first-time application of IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers. ■ 19.2 Breakdown 19.2.1 Inventories 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Gross value Depreciation Net value Net value Raw materials and supplies 58.4 (2.7) 55.7 54.9 Work in progress 48.2 (8.0) 40.2 59.2 Finished goods 122.8 (4.7) 118.1 84.5 Total 229.4 (15.4) 214.0 198.5 19.2.2 Current financial assets At 31 December 2019, current financial assets notably included conditional assets resulting from Onivyde acquisition for an amount of €21.9 million and derivative instruments totaling €7.4 million, versus €4.9 million at 31 December 2018. 19.2.3 Other current assets (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Advance payments to suppliers 20.5 24.9 Prepayments 31.7 29.5 Recoverable VAT 56.2 49.4 Other assets 23.8 22.6 Total Other current assets (1) 132.2 126.4 (1) The fair value of “Other current assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). 100 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Non-current deferred income 47.8 61.0 Total other non-current liabilities (1) 47.8 61.0 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 69.5 106.2 Employment-related liabilities 167.4 150.9 VAT payable 27.5 24.2 Other current tax liabilities 12.0 10.3 Deferred income 13.7 24.9 Other liabilities 7.3 12.5 Total other current liabilities (1) 297.4 329.0 (1) The carrying amount of other current and non-current liabilities was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Interest-bearing deposits 138.0 207.2 Cash and cash equivalents 215.4 137.4 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 353.3 344.5 Bank overdraft – liabilities (14.3) (33.6) Closing cash and cash equivalents 339.0 310.9 Note 21 Shareholders’ equity ■ 21.1 Share capital ■ 21.2 Basic earnings per share At 31 December 2019, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised Basic earnings per share were calculated on the weighted of 83,814,526 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of average number of shares outstanding during the year (see €1, including 48,133,505 shares with double voting rights, note 3.32). compared with 83,808,761 ordinary shares each with a Movements in the weighted average number of shares nominal value of €1, including 48,047,154 shares with double outstanding for the two periods reported are shown in voting rights at 31 December 2018. note 21.4. These changes arose from the issuance of 5,765 new shares following the exercise of warrants in the 2019 financial year. 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 83,095,043 82,897,511 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in million euros) (50.7) 389.5 Basic earnings per share (in euros) (0.61) 4.70 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 4.2 2.0 (in million euros) Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.05 0.02 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (54.9) 387.4 (in million euros) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) (0.66) 4.67 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 101 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 21.3 Diluted earnings per share as well as the portion of bonus shares free of performance • Stock option plans conditions in the 28 May 2019 plan, were not included in the calculation of the average weighted number of shares At 31 December 2019, no more exercisable option are for basic earnings per share, but were included in diluted outstanding. earnings. • Bonus shares At 31 December 2019, bonus shares for the plans of 31 May 2016, 29 March 2017, 30 May 2018 and 13 February 2019 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 83,507,329 83,248,336 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in million euros) (50.7) 389.5 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) (0.61) 4.68 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 4.2 2.0 (in million euros) Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.05 0.02 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (54.9) 387.4 (in million euros) Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) (0.66) 4.65 ■ 21.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 21.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings per share 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Number of ordinary shares at start of year 83,808,761 83,732,057 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (718,693) (895,416) Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of – 2,823 12 December 2006 Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March – 57,762 2010 Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 4,975 286 2011 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 83,095,043 82,897,511 21.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted earnings per share 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings 83,095,043 82,897,511 per share Dilutive effect of stock options – 28,741 Dilutive effect of bonus shares 412,286 322,084 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted 83,507,329 83,248,336 earnings per share ■ 21.5 Dividends paid Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. were as follows: 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Dividend payout (in euros) (a) 83,201,522 83,017,070 Number of shares on the payment date (b) 83,201,522 83,017,070 Dividend per share (in euros) (a) / (b) 1.00 1.00 102 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Provisions ■ 22.1 Movements Movements in 2019 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Reversals Foreign December Other 2018 consolidation Charges exchange 2019 Applied Released movements scope differences Business and operating risks 19.4 – 4.3 (14.2) (2.2) 0.1 0.1 7.5 Legal risks 23.2 1.2 5.6 (2.7) (4.9) 0.2 (1.9) 20.7 Restructuring costs 15.3 – 6.5 (12.6) (1.0) 0.2 (0.1) 8.4 Other 7.6 – 0.8 (5.5) (0.1) 0.1 (0.0) 3.0 Total provisions 65.5 1.2 17.2 (34.9) (8.2) 0.7 (1.9) 39.6 – of which current 21.1 – 4.6 (23.1) (0.7) 0.3 6.9 9.1 – of which non-current 44.5 1.2 12.6 (11.9) (7.4) 0.3 (8.8) 30.5 At 31 December 2019, provisions broke down as follows: – €0.2 million for various other legal risks. • Business and operating risks • Restructuring costs These provisions included certain risks of an economic These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by nature reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to the Group to adapt its structure. At 31 December 2019, the bear to terminate commercial contracts or resolve various increase notably resulted from the relocation of Onivyde disagreements of commercial origin. Charges for the period manufacturing site from Cambridge (Massachusetts) to stemmed mainly from terminating research and development Signes in France. The applied reversal resulted notably studies. from relocating the U.S. sales subsidiary to Cambridge, Massachusetts. • Legal risks • Other These provisions included: – €17.3 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local At 31 December 2019, a provision was recorded for Group authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain per formance-related medium-term bonus plans. The additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; reversals for the period arose after remuneration was paid following the maturity of the plans. – €3.2 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that the Group may incur; At 31 December 2018, provisions can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2017 Charges exchange 2018 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 8.8 18.4 (3.2) (4.6) 0.0 – 19.4 Legal risks 22.3 7.6 (4.3) (9.1) 0.3 6.6 23.2 Restructuring costs 9.3 8.5 (2.6) (0.2) 0.3 – 15.3 Other 9.5 3.3 (5.3) (0.1) 0.2 (0.0) 7.6 Total provisions 49.9 37.7 (15.4) (14.0) 0.8 6.6 65.5 – of which current 16.6 12.9 (10.3) (1.2) 0.5 2.6 21.1 – of which non-current 33.3 24.8 (5.0) (12.9) 0.3 4.0 44.5 ■ 22.2 Impact on consolidated income Charges totaling €37.7 million were recognized in Operating income in 2018. In 2018, released reversals totaling Charges totaling €17.2 million were recognized in Operating €13.6 million were recognized in Operating income, while income in 2019. In 2019, released reversals totaling €8.2 million €0.4 million in released reversals were recognized in income were recognized in Operating income. taxes. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 103 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 23 Bank loans and financial liabilities Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019 were as follows: 31 1st 1 Changes Foreign 31 Changes in Repayments Other (in million euros) December application January Additions in fair exchange December consolidation / diminutions movements 2018 of IFRS 16 2019 value differences 2019 Bonds and bank loans 297.9 – 297.9 – 269.7 – – 0.5 – 568.2 Other financial liabilities 6.0 162.4 168.4 0.0 16.6 (0.6) 0.0 (56.8) 4.0 131.6 Non-current financial liabilities (measured at 303.9 162.4 466.3 0.0 286.3 (0.6) 0.0 (56.3) 4.0 699.8 amortized cost) Other financial liabilities 82.1 – 82.1 163.0 – (0.3) (91.2) (6.3) 7.8 155.0 Non-current financial liabilities (financial 82.1 – 82.1 163.0 – (0.3) (91.2) (6.3) 7.8 155.0 liabilities measured at fair value) (2) Non-current financial 386.0 162.4 548.4 163.0 286.3 (1.0) (91.2) (62.6) 11.8 854.7 liabilities Credit lines and bank 4.1 – 4.1 (4.0) 540.1 (269.4) – – – 270.8 loans Other financial liabilities 146.2 25.8 172.0 0.6 118.8 (31.4) – 42.4 0.9 303.3 Current financial liabilities (measured 150.2 25.8 176.1 (3.4) 658.8 (300.8) – 42.4 0.9 574.0 at amortized cost) (1) Derivative financial 16.5 – 16.5 – – – (7.4) – – 9.1 instruments Other financial liabilities 17.5 – 17.5 – – – (1.1) 8.9 0.9 26.4 Current financial liabilities (financial 34.0 – 34.0 – – – (8.5) 8.9 0.9 35.4 liabilities measured at fair value) (2) Current financial 184.2 25.8 210.0 (3.4) 658.8 (300.8) (8.5) 51.4 1.9 609.5 liabilities Total financial liabilities 570.2 188.2 758.4 159.7 945.1 (301.7) (99.7) (11.2) 13.7 1,464.2 (1) Other financial liabilities measured at fair market value mainly comprise contingent liabilities related to acquisitions falling under IFRS3 – Business combination. (2) Additions and repayments of “Other current financial liabilities” are mainly related to commercial papers, employee profit sharing and lease debt. Following the implementation, on 1 January 2019, of IFRS 16 In the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Group has to comply – Leases standard, the Group has recognized an increase with a Net Debt / EBITDA covenant to remain below 3.5 times of €162.4 million in “Other non-current financial liabilities” at each financial closing and the facility includes specific measured at amortized cost and €25.8 million in “Other indicators linked to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) to current financial liabilities” measured at amortized cost. be assessed annually. On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, The previous financing has been fully terminated on 28 June seven-year public bonds. The bonds mature on 16 June 2023 2019. with a coupon at an annual interest rate of 1.875%. On 31 December 2019, the facility was drawn by €270.7 million On 23 July 2019, Ipsen S.A. issued $300 million through and the Group was complying with its covenant ratio. a U.S. Private Placement (USPP) in two tranches of 7 and The Ipsen S.A. program of emission of NEU CP – Negotiable 10 year maturities. EUropean Commercial Paper of €600 million was drawn for Ipsen S.A. has refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) €260 million on 31 December 2019. and existing bilateral bank facilities. The new Revolving Credit Change in fair value of Contingent assets and liabilities booked Facility of €1,500 million has a five-year maturity and includes for Onivyde acquisition negatively impacts “Other non-current two one-year extension options. financial liabilities” and “Other current financial liabilities” for €62.6 million. 104 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The change in consolidation scope of the “Other non-current pause in dosing patients recruited in global Phase III study financial liabilities” corresponds to: (PVO-1A-301) as well as extension studies for Phase II (PVO-1A-202/204) in progress. • The fair value of the deferred contingent payments related to the Contingent Value Rights (CVR) for €139.6 million, “Other current financial liabilities” and “Other non-current which may be paid upon the Food and Drug Administration financial liabilities” related to Contingent Value Rights and (FDA) acceptance of the regulatory filing of palovarotene for milestone payments, have been revaluated taking into the treatment of multiple osteochondromas (see note 10.3); account probabilities of occurrence of underlying events. In counterpart of the diminution of financial liabilities, financial • The fair value of the additional regulatory and commercial result has correspondingly been increased. milestones related to contracts signed between Clementia Pharmaceuticals and its partners, for €23.3 million (see At 31 December 2019, financial liabilities related to Clementia note 10.3). acquisition were as follows: At 31 December 2019, “Other financial liabilities” have been • €42.2 million for Contingent Value Rights (CVR); revaluated following the immediately effective partial clinical • €13.0 million for regulatory and commercial contingent hold issued, on 6 December 2019, for studies IND120181 payments. and IND135403 evaluating the experimental drug candidate palovarotene and, on 24 January 2020, and following the Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 were as follows: Foreign 31 December Net change Other 31 December (in million euros) Additions Repayments exchange 2017 in interest movements 2018 differences Bonds and bank loans 297.5 – – – 0.4 – 297.9 Other financial liabilities (1) 102.8 3.2 (3.9) 0.0 (15.0) 0.9 88.1 Non-current financial liabilities (measured 400.3 3.2 (3.9) 0.0 (14.6) 0.9 386.0 at amortized cost) (2) Credit lines and bank loans 46.0 0.1 (46.8) – 4.7 – 4.1 Other financial liabilities 228.0 – (81.7) (0.1) 14.8 2.6 163.7 Current financial liabilities (measured 274.0 0.1 (128.4) (0.1) 19.6 2.6 167.8 at amortized cost) (2) Derivative financial 20.7 – – – (4.3) – 16.5 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 20.7 – – – (4.3) – 16.5 liabilities measured at fair value) (3) Current financial 294.7 0.1 (128.4) (0.1) 15.3 2.6 184.2 liabilities Total financial liabilities 695.0 3.3 (132.3) (0.1) 0.7 3.5 570.2 (1) Additions and repayments of other financial liabilities were mainly related to employee profit sharing. (2) The value of current financial liabilities measured at amortized cost is considered as a reasonable estimation of the fair market value. (3) Fair value corresponds to the market value. The (€4.3) million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. Note 24 Financial instruments ■ 24.1 Interest rate risk hedging ■ 24.2 Exchange rate risk hedging The Group’s funding consists in a fixed-rate debt from bond 24.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk debts (bonds and US Private Placement – USPP), as well as a A share of the Group’s business is conducted in countries variable-rate debt from revolving credit facilities and program where the euro, the Group’s reporting currency, is the of emission of commercial papers (NEU CP – Negotiable functional currency. Nevertheless, owing to its international EUropean Commercial Papers). business scope, the Group is exposed to exchange rate At 31 December 2019, there were no derivative financial fluctuations that can affect its results. instruments for hedging interest rate risk. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 105 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A 10% increase or decrease in the US dollar, the pound • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash sterling, the Chinese yuan, or the Russian ruble against the flow hedges on Operating income euro (the main currencies in which the Group operates) would At 31 December 2019, financial instruments used for future impact sales by plus 5% or minus 4%, and Operating income cash flow hedges on business transactions negatively by plus 5% or minus 5%. impacted Operating income in the amount of (€13.3) million. Several types of risks can be identified: • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash • transactional foreign exchange risk related to business flow hedges on Net financial income (expense) activities: the Group hedges its main foreign currencies, At 31 December 2019, the ineffective impact of financial including the USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and instruments used for future cash flow hedges recognized in BRL, based on its budget forecasts; Net financial income (expense) came to (€14.3) million. • financing foreign exchange risk related to financing • Impact of financial instruments not qualified for future contracted in a currency other than the functional currencies cash flow hedges on Net financial income (expense) of Group entities. At 31 December 2019, the effective impact of financial Ipsen implemented a foreign exchange rate hedging policy instruments classified in “Financial assets and liabilities to reduce the exposure of its net profit to foreign currency at fair value through profit or loss” totaled (€2.6) million. fluctuations. The ineffective impact of these financial instruments in Net • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash financial income (expense) came to (€1.4) million. flow hedges on equity • Impact of financial instruments used for net investment At 31 December 2019, the future cash flow hedge reserve hedge on equity for business transactions came to a pre-tax (€1.0) million, At 31 December 2019, the future cash flow hedge reserve for compared to a pre-tax reserve of (€5.1) million at 31 December net investment came to a pre-tax (€5.5) million. 2018. At 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, derivative financial instruments held by the Group are broken down as follows: 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Fair value Nominal value by maturity Fair value (in million euros) Face Face value Less than 1 to Over value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 1 year 5 years 5 years Exchange rate risk hedging – Business transactions Put forward contracts 434.6 2.2 (5.7) 434.6 – – 702.0 3.6 (13.2) Put option contracts 0.0 0.0 – 0.0 – – 21.2 0.0 0.0 Seller at maturity foreign exchange 201.2 0.9 (1.4) 201.2 – – 88.6 0.2 (0.2) swaps Cash Flow Call forward contracts Hedge 137.2 4.0 0.0 137.2 – – 243.2 0.3 (2.5) Call option contracts 0.0 0.0 – 0.0 – – 11.1 0.1 0.0 Buyer at maturity foreign exchange 23.7 0.2 0.0 23.7 – – 38.0 0.1 (0.0) swaps Total business transactions 796.8 7.3 (7.2) 796.8 1,104.1 4.3 (15.8) Exchange rate risk hedging – Financial transactions Put forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – 15.3 0.2 (0.0) Seller at maturity foreign exchange 145.3 0.0 (1.4) 145.3 – – 321.7 0.3 (0.2) swaps Derivatives Call forward contracts not qualified 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – 43.3 0.1 (0.1) Buyer at maturity foreign exchange 118.5 0.1 (0.5) 118.5 – – 334.0 0.1 (0.3) swaps Financial transactions 263.8 0.1 (1.9) 263.8 714.3 0.7 (0.6) Total hedging of business and financial 1,060.6 7.4 (9.1) 1,060.6 1,818.5 4.9 (16.5) transactions 24.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk based on its budget forecasts and highly probable business The Group’s hedging policy is aimed at protecting Operating transactions. income from foreign exchange rate fluctuations compared to To reduce its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, its company forecasts. Accordingly, the effective portion of Ipsen principally uses derivative instruments, primarily put or the hedge is recorded in operating income. call forward contracts as well as currency swaps and non The Group hedges its main foreign currencies, including deliverable forward (NDF) contracts. the USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and BRL, 106 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These derivatives hedge primarily significant future cash borrowing entity. To pool the risk, the intra-group financing is flows denominated in foreign currencies after the close of generally denominated in the subsidiary’s functional currency. the reporting period, i.e. the balance sheet date. The Group The Group hedges financial current accounts denominated in mainly uses future cash flow hedge accounting. the functional currencies of its subsidiaries through financial The Group’s policy is not aimed at carrying out derivative instruments that match current account balances. These financial instrument transactions for speculative gain. include currency swaps and loans and borrowings contracted from counterparty banks. 24.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk Pooling of the financing surpluses and needs of foreign ■ 24.3 D  erivative financial instruments reported subsidiaries outside the euro zone exposes certain entities in the balance sheet to financing foreign exchange risk arising from fluctuations in the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet currencies other than the functional currency of the lending or at 31 December 2019 and 2018: 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Market value of currency instruments 7.4 (9.1) 4.9 16.5 Total 7.4 (9.1) 4.9 16.5 Note 25 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet In accordance with the amendment to IFRS 13 – Fair Value assets and liabilities or parameters quoted in an active Measurement, financial instruments are presented in three market; categories based on a hierarchical method used to determine • level 3: fair value calculated using valuation techniques their fair value: based wholly or partly on unobservable inputs such • level 1: fair value calculated using quoted prices in an active as prices in an inactive market or a valuation based on market for identical assets and liabilities; multiples for unlisted securities. • level 2: fair value calculated using valuation techniques based on observable market data such as prices of similar Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2019 are broken down as follows: 31 December 2019 Breakdown by financial instrument class – balance sheet value Level of fair value Financial assets Financial Fair value Liabilities (in million euros) at fair value assets at fair Assets at Carrying through at Fair value through other value through amortized Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value income amortized comprehensive the profit or cost statement cost income loss Equity investments 64.9 64.9 – 36.3 28.6 – – – 31.4 – 33.5 Non-current financial assets 27.7 27.7 27.6 – – 0.1 – – – – 27.7 Other non-current assets 4.5 4.5 2.0 – – 2.5 – – 2.0 – 2.5 Trade and account receivables 565.0 565.0 – – – 565.0 – – – – – Current financial assets 59.3 59.3 21.7 – – 30.1 – 7.4 – 7.4 51.9 Other current assets 132.2 132.2 – – – 132.2 – – – – – Cash and cash equivalents 353.3 353.3 353.3 – – – – – 353.3 – – ASSETS 1,206.9 1,206.9 404.6 36.3 28.6 729.9 – 7.4 386.8 7.4 115.5 Non-current financial liabilities 854.7 861.5 155.0 – – – 699.8 – 305.1 273.3 283.0 Other non-current liabilities 47.8 47.8 – – – – 47.8 – – – – Current financial liabilities 609.5 609.5 26.4 – – – 574.0 9.1 260.0 280.5 68.9 Trade payables 508.5 508.5 – – – – 508.5 – – – – Other current liabilities 297.4 297.4 – – – – 297.4 – – – – Bank overdrafts 14.3 14.3 14.3 – – – – – 14.3 – – LIABILITIES 2,332.2 2,338.9 195.6 – – – 2,127.5 9.1 579.5 553.8 352.0 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 107 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 break down as follows: 31 December 2018 Breakdown by financial instrument class – balance sheet value Level of fair value Financial assets Financial Fair value Liabilities (in million euros) at fair value assets at fair Assets at Carrying through at Fair value through other value through amortized Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value income amortized comprehensive the profit or cost statement cost income loss Equity investments 65.2 65.2 – 38.8 26.4 – – – 38.4 11.2 15.6 Non-current financial assets 92.9 92.9 – – – 92.9 – – 92.9 Other non-current assets 4.4 4.4 – – – 4.4 – 4.4 – – Trade and account receivables 463.0 463.0 – – – 463.0 – Current financial assets 5.5 5.5 0.6 – – – – 4.9 – 4.9 0.6 Other current assets 126.4 126.4 – – – 126.4 – – Cash and cash equivalents 344.5 344.5 344.5 – – – – – 344.5 – – ASSETS 1,101.9 1,101.9 345.1 38.8 26.4 686.6 – 4.9 387.3 16.2 109.0 Non-current financial liabilities 386.0 393.5 – – – 386.0 – 305.5 3.4 84.6 Other non-current liabilities 61.0 61.0 – – – 61.0 – Current financial liabilities 184.2 184.2 – – – – 167.8 16.5 148.7 18.0 17.5 Trade payables 379.8 379.8 – – – – 379.8 – Other current liabilities 329.0 329.0 – – – – 329.0 – Bank overdrafts 33.6 33.6 – – – – 33.6 – 33.6 – – LIABILITIES 1,373.7 1,381.2 – – – – 1,357.2 16.5 487.8 21.4 102.1 Note 26 Information on related parties ■ 26.1 Director and Executives compensation Pension and similar benefits for Board members and members of the Executive Leadership Team came to €4.4 million In 2019, the total compensation paid to Board and Executive at 31 December 2019, with a total of €1.8 million paid to Leadership Team members amounted to €19.2 million, of members of the Board of Directors and €2.6 million paid to which €0.8 million were paid to members of the Board of Executive Leadership Team members. Directors and €18.4 million were paid to members of the Executive Leadership Team (see Chapter 5). 108 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 26.2 Transactions with related parties 26.2.1 In the income statement 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Operating Operating Income Income expenses expenses Companies consolidated as joint operations (1) – – 7.3 (11.0) Associated companies (1) 14.8 (13.7) – 0.0 Companies over which the Group's executive officers exercise – 0.0 – (0.1) significant influence (2) Total 14.8 (13.7) 7.3 (11.0) (1) The Group’s relationship with Schwabe was formalized in a cooperation agreement signed on 27 July 2005 relating to: • the sourcing and supply of Ginkgo biloba leaves; • the production of Ginkgo biloba extract; • patents, know-how and the EGb 761® brand name; • research and development activities concerning the EGb 761® extract and drugs containing the EGb 761® extract. This contract recognizes that the Group and Schwabe have joint shareholdings in the following companies, which form the production chain for EGb 761® or other plant extracts: • 50% of the share capital in Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A., Garnay Inc. and Linnea S.A.; • 50% of the partnership shares in Wallingstown Company Ltd; • 50% of the joint rights in Cara Partners. In light of new facts and circumstances, Ipsen has reassessed the nature of the partnerships between Ipsen and Schwabe Group. Subsidiaries involved in this partnership, previously consolidated as joint operations are now consolidated applying the equity method; the Group does not have any more direct rights on the partnership’s assets and liabilities. (2) Rent owed by a number of the Group’s companies to real estate holdings owned by certain Group Directors. 26.2.2 In the balance sheet 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Loans and Trade Bank loans/ Trade Loans and Trade Bank loans/ Trade receivables receivables Debt payables receivables receivables Debt payables Companies consolidated as joint – – – – 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 operations (1) Associated companies (1) 38.2 6.1 2.6 6.4 – – – – Total gross 38.2 6.1 2.6 6.4 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – – – – – receivables Total 38.2 6.1 2.6 6.4 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.3 Off-balance sheet commitments influence. The total amount of future rent payments due in This item includes rent commitments to companies over respect of these rented premises amounted to €0.1 million at which executive officers of the Group exercise significant 31 December 2019. Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities ■ 27.1 Operating commitments estimated between 0% and 100% and are reviewed and validated by the Group management team. Within the scope of its business activity, in particular with strategic development operations that lead to the formation of • Discount rate corresponding to each Cash Generating Unit partnerships, the Group regularly enters into agreements that of the Group to which the agreement belongs. may result in potential financial commitments, subject to the completion of certain events. The maximum amounts that may be owed (commitments given) or received (commitments received) represent the The probability-weighted and discounted value of the maximum amounts if all the conditions were met, undiscounted commitments represents the amount that the Group actually nor probability-weighted. expects to pay or to receive at 31 December 2019. The value of these commitments is determined by weighting the future commitments by the following criteria: • Probabilities of occurrence of each milestone payment planned in the contract. The probabilities of occurrence are 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 109 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.1.1 Operating commitments given As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the Group could make milestone payments related to the success of development and marketing phases: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Commitments given probabilized and discounted 135.3 139.2 The maximum amount of commitments given at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is detailed below: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Key agreements in Oncology 1,089.2 1,119.6 Key agreements in Rare Diseases 442.2 – Key agreements in Neuroscience 108.5 108.6 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 20.5 19.0 Total 1,660.4 1,247.3 It is mainly related to key agreements in Oncology for Medecines Corporation following the exclusive global license €1,089.2 million at 31 December 2019, and €442 million agreement signed in 2019 related to the development and in milestone payment that may be paid to Blueprint commercialization of BLU-782. 27.1.2 Operating commitments received As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the Group could receive milestone payments related to the success of development and marketing phases: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Commitments received probabilized and discounted 30.8 17.7 The maximum amount of commitments received at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is detailed below: (in million euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Key agreements in Oncology 18.5 18.4 Key agreements in Neuroscience 34.8 34.4 Key agreements in Rare Diseases 333.6 324.7 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 67.6 67.6 Key agreements in Haematology 167.0 162.2 Total 621.4 607.3 It is mainly related to key agreements in Rare Diseases for of the previous insurer for an amount of €9 million is extended €333.6 million at 31 December 2019, versus €324.7 million at for five years after the expiration date of the reinsurance 31 December 2018. contract until 31 December 2023. Further, the Group owns a 50% interest in the Swiss-based ■ 27.2 Financial commitments entity Linnea S.A., consolidated using the equity method, Ipsen has subscribed to a worldwide liability insurance policy and which has subscribed to three credit lines totaling from a new third-party insurer. The insurance company itself CHF11 million. These credit lines were not drawn on during is underwritten by the captive reinsurance company Ipsen the year. Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, up to the first €15 million for any potential claim made. ■ 27.3 General risks To cover that financial commitment and address any potential The Group may be involved in litigation, arbitration and other default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on legal proceedings. Such proceedings are generally related to 18 December 2018 issued a letter of guarantee payable civil litigation concerning product liability, intellectual property upon first demand in favor of the third-party insurer for a total rights, competition law, trading practices, trade rules, labor amount of €3 million. The first-demand guarantee is renewable rights, tax issues, waste treatment and environmental issues, annually. Furthermore, under the previous civil liability and requests for guaranteeing the liabilities of assets sold. insurance contract also reinsured in the captive reinsurance Provisions related to litigation and arbitration are recognized in company Ipsen Ré and terminated on 31 December 2018, the compliance with the principles presented in note 3.23. previous first demand guarantee issued in March 2018 in favor 110 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Most of the questions raised by these claims are complex entities leave the tax group, mentioned here for informational and subject to significant uncertainties. As a consequence, purposes. it is sometimes difficult to measure the probability that the Group will have to recognize an expense and to measure the ■ 27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk amount. Contingent liabilities relate to those cases where it is The Group’s policy is to diversify its business counterparties not reasonably possible to provide a reliable estimate of the so as to avoid the risks associated with excessive financial impact that could arise from the settlement of the concentration and to make qualitative decisions in choosing cases, or where the probability is low that the cases will result these counterparties. Further, the Group monitors the credit in payment by the Group. risks associated with the financial instruments in which it In general, risks are measured according to a series of complex invests and limits its investments according to the credit rating assumptions about future events. These measurements are of its business counterparties. These funds are managed based on estimates and assumptions deemed reasonable by the Group and are mainly invested in term deposits and by management. The Group believes that the total amount of term accounts. The Group invests its surpluses in shortprovisions recognized for the aforementioned general risks is term money-market financial instruments negotiated with adequate based on currently available information. However, counterparties whose credit ratings are at least A-1 (Standard given the uncertainties inherent to such litigation and to & Poor’s) or P-1 (Moody’s). contingent liability estimates, the Group cannot rule out the possibility of future decisions that could have an unfavorable ■ 27.5 Other commitments material impact on its results. 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments The Group set up a tax pool in France for all of Group Future Group expenditures resulting from investment companies operating in France that meet legal requirements. commitments amounted to €52.5 million at 31 December The system provides for various penalty provisions when 2018, and were broken down as follows: Maturity (in million euros) From one Total Less than one year Over five years to five years Industrial assets 21.8 – – 21.8 Reseach and Development assets 0.7 – – 0.7 Total 22.6 – – 22.6 27.5.2 Risk of acceleration of borrowings given to government authorities to participate in calls for The Group’s exposure to this risk is described in note 24. tender. At 31 December 2019, no commitment or contingent liability 27.5.4 Commitments arising from Research and had been contracted that could significantly affect the Development agreements assessment of the consolidated financial statements. Within the scope of its business activity, the Group regularly enters into Research and Development agreements with 27.5.3 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given partners that may result in potential financial commitments. Total guarantees given came to €50.1 million at 31 December At 31 December 2019, those commitments totaled 2019. These commitments correspond primarily to guarantees €106.2 million. Note 28 P  ost closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 None. Note 29 Consolidation scope The table below shows the following information for all • place of registered office (State of incorporation for U.S. companies included in the consolidation scope: companies); • country of incorporation; • the percentage interest held in each company. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 111 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of companies included in the consolidation scope at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. ■ 29.1 Fully consolidated companies Registered 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Ipsen S.A. (Parent company) France Boulogne (92) 100 100 BB et Cie S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Industrie S.A.S. France Dreux (28) 100 100 Ipsen Consumer Healthcare S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Ipsen Innovation S.A.S. France Les Ulis (91) 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Ipsen PharmSciences S.A.S. France Dreux (28) 100 100 Sutrepa S.A.S France Boulogne (92) – 100 Ipsen Pharma Biotech S.A.S. France Signes (83) 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Algérie S.P.A. Algeria Algiers 49 49 Ipsen Pharma GmbH Germany Munich 100 100 OctreoPharm Sciences GmbH Germany Berlin 100 100 Ipsen Pty Limited Australia Glen Waverley 100 100 Ipsen N.V. Belgium Merelbeke 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Farmaceutica LTDA Brazil Sao Paulo 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada Inc. Canada Mississauga 100 100 Clementia Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Canada Montreal 100 – 11188291 Canada Inc. Canada Montreal 100 – Beaufour Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen (Beijing) pharmaceutical science and China Beijing 100 100 technology development Co. Ltd Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Trade Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen Korea Korea Séoul 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A. Spain Barcelona 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. United States New Jersey 100 100 Ipsen Bioscience Inc. United States Massachusetts 100 100 Clementia Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. United States Auburndale 100 – Ipsen Epe Greece Athens 100 80 Ipsen Pharma Hungary Kft Hungary Budapest 100 – Elsegundo Limited Ireland Cork 100 100 Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Limited Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen Pharmaceuticals Limited Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen S.p.A. Italy Milan 100 100 Ipsen CHC S.r.l Italy Milan 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Almaty 100 100 Ipsen Ré S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 100 Ipsen Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Mexico 100 100 Ipsen Farmaceutica B.V. Netherlands Hoofddorp 100 100 Ipsen Poland LLC Poland Varsovie 100 100 Ipsen Portugal Produtos Farmaceuticos S.A. Portugal Algés 100 100 Ipsen Pharma s.r.o. Czech Republic Prague 100 – Ipsen Pharma Romania S.R.L. Romania Bucharest 100 100 Ipsen Limited United Kingdom Berkshire 100 100 Ipsen BioInnovation Limited United Kingdom Oxford 100 100 Ipsen Biopharm Limited United Kingdom Wrexham 100 100 Ipsen Developments Limited United Kingdom Berkshire 100 100 Sterix Limited United Kingdom Slough 100 100 Ipsen OOO Russia Moscow 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Singapore PTE Ltd Singapore Singapore 100 100 Institut Produits Synthèse (Ipsen) AB Sweden Kista 100 100 IPSEN Pharma Schweiz GmbH Switzerland Zoug 100 – Ipsen Pharma Tunisie S.A.R.L. Tunisia Tunis 100 100 Ipsen Ukraine Services LLC Ukraine Kiev 100 100 112 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 29.2 Companies consolidated using the equity method Registered 31 Decembrer 2019 31 December 2018 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Garnay Inc. (1) United States South Carolina 50 50 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. (1) France Boulogne (92) 50 50 Cara Partners (1) Ireland Cork 50 50 Perechin Company (1) Ireland Cork 50 50 Portpirie Company (1) Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company (1) Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Limited (1) Ireland Cork 50 50 Linnea S.A. Switzerland Riazzino 50 50 (1) These entities were previously consolidation as joint operations for the Group’s share of net profit or loss (see note 2). Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors The fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks are presented in the following table: Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Amounts, Amounts, (in thousands of euros) % % net of VAT net of VAT 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Certification and limited interim review of separate and consolidated financial statements Issuer 200 210 24% 27% 228 179 27% 26% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 587 545 72% 69% 576 474 68% 70% Sub-total 787 755 96% 96% 804 653 95% 96% Services other than the certification of the financial statements (1) Issuer 23 22 3% 3% 0 0 0% 0% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 9 9 1% – 42 29 5% 4% Sub-total 32 31 4% 4% 42 29 5% 4% Total 819 786 100% 100% 846 682 100% 100% (1) The nature of services other than the “certification of financial statements” provided by the Statutory Auditors to the consolidating entity and its controlled subsidiaries includes the certification of financial, environmental and corporate social responsibility data, and independent third-party missions. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 113 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered headquarter: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2019 For the attention of the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., ■ Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have conducted an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A. pertaining to the year which ended 31 December 2019, as attached to the present report. We certify that the annual financial statements, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the result of its operations as well as of the financial position and of the assets and liabilities of the company for the year ended. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We performed our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2019 to the issuance date of our report, and, in particular, we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Observation In due respect of the opinion expressed above, we draw your attention to Note 3.2 on “Norms and interpretations entering into force on 1 January 2019” that sets out the impact of changes to accounting methods in relation to the initial application of IFRS 16 “lease contracts” and IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over tax income treatments”. Justification of the assessments – Key points of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we draw your attention to the key point of the audit pertaining to the risk of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, was the most important risk for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the most recent fiscal year, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to this risk. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the annual financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these annual financial statements taken individually. Treatment of the acquisition of Clementia and valuation on 31 December 2019 Notes 1.1, 3.8, 3.15, 6.2, 9, 10.2 12.3 and 13.2 of the consolidated financial statements Identified risk On 17 April 2019, by finalizing the acquisition of 100% of the Canadian company Clementia Pharmaceuticals, Ipsen strengthened its portfolio with Palovarotene, a late-stage molecule that has pediatric disease and breakthrough therapy designation for an ultrarare bone disease. This acquisition has been analyzed as a business combination under IFRS 3, implying that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are to be measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. 114 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The impacts of allocating the cost of acquisition of 1 002.4 million euros are integrated into the accounts on 31 December 2019 and result notably in the following: • an intangible asset of 965.7 million euros corresponding to the value of the acquired intellectual property (Palovarotene) • financial liability assessed at the fair value of 139.6 million euros for the deferred contingent payment relating to the regulatory filing of Palovarotene with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of multiple osteochondromas. • deferred taxes in consideration for the allocation amounting to a net liability of 200.6 million euros This allocation generated residual goodwill of 225.8 million euros posted in full to the “Specialty Care” CGU. On 6 January 2019, the FDA ordered immediate suspension of experimental clinical studies of Palovarotene on patients aged under 14, but allowed the continuation of treatment for patients aged 14 and over. Furthermore, on 24 January 2020, following the results of the futility analysis of Palovarotene reviewed by the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC), Ipsen decided to suspend administration of the treatment to all recruited patients. The IDMC nevertheless recommended not to discontinue the study on account of the observed signals of therapeutic activity. In this context, Ipsen considered that evidence of impairment existed at the end of the fiscal year and as such, carried out an impairment test. The procedure for the impairment test performed is set out in Note 3.15 of the consolidated financial statements and, in compliance with the criteria defined by IAS 36, resulted in partial depreciation of the value of the intangible asset Palovarotene of 668.8 million euros, bringing it down to the recoverable amount as described in Note 13.2 of the consolidated financial statements. This recoverable amount has been established on the basis of the discounted value of the expected future cash flows of these scenarios on the estimated product lifetime, integrating the new clinical data, as well as development prospects and sales, and the estimated dates for marketing authorizations for the various indications. The various scenarios and associated probabilities have been drawn up on the basis of the best management estimation and presented at the Board of Directors’ meeting. As a corollary, • financial liability for commercial and regulatory contingent payments has been recorded for a total of 114.6 million euros, as described in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. • deferred tax liabilities have been recorded for a total of 177.2 million euros, as described in Note 10.2 of the consolidated financial statements • deferred tax assets (including 2019 deficits) have been depreciated for a total of 71.9 million euros, as described in Note 10.2 of the consolidated financial statements We have considered the accounting treatment of these operations as a key point of the audit with respect to their significance for the group’s accounts and the considerable extent of the judgement exercised by Management in: • identifying the assets and liabilities acquired, evaluating their fair value on the acquisition date and at the closing of the balance sheet, and allocating the cost of acquisition to acquired assets and liabilities, and • with respect to the impairment test of the intangible assets, in the choice of assumptions underlying forecast cash flows and establishing the discount rate. Audit procedures implemented in response to the identified risks 1) in the context of allocating the cost of acquisition We have looked at the procedure implemented by Management to report this transaction and we have assessed the design and tested the introduction of appropriate controls for our audit. We have examined the compliance of the methodology applied by the company with current accounting rules and standards. Assisted by our financial assessment specialists, we have also: • assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions and evaluation methods applied to calculate the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, as well as allocation of the cost of acquisition, • assessed the compliance of determining the goodwill recorded in the context of the transaction Lastly, we have verified that Notes 1.1, 3.8 at 12.3 provide appropriate information 2) in the context of valuation on 31 December 2019 We have (i) looked at the process for establishing and approving the assumptions, estimations and forecast data applied by Management in the context of this test, (ii) looked at the procedures for having the results of these tests reviewed by the governing bodies, and (iii) assessed the appropriateness of the financial model used to establish the recoverable amount. We have looked at the scenarios applied by the company and the probability of occurrence of each, especially the new clinical data and development prospects, estimated dates for marketing authorizations for the various indications and the resulting sales. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 115 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On this basis, assisted by our financial assessment specialists, we have: • assessed the appropriateness of the methodology implemented by Management with regard to the criteria defined by IAS 36; • assessed the consistency of cash flows with the tested asset base and the rate applied for discounting cash flows generated by Palovarotene with respect to the weighted average cost of the capital determined for “Specialty Care” business. Furthermore, we have: • tested the calculations performed by the company to measure the sensitivity of the depreciation reported on the intangible asset Palovarotene; • assessed the estimated impact of the impairment test on the financial liability resulting from commercial and regulatory contingent payments, as well as deferred taxes on 31 December 2019. Lastly, we have assessed the appropriateness of the information presented in Notes 1.1, 9, 10.2 and 13.2. Assessment of the recoverable amount of licenses, excluding Palovarotene Notes 3.12, 3.15, 3.29, 6.2 and 13 of the consolidated financial statements Identified risk As of 31 December 2019, the net value of the group’s licenses, listed under other intangible assets, amounts to 1,261.1 million euros, in relation to a total of 4,306.9 million euros. These licenses concern the rights acquired for pharmaceutical specialties that may be: • commercialized and amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful life. Useful life is determined according to the useful life of each intangible asset; • in advanced development phase and therefore not yet commercialized and as such, not yet amortized. As specified in Note 3.15 of the consolidated financial statements, licenses with defined and non-defined useful lives, as these are mainly intellectual property rights and licenses to use intellectual property rights, are subject to impairment tests once a year or when there is evidence of impairment. Impairment tests involve comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount, which is the highest value between its fair value minus the disposal costs and its value in use. The value in use is determined on the basis of an estimation of the future cash flows expected from use of the asset. The impairment test procedure is described in Note 3.15 of the consolidated financial statements. We have considered assessment of the recoverable amounts of these licenses to be a key point of the audit due to the significance of these licenses in the group’s accounts and the method for establishing their recoverable amount, which relies to a considerable extent on the judgement exercised by Management and use of the estimation in relation to the forecasts of future cash flows discounted and used for the performance of the tests. Audit procedures implemented in response to the identified risk We have looked at the procedure implemented by Management within the context of impairment tests and assessed the design of the appropriate controls introduced. We have analyzed the methods for implementing impairment tests involving the acquired licenses. We have paid special attention to licenses acquired during the development phase due to the difficulty in estimating the evolution of research programs and expected growth prospects, which are decisive for drawing up cash flow forecasts. Assisted by our assessment specialists, we have evaluated the reasonableness of the main estimations, in particular cash flow forecasts, long-term growth rates and the discount rates applied. We have also analyzed the consistency of the evolution of research programs, cash flow forecasts with forecast data and we have carried out our own sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests in order to corroborate those drawn up by the Finance Division. Lastly, we have also assessed the appropriateness of the information provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.12, 3.15, 3.29, 6.2 and 13. Specific verifications We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by legal and regulatory provisions on information relating to the group provided in the Board of Directors’ management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and consistency with the consolidated financial statements. We certify that the consolidated statement of non-financial performance required by article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code is included in the information on the group provided in the management report, with it being specified that, in accordance with the provisions of article L.823-10 of the aforementioned code, we have not verified the fair presentation of the information in this statement or its concordance with the consolidated accounts. This should be the subject of a report by an independent third party body. 116 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the auditors We were appointed auditors of Ipsen S.A. by the Annual General Meeting of 18 June 2005 for KPMG S.A., and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo, which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2019, KPMG S.A. was in the 15th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés in its 22nd year, including 15 years for both firms since the company’s shares have been admitted for trade on a regulated market. Accountability of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the annual financial statements Management is required to produce annual financial statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in the EU, in addition to setting up the internal procedure of control it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the annual financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal procedure of control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The annual financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Accountability of the auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the annual financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic detection of any material misstatements. Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can be reasonably expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our assignment of certifying the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his or her professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he or she identifies and assesses the risks that the annual financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he or she deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his or her opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of the internal procedure of control; • he or she familiarizes himself with the relevant internal procedure of control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal procedure of control; • he or she assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods applied and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the annual financial statements; • he or she assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainties related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he or she concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the annual financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he or she issues a certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he or she assesses the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and assesses whether the annual financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view; • concerning the financial reporting of the persons or entities within the basis for consolidation, he or she collects the details he or she deems sufficient and appropriate to express an opinion on the financial statements. He or she is responsible for the management, supervision and performance of the audit on the consolidated accounts, together with the opinion expressed in these accounts. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 117 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work program implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of the internal procedure of control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended and that thus constitute the key point of the audit, that we are required to describe in the present report. We also are providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Auditors Paris La Défense, on 17 February 2020 Paris La Défense, on 17 February 2020 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 118 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.1 Summary document Balance sheet at 31 December 2019 Assets 31 December 2019 Depreciation, 31 December 2018 Gross amortization & Net (in millions of euros) write-downs Intangible assets – Concessions, patents and similar rights 0.2 0.2 0.2 – Other intangible assets Financial investments – Equity investments 2,006.8 580.5 1,426.3 1,167.4 – Loans 355.1 355.1 437.3 – Other financial assets 14.0 0.1 13.9 14.7 Non-current assets 2,376.0 580.7 1,795.4 1,619.6 Receivables – Advances and down-payments to suppliers 0.0 0.0 0.0 – Trade and accounts receivables 24.3 24.3 13.3 – Other receivables 20.6 20.6 27.7 Other – Short-term investments 70.2 9.8 60.3 58.3 – Cash and cash equivalents 130.7 130.7 65.7 – Prepayments 0.0 0.0 0.1 Current assets 245.9 9.8 236.0 165.0 Debt issuance costs to be amortized 6.6 6.6 2.4 Bond redemption premium 1.0 1.0 1.2 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange 8.9 8.9 5.5 Total assets 2,638.4 590.5 2,047.9 1,793.8 Liabilities 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in millions of euros) Share capital 83.8 83.8 Paid-in capital 741.9 741.7 Legal reserve 44.7 44.7 Other reserves 54.3 94.4 Retained earnings 58.5 Net profit (loss) for the period (626.9) (15.4) Regulated provisions 0.0 Equity 297.7 1,007.7 Provisions for contingencies 15.7 15.6 Provisions for losses 9.0 0.4 Provisions for contingencies and losses 24.6 15.9 Other bonds 307.5 303.1 Bank borrowings 542.6 0.4 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 260.0 141.3 Trade and accounts payable 14.7 4.9 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable 9.3 6.5 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 4.8 5.3 Other liabilities 586.3 307.9 Cash instruments 0.3 0.8 Deferred income 0.1 0.0 Debts 1,725.5 770.2 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange 0.0 0.0 Total equity & liabilities 2,047.9 1,793.8 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 119 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement at 31 December 2019 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Sales of merchandise – – Production sold – services 21.4 15.4 Net sales 21.4 15.4 Reversal of depreciation, amortization & provisions, expense transfers 17.5 16.1 Other revenues 3.7 – Operating income 42.6 31.5 Other purchases and external charges (34.0) (6.7) Taxes and duties (0.6) (1.0) Wages and salaries (8.5) (10.9) Payroll on-costs (5.1) (2.0) Depreciation expense on fixed assets (2.7) (0.6) Provision expense on fixed assets – – Provision expense for contingencies and losses (9.9) (8.0) Miscellaneous operating expenses (4.7) (1.0) Operating expenses (65.4) (30.1) Operating profit (loss) (22.8) 1.4 Financial income from participating interests 0.2 0.0 Income from other non-current receivables 5.4 8.9 Other interest and similar income 3.4 4.2 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange gains 21.7 35.5 Financial income 30.7 48.6 Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (597.1) (1.4) Interest and other financial expenses (24.4) (14.0) Foreign exchange losses (23.6) (35.9) Financial expense (645.1) (51.3) Net financial income (expense) (614.4) (2.7) Pre-tax profit (loss) on ordinary activities (637.2) (1.3) Extraordinary income from operations – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions 1.1 1.3 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense – – Extraordinary income 1.1 1.3 Extraordinary expense from operations – – Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (9.2) (14.9) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges – – Extraordinary expenses (9.2) (14.9) Net extraordinary income (expense) (8.1) (13.5) Employee profit-sharing 0.0 – Income tax income (expense) 18.3 (0.6) Net profit (loss) for the year (626.9) (15.4) 120 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements Notes The reporting period covers the 12-month period from These are the notes to the balance sheet and the income 1 January to 31 December 2019. statement for the year ended 31 December 2019. The total balance sheet amount comes to €2,047.9 million, while the The notes and tables presented below form an integral part of income statement shows a net loss of €(626.9) million for the the annual financial statements. period. Had the Company been taxed separately, its net loss for tax purposes would have totaled €(61.6) million. Note 1 Significant events during the year ■ 1.1 Acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals hoc analyses of the Phase III trial and shared with and acknowledged by the IDMC which is recommending not to On 17 April 2019, Ipsen completed the acquisition of 100% of discontinue the study. Clementia Pharmaceuticals to significantly enhance its Rare Disease portfolio. Ipsen acquired Clementia Pharmaceuticals’ As a consequence, Ipsen has impaired the shares of 11188291 late-stage drug candidate palovarotene, with pediatric disease Canada Inc. company for an amount of €581 milllion. As this and breakthrough therapy designations for the treatment of impairment is non tax deductible, no tax effect has been an ultra-rare bone disorder. booked in the financial statements. The residual net book value of the shares amounts to €259 million.. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen paid $25 per share in cash upfront on the completion of the transaction, for an ■ 1.2 Share repurchasing program initial aggregate consideration of $953 million, plus deferred payments on the achievement of future regulatory milestones On 18 June 2019, Ipsen announced that it had granted Kepler in the form of contingent value rights (CVRs) of $6 per share, Cheuvreux a mandate to purchase 50,000 Ipsen S.A. shares, which will be paid upon U.S. Food and Drug Administration ‘s representing approximately 0.18% of the Company’s share (FDA) acceptance of the regulatory filing for palovarotene for capital at that date. The purchase was to take place over a the treatment of multiple osteochondromas, representing an period of two months. The purchased shares were allocated additional potential payment of $263 million. primarily to cover share awards as part of the Company’s long term incentive plans. The buyback program was in line with The transaction has been fully financed by Ipsen’s available the authorizations granted by the Combined Shareholder’s cash and existing credit lines and has significantly increased Meeting of 28 May 2019. its level of net debt. The program ended on 12 August 2019. Ipsen S.A. a thus acquired the shares of the newly created 11188291 Canada Inc., holding of Clementia Pharmaceuticals Under the program, the Company repurchased 150,000 shares Inc. for an amount of €839 million. for a total €13.3 million in the year ended 31 December 2019. O n 6 December 2019, Ipsen announced, following ■ 1.3 Ipsen S.A. refinancing of the debt discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration On 23 July 2019, Ipsen S.A. issued $300 million through (FDA), that a partial clinical hold effective immediately, for a U.S. Private Placement in two tranches of 7 and 10-year the pediatric population under the age of 14 was issued maturities. for studies conducted under IND120181 and IND135403 evaluating the investigational drug candidate palovarotene for Ipsen S.A. has refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) the chronic treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva and existing bilateral bank facilities. The new Revolving Credit (FOP) and multiple osteochondromas (MO), respectively. Facility of €1,500 million has a five-year maturity and includes The partial clinical hold applies to the pediatric population two one-year extension options. (patients under the age of 14 years) currently participating in In both the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Group has the Phase 2 (PVO-1A-202/204 and PVO-2A-201) and Phase 3 to comply with a Net Debt / EBITDA covenant to remain (PVO-1A-301) studies in all clinical sites at global level. The below 3.5 times at each financial closing and the facility FDA is allowing the studies to continue to treat patients includes specific indicators linked to CSR (Corporate Social 14 years of age and older. Responsibility) to be assessed annually. Moreover, on 24 Januar y 2020, Ipsen announced the The previous financing has been fully terminated on decision to pause dosing patients in the global Phase III 28 June 2019. ( PVO-1A-301) study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of palovarotene in patients with fibrodysplasia ■ 1.4 R  ationalization of the ownership of ossificans progressiva (FOP), as well as the ongoing Phase II (PVO-1A-202/204) extension studies. Despite the results the Group’s subsidiaries of the prespecified interim analysis, signals of encouraging In the context of the rationalization of the ownership of its equity therapeutic activity were observed in preliminary postinvestments, Ipsen S.A. transferred 166,580 shares held in 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 121 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strep S.A.S. to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. on 30 September 2019. day, this project was announced by Mayroy, controlling These shares, representing 64.24% of the share capital shareholder of Ipsen. and voting rights, were valued at 88.8 million euros. This contribution was remunerated by increasing share capital The family shareholdings controlling Ipsen will remain of Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. in favor of Ipsen S.A.. Therefore, the unchanged following these operations, with the ongoing preinvestment of Ipsen S.A. in the company Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. eminence of the concert formed by Anne and Henri Beaufour. increased by 88.8 million euros, while the investment in the company Sutrepa S.A.S. decreased to 0. ■ 1.6 Departure of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer On 18 December 2019, Ipsen announced that David Meek ■ 1.5 Proposed reclassification of Ipsen shares has resigned as the company’s Chief Executive Officer held by Mayroy and will step down from the Board of Directors, effective December 31, 2019. On 5 November 2019, the Board of Directors of Ipsen takes note of the proposed demerger of Mayroy and the internal The Board has decided to appoint Aymeric Le Chatelier, reclassification of its Ipsen shares, resulting in a request for currently Chief Financial Officer as Interim CEO to replace a waiver to the obligation to file a public offer. On the same David Meek as of January 1, 2020. Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods ■ 2.1 Standards, principles and valuation measured according to such criteria as the value of the share methods held in the net assets or the earnings prospects of the relevant company. These criteria are weighted by the effects of owning 2.1.1 Accounting principles these shares in terms of strategy or synergies, in respect of The annual financial statements have been prepared in other investments held. accordance with legal and regulatory provisions applicable in France, as set out in the French Chart of Accounts (ANC Acquisition-related expenses are included in the acquisition Regulation n° 2019-07 of 10 December 2019, which modified cost of the shares. These expenses are spread over five years ANC Regulation n°2014-03 approved by the Order of for tax purposes via a regulated provision in the accounts. 5 June 2014), in observance of the prudence principle and • Other financial assets the independence of financial years and the presumption of a going concern. – Liquidity agreement. Under the program to buy back the Company’s own shares, Ipsen funds a liquidity account The Company did not carry out a revaluation of its balance as part of a liquidity agreement. The contributions made sheet. are not available and, as a result, are posted to “Other 2.1.2 Valuation methods financial assets.” 2.1.2.1 Intangible assets The capital gains and losses from each transaction are Intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition cost or recognized on the income statement, without offset. contribution value, less cumulative amortization and any At the closing date, short-term investment amounts are impairment losses. measured at their net asset liquidation value. Capital gains The cost of intangible assets with a defined useful life, less realized between the closing date value and the starting any residual value, is amortized over a period corresponding value are not recognized. Unrealized capital losses are to the useful life estimated by the Company. Amortization written down. periods are determined on a case-by-case basis depending – Share repurchase program aimed at cancelling the on the type of asset concerned. shares. Shares repurchased for purposes of cancellation Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized are recorded at acquisition cost in “Other financial assets”. but are systematically tested annually for impairment. These shares are not subject to an assessment of their net asset liquidation value at the close of the period. As a general rule, brands and trademarks are not amortized. 2.1.2.3 Receivables 2.1.2.2 Financial investments Receivables are measured at nominal value. • Equity investments Receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis and may Equity investments whose long-term ownership is deemed be written down depending on the risks identified. useful to Ipsen’s activity, notably because it allows for the exercise of influence or control over the issuing company, are 2.1.2.4 Short-term investments recognized at acquisition cost. When the value at the closing In accordance with opinion 2008-17 of France’s National date is below the carrying value, a provision for impairment is Accounting Board (Conseil National de Comptabilité – recorded for the difference. The value at the closing date is CNC), Company shares allotted to bonus share plans and 122 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS stock option plans and purchased outside the framework balance sheet, unless the recognition in full or in part of the of a liquidity agreement are recorded at acquisition cost, changes can be symmetrically recognized with the hedged i.e. the purchase price plus transaction fees, in “Short-term instrument. However, in the event the Company does not investments”. Other Company shares held as part of a liquidity expect to complete the planned transaction, the hedge agreement are fixed assets classified as other investment will be reclassified as an isolated open position (IOP) and securities. recognized as such. Derivative instruments classified as IOPs are recognized at fair value on the balance sheet against At the closing date, provisions were recorded as follows: corresponding amounts in revaluation reserves. Unrealized • For Company shares purchased with a view to allocating losses on IOP transactions were provisioned as contingencies. them to bonus share plans, a provision was recorded on the Foreign exchange gains and losses are posted in the liability side of the balance sheet to account for employee “Other operating income” or “Other operating expenses” share allocation obligations based on services rendered. line item under operating income (expenses), or in the Because the allotment of Ipsen’s bonus share plans are “Foreign exchange gains” or “Foreign exchange losses” line subject to length of service conditions at the Company, item under financial income (expense), depending on the the provision is spread over the vesting period, as required nature of the transaction. In line with the hedge accounting under the CNC opinion; symmetry principle, foreign exchange hedging transactions • Otherwise, for Company shares, when the value at the are recognized in the same income statement line item as the closing date, i.e. the average monthly share price during the hedged item. last month of the financial year, is below carrying value, a The Company opted to stagger premiums and discounts provision for impairment is recorded for the difference. on foreign exchange hedges over the hedging period in the The income and expenses generated from buying and selling “Other financial income” / “Other financial expenses” line item the Company’s own shares are recognized as extraordinary on the income statement. income or expenses. To determine the net income or expense when selling repurchased shares, the oldest shares are 2.1.2.8 Foreign exchange differences considered to have been sold first in accordance with the Foreign-currency denominated income and expense items FIFO, first-in, first-out method. were recorded in euros based on the exchange rate in effect at the transaction date. Debts, receivables, and cash 2.1.2.5 Provisions for contingencies and losses denominated in foreign currencies were translated into euros Provisions for contingencies and losses are recognized at the at the closing exchange rate at year-end. period close to cover all Company liabilities to third parties likely or certain to give rise to an outflow of resources to said The resulting translation differences for debts and receivables third-parties without any counterpart. These provisions are denominated in foreign currencies were posted to “Foreign estimated on the basis of the most likely assumptions at the exchange differences” on the balance sheet. The Company closing date. follows “overall foreign exchange position” principles. For transactions whose due dates are sufficiently close, any 2.1.2.6 Debts foreign exchange gains or losses are considered as part of Debts are measured at nominal value. an overall foreign exchange position and the amount of the provision for foreign exchange losses is limited to the excess 2.1.2.7 Forward financial instruments and hedging of losses over gains. Hedging transactions and the items transactions hedged are excluded from the position. As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange risks, the Company uses forward financial instruments, 2.1.2.9 Retirement benefit obligations such as for ward contracts and swaps as par t of its Company employees may be entitled to compensation when hedging transactions. These forward financial instruments they retire or to a pension following their retirement. The are contracted only with first-class financial institutions. Company’s liabilities arising from such post-employment They are documented as hedging instruments to hedge benefits are calculated by using an actuary model and exposure to fluctuations in cash flows denominated in foreign assumptions applicable in France. currencies and associated with a recognized asset or liability, or a sufficiently probable future transaction. Forward financial The corresponding liabilities, based on the rights vested to instruments documented as hedges are accounted for the beneficiaries, are covered by contributions to independent in accordance with regulation n° 2015-05 of 2 July 2015 organizations (insurance companies), which are responsible established the ANC, France’s accounting standards for paying the pensions and other benefits. In accordance authority, and relative to forward financial instruments and with provision of the French Commercial Code, net assets and hedging transactions. liabilities arising from these obligations were not recognized, as the Company does not apply the preferential method. Unrealized or realized gains and losses on a foreign exchange hedging instrument are symmetrically recognized in the Further, amounts intended to reward employees for their income statement with the hedged item. If the hedge’s gains length of service are paid out as bonuses by the Company. or losses are realized before the hedged item is recognized in 2.1.2.10 Tax consolidation regime the income statement, then the gains and losses are recorded in suspense accounts on the balance sheet. Changes in To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with the value of hedging instruments are not recognized in the its subsidiaries, Ipsen, in accordance with the other member 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 123 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS companies of its tax consolidation group, has adopted the Ipsen calculates the income tax due by the consolidated following rules, reflecting the position of French tax authorities. group and expenses the charge. Further, the Company recognizes the tax savings arising from the tax consolidation Each subsidiary within the consolidation scope recognizes its as income. income tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after carrying forward tax losses incurred earlier by the subsidiary and transferred to the Parent Company. Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet ■ 3.1 Non-current assets 3.1.1 Intangible assets • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2018 Increases Decreases 31 December 2019 Brands and trademarks 0.2 – – 0.2 Total 0.2 – – 0.2 No amortization or provisions were recognized for these intangible assets, which had a net carrying value of €0.2 million at 31 December 2019. 3.1.2 Financial investments • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2018 Increases Decreases 31 December 2019 Equity investments – shares Note 3.1.3 1,167.4 839.4 0.0 2,006.8 Company shares / liquidity agreement 2.5 0 (0.2) 2.3 Liquidity agreement 2.2 0 (0.6) 1.6 Loans 437.3 3.0 (86.3) 354.0 FPCI – Private equity professional fund 10.0 – – 10.0 Total other financial assets Note 3.1.4 452.0 3.0 (87.0) 368.0 Total financial assets 1,619.5 842.4 (87.0) 2,374.8 • Change in write-downs (in millions of euros) 31 December 2018 Increases Decreases 31 December 2019 Equity investments – shares – 580.5 – 580.5 Company shares – 0.1 – 0.1 Total – 580.6 – 580.6 3.1.3 Equity investments (FDA) acceptance of the regulatory filing for palovarotene for On 17 April 2019, Ipsen completed the acquisition of 100% the treatment of multiple osteochondromas, representing an of the Canadian company Clementia Pharmaceuticals to additional potential payment of $263 million. significantly enhance its Rare Disease portfolio. Ipsen acquired The transaction has been fully financed by Ipsen’s available Clementia Pharmaceutical’s late-stage drug candidate cash and existing credit lines and has significantly increased palovarotene, with pediatric disease and breakthrough its level of net debt. therapy designations for the treatment of an ultra-rare bone disorder. The first market authorization is expected to take Ipsen S.A. a thus acquired the shares of the newly created place in the United Stated in 2020. 11188291 Canada Inc., holding of Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc. for an amount of €839 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen paid $25 per share in cash upfront on the completion of the transaction, for an O n 6 December 2019, Ipsen announced, following initial aggregate consideration of $953 million, plus deferred discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration payments on the achievement of future regulatory milestones (FDA), that a partial clinical hold effective immediately, for in the form of contingent value rights (CVRs) of $6 per share, the pediatric population under the age of 14 was issued which will be paid upon U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s for studies conducted under IND120181 and IND135403 124 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS evaluating the investigational drug candidate palovarotene for This loan was previously granted to Sutrepa S.A.S that the chronic treatment of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva has transferred all its assets to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. at (FOP) and multiple osteochondromas (MO), respectively. 30 November 2019 The partial clinical hold applies to the pediatric population (patients under the age of 14 years) currently participating in • Shares in the InnoBio FPCI private equity professional fund: the Phase 2 (PVO-1A-202/204 and PVO-2A-201) and Phase 3 In 2009, the Company signed a subscription form for five (PVO-1A-301) studies in all clinical sites at global level. The thousand shares at an initial investment value of €1,000 FDA is allowing the studies to continue to treat patients each, with the InnoBio FPCI for a total of €5 million. The 14 years of age and older. commitment includes 13 tranches representing 93% of the commitment, or €4.7 million paid from 2009 to 2019, Moreover, on 24 Januar y 2020, Ipsen announced the and deferred tranches totaling €0.3 million that will be decision to pause dosing patients in the global Phase III gradually called by the fund management company. At ( PVO-1A-301) study designed to evaluate the efficacy 31 December 2019, the Company held 2.89% of the fund. and safety of palovarotene in patients with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), as well as the ongoing Phase II • Shares in the InnoBio 2 FPCI private equity professional (PVO-1A-202/204) extension studies. Despite the results fund: In 2018, the Company signed a subscription form of the prespecified interim analysis, signals of encouraging for five thousand shares at an initial investment value therapeutic activity were observed in preliminary postof €1,000 each, with the InnoBio 2 FPCI for a total of hoc analyses of the Phase III trial and shared with and €5 million. The commitment includes the amount initially acknowledged by the IDMC which is recommending not to called and four tranches totaling 9.5% of the commitment, discontinue the study. or €0.48 million paid between 2018 and 2019, and deferred tranches totaling €4.52 million that will be gradually called As a consequence, Ipsen has impaired the shares of 11188291 by the fund management company. At 31 December 2019, Canada Inc. company for an amount of €580.5 milllion. As this the percentage of the fund held by the Company was impairment is non tax deductible, no tax effect has been non-material. booked in the financial statements. Information about subsidiaries and affiliates is disclosed in the • Company shares held as part of a liquidity agreement subsidiaries and affiliates table. entrusted to Oddo BHF as of 1 July 2018 for a period of one year and renewable by tacit agreement. The liquidity 3.1.4 Other financial assets agreement complies with the AMAFI Ethics Charter, At 31 December 2019, this item broke down as follows: approved by the French financial markets authority. • Loans of €354 million, including accrued interest, granted At 31 December 2019, the Company held 29,068 shares with by the Company to Ipsen S.A.S. as part of the acquisition a gross value of €2.3 million and provided €1,6 million in cash of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets. under the liquidity agreement. ■ 3.2 Receivables by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) amount amount Less than More than 2018 2019 one year one year Other financial assets 4.7 4.0 4.0 – Other trade receivables 13.3 24.3 24.3 – – Income tax 26.3 2.2 (a) 2.2 – – Value added tax 0.5 0.9 0.9 – Group and associated companies – 17.0 (b) 17.0 – Miscellaneous receivables 0.9 0.5 0.5 – Prepayments 0.1 0.0 0.0 – TOTAL RECEIVABLES 45.7 48.9 48.9 – (a) The decrease in “income tax receivables” versus 31 December 2018 stemmed mainly from the repayment of research tax credits received in 2019. (b) The variation of “Group and associated companies“ is generated by the gain resulting from the tax Group consolidation. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 125 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 3.3 Short-term investments The Company holds short-term investments comprised of 748,234 of its own shares valued at €60.3 million. • Change in short-term investments in millions of euros) 31 December 2018 Increases Decreases 31 December 2019 Gross value 60.8 9.4 (a) 0.0 70.2 Write-downs (2.5) (7.4) (b) – (9.8) Net value 58.3 2.0 0.0 60.3 (a) Increase in short-term investments from the repurchase of 150,000 shares authorized by the Combined Shareholder’s Meeting of 28 May 2019. (b) Provision for impairment induced by the share price evolution. ■ 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents ■ 3.6 Bond redemption premium At 31 December 2019, the “Cash and cash equivalents” item In line with the bonds issued by the Company on 16 June 2016, consisted primarily of term deposits. the Company recognized a redemption premium spread over the duration of the bonds, i.e. seven years. ■ 3.5 Debt issuance costs to be amortized At 31 December 2018, the balance of the redemption premium Debt issuance costs are amortized over the duration of remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet came to the respective bonds and loans from which they arose. At €1.2 million. The Company expensed €0.2 million for the 31 December 2019, debt issuance costs came to €6.6 million 2019 financial year, with a redemption-premium balance of vs €2.4 million at 31 December 2018 and broke down as €1.0 million remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet follows: at 31 December 2019. • End of the credit facility and bilateral lines signed in 2016: The costs arising from the revolving credit facility and ■ 3.7 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange bilateral lines that has been ended on 28 June 2018 has At 31 December 2019, unrealized losses on foreign been expenses for €1.6 million of which €1.4 million as write exchange totaled €8.9 million and corresponded to marking off of the balance at the end of the contract date. intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies to the exchange rate at the closing date. • €0.6 million arising from the bonds issued by the Company on 16 June 2016. The issuance costs of the bond were ■ 3.8 Equity spread over the duration of the loan, i.e. seven years. An amount ofg €0.2 million was expensed for the 2019 financial • Share capital year. – At 31 December 2019, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised • €5.0 million arising from the new credit facility signed in of 83,814,526 ordinary shares each with a nominal value May 2019. The issuance costs of the bond were spread of €1, including 48,133,505 shares with double voting over the duration of the credit facility, i.e. five years. An rights, compared with 83,808,761 ordinary shares each amount of €0.8 million was expensed for the 2019 financial with a nominal value of €1, including 48,047,154 shares year. with double voting rights at 31 December 2018. • €1.0 million arising from the US Private Placement signed on – The changes during the 2019 financial year resulted 23 June 2019 for an amount of $300 million in two tranches from 5,765 new shares issued as share warrants were of seven and ten years maturity. Issuance costs for the exercised. tranche A (€0.5 million) are spread over 7 years. Issuance costs for the tranche B (€0.5 million) are spread over 10 years. 126 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Change in share capital Net profit (in millions Share Share Issue Legal Other Retained Regulated Total (loss) for of euros) capital premium premium reserve reserves earnings provisions equity the period Balance at 31 December 2018, before 83.8 29.8 711.9 44.7 94.4 58.5 (15.4) – 1,007.7 allocation of net profit Dividends – – – – (40.8) (58.5) (a) 15.4 – (83.8) Net profit (loss) – – – – – – (626.9) – (626.9) for the period Capital increase from exercised 0.0 – 0.1 – – – – – 0.1 warrants Other movements – – – – 0.6 – – – 0.6 Balance at 31 December 2019, before 83.8 29.8 712.1 44.7 54.3 0.0 (626.9) 0.0 297.7 allocation of net profit (a) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to “Retained earnings”. ■ 3.9 Provisions for contingencies and losses The change in provisions for contingencies and losses from the opening to the closing of the financial year breaks down as follows: Movements during the period (in millions of euros) 2018 Reversals Other 2019 Dotations Applied Released movements – Provisions for contingencies 15.6 9.9 (7.0) (2.8) – 15.7 – Provisions for losses 0.4 8.9 0.0 (0.3) – 9.0 Total 15.9 18.8 (7.0) (3.1) 0.0 24.6 At 31 December 2019, provisions for contingencies and • Provisions to cover expenses related to long service awards. losses included the following items: • Provisions recorded to account for employee bonus-share and stock-option allocation obligations based on services rendered; 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 127 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 3.10 Borrowings and debt 3.10.1 Liabilities by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) amount amount 2018 2019 Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Other bonds 303.1 307.5 7.5 300.0 0.0 Bank borrowings – Initially up to one year 0.4 1.0,541.5 1.0 0.0,270.8 0.0,270.8 – Initially over one year 0.0 0.0 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 141.3 260.0 (a) 260.0 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 4.9 14.7 14.7 0.0 0.0 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable Personnel and related accounts payable 3.3 5.1 5.1 0.0 Social security and other welfare agency 3.0 3.3 3.3 0.0 0.0 payables State and other public authority payables: – Value added tax 0.0 0.6 0.6 0.0 0.0 – Other taxes and duties 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 Total taxes payable and payroll and payroll 6.5 9.3 9.3 0.0 0.0 on-cost amounts payable Other liabilities Amounts payable to fixed asset suppliers and 5.3 4.8 4.8 0.0 0.0 related accounts Group and associated companies 301.6 585.9 (b) 585.9 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 7.2 0.8 0.8 0.0 0.0 Total other liabilities 314.1 591.5 591.5 0.0 0.0 Deferred income 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 TOTAL LIABILITIES 770.2 1,725.5 884.0 570.8 270.8 (a) Commercial paper issuance. (b) The increase stemmed primarily from the current account with Ipsen Pharma S.A.S., the Group’s centralizing cash pooling company. 3.10.2 Sundry borrowings, financial liabilities and bonds In both the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Group has On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued a €300 million in to comply with a Net Debt / EBITDA covenant to remain unsecured, seven-year bonds paying an annual interest rate below 3.5 times at each financial closing and the facility of 1.875%. includes specific indicators linked to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) to be assessed annually. On 23 July 2019, Ipsen S.A. issued $300 million through a U.S. Private Placement in two tranches of 7 and 10year The previous financing has been fully terminated on maturities. 28 June 2019. Ipsen S.A. has refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) On 31 December 2019, the facility was drawn by €270.8 million and existing bilateral bank facilities. The new Revolving Credit and the Group was complying with its covenant ratio. Facility of €1,500 million has a five-year maturity and includes The Ipsen S.A. program of emission of NEU CP Negotiable two one-year extension options. EUropean Commercial Paper of €600 million was drawn for €260 million on 31 December 2019. 128 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 3.11 Accrued liabilities (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 8.5 3.4 Suppliers – invoices not yet received 0.9 0.9 Fixed asset suppliers – invoices not yet received 4.8 5.3 Personnel – Accrued liabilities for paid vacation 0.3 0.3 – Accrued liabilities for bonuses 2.1 2.0 – Accrued liabilities for profit-sharing 0.1 0.1 – Accrued liabilities for retirement indemnities 2.6 0.9 – Accrued social welfare expenses 2.0 1.0 State – Accrued expenses 0.0 0.2 Other accrued expenses and interest on current accounts 0.2 0.0 TOTAL 21.4 14.1 The increase in “Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities” is due to the financial expenses related to the USPP and the new credit facility. ■ 3.12. Unrealized gains on foreign exchange At 31 December 2019, unrealized gains on foreign exchange corresponding to marking bank borrowings denominated in foreign currencies to the exchange rate at the closing date were non-material. Note 4 Notes to the income statement ■ 4.1 Operating income ■ 4.2 Operating expenses Operating income totaled €42.6 million in the 2019 financial The €27.3 million decrease in operating expenses versus the year and broke down as follows: previous financial year stemmed mainly from : • €4.7 million in personnel expense re-invoiced to subsidiaries, • payment to the pension plan fund for €9.2 million and related URSSAF social charges for €2.2 million; • €16.7 million in miscellaneous costs re-invoiced to subsidiaries, • loss on exchange rate risk hedging for €3.6 million; • €10.1 million in reversals of provisions for contingencies and • expenses arising from the acquisition of 11188291 Canada losses, Inc. share and Clementia integration in the Group for €10.3 million. • €7.4 million in expense transfers. • €3.7 million in gain on exchange rate risk hedging ■ 4.3 Financial income (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Income from equity investments 0.2 0.0 Income from other non-current receivables (a) 5.4 8.9 Reversal of provisions and expenses transferred 0.0 0.0 Other financial income (b) 3.4 4.2 Foreign exchange gains (c) 21.7 35.5 Total financial income 30.7 48.6 (a) At 31 December 2019, this line item consisted mainly of interest on loans granted to subsidiaries. (b) At 31 December 2019, this line item mainly included other financial income (positive carry over/offset) from forward financial instruments, as well as proceeds from commercial paper issuance. (c) At 31 December 2019, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange gains related to financial transactions. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 129 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 4.4 Financial expense (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Foreign exchange differences (a) (23.6) (35.9) Interest and other financial expenses (b) (24.4) (14.0) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (c) (597.1) (1.4) Total financial expense (645.1) (51.3) (a) At 31 December 2019, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange losses arising from financial transactions. (b) At 31 December 2019, this line item is constituted for €21.1 million of interests on the borrowings and bond and for €2.7 million of the financial expense from forward financial instruments (c) At 31 December 2019, this line item was related to the provision for impairment on shares of 11188291 Canada Inc. for €580.6 million. (note 1.1) ■ 4.5 Net extraordinary income (expense) (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Gains from share buybacks 1.1 1.3 Reversal of provision for investment – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions – – Extraordinary income 1.1 1.3 (Losses) from share buybacks (9.2) (14.8) Extraordinary expense from capital transactions – (0.0) Miscellaneous extraordinary expenses – – Extraordinary expenses (9.2) (14.9) Net extraordinary income (expense) (8.1) (13.5) The net extraordinary expense for the 2019 financial year At 31 December 2018, net extraordinary expense resulted stemmed primarily from the €9.2 million capital loss realized mainly from the €14.5 million capital loss realized during the during the transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect in respect of long term incentive plans and the loss on sales of of long term incentive plans. treasury share within the liquidity contract. ■ 4.6 Income tax breakdown The income tax line for the 2019 financial year shows a net profit of €18.3 million. (in millions of euros) Pre-tax Net tax amount After tax Profit on ordinary activities (637.2) – (637.2) Net extraordinary income (expense) and employee (8.1) – (8.1) profit-sharing Income tax income from tax consolidation – (18.3) 18.3 Book profit (loss) (645.3) (18.3) (626.9) ■ 4.7 Tax consolidation the Company recorded the income tax recognized by its integrated subsidiaries as income. Ipsen S.A. leads a tax consolidation group. To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with its subsidiaries, • If a subsidiary exits the scope of consolidation after a the following methods were applied in the annual financial period of five years, it recovers no income tax or tax-loss statements: carryforwards. • Each subsidiary within the tax group recognizes its income • There were no ta x-loss carr y for wards for the ta x tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after consolidation group at 31 December 2019. recognizing its tax-loss carryforwards. ■ 4.8 Increases or decreases in future tax • Payments were made by bank transfer to the Company’s account at dates scheduled for payment transfer to the liability Treasury. Ipsen calculated the income tax owed by the tax Excluding tax consolidation impact, the amount of increases consolidated group and expensed the amount. In addition, or decreases in future tax liability was not material for the 2019 financial year. 130 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 5 Other information ■ 5.1 Directors, executives and officers Retirement pensions and similar benefit obligations for executives and of ficers came to €1.8 million at 5.1.1 Remuneration paid to corporate officers 31 December 2019. Remuneration paid by the Company to directors, executives and officers for the 2019 financial year totaled €6.0 million. 5.1.2 Loans and advances to top management. No advances or loans were made to the Company’s top management. ■ 5.2 Average headcount at period closing 2019 2018 Top and upper management 5 6 TOTAL 5 6 ■ 5.3 Financial commitments A discount rate of 0.47% was assumed to calculate the €0.1 million long-service award obligation. 5.3.1 Commitments to personnel Apart from retirement bonuses mandated under a collective 5.3.2 Commitments given bargaining agreement with the French pharmaceutical Ipsen S.A. is committed to pay, to former Clementia industry and obligations related to a supplementary pension Pharmaceuticals Inc. shareholders, deferred payments on plan, the Company has no other obligations arising from the achievement of future regulatory milestones in the form employee pensions, complementary retirement benefits, of contingent value rights (CVRs) of $6 per share, which will retirement bonuses or contributions, or similar postbe paid upon U.S. Food and Drug Administration ‘s (FDA) employment benefits. acceptance of the regulatory filing for palovarotene for the treatment of multiple osteochondromas, representing an At 31 December 2019, obligations arising from retirement additional potential payment of $263 million. bonuses and the supplementary pension plan amounted to €1.0 million and €11.0 million respectively. The amounts were The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide civil liability determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance credit” method. company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, The main assumptions used in the calculations were as up to the first €15.0 million for any potential claim made. follows: To cover that financial commitment and address any potential • Discount rate of 0.47%, default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company issued, • inflation rate of 1.8%, on 18 December 2019, a letter of guarantee payable upon first demand in favor of the third-party insurer for a total amount • Voluntary retirement for managers at age 67 for those born of €3.0 million. The first-demand guarantee is renewable after 1963 and 64 for those born before 1963; voluntary annually. In addition, under the previous civil liability insurance retirement for non-managers at age 65 for those born after contract also reinsured in the captive reinsurance company 1963 and age 63 for those born before 1963. Ipsen Ré and terminated on 31 December 31,2018, the • Mortality table: TH 13-15 / TF 13-15 previous guarantee on first demand issued in March 2018 in favor of the previous insurer for an amount of €9 million has These obligations were outsourced to an insurance company. been extended for five years after the expiration date of the At 31 December 2019, the fair value of these financial assets reinsurance contract, i.e. until 31 December 2023. came to €1.3 million for the retirement bonuses and the €9.8 million for the supplementary pension plan, assuming a 5.3.3 Commitments on financial instruments long-term rate of return of 0.47%. Off-balance sheet commitments corresponding to forward In accordance with provision of the French Commercial purchases and sales of foreign currencies are presented in Code, net assets and liabilities arising from these obligations note 5.6. were not recognized, as the Company does not apply the preferential method. ■ 5.4 S  hare option plans granted by the Company The obligation arising from long-ser vice awards was Change in number of options outstanding determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit credit” method and fully provisioned at 31 December 2019. Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Opening balance 36,085 664,558 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (7,765) (418,953) Options expired (28,320) (209,520) Closing balance – 36,085 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 131 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 5.5 Bonus share plans conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group On 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors granted 25,875 entity. bonus shares to Group employees, subject to seniority and On 30 March 2018, the Board of Directors granted: service conditions. • 9,230 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject On 28 May 2019, the Board of Directors granted: to length of service conditions as well as performance • 11,730 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to length of service conditions as well as performance entity, conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group • 30,160 bonus shares to members of the Executive entity, Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions • 31,790 bonus shares to members of the Executive as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions specific to a Group entity, as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or • 84,240 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, specific to a Group entity, subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as • 117,160 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as to a Group entity, performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific • 87,310 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, to a Group entity, subject to length of service conditions but not performance • 128,200 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group subject to length of service conditions but not performance entity. 5.5.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 1 June 2016 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 41,640 44,070 37,980 28,200 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 Fair value of bonus shares €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 €101.47 €97.01 €99.27 €97.00 Plan dated 30 May 2018 Plan dated Plan dated 28 May 2019 13 February 2019 Tranches 1.1 1.5 1.6 1.1 1.5 1.6 Number of bonus shares 39,390 84,240 87,310 25,875 43,520 117,160 128,200 50% at 2 years 50% at 2 years Vesting period (in years) 2 3 50% at 3 years 50% at 3 years Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 €109.60 €112.10 €112.10 €112.10 Fair value of bonus shares €134.90 €134.90 €131.84 €109.60 €90.25 €87.83 €109.57 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chief Officer, the Deputy CEO, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the American subsidiaries. 1.5 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries subject to performance conditions 1.6 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries not subject to performance conditions 5.5.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in million euros) 1 April 1 June 29 March 30 May 13 February Total 28 May 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Opening valuation 4.4 10.5 13.3 25.3 2.8 25.5 2019 expense 0.0 0.3 0.6 9.7 1.1 4.4 16.0 2018 expense 0,2 1,3 4,2 5,6 11,3 132 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Amounts in thousands of currency units) Carrying amount of shares Amount of PercenNumber Equity other held Outstanding endorsments, Dividends Detailed information for each tage of Sales, than share loans and guarantees, Net profit (loss) collected by the interest, in which gross value Share share net of VAT, for capital and advances and letters for the last year Company in the exceeds 1% of the company’s capital capital Gross the last year excl. net Interest Shares Provisions granted by of intent (avg. exch. rate) last year, net of share capital held amounts (avg. exch. rate) profit the Company provided by the ESOP % Company Dividends collected by the Company in the last year, net of ESOP Ipsen Pharma €7,755 €1,220,206 100 188,905 €1,167,432 – – – €1,536,556 €353,020 – 11188291 Canada Inc $952,705 $0 100 €839,387 €580,547 – – $0 $0 – General information for other interests, in which gross value exceeds 1% of the company’s share capital 1. Equity interests in foreign companies Ipsen Poland LLC 1,210 PLN 4,194 PLN 1 1 €15 – – – 56 PLN 30,878 PLN – Note 7 Cash flow statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Opening cash and cash equivalents 65.7 65.0 Net profit (loss) (626.9) (15.4) Elimination of income and expense with no impact on cash flow or not used in operating activities – Net depreciation, amortization and provision charges 599.6 (3.3) Cash flow (27.3) (18.7) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (30.5) 1.3 Net cash flow from operating activities (57.8) (17.5) Acquisition of equity investments (840.7) Disposal of equity investments Other cash flows related to financing activities 84.5 41.2 Change in working capital related to investment activities (0.5) 4.6 Net cash provided (used) by investment activities (756.7) 45.8 Repayment of borrowings (5.7) (247.1) Debt issues 671.0 144.7 Change in share capital 0.0 2.7 Share repurchasing agreement (9.4) 4.1 Dividends paid (83.2) (83.0) Change in working capital related to financing activities 306.8 150.9 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 879.5 (27.7) Changes in cash and cash equivalents 65.1 0.6 Closing cash and cash equivalents 130.7 65.7 Note 8 Subsequent events No event occurring between the closing date of the was likely to call into question the annual financial statements consolidated financial statements and the date of their approval themselves or make it necessary to mention such an event in by the Board of Directors, and not taken into consideration, the notes to the annual financial statements. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 133 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered headquarters: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Annual Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2019 For the attention of the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have conducted an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A. pertaining to the year which ended 31 December 2019, as attached to the present report. We certify that the annual financial statements, in accordance with French accounting principles, give a true and fair view of the result of its operations as well as of the financial situation and of the assets and liabilities of the company for the year ended. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We performed our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2019 to the issuance date of our report, and, in particular, we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Justification of the assessments – Key point of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we draw your attention to the key point of the audit pertaining to the risk of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, was the most important risk for the audit of the annual financial statements of the most recent fiscal year, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to this risk. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the annual financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these annual financial statements taken individually. Assessment of equity investments Identified risk Equity investments are listed in the balance sheet as of 31 December 2019 in the net amount of 1,426.3 million euros, accounting for one of the largest items in the balance sheet. They are recognised at the time of their entry at their acquisition cost and depreciated based on their inventory value representing what the Company would accept to outlay to obtain them if it had to acquire them. As indicated in note 2.1.2.2. in the Annex to the annual financial statements, the Company estimates at each year-end closing the inventory value of each one of the investments in order to determine whether this value is lower than the net carrying amount. The analysis conducted was performed by taking into account the cashflow forecasts produced by the operational divisions of the Company. In this context and due to the uncertainty inherent to certain elements and in particular the likelihood of meeting forecasts, we considered that the correct assessment of the equity investments, related receivables constituted a key point of the audit. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk To assess the reasonableness of the estimated inventory values of the equity investments, based on the information disclosed to us, our work primarily entailed verifying that the estimated values used by management were based on an appropriate justification for the evaluation method and the quantitative data used and, depending on the equity investments concerned: • verify that the value of the share of net profits in the assets is coherent with its value derived from a multiples analysis. 134 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • verify that the equity retained matches the financial statements of the entities that have been audited or undergone cost accounting procedures and that, when applicable, the adjustments carried out with regard to this equity are based on documented evidence; • obtain the cashflow forecasts and operations forecasts for the activities of the entities concerned produced by their operational divisions and assess their consistency with the forecast data taken from the latest strategic plans, produced under the supervision of their general management for each one of these activities and approved, when applicable, by the Board of Directors; • verify the consistency of the assumptions retained with the economic environment on the dates of the closing and preparing of the financial statements; • verify that the value resulting from the cashflow forecasts has been adjusted to reflect the amount of debt held by the entity considered Specific verifications We have also performed, in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by law. Information disclosed in the management report and in the other documents sent to the shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements We have no observations to make regarding the fair presentation and the consistency with the annual financial statements of the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Management Report and in the other documents sent to the Ipsen S.A. shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements. We attest to the sincerity and the coherence of the information related to the terms of payment, mention in the Article D.441-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), with the annual financial statements. Report on corporate governance We certify the disclosure, in the Board of Director’s report, of the information required by Articles L.225-37-3 and L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Concerning the information disclosed in application of the provisions of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding compensation and benefits paid to the Directors as well as regarding the commitments made in their favour, we have verified their consistency with the financial statements or with the data that have been used to produce these financial statements and, when applicable, with the information collected by your Company from the companies controlling your Company or that are controlled by it. Based upon these procedures, we certify the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Other information In application of the law, we verified that the information pertaining to equity and controlling stakes and to the identity of the share capital owners or of the voting rights was disclosed to you in the Management Report. Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the statutory auditors We were appointed statutory auditors of Ipsen S.A. by the Annual General Meeting of the 18 June 2005 for KPMG Audit, and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo, which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2019, KPMG Audit was in the 15th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés in its 22nd year, including 15 years for both firms since the company’s shares have been admitted for trade on a regulated market. Responsibilities of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the annual financial statements Management is required to produce annual financial statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with French accounting rules and principles, in addition to setting up the internal controls it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the annual financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The annual financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the annual financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 135 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS detection of any material misstatements. Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can be reasonably expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our assignment of certifying the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he identifies and assesses the risks that the annual financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of internal control; • he familiarises himself with the relevant internal control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; • he assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods retained and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the annual financial statements; • he assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainty related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the annual financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he issues his certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he assesses the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and assesses whether the annual financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work programme implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of internal control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the year ended and that thus constitute the key point of the audit, that we are required to describe in the present report. We also are providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the audit committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 17 February 2020 Paris La Défense, 17 February 2020 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 136 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity ■ 3.3.4.1 Significant events during the year Significant events of the year are disclosed in the first part of the notes to the annual financial statements. ■ 3.3.4.2 Business activity Breakdown of sales and other income: (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Services 21.4 15.4 Operating income 21.4 15.4 Services correspond primarily to personnel-related expenses billed back to the subsidiaries. ■ 3.3.4.3 Net profit (loss) The following table provides a summary of the main aggregate items on the income statement: (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Net sales 21.4 15.4 Operating profit (losses) (22.8) 1.4 Net financial income (expense) (614.4) (2.7) Profit on ordinary activities (637.2) (1.3) Net extraordinary income (expense) (8.1) (13.5) Pre-tax profit (645.3) (14.9) Income tax – Gain 18.3 (0.6) Net profit (loss) (626.9) (15.4) Operating losses declined by €24.2 million compared to 2018 issuance compensating the acquisition of 11188291 Canada financial year. The main observations are as follows: Inc. shares for €839 million in April 2019. • Payment to the pension plan fund for €9.2 million and social ■ 3.3.4.6 Net cash flow from operating activities charges related to URSSAF for €2.2 million The decrease of €40.3 million observed in net cash flow • Expenses related to the acquisition of 11188291 Canada from operating activities in 2019 stemmed notably from the Inc. shares and Clementia integration costs for €10.3 million increase in financial expenses arising from the new financing Net financial expense declined by €611.7 million vs 2018 programs together with the Clementia integration costs. financial year, mainly from the provision for impairment on 11188291 Canada Inc. shares for €580.5 million and ■ 3.3.4.7 N  et cash provided (used) by unfavorable exchange differences on financial operations. investment activities This line item consists primarily of partial repayments of Net extraordinar y expense increased by €5.4 million loans granted to Group subsidiaries and of the acquisition for compared to 2018 financial year, mainly as a result of the €839 million of 11188291 Canada Inc., newly created company capital loss arising from the transfer of treasury shares to and owner of Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc. shares. certain beneficiaries in respect of long term incentive plans. ■ 3.3.4.8 Net cash provided (used) by financing ■ 3.3.4.4 Income tax activities At 31 December 2019, the Company reported an income tax The €665 million net variation in financial debt stemmed from profit of €18.3 million. the following items: • €270 million from the USPP signed in July 2019 ■ 3.3.4.5 Funding • €271 million from the credit facility drawn down in July 2019 The cash flow statement disclosed in the notes shows that cash and cash equivalents at the close of 2019 were • €119 million from the net change in commercial paper increasing by €64.9 million mainly related to the new financing drawn between 2018 and 2018 and, programs (credit facility, USPP) and the commercial paper • €5 million of interest on loans. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 137 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The €(9.4) million variation in share buyback agreements ■ 3.3.4.9 Subsequent events arose from the following transactions: Subsequent events are disclosed in note 8 to the Company’s • The repurchase by the Company in the 2019 financial year annual financial statements. of 150,000 of its own shares totaling €7.3 million, as part of the share buyback program announced by the Company ■ 3.3.4.10 Business trends and outlook on 18 June 2019; In 2020, Ipsen S.A.’s net profit will be derived essentially from • The allotment for €16.8 million to beneficiaries of the the dividends it receives from its subsidiaries, its financial 1 April 2015, and 29 March 2017, and the employee expense and the tax consolidation gain. shareholding program of 13 February 2019. ■ 3.3.4.11 Subsidiaries and affiliates In 2019, the Company paid out €83.2 million in dividends, compared with €83.02 million in 2018. The lion’s share of sales from Ipsen S.A. subsidiaries are generated by the marketing and sale of proprietary drugs At 31 December 2019, the Company’s current account balance prescribed by the medical profession. Purchases of most of with Group companies showed a credit of €585.7 million, the drugs are reimbursed by national health programs. up €306.8 million over a credit current account balance of €278.9 million at 31 December 2018. 2019 2018 (in millions of euros) Net profit Net profit Sales Sales (loss) (loss) Ipsen Pharma 1,536.6 353.0 1,340.9 127.3 11188291 Canada Inc – – – – Sutrepa 0.0 0.0 – 37.3 The list of subsidiaries and affiliates is provided in the notes to ■ 3.3.4.13 Payment due dates the Company’s annual financial statements. The following information on due dates for Company payables and receivables is provided in accordance with Articles ■ 3.3.4.12 Accounting principles and methods L.441-6-1 and D.441-4 of France’s Commercial Code. This No changes were made in the accounting principles and information included intra-group payables and receivables methods versus the prior year. information. • Invoices received or issued at the closing date of the financial year: Invoices received but not paid at the closing date of the period Invoices issued but not paid at the closing date of the period Amounts in thousands of euro Overdue Overdue Not 1 day Not 1 day past 1 to 31 to 61 to Over past 1 to 31 to 61 to Over and and due 30 60 90 91 due 30 60 90 91 over over Late payment tranches days days days days days days days days total total Number of invoices 14 10 4 22 17 5 Total amount of invoices, 13,770 13,721 50 (1) 49 9,473 9,106 367 367 incl. VAT Percentage of invoices, 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 96% 0% 0% 0% 4% 4% incl. VAT Percentage of total amount of purchases for the period, 29,761.6 46% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.2% incl. VAT Percentage of total amount 21,429 42.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.7% 1.7% of sales, incl. VAT Contractual due Contractual due Due dates used to X X dates dates determine late payment Legal due dates Legal due dates ■ 3.3.4.14 Sumptuary spending ■ 3.3.4.15 Net profit (loss) for the period No non-tax-deductible expenses targeted under Article 39-4 The net loss for the 2019 financial year came to a loss of of the French Tax Code were added back during the financial €626.9 million mainly due to the impairment on 1188291 year just ended. Canada Inc. shares (Clementia Holding). 138 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■ 3.3.4.16 Dividend payout In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the dividends paid out for the last three financial years were as follows: (in € per share) Annual dividend payout Dividend per share Total (*) 2016 70,759,527 0,85 2017 70,247,053 0,85 2018 83,017,070 1,00 2019 83,201,522 1,00 (*) After cancelling dividends on treasury shares in retained earnings. ■ 3.3.4.17 Company earnings and other financial highlights over the past five years 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Share capital at year-end (in millions of euros) – Share capital 83.2 83.6 83.7 83.8 83.8 – Number of shares outstanding (in thousands) 83,245.6 83,557.9 83,732.1 83,809 83,815 – Number of outstanding preferred shares without – – – – – voting rights – Maximum number of shares to be created – – – – – Transactions and results for the year (in millions of euros) – Net sales 21.1 18.2 20.1 15.4 21.4 –P  rofits before income tax, employee profit-sharing, 164.0 (76.5) (27.6) (12.5) (642.9) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Income tax – Gain (losses) 5.5 1.0 12.6 (0.6) 18.3 – Employee profit-sharing for the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –E  arnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 191.4 (24.3) (17.4) (15.4) (626.9) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividends paid out (**) 70.0 70.0 70.2 83.0 83.9 Earnings per share (in € per share) –E  arnings after income tax and employee profitsharing, but before amortization, depreciation and 2.0 (1.0) 0.0 0.0 (8.0) provisions –E  arnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (7.0) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividend per share 0.85 0.85 0.85 1.00 1.00 Personnel (in millions of euros) – Average number of employees during the year(*) 17 15 11 6 5 – Total payroll for the year 25.1 22.9 20.7 10.9 8.5 –T  otal payroll on-costs for the year (social security, 8.2 8.4 7.6 2.0 5.1 welfare, etc.) (*) Including Management bodies. (**) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 139 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4.1 IPSEN’S COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) VISION AND STRATEGY 142 4.1.1 Introduction and presentation of Ipsen’s Company Social Responsibility 142 4.1.2 Ipsen’s Business Model 144 4.1.3 The Group’s key CSR risks and opportunities 144 4.2 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES 146 4.2.1 Bringing high quality product to patients 146 4.2.2 Ensuring product safety 148 4.2.3 Committed to fight against counterfeit products 149 4.2.4 Promoting products responsibly 151 4.2.5 Enlarging access to medicine 152 4.3 ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 154 4.3.1 Committed to protect personal data 154 4.3.2 Fighting corruption 155 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights 158 4.4 DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT 159 4.4.1 Attracting the best talents 159 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement 160 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace 163 4.5 MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 165 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate change 165 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions 166 4.6 ANNEX I: SCOPE OF RISKS COVERED 168 4.7 ANNEX II: CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH GRI STANDARDS 168 4.8 ANNEX III: SUMMARY OF OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIS) 2018 AND 2019 171 4.9 ANNEX IV: SUMMARY OF OUR SUSTAINABLE KPIS 173 4.10 ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT 175 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IPSEN’S CSR VISION Introduction As per the Non-Financial Statement regulations, for social, societal and environmental risks, this Chapter 4 includes: The present Chapter reflects Ipsen Company Social Responsibility informations according to the requirements of • Ipsen Business Model, Articles L.225-102-1 and R.225-105 of the French Commercial • A description of the policies and diligences implemented to Code, amended by ordonnance 2017-1180 and Application identify, prevent and limit the occurrence of the risk, decree 2017-1265, transposing Directive 2014/95/UE of • The results of such policies through key performance the European Parliament and October 22, 2014 Council on indicators. disclosure of non-financial information. 4.1 IPSEN’S COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) VISION AND STRATEGY 4.1.1 Introduction and presentation of Ipsen’s Company Social Responsibility Dear stakeholders, are accountable for driving the sustainability of our business to minimize our impact on the environment. As Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) continues to evolve, one of the recent shifts we have seen is a move toward CSR Our vision is to harness the power of our people to have reflective of what companies value. A company’s approach a responsible and sustainable impact on patients, society to how they can make a difference mirrors what is important and the environment. We strive to empower them to make to key stakeholders. It is a shift that has been accelerated by decisions with these values in mind and make a difference today’s global challenges, in which companies have had to within each of these priorities. Whether it is supporting publicly stand up both individually and collectively. our Accelerated Access Initiative or taking part in Ipsen’s Community Days, our colleagues are engaged in driving At Ipsen, Company Social Responsibility (CSR) is one of our Ipsen’s CSR agenda. top priorities, and this involves ensuring the highest ethical standards in everything we do. Promoting the needs and rights of employees, patients & society and the environment at large is crucial, and it is the Employees, patients & society and the environment are at the objective and essence of our CSR signature: a human journey core of our CSR strategy. We care about our people and strive of shared commitments. to promote a culture where everyone is free to be themselves. We are also responsible for providing innovative solutions Best regards, to patients, while supporting patient associations and other Aymeric Le Chatelier charitable organizations when they need us. And finally, we Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Ipsen CSR strategy has been defined in 2018 and is rooted in the following 3 pillars: IPSEN CSR PILLARS Employees Patients & Society Environment Caring for and developing employees, Providing innovative solutions for the Protecting the environment, minimizing the encouraging diversity and inclusion, and beneﬁt of patients & society based on impact on it, by making activities safe and supporting an open and respectful culture trusted relationships and shared sustainable commitments 142 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IPSEN’S CSR VISION A Company Social Responsibility department coordinates The CSR department works closely with different departments and aligns the deployment of the CSR strategy within the to align the CSR roadmap with the overall strategy. Group. Executive Board of Leadership Directors Team CSR Strategic Committee CSR Project teams Patients & Employees Environment Society CSR Ambassadors network Key Responsibilities of the 3 governance bodies: CSR Strategic Committee CSR Project Teams CSR Ambassadors network Approve strategy and roadmap upon proposal by the Propose to the Strategic Committee Relay locally CSR strategy and roadmap CSR project teams roadmap and Corporate initiatives for approval Propose and roll-out local initiatives Sponsor the implementation of CSR initiatives aligned with Group CSR strategy and Ensure alignment of CSR roadmap roadmap Share with the Executive Leadership team strategy and with functional roadmaps progress and get endorsement Report on local initiatives Develop action plans across all divisions Liaise with the Board of Directors to reinforce the CSR culture of the Group and its communication In 2019, Ipsen has developed different initiatives in each of the 3 pillars. Ipsen’s 2019 achievments: 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 143 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IPSEN’S CSR VISION 4.1.2 Ipsen’s Business Model Our mission: Improving Patient’s lives through innovative medicines in Oncology, Neuroscience, Rare Diseases and Consumer Healthcare Ipsen Social Responsibility Vision: Our vision is to harness the power of our employees to have a responsible and sustainable impact on patients, society and the environment Our ressources Our activities Our results Our People CSR strategy – 3 pillars New products for patients More than 5,700 employees in over 30 countries Employees – Patients & Society – Environment Our ambition is to launch at least one new drug or An Employment Value proposition meaningful indication every year The implementation of the One Ipsen Way of Being culture Investments in Business Our portfolio and our pipeline Development and R&D 15.1% of our sales reinvested in R&D, 20 + drugs in Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare 4 key therapeutic areas: Oncology, Neuroscience, Patients €388.8m 2019 Rare Diseases & Consumer Healthcare Our growth and strong ﬁnancial performance Our partnerships • Growing our sales A worldwide network of reliable partners including more than 20 partnerships from the basic research stage • Improving our proﬁtability to clinical development • Generating solid cash ﬂow 4.1.3 The Group’s key CSR risks and opportunities The Non-Financial Statement (NFS) is evolving towards a main stakeholders (employees, healthcare professionals and more business-oriented approach. patients, investors and the financial community, suppliers and partners, regulatory authorities and agencies, local It should reflect the business model and an approach based communities, and the media) to provide reliable and factual on the analysis of the main CSR risks for five categories of information, to pursue a constructive dialogue, develop information: social, environmental and human rights matters partnerships, support patients associations, with the ultimate throughout the value chain, the fight against corruption and goal of providing differentiated and innovative solutions for the fight against tax evasion. patients. The Statement is an opportunity to highlight the strategy Ipsen’s Stakeholders: and achievements of the Company. This implies aligning the materiality analysis of CSR issues with the identification of the main risks and opportunities. Patient advocacy groups For the fiscal year 2019, the company decided to reshape Commercial HCPs / HCOs the Non-Financial Statement to reflect its main stakeholders’ partners expectations in terms of risks and risk management through a materiality analysis. To identify Ipsen’s key risks, a workshop guided by the advisor Suppliers Communities Ernst & Young was organised in July 2019 with representatives Patients from Risk Management, Ethics & Social Responsibility, Procurement, Trademarks, Human Ressources, Product Safety, Product Quality, IT, EHS and Global Communications. R&D Civil society partners The workshop helped to prioritizing the risks among an universe of risks which had been developed by Ernst & Young and based on the Group risk mapping. The construction Policy Regulatory Makers authorities of the risk universe was based on an industry benchmark, sectoral risk databases and incorporated the work from the risk management team. Further to the materiality analysis performed in 2019, Ipsen decided to structure its NFS based on the United Nations Ipsen, as a global specialty-driven pharmaceutical company, Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) reflecting the with drugs marketed in more than 100 countries, acts to provide importance for the Company of the commitment taken for the concrete responses to the needs and expectations of a wide first time in 2012. variety of stakeholders, particularly those in the healthcare field. Ipsen has a transparent and regular dialogue with its 144 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IPSEN’S CSR VISION The table below shows the results of the analysis with 13 CSR main risks selected and classified into four categories. At Group level, the risks are ranked as medium and low. Within the framework of the analysis of CSR risks and opportunities, they have been identified as main risks. Category SDG’s contribution Name of the risk/ Description and links to Ipsen’s Chapter 2 references opportunity activities Improving people’s Product quality Protecting patients against the risks 2.1.4.4 Product liability life by offering inherent to the biologic action of risks innovative and safe medicinal products and ensuring medicines that benefit/risk for all products is positive. Product Safety N o n c o m p l i a n c e w i th s e c u r i t y 2.1.4.4 Product liability requirements that could jeopardize risks patients’ health. Counterfeit products Counterfeit products of low quality 2.1.4.3 Counterfeiting and not complying with Ipsen's health risks standards, which may endanger patients' health and generate loss in sales revenues. Responsible product Improper marketing claims resulting 2.1.1.8 Business Ethics promotion in legal proceedings and mistrust of risks patients and Healthcare professionals, which could damage Ipsen. Access to medicine The implementation of initiatives NA and actions to improve healthcare in countries where access to medicines is difficult and diseases are difficult to treat. Enhancing integrity Data privacy Inability to ensure integrity and 2.1.4.2 Undesired to maintain a trusted confidentiality of data, resulting disclosure relationship with our in disclosure or theft of patient’s of critical stakeholders information and breach of data information privacy. Anti-Corruption Corruption and conflicts of interest 2.1.1.8 Business Ethics situations which could lead to major risks fines and penalties and damage to Ipsen’s image. Human Rights Respect of human rights in Ipsen’s 2.1.1.8 Business Ethics operations and in its supply chain. risks Driving our employees’ Health and safety Weak health and safety policies, 2.1.2.2 Environment excellence and failure to respect health and safety and safety risks engagement policies in the operations and the supply chain, which could result i n s eve ra l i n c i d e nts i m pac ti n g employees’ health. Talent attraction Loss and/or lack of key skills leading NA to d e l ay of key p ro g ra m s a nd research projects launch, which could jeopardize Ipsen’s ability to improve patients’ health. Employee Negative impacts on employee NA engagement motivation or on the quality of social relations that could jeopardize the achievement of some objectives and lead to a corresponding impact on the Group’s results or financial position. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 145 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IPSEN’S CSR VISION Category SDG’s contribution Name of the risk/ Description and links to Ipsen’s Chapter 2 references opportunity activities Minimizing our Climate and energy Decrease in energy consumption 2.1.2.2 Environment environmental impact in order to improve the efficiency and safety risks of Ipsen’s operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions; adaptation to climate change. Management of Water, waste and air pollution due to 2.1.2.2 Environment water, waste and air Ipsen’s activity, which could cause and safety risks emissions significant damage to sensitive areas or ecosystems and to health. Ipsen is also working on others SDGs that are not directly related to the CSR risks and opportunities identified above. The following SDGs have been selected for progress 4.2 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES 4.2.1 Bringing high quality product to patients Definition of the risk Mission A Best-in class pharmaceutical supply chain requires inputs from many sources, partners, suppliers, contract Ipsen provides the highest standards in terms of safety and quality for all its products manufacturers, internal resources, distributors, regulators, pharmacists and finally the patients themselves to insure the safe delivery and administration of medicinal products. Governance Everyday Ipsen monitors the quality of products through All these contributors have the potential to introduce a risk of the vigilance of the staff and vigorous testing programs fully lowering the safety and efficacy of products. For example, a compliant with the regulatory commitments. A culture of rapid cold chain medicine can be perfectly manufactured, tested communication and continuous innovation is promoted, such and released only for the supply route to fail to maintain its that these benefits can be realized in robust processes that temperature between 2 and 8°C. In this case the potency yield high quality products. of the product may be affected. The Quality Management System has controls in place to prevent this from happening Ipsen’s oversight begins at the shop floor level. Each employee and to assess the impact, against sound scientific data, can report an event that they feel may have the potential to should it occur. impact the quality or efficacy of a product. Similarly, Ipsen monitors on a 24-hour basis signals from markets, through Risk Management is an essential part of a Pharmaceutical complaints and pharmacovigilance processes. Quality Management System. When making decisions on events that have the potential to influence the quality of Ipsen’s constant process verification systems allows it to products it is important to be able to differentiate between low evaluate the variation in the critical attributes of a medicine and high-risk events. Typically, this is achieved by means of a within the approved regulatory specification. This data acts as risk matrix used to segregate based upon severity, likelihood an early warning system for potential problems and enables of occurrence and detection rate. Ipsen to take action to prevent them from occurring. Because of Ipsen’s patient centric approach it risks profile is Various Quality Councils are in place at all levels of the biased towards zero risk in the case of safety and quality. organization and include CEO and Executive Vice-Presidents 146 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES Leadership Teams. At these councils’ trends are evaluated Ipsen is committed to developing and maintaining a QMS with a view to identifying preventative actions to maintain the that complies with appropriate global regulatory requirements high quality of Ipsen’s products. and standards. This is achieved by providing an adequate organizational structure and the necessary resources to Policies develop and implement quality planning and objectives. All Ipsen’s processes are documented in a formal Quality Senior Management ensures this is done by: Management Systems (QMS) that insures full traceability on every batch of product that Ipsen produces. The QMS a) establishing the appropriate responsibility, authority also assures that the processes are reproducible and allow and inter-relation of personnel who manage, perform teams to demonstrate this by means of the comprehensive and assess work affecting quality, and provide the internal audit program. Furthermore, Ipsen has an excellent independence and authority necessary to perform these audit record with health authorities around the world. Ipsen tasks; has established, documented, implemented, and maintains b) communicating to the organization the importance of an effective Quality Management System in accordance with meeting customer, regulatory and statutory requirements the appropriate requirement of regulations, standards and of our products by publicising, implementation and directives. distribution of the Ipsen Quality Policy; As a part of Ipsen’s on-going commitment to maintain its c) ensuring the quality objectives are established and QMS, it will: communicated to Ipsen personnel and stakeholders; a) identify the processes needed for the QMS and their application throughout the organization; d) conducting Management Reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of the Ipsen QMS; b) determine the sequence and interaction of these processes; e) ensuring availability of adequate resources; c) evaluate the operation and control of these processes f) ensuring personnel are educated, trained and competent during management reviews and QMS audits; to perform their role; d) ensure the availability of resources and information g) ensuring timely closure of compliance issues. necessary to support the operation and monitoring of these processes; Senior management approve the vision and strategic direction for the improvement of the QMS. e) monitor, measure and analyze these processes; Four main 2019 actions f) implement actions necessary to achieve planned results, During 2019 Ipsen continued to execute on it Quality 5-year maintain and improve the effectiveness of these processes; plan which includes updates to the Laboratory Information g) assess reporting requirements for substantive changes Management System (LIMS), Quality Action Tracking System, and communicate as appropriate to Regulatory Bodies; Internal Audit program and migration towards a paperless Quality Management System. h) where Ipsen outsources any process that affects product conformity with specified requirements, Ipsen will ensure The paperless learning platform has continued to be deployed the process is maintained in compliance with the Global and is now fully embedded within the Technical Operations Quality Manual; Group. In 2019 Ipsen have had more than 20 inspections from regulatory authorities across the GXP spectrum. Ipsen i) ensure that changes to the applicable regulations, has benchmarked against over 100 peers and found that standards and directives are assessed for their impact on complaint, recall and regulatory observations rates are close the QMS and on products manufactured under the QMS; to the top quartile. This validates out holistic approach to improving and innovating QMS. j) ensure that changes to the QMS are controlled in accordance with the requirements of the applicable Objectives & Results regulations, and standards. During 2019 Ipsen continued to achieve a batch acceptance Processes that are outsourced which af fect product level of greater than 99.5% . In terms of regulator y conformance will be monitored and controlled. Ipsen shall commitments, Ipsen continues to achieve a 100% on time retain responsibility for conformity to applicable regulations closure rate. In addition, the Global Right First Time measure and standards, and to patients’ requirements. These controls continues to be above 95%. This performance supports six include written quality agreements. sigma complaint rates. KPI 2019 2018 Batch Acceptance level (%) 99.5% 99.8% First Time Quality (%) 94.6% 94.5% Rate of on-time Corrective Action Corrective Prevention (CAPA) closure (%) 92.0% 91.1% Due to a change in the approach to calculating the indicator direct comparison between 2018 and 2019 for this indicator. complaint rate in 2019, the company deciced not to present a A comparison might be included fiscal year 2020. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 147 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES 4.2.2 Ensuring product safety Definition of the risk Policies & action plans Protecting patients against the risks inherent to the biologic The pharmacovigilance lifecycle operates over the entire life of action of medicinal products and ensuring that benefit/risk a medicinal product, starting at the non-clinical development for all products is positive, is one of the key obligations for stage by integrating basic scientific principles from research a pharmaceutical company. To that end, Ipsen is operating and results from pharmacology and toxicology studies into a pharmacovigilance system, that ensures the detection, a translational safety framework, accompanying the clinical assessment, understanding and prevention of adverse effects development in humans through all stages to build a robust or any other medicine-related problems. safety dossier and benefit/risk assessment for regulatory filings and surveying the product on the market by collecting safety Mission data from any interaction with healthcare providers or patients, The aim of the pharmacovigilance system is to provide in sporadic contacts or systematic data collection programs. patients and healthcare providers with the means to safely and The effort may continue even after the product is removed effectively utilize Ipsen’s products. Ipsen’s pharmacovigilance from the market to assess any potential longterm safety system encompasses all processes that are required for the impact of a product on patients. processing of safety related information, that operate in a lifecycle. • Risk Management Plan This includes among others : For all products on the market a risk management plan is maintained, which includes an evaluation of the product • The collection of safety information from diverse sources risks and determines if specific measures are required to such as: further evaluate risks or to take targeted action to minimize – non-clinical and clinical development activities; the potential for a risk to manifest itself while the product is being used by patients. The risk minimization measures may – contacts with patients and healthcare providers; include activities such as specific instructions for patients and healthcare providers, specific diagnostic measures – patient support and early access programs and other to recognize patients susceptible for certain risks or to systematic studies of products on the market; diagnose adverse reactions early, or other measures such as – scientific literature and others. pregnancy prevention programs for products with recognized teratogenic potential. • The holistic analysis of safety data to detect any signals for new risks or changes to known risks. The operation of the pharmacovigilance system to ensure collection, analysis and reporting of safety data from all • The assessment of the impact of new risk on the overall sources throughout the lifecycle of all products requires benefit/risk of the product. close collaboration of many functions in the Company, such as Regulatory Affairs, Clinical Operations, Medical • The actioning of any risk management and risk minimization Affairs, Quality, Marketing and business operations, and measure to ensure that the product is utilized safely and Legal. Where the responsibility for the development and effectively, which may include: marketing of a product is shared with external parties (e.g. – update to the information for patients and healthcare other pharmaceutical companies or academic partners) providers; a pharmacovigilance agreement will specify the roles and responsibilities for pharmacovigilance in this relationship. – additional studies to investigate risks further; Dedicated governance structures are in place to ensure that the collaboration across functional or organizational – active risk minimization measures such as safety boundaries operates effectively. registries. • Regulatory requirements and standards • Ipsen’s pharmacovigilance system is managed by a team of professionals through a set of governance processes: The Ipsen pharmacovigilance system follows the regulatory requirements of all countries where Ipsen products are in – ensuring collaboration and oversight on the clinical development or on the market. Ipsen therefore adheres pharmacovigilance system; to international standards developed by the International – ensuring timely decision-making and communication of Conference for harmonization (ICH) or the Council for any safety issues. International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) and the pharmacovigilance regulations and all regulations • Ipsen’s pharmacovigilance system is described in of countries where the Ipsen products are being developed documented procedures supported by robust database or marketed, which prominently includes regulations in the systems and analytic tools. EU (such as the Clinical Trial Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), 148 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES legislation for the safety monitoring of medicines across of animals used for scientific purposes, Ipsen does assess the the EU, Directive 20 01/ 83 / EC, the Regulation ( EC ) safety and efficacy of its medicinal products for human uses No. 726/2004 and the commission Implementing Regulation with animal-based testing when no in vitro alternative has No 520/2012, as well as the EU Good pharmacovigilance been approved for the tested products. The “3Rs” principles practices guidance) and in the US (such as 21 CFR 312 on (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) are applied: investigational new drugs, 21 CFR50 on protection of humans 1. Reducing the number of animals used per experiment, in clinical development and 21 CFR 314.80 on safety reporting for products on the market and applicable guidance). 2. Refining experiments to minimize animal suffering and improve welfare, Ipsen is committed to continuously develop and improve its pharmacovigilance system to ensure that patients are 3. Replacing animal experiments wherever/whenever possible protected and Ipsen products can be used safe and effectively with alternatives. under changing circumstances, which includes changes in the legislation, changes in the product portfolio and changes Ipsen encourages the development of in vitro alternatives with in the structure and size of the company. a level of precision comparable to animal experimentation whenever / wherever possible, while ensuring patients’ safety Objectives & Results and medicinal products’ efficacy. As part of its continuous commitment to patient safety, Ipsen Examples of the company’s commitment towards the pharmacovigilance team has been largely reinforced throughout improvement of animal welfare can be found in: 2019 as headcount has been increased by 70%. Ipsen pharmacovigilance system efficiency can be demonstrated by – the setting up of an Animal Ethics Committee to evaluate its compliance towards regulatory timelines: more than 96% of all internal protocols using animals as well as promoting cases were submitted in compliance with regulatory timelines “3Rs” principles; in 2019. Other indicators concerning the pharmacovigilance – the implementation of an Animal welfare body on Ipsen’s system will be shared in the next 2020 version. research sites; Animal welfare – the evaluation of animal ethics during the quality Animal welfare is a sensitive issue for the community and Ipsen. assessments of all Contract Research Organizations, Animal studies still play an important role in medical research required to have at least the same level of exigence; and improve the health of many people around the world. – the approval of Ipsen’s Cell Based Assay (“CBA”) by Ipsen’s priority is to meet the highest possible standards of the European and US competent authorities, amongst animal welfare. others across the globe, to establish the potency of each batch of Ipsen’s toxin and developed to replace the Ipsen’s animal welfare policy complies with current legislation. in-vivo “LD50” test. This achievement means the radical In accordance with the EU Directive 2010/63 on the protection reduction of animal-based testing. 4.2.3 Committed to fight against counterfeit products Definition of the risk • in the most serious cases, falsified and counter feit Along with other manufacturers of pharmaceutical products, medicines have caused the death of patients. Ipsen and the patients are exposed to serious potential health To the extent that falsified medicines or counterfeit products risks presented by illegal falsified and counterfeit versions are sold as being those of Ipsen, both the patients’ confidence of the products. A falsified medicine is any medicine that and the Health care practionners’ trust in Ipsen’s products passes itself off as a real, authorized medicine. In the case could be undermined and Ipsen’s reputation could be of counterfeit medicines, the illegal products also infringe the affected. Trademark rights of Ipsen. Mission The health risk for patients from taking falsified and / or counterfeit medicines include: Fighting against falsified medicines to contribute to secure patient safety worldwide. • lack of effect, resulting in the underlying illness being untreated; Ipsen is completely committed to taking the necessary • infection / serious side ef fects from impurities and proactive steps to always allow the patients to access contaminents resulting from the frequently insanitory and to the highest health standards. Ipsen collaborates with unsafe conditions in which these products are produced, other national and international stakeholders to protect the stored and distributed; patients, partners and business from the risks of falsified and counterfeit medicines. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 149 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES Governance may come from, inter alia, health care practitioners, patients, Ipsen has implemented an anticounterfeiting organization employees, health care and medicine regulatory agencies, involving various stakeholders. The governance is as follows: they may also result from border measures (customs applications). In the digital world, the Company mainly relies • The Global Security Committee (GSC) is responsible for the on Internet online monitoring. Depending on regulations and oversight of the issue of falsified and counterfeit medicines. circumstances Ipsen informs the local medicines regulatory The GSC reports to the Risk Committee, which is the most agency where confirmed falsified and counterfeit medicines senior level of management involved in the oversight of risks are found and may either support the regulatory agency to Ipsen. investigation. • The Anticounterfeiting Core Team (ACF Core Team) reports 2. Improving supply chain to the Global Security Committee and is responsible Today Ipsen’s anti-counterfeiting strategy relies on 3 pillars: for establishing, implementing and managing the anticounterfeiting program. It is composed of experts from the • The Serialization in order to ensure product traceability: Risk Management, Legal, Security, Supply Chain, Quality, which consists in the implementation of a unique number Regulatory, Commercial Operations and Ethics and Social assigned to a single unit in a batch. Responsibility departments. • The tamper evidence in order to ensure packaging integrity: it guarantees the integrity of the original manufacturer’s Anticounterfeiting governance pack and allows to detect if a box has been open. Risk Committee • The safety feature to facilitate counterfeit identification: they are hidden printings specificity onto packaging elements to Global Security Committee maximize product identification versus counterfeits. Core Anticounterfeiting team 3 Pillars to support anticounterfeiting Increased Protection Patient / Products ENSURE PRODUCTS TRACEABILITY Focused interviews of other involved THROUGH A UNIQUE SERIAL NUMBER Serialization functions around the year Policies & action plans AUTHENTICATE GENUINE PRODUCT WITH VARIOUS SAFETY FEATURES Authentiﬁcation Policies The Global Policy This Global Policy establishes the framework under which GUARANTEE PRODUCT INTEGRITY Tamper evident Ipsen anticounterfeiting strategy is defined and managed to prevent suspicious counterfeit / falsified products from entering the legal supply chain. It ensures individual cases will be appropriately managed and documented, when detected, to ensure regulatory compliance, secure the supply chain and 3. Cooperating with national and international protect patients. organizations Ipsen participates in local and international organizations. This policy sets out the key strategic and operational requirements to ensure that Ipsen anticounterfeiting strategy Ipsen cooperate with law enforcement, health authorities and is defined, implemented and maintained. This policy applies other pharmaceutical companies notably in efforts to shut to all Ipsen Corporate functions, sites, entities and personnel down illegal websites that sell falsified medicines. managing or involved in the above listed activities related to Moreover, Ipsen collaborates with: Union des fabricants suspicious counterfeit / falsified products. (Unifab), National federations such as LEEM (the French The Standard Operating Procedure: pharmaceutical companies association), Professional The purpose of this procedure is to define the principles and fe d e r a ti o n s, s u c h a s th e Eu ro p e a n Fe d e r a ti o n of practices for the management of any suspicious counterfeit/ Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and the falsified product case for an Ipsen product. Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI). Main actions Objectives & Results Ipsen’s objectives are: DEDICATED INTERNAL ORGANIZATION • to protect Patients’ safety by securing its supply chain and STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES preventing counterfeit / falsified products from entering it; I II III • to encourage reporting of suspect falsified and counterfeit Detect and ﬁght Improve product security and secure Cooparate with national and medicines wherever they are found in the physical or online counterfeiting the entire supply internainational environment; medicines chain organizations • to provide an appropriate response to suspect falisified and counterfeit medicine cases (investigation, data collection, 1. Detecting and finding regulatory compliance). Ipsen uses a variety of approaches to detect suspect falsified / counterfeit medicines. In the physical world, such reports 150 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES Description of key performance indicators KPI 2019 2018 Number of counterfeiting cases identified and reported to National Drug Safety Agency (ANSM) 11 5 4.2.4 Promoting products responsibly Definition of the risk Companies are responsible for conducting promotion of their products without misleading or disguising it or engaging into PROMOTE OUR PRODUCTS off-label use related activities. The below general requirements RESPONSIBLY are the basis of compliance programs which aim at mitigating Ipsen promotes its products responsibly, in compliance with the highest relevant risks. legal and regulatory standards. • Misleading Promotion We promote our prescription-only medicines only for uses that have been approved by the relevant authorities. Promotion must be accurate, balanced, fair, objective and We promote our prescription-only medicines to HCPs. We also promote to the general public, but only in countries where direct-to-consumers advertising sufficiently complete to enable the recipient to form their is allowed, and in compliance with the applicable laws, regulations and industry opinion of the therapeutic value of the medicinal product codes. concerned. It must not mislead by distortion, exaggeration, We promote our over-the-counter and non-medicinal products to the general public and to HCPs in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and industry undue emphasis, omission or in any other way. codes. We communicate product information which is fair, balanced, objective, Any comparison made between different products must complete, accurate, substantiated and up-to-date. be based on relevant and comparable aspects of the We promote promotional materials prior to their use following the applicable products. Comparative advertising must not be misleading Company processes. or disparaging. We train all employees involved in the promotion of our products, on approved uses, product-related data, applicable requirements and on the company’s promotional rules. • Promotion must be capable of substantiation Promotion must encourage the rational use of medicinal products by presenting them objectively and without FOR MORE INFORMATION exaggerating their properties. Materials. The promotion of food supplements must use different Ethics. characteristics than for the promotion of drugs in order to not Ipsen.Ethics.Hotline@ipsen.com. mislead the consumer on the nature of the product. • Disguised Promotion A company must transparently state if materials or activities aim at the promotion of its medicines including but not limited Policies & action plans to materials sponsored by a company and promotional Code of Conduct & Applicable Requirements articles in journals. Ipsen through its Code of Conduct commits to promote its products, prescription-only, over-the-counter, medical devices • Off-label Promotion or food supplements in accordance with the applicable laws, The promotion of use of unapproved medicines or unapproved regulations and industry codes. Annual certification on the indications or unapproved dosage or form of administration Code of Conduct is mandatory for all Ipsen employees. as defined in the market authorization. Furthermore, Ipsen is a member of the International Federation • Impact of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Inappropriate promotion may have serious consequences Associations (EFPIA) and other country industry associations related to the efficacy and safety of a product or may lead to such as Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of wrong decisions impacting the health of patients. America (PhRMA) in the United States and R&D-based Companies may face fines and penalties, expulsion from Pharmaceutical Association Committee (RDPAC) in China and industr y associations and reputational damage while fully abides by their Codes including the articles dedicated to depending on the seriousness of the cases, discredit of the the promotion of products. entire industry may occur. Procedures Further to the Code of Conduct, Ipsen has in place a Global Policy on Promotional Materials setting forth the general principles and requirements for the promotion of its medicines. In addition, since 2015, a global SOP has 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 151 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES introduced a standard process for the review and approval for Food Supplements are in place to provide guidance and of globally developed promotional materials. Employees direction to Ipsen’s employees on how promotional activities of global functions have been trained through mandatory must be conducted to ensure promotion is conducted in a fully e-learning training which new comers have to complete as appropriate and responsible manner and in full compliance part of their onboarding process. with applicable requirements. Country procedures are applicable concerning the review, Objectives & Results approval and storage of promotional materials. The Code of Conduct is the most recent document that The process has been automated using an electronic tool measures the commitment and knowledge of employees in (CoManDo) which has been implemented for use by all global this area. functions and countries. KPI 2019 Other policies and procedures such as the Global Directive Completion rate of trainings on the Code of 90% on Digital Activities, the Global Directive on Interactions Conduct with Healthcare Professionals & Healthcare Organizations or Review and Validation Process of Promotional materials 4.2.5 Enlarging access to medicine Definition of the risk mature mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) The materiality analysis highlighted access to medicines as through prevention and treatment, and promote mental health one the main items expected by Ipsen stakeholders. Ipsen and wellbeing). is looking for ways to develop differentiated approaches to NCDs have often been neglected by the pharmaceutical improving healthcare in countries and for communities where industry, but there is an urgent need to treat these diseases access to medicines is difficult and diseases are difficult to that affect many people around the world. treat. This is an important challenge for Ipsen given its size and the geographical areas in which it is located. Access Accelerated will partners with the World Bank Group to identify solutions to address financing, regulatory and Policies & action plans service delivery barriers at country level. Additionally, the For 2019, two main actions have been implemented. World Bank Group will conduct pilots in primary care to Moreover, the Fondation Ipsen in place since 1983, aims to improve NCD outcomes in several countries. improve health and well-being through the dissemination of scientific information. Access Accelerated develops partnerships with organizations specializing in each of the major non-communicable diseases Access Accelerated initiative (NCDs): notably Union Internationale contre le Cancer (UICC) Ipsen has joined in 2019 the Access Accelerated program, to (C/Can 2025), Professional Association of Therapeutic meet tomorrow’s health challenges with other pharmaceutical Horsemanship (PATH), NCD (Non Communicable Disease) companies. Alliance. “Knowing that patients don’t have time to wait, Ipsen is Introduction of CSR criteria in the Revolving Credit delighted to team up with Access Accelerated. To benefit Facility patients around the world, we’ll leverage our legacy and For the first time in 2019, Ipsen introduced three CSR criteria strong expertise to support better access to treatment and into its external Financing facility. care.” said Dominique Laymand, Ipsen’s Executive Vice President, Ethics and Social Responsibility Chief Officer. The renegociation of the Group Revolving Credit Facility was the opportunity to introduce three CSR commitments Access Accelerated is a global partnership of more than reflecting the Group CSR strategy. 25 biopharmaceutical companies aimed at addressing the growing Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) health The financial mechanism was structured to allow the challenge. Access Accelerated use a multi-sectoral approach, payment of both sustainability discount and premium, if any, it develops, measures, and replicates sustainable programs in to non-profit organizations providing health care services. lowand middle-income countries to advance access to NCD International Health Partners (IHP) has been selected as a prevention and care. beneficiary of the payments. The commitment is to reduce by one-third premature mortality International Health Partners is a non-profit organization from NCDs through prevention and treatment and promote founded in 2004 with a vision to save lives and prevent mental health and wellbeing. The aim is to achieve the unnecessary suffering by radically improving access to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (Sustainable medicine for hard-to-reach, vulnerable and disaster-hit Development Goal 3.4 by 2030 reduce by one-third precommunities. 152 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 IMPROVING PATIENTS’ LIVES BY OFFERING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE MEDICINES It does this by using a strong network of pharmaceutical and supplies provided through IHP and its partners are free at and healthcare related companies to source donations the point of use It also develops health programs in different of medicines and high-quality medical supplies that are lowand middle-income countries. appropriate for use in resource-poor contexts. All medicines CSR criteria introduced in the Revolving Credit Facility Pillars Target KPIs Employees Enhancing women representation KPI 1: Women representation within the Global Leadership Team (in %) in leadership positions Ipsen’s ambition is to achieve gender balance by 2024 with an annual increase The goal is to reach 50% women in the Global Leadership Team by 2024. In 2019, the number of women in the GLT was 36.5% beyond the target of 36% Patients & Society Supporting associates to play a KPI 2: Employees in France dedicating working time to support healthcare role into healthcare communities associations (in %) In 2019, Ipsen is implementing a volunteering initiative promoting the participation of its employees to support healthcare associations and aims to setup this initiative in at least 10 countries The aim is to encourage more and more employees around the world to participate in these initiatives in 2019, the company took the commitment to have at least 25% of employees in France being part of the initiative. The actual participation went beyond this target since 30.8% of Ipsen employees decided to be part of the Ipsen Patient Day in France (1) Environment Reducing Ipsen’s carbon footprint KPI 3: Group Greenhouse Gas emissions scope 1 and scope 2 (tCO2e/m2) Given its ambition to reach carbon neutrality by 2030 and last year GHG emissions performance, the Group is currently reviewing its annual objectives for fiscal years 2020 to 2030 For fiscal year 2019, Ipsen took the commitment to reach 0.215 tCO2e/ m2) taking into consideration the JV emissions. Without the JV that were excluded from the consolidation perimeter in 2019, the GHG emissions scope 1 and 2 reached 0.127 tCO2E/m2 and overperformed this target to reach 0.127(2) tCO2E/m2 (1) Because of strikes that affected France in December 2019, 28.2% of the employees were actually able to participate”. (2) Excluding JV. Taking into account the JV, the 2019 emissions amount to 0.176 t. CO2Eq/m2. Fondation Ipsen • Launch of a series of scientific podcasts addressing family The Fondation Ipsen’s mission is “Science for All”. Its objective health topics (allergy, memory, stress, vaccination, etc.). is to improve health and well-being through the dissemination • Publication of Life manuals for elderly and injured veterans; of scientific information. scientific manga books for teenagers and science stories for children (in collaboration with Curie Institute). The manga Setup in 1983 under the aegis of the Fondation de France, books have been distributed for free in over 750 schools the Fondation Ipsen has contributed to major advances in and public libraries. biological and medical research by organizing numerous scientific conferences and awarding prizes to the most • Launch of a partnership with UNESCO for the drafting and creative researchers. dissemination of UNESCO’s 2020 Science Report. • 12 international webinars in collaboration with Science The Fondation Ipsen is now turning to the general public to magazine. These events attracted more than 100,000 promote the dissemination of scientific knowledge and recent people and addressed critical issues for the scientific progress. community and society (fake news, mental health in scence, Main activities in 2019 are: entrepreneurship, etc.). • Launch of a digital diploma in Infectious Diseases with the • “Paris accord of Science Communication” in collaboration Institut Pasteur. This certificate is obtained after attending a with the National Press Foundation. This 4-day meeting MOOC program (Massive Open Online Course) made with gathered 24 international journalists and top-level scientists international scientists from the Institut Pasteur. This free to discuss major scientific topics (vaccination, neurobiology program is distributed worldwide, with a strong focus on of addiction and hate, infectious diseases, public health, underserved countries. etc.). 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 153 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4.3 ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4.3.1 Committed to protect personal data Définition of the risk One of the main aspect of Data privacy is the IT security Ipsen committed to protects the personal data of Ipsen approach. Ipsen aims at securing its assets by always employees and patients, healthcare professionals and other prioritizing defences to protect. In order to achieve that goal, partners with who Ipsen interact with. The Company protects Ipsen developed a ‘Risk Informed’ strategy by Understanding patients and HCPs’ data and is transparent about use of their the threats, vulnerabilities and impacts to be able to take data in Ipsen activities such as Research, but also employees’ the right decision but also create a long-term Security data by accompanying and training Ipsen employees on Culture within the Group to protect people, processes and processing and protection of personal data. technologies. The major risk regarding processing of personal data is Governance a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful Since 2016, the Data Protection Officer (DPO) is responsible for destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or ensuring the implementation of a Data Privacy and Protection access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise program within the Group. The role of the DPO is to advise, processed. inform and monitor compliance with Data Privacy regulations. To achieve this, the DPO relies on an international and corporate This risk is impor tant to manage considering current Privacy Champion Network in charge of the awareness and the developments in information and communication technologies support of each affiliate and corporate team. and because of its potential impact and consequences it can have on personal aspect. The DPO also relies on the Data Privacy Board that ensure collaboration within Ipsen’s corporate department and affiliates Mission regarding crossfunctionnal projects and implementation of harmonized processes. Our mission is to protect fundamental rights and freedoms of people and in particular their right to Policies & action plans the protection of personal data by preserving integrity, Ipsen’s activities involve different personal data processing for confidentiality and availability of data different groups of individuals such as employees, patients, healthcare professionals, contractors, scientists... In order to accomplish its mission, Ipsen approaches Data To protect the privacy of the individuals, Ipsen has created a Privacy on several parts such as a business approach by using Group’s Global Pivacy policy that defines the main principles of prevention, measure of risks and conducting assessment, Data protection. This global policy applies to all Ipsen employees analysis and a legal approach to secure every project by processing personal data in compliance with European protecting individual’s rights within legal frameworks such as requirements and local regulations for each Ipsen Affiliate. contract, privacy notice and consent forms. Main Data Privacy Principles at Ipsen We collect, store and We only retails We comply with We are transparent We respect We protect personal use necessary personal data for as all applicable data with individuals individuals’ right to information personal data in long as necessary protection laws, exercise their rights lawful and fair way and secure it regulations and codes Actions Documentation for employees to process personal data Development of employee awareness and trainings are available on the Privacy office intranet suh as templates of contract, Privacy Notice, Consent form, checklists for Ipsen has developed training modules for all employees compliance to General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), through online trainings, face-to-face tools adapted to the policies and general documentation about Data Privacy. different functions so that employees are aware of the importance of data protection in each type of activity. The Privacy Champion network is also a key asset in the awareness of employees in their role of identification of risky Training modules are updated regularly, awareness modules projects and Data Protection Impact Assessment needs. are available for every new comer and trainings are organized in every affiliate according to countries specific requirements. 154 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS • Description of clinical trials data protection Ipsen number of cyber attacks for 2019 remains stable with 2 data breaches reported to the authority. As a result, Ipsen Patients’ personal data may be collected for clinical trials. created awareness programs and procedures related to When it is the case, an Inform Consent form is required. That cyber attacks prevention and data breach notification. Consent form triggers a voluntary participation to a study and an information about the use of the data and the right to The number of trained employees for 2019 has increase to privacy depending on the applicable regulation, but also an more than 50% with the development of online trainings and information about the pharmacovigilance processing. modules that are more accessible and easier to conduct for employees, and the creation of specific modules adapted to Healthcare professionals’ personal data may also be each activity and to each corporate team. collected during a study: a privacy notice is then required to inform them about the processing of the data and the right to Ipsen has implemented a catalog of modules concerning privacy depending on the applicable regulation, but also an each step of compliance to data privacy regulation and information about the pharmacovigilance processing. keep updating trainings and adapting its roadmap in order to demonstrate its best compliance in terms of Data Privacy. Objectives & Results The main objective of the Privacy Office is to reach the highest KPI 2019 2018 level of data privacy compliance and awareness for Ipsen Number of cyberattacks cases 2 2 activities. reported to the authorities 4.3.2 Fighting corruption Definition of the risk decisions can be made for the benefit of individuals other than Corruption is the act of of fering, promising, making, patients, patients may be prescribed the wrong treatment and authorizing, requesting, agreeing to receive or accepting, citizens can suffer from distorted prices of medicines, medical directly or indirectly through third-parties or intermediaries, devices or medical services. any transfer of value to any person or organization, for the It distorts fair trade and it may feed criminal networks and purpose of obtaining or retaining any undue advantage. terrorist activities. Corruption in its broader definition may also include influence Corruption negatively impacts both companies and peddling, tax evasion, money laundering and fraud. individuals. Corruption negatively impacts society in multiple ways. The impact may range from damage of trust of consumers, It hinders economic and social development and creates candidates or other stakeholders, unquantifiable damage of poverty. Public money is misused instead of being used for reputation, impact on shares, fines and penalties, exclusion the right priorities such as healthcare, education, pensions, from public tenders, loss of talents up to discredit of an entire investments and transport infrastructure. In the healthcare, industry. FIGHT CORRUPTION Ipsen strongly rejects all forms of corruption as these distort fair trade, hinder economic development and impose multiple costs on society at large. Ipsen prohibits employees and contractors from accepting, offering or giving, directly or indirectly through third-parties, anything of value to any person or organization, whether public officials or not, to obtain or retain any undue advantage. Ipsen complies with all applicable international and national laws, regulations and codes that prohibit any form of corruption. Non-compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws can have severe consequences for Ipsen and the employees concerned. We interact with all our stakeholders with the highest level of integrity based on the merits and the science behind our assets. We do not or give any stakeholder anything of value to obtain or retain any undue advantage. We do not offer HCPs and/or other stakeholders any gifts, congress sponsorships, grants, donations, hospitality, or anything of value in return for an increase in prescriptions or to obtain other undue advantage for Ipsen. We do not contract with HCPs and/or other stakeholders for speaking services, advisory boards, scientific research or any other service in return for an increase in prescriptions or any other preferential treatment for Ipsen or its products. We maintain accurate books and records to reflect all financial transactions made and received. FOR MORE INFORMATION We refer to the Ipsen “Global Anti-Corruption Policy” (GLB-POL-004). Ethics or, for reporting any concerns, we can use the Whispli designated Ipsen.Ethics.Hotline@ipsen.com. WE ARE RESPONSIBLE TOWARDS MARKET AND SOCIETY 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 155 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Governance of corruption and commits to act with the highest standards of ethics, integrity and transparency. Ethics & Compliance Infrastructure & Governance Ipsen has established over the last years infrastructure and In 2019, the Code of Conduct was announced by Ipsen’s governance at global and country level to identify and mitigate CEO along with the revised Anti-Corruption Policy to all Ipsen compliance and ethics related risks. employees worldwide and other internal communication initiatives through Ipsen Intranet were also deployed. Business Ethics Program & Ethical Culture In the same year, mandatory training was assigned to Its Business Ethics Program with its nine components have 6,730 employees and contractors and each individual had to been continuously enhanced with new elements, revisions certify the pledge to the code. and other improvements in areas such as policies and procedures, education, monitoring. In addition, existing and The Code of Conduct and its training are available in new initiatives intend to continuously shape Ipsen’s culture 20 languages. The training on the Code of Conduct is with focus on ownership, accountability and ethical decisionmandatory for all new hires and mandatory annual certification making and conduct of activities. by all Ipsen employees is required Governance & Resources Global Anti-Corruption Policy All entities including commercial operations, R&D and The Global Policy has become effective since March 2019 manufacturing sites as well as global functions are overseen and it comes to reaffirm Ipsen’s position towards corrupt by appointed Business Ethics Officers, members of the practices and to set global standards for its employees, its Ipsen’s Ethics & Social Responsibility department. third parties and contractors. Business Ethics Committees co-chaired by the Business Ipsen complies with all applicable laws, regulations and codes Ethics Officers and the Country Managers oversee the that prohibit any form of corruption, including, but not limited evolution of the compliance programs and the external to, French Law 2016-1691 (Sapin II), Articles 432 and 433 of developments in the countries while the Executive Leadership the French Criminal Code, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Team Business Ethics Council is informed on important Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act when applicable, as well updates and endorses priorities twice a year. as applicable international conventions, including, but not limited to, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and the UN The Ethics & Governance Committee of the Board oversees Convention against Corruption. Ipsen has joined the United the evolution of the business ethics program and significant Nations “Global Compact” program since 2012. matters that may have a major impact on its effectiveness. In accordance with the policy, corruption in any form is strictly Continuous Enhancement of Ipsen’s Anti-Corruption prohibited. Influence Peddling is also forbidden. Program The Code of Conduct and Global Anti-corruption Policy Further to its Anti-corruption Policy and the other elements constitute the cornerstone of the Ipsen’s commitment described below, Ipsen strives to continuously assess and against corruption and the anchor of its Anti-corruption reinforce its anti-corruption infrastructure in accordance with Program. Consequently, any breach of the Code of Conduct, any applicable new requirements deriving from new country the Anti-corruption Policy or of the related laws, regulations or extraterritorial laws, regulations or standards. and codes may result in disciplinar y measures, up to termination, in compliance with the applicable employment In 2019, new policies and procedures such as Fair-Marketlegislation. Value for professional services with healthcare professionals among others have become effective and implemented Training available in 20 languages on the Anti-corruption across various geographies. Policy was assigned to approximately 6,700 individuals. The training content was customized to ensure relevant cases are Policies & action plans examined depending on the function/role of the individuals. As a result, employees from Sales & Marketing, Medical Code of Conduct Affairs & R&D, Market Access and Technical Operations Through its new Code of Conduct which was launched in completed an enhanced version of the Anti-corruption 2019, Ipsen and its Leadership rejects unequivocally any form Training. 156 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS SPEAK UP Ipsen strongly encourages a culture where employees can speak up and report behaviors that are suspected not to comply with our Code of Conduct, our policies and procedures and Ipsen’s legal and ethical obligations. When we speak up, we do the right thing. By raising compliance concerns, we help to protect ourselves, our colleagues and Ipsen’s image and reputation: We report any suspected violation of Ipsen’s Code of Conduct, policies and procedures and legal and ethical obligations. We can speak with our manager, with Human Resources or Business Ethics. Additionally, if we prefer, we can use the Whispli designated Alert Platform (https://app.whispli.com/IpsenAlerts) or the email address Ipsen.Ethics.Hotline@ ipsen.com. The information submitted through the Alert Platform and the email address will only be received by the specific individuals in the Global Business Ethics department entrusted with the management of alerts. We provide a safe environment for raising concerns: Confidentiality is ensured at all stages of processing any alert, to the extent permitted by applicable laws. The protection of the individual making the alert is of paramount importance. Any information that may assist in identifying the individual making the alert will not be disclosed to any person other than those directly involved in the treatment of the alert. Reports may be made anonymously, if the individual feels uncomfortable disclosing their identity. Ipsen is committed to a strict non-retaliation policy. No retaliatory action will be taken against any individual making an alert in good faith. Ipsen is responsible for the handling of any alert and takes all necessary precautions to ensure the protection of data. Only personal data that is relevant, adequate and considered absolutely essential, will be collected. Alerts must be based on facts and made in good faith. Abusive, malicious or frivolous reports may lead to disciplinary sanctions. WE CARE FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Global Whistleblowing Policy channels of reporting. Both the Policy and the Platform are The enhancement of the speak-up culture is a priority for the made available in 20 languages. Company, and this has been reflected in the 2019 Ipsen’s It is noted that most of the concerns are reported directly to Global Objectives. Its evolution is monitored every two years the responsible function or country Business Ethics Officers. through the Employee Engagement Survey. The Third-Party Due Diligence Program has been initiated in Ipsen has implemented the Global Whistleblowing Policy 2017. It has been designed and is continuously improved to since September 2018 and across 2019 in various waves avoid any transactions with a Third-Party subject to economic with the aim to encourage employees and contractors to or trade sanctions, and to mitigate the risk related to corruption report any concern for potential non-compliant or unethical among other compliance related risks and comply with all behaviours. The Global Policy sets the principles and applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws including the requirements on how these reports must be treated including new French anti-corruption Law Sapin II. Several thousands confidentiality, respect of anonymity, personal data protection of suppliers have been assessed since its launch. The due and non-retaliation. diligence performed is also complemented by trainings and The Global Policy’s launch has been accompanied by monitoring activities consistent with main anti-corruption the Global Investigations SOP to formalize the process of legislations and guidance documents (e.g., FCPA, UK Antiinvestigations from initiation up to its closure and remedial Bribery Act and French Law Sapin II). and/or disciplinary actions. Objectives & results In 2018 and 2019, the Policy has been launched in 26 countries KPI 2019 and implementation in 9 countries is about to follow. Completion rate of trainings on the Code of 90% 140 Senior Leaders such as General Managers, Heads of Conduct Technical Operations and R&D Sites, Human Resources, Completion rate of trainings on 91% Legal and Business Ethics have been trained until now. Anti-Corruption Employees can report any concerns to their manager, HR, or Total Number of Due Diligences 458 Business Ethics Officer directly or use a central email address or a new platform which has become available to expand the 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 157 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights Definition of the risk • Ipsen has committed to the principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact since 2012 and support the As a Company present in several countries with many 10 principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights stakeholders, Ipsen must ensure that the Human Rights of its and the International Labor Organization’s standards. employees are respected in all its activities and its supply chain. Human Rights refer to the fundamental rights of the United • Ipsen invests in communities and focus efforts on patient Nations (UN Global Compact, Universal Declaration of Human associations and charitable work. Ipsen’s commitment Rights) and the International Labour Organization (ILO). reflects its Company Social Responsibility effort. I p s e n m u s t c o m p l y w i t h r e g u l a to r y h u m a n r i g h t s obligations, including international standards such as the United Nations Guidelines on Business and Human right and national regulations and must identif y the nature RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS and extent of potential human rights violations in each Ipsen respects human rights and carries out its human rights duties through country where the Company, its suppliers and direct subexemplary behavior in its business conduct. contractors operate. We respect and promote human rights. Ipsen’s organization, policies, action plans and individual We adhere to the principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact; we support the principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights approach to human rights are presented below. and the International Labor Organization’s standards regarding child labor and minimum wage. Mission We invest in communities and focus our efforts on patient associations and charitable work. Our commitment reflects our Company Social Responsibility effort and Ipsen’s employees are our ambassadors. We select sustainable suppliers that adhere to the principles of the UN Global Code of Conduct: “We respect human rights Compact. and carry out our human rights duties through exemplary behavior in our business conduct” FOR MORE INFORMATION to www.unglobalcompact.org. If we have questions or concerns, we speak to our manager or Business Governance Ethics or for reporting any concerns, we can use the Whispli designated Human Rights are managed by the Procurement Department Ipsen.Ethics.Hotline@ipsen.com. and the business Ethics Department to ensure they are respected all along the value chain, from the supplier to the patients. • Business Ethics Department Mission is: Main realizations – To maintain an effective compliance and ethics program • Suppliers that ensures a culture of integrity enabling Ipsen to conduct its global business with the highest ethical Ipsen selects sustainable suppliers that adhere to the standards, in full compliance with all applicable laws and principles of the UN Global Compact. regulations and Ipsen’s Code of Conduct. – To review regularly and improve Ipsen compliance and As part of the Ipsen Third party Compliance program, aiming ethics program to ensure it remains in line with significant at fighting against corruption and bribery, it assesses several risks, developments and trends. hundreds of Ipsen partner’s each year. Part of this assessment is related to Human rights (Equality, discrimination prevention, Policies & action plans forced labor prevention, etc.). Policies Ipsen uses EcoVadis to evaluate its suppliers. The supply • Ipsen encourages its employees to be an exemplary partner evaluations began in 2017 with a pilot program of 18 corporate citizen, committed to serving the communities in suppliers. EcoVadis was contracted to provide the evaluation which it operates. for each contacted supplier. This has grown cumulatively to 62 suppliers in 2019. Ipsen plans to continue this process • These actions are made to respect people, protect the and over the next three years reach a total of 300 critically planet and integrate human rights and environmental identified suppliers. Of the suppliers evaluated to date only considerations into all aspects of activities, from research and one has come back with a subpar rating. Ipsen plans to product development to the supply chain and manufacturing work with the supplier to bring it up to standards for EHS operations to patients. A specific section is dedicated to performance. Ipsen Procurement has a new managemernt Human rights in the Ipsen Code of Conduct, signed by all team in place currently upgrading processes to improve EHS employees from in manufacturing functions. The Ipsen Code assessment and qualification of supply partners. This process of Conduct is communicated to each new joiner of company, includes existing suppliers and new suppliers. Supplier EHS and employees are all requested to complete an e-learning evaluations will also be updated routinely to ensure that their and to sign the Code on an annual basis. EHS performance continues to operate at a high level. 158 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENHANCING INTEGRITY TO MAINTAIN A TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS A new Code of Conduct was published and distributed to all FOCUS – Work between EHS, the Procurement Team and Ipsen employees. This Code of Conduct is accompanied by EcoVadis to conduct evluations of critical suppliers mandatory e-learning training that has been completed by all • Contacted 62 suppliers to date, received ~ 31 replies and employees. 24 completed evaluations using EcoVadis methodology Objectives & Results • Improving integration of EHS in supplier management Each year, the Ipsen Code of Conduct will be reviewed, and with the Ipsen Procurement Team revised if needed. Additional elements including Human Rights might be included, and the case studies to assess • Employees Ispen employees understanding of the Code will be updated – Code of conduct 2019 as much as possible. The upcoming revision of the Ipsen Third Party Due Diligence program (planned 2020) will include the update of questions related to Human rights and more widely to the Company Social Responsibility of the assessed Third Parties. KPI 2019 Number of third parties 365 Number of Due Diligences conducted 62 By EcoVadis Completion rate of trainings on the Code of 90% Conduct 4.4 DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT 4.4.1 Attracting the best talents Definition of the risk Governance Ipsen continued expansion requires specific expertise and Within Human Ressources ( HR ), three t ypes of HR resources, such as marketing, clinical trials, and regulatory professionals are working closely together to ensure Ipsen licenses and relies heavily on recruiting and retaining the best attracts the best talents: the Talent Acquisition Center of executive management and scientists. Excellence, the Strategic Business Partners and the HR Operations. Some examples of the challenges are: Their respective role is summarized below: • the transition to a new Ipsen Consumer Healthcare Business with a need for specialized marketing skills, Talent Management • the rapid development of Ipsen in the United States of Talent Management Center of Excellence: America, while being still a relatively new player, Global experts that deﬁne the Talent Management roadmap and policies and own • a large geographical footprint with small-sized locations, CoEs global Talent Management tools. They are accountable for rolling out and ensuring consistency in the application of tools and policies. They review operational KPIs and identify action plan when needed. • the evolution of the portfolio via external acquisitions that may require to anticipate or adapt quickly to new Division therapeutic areas. Strategic Business Partners: Senior level HR leaders who are responsible to maintain and feed the talent Mission pipeline for their scope of responsibility. To address these various challenges, the mission that has been defined is as follows: Operations HR Operations and Shared Service Center: Key resources for more transactional HR interactions within a speciﬁc geographic To apply a strategic approach to identify, attract, zone (countries, regions, locations,…) including recruitment and on-boarding of new talents. and hire talented individuals into Ipsen, to efficiently and effectively meet our ever growing and dynamic business needs. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 159 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT Policies & action plans • Optimize tools: Existing policies After having reinforced the infrastructure by rolling-out a In 2018, Ipsen rolled out new Employment Value Proposition new global Applicant Tracking System (ATS), Ipsen rolled that relies on 4 hallmarks: ideal size, constant transformation out a new system to manage Candidate Relationships. and growth, our unique mission in Specialty Care, and This also included a revamping of Ipsen’s Career Site, that people-centered organization. provides a better visibility to Employer Value Proposition as well as an improved candidate experience. In 2019, the Talent Acquisition Principles have been released as part of an overall effort to formalize Ipsen HR Principles. • Ensure an optimized onboarding of newcomers: The Talent Acquisition principles cover the following aspects: Ipsen completed a review of an onboarding process that data-informed planning and strategy, link to management of led the team to overhaul onboarding application and to internal talents, employer branding, candidate relationship focus efforts on the three main hubs (France, UK and management, management of the hiring process, candidate US). It is also defined a standard onboarding journey for assessment, candidate care and feedback, internal applicants all newcomers. Finally, Ipsen specifically worked on the and management of roles in the leadership team. induction journeys on our 3 hubs, where the risk of nonIpsen also reviewed a list of preferred executive search retention is at the highest. firms to reflect Ipsen increased quality requirements and Objectives & Results global footprint on the most critical profiles. Objective is to deliver strategic ser vices that create Finally, Ipsen defined a standard onboarding journey, a competitive position for Ipsen by sourcing, attracting applicable to any newcomer to Ipsen. and hiring high-caliber talent leveraging technology for Main recent achievements engagement throughout the talent process for an exceptional candidate experience: In 2019, the efforts focused on four main objectives: • create an exceptional experience for every candidate, • Better anticipate needs via a structured Strategic Capabilities Planning: • elevate Ipsen’s brand to be recognized as a leading biopharma company, Ipsen launched an initiative to establish a more structured strategic capabilities planning, with a pilot run on Technical • operate as a nimble organization aligned to the business, Operations division and a project led by students that • upgrade capabilities to drive operational & execution helped us elaborate a standard approach. excellence. • Reinforcement of Talent Acquisition operating model: Description of key performance indicators: Recruitment resources have been reinforced to reflect the focus on the three main hubs in the US, the UK and KPI 2019 2018 in France where Ipsen hires most of scientists and global roles. As mentioned above, Ipsen also revisited its choice Number of recruitments 1,386 1,388 of executive search preferred partners. Finally, wherever relevant, Ipsen outsourced some recruitment steps to external providers. 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement Definition of the risk That is why, investing in employee’s engagement and The Group’s success largely depends on the motivation of its development is a key objective of the HR Policy. employees. Negative impacts on employee motivation or on Mission the quality of social relations could jeopardize the achievement Employee’s engagement is at the center of the HR vision, that of some Group targets related to research, production, or is outlined as follows: marketing activities and lead to a corresponding impact on the Group’s results or financial position. Ipsen ambitious growth and innovation is driven by optimal Also, the Group’s success depends for a large part on certain organization capabilities and fully-engaged teams. essential managing executives and scientists. The departure Each employee’s engagement is the outcome of of these senior employees could damage the Group’s a carefully-built approach, based on the three “C’s”, capabilities, contributions, and commitment: build strong competitiveness and compromise its ability to achieve its capabilities, ensure contributions are fully recognized objectives. and maintain an unfailing commitment from everyone. 160 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT Governance of the new iPeople system. It also set out “iDevelop The governance around the employees’ engagement is to be philosophy” whereby every single employee is a talent and considered at different levels: deserves a development plan. HR Talent Management • To ensure contributions are fully recognized wherever in the Group, Ipsen launched in June 2018 a peer-to-peer At Ipsen, most topics directly related to employees’ engagement recognition platform, called “BeOne”. ( Learning and Development, Diversity and Inclusion, Engagement) are gathered under the “Talent Management” The Compensation & Benefits principles have been umbrella. The Talent Management governance involves 3 documented in 2019. These principles cover the following different types of actors within the HR function, with specific aspects: compensation, incentive plans, benefits and roles as described in the following chart: recognition plan and awards. • To encourage the commitment of all employees, Ipsen’s Talent Management CSR strategy is being developed so that the “Employees” Talent Management Center of Excellence: pillar is in synergy with the objectives of Ipsen’s CSR pillars: Global experts that deﬁne the Talent Management roadmap and policies and own Patients & Society and Environment. Criteria have been CoEs global Talent Management tools. They are accountable for rolling out global programs, for coordinating annual campaigns (performance, development, talents) defined to provide guidance to local teams in supporting and for ensuring global consistency in the application of tools and policies. They the appropriate initiatives. As an example, in 2019, the review operational KPIs and identify action plans when needed. objective was set to implement an “Ipsen Patient Day/Ipsen Community Day” in every Ipsen location by 2021. Division Strategic Business Partners: Senior level HR leaders who are responsible to maintain and feed the talent The Ipsen Code of Conduct states Ipsen principles in terms pipeline for their scope of responsibility. of inclusion and non-harassment, thus acknowledging that Inclusion is an important element of commitment. Finally, Ipsen encourages its affiliates – while leaving it to HR Operations and Shared Service Center: Operations Key resources for more transactional HR interactions within a speciﬁc geographic their initiative – to seek external recognition awards such zone (countries, regions, locations,…). as “Great/Best Place to Work” to encourage their efforts to They are accountable for the local roll-out of annual campaigns, global policies, programs and tools. improve well-being at work. Engagement level is measured worldwide every other year by an independent provider, with action plans being followed wherever necessary. HR Functions Recent achievements In addition, and even if the Talent Management activities In 2019, the efforts have been focused on development along are critical in ensuring the engagement of all employees, all the main axes of the iDevelop philosophy: other HR Functions (such as Compensation & Benefits, International Mobility, HR Information Systems) also contribute • Everyone is a talent: to that objective. In 2019, 95% of employees formalized a development plan CSR Department and the “Employees” pillar with their manager and 56% have been assessed in terms On top of the HR functions, the Corporate Social of potential. The effort to identify successors for the most Responsibility Department works closely with the HR critical positions was also intensified. These various tools Department to define the overall strategic goals of the enabled to significantly improve the targeting of customized “Employees” pillar of the CSR Policy: the CHRO (Corporate action plans. HR Officer) is a member of the CSR Strategic Committee and • Every day is a learning experience: many local CSR ambassadors are also HR representatives. The Learning & Development platform was revamped, to Local level and well-being at work make it more intuitive and push relevant content to each Finally, as regards the specific topic ot improving well-being at target population. In the aftermath of this revamping, the work, many concrete improvements are undertaken directly main sites in the US, UK and France organized events to at local level. Ipsen also decided that each site or country directly advertise content and programs to employees. would be accountable to apply for external site certifications • Ipsen’s goal is to provide opportunities to grow: such as “Great or Best Place to Work”. After a pilot in 2018, it completed and rolled-out One Ipsen Policies & action plans Leadership Pathway. This Pathway was designed so that Policies and Tools any employee, whatever their profile (individual contributors, To sustain the three-C’s approach to engagement, policies leaders, senior leaders, executives, future leadership team have been developed to cover each aspect: members) are offered a real opportunity to develop. • On the “Capabilities” side, all of managers were trained in These programs range from simple, e-learning-based, soft2018 on the new iPerform philosophy, aiming to accelerate skills videos to highly-customized programs including a mix the development of all Ipsen employees with the support of learning activities. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 161 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT • Deliver first-class leadership programs: (run, walk, swim, bike…) proposed to all employees around the world through a digital platform. The four 2019 All programs included in the pathway are designed to challenges enabled to support patient associations in match demanding requirements. For example, two major Spain, Russia, Greece and in the US. global leadership development programs: “Being a Bold and Disruptive Leader in a New Era” for executives in • Encourage employees to take part in the “Ipsen Patient collaboration with the London Business School and “One Day/Ipsen Community Day”: Ipsen Leadership Program” for middle management are Ipsen committed itself to promote and support involvement based on a blended approach mixing webinars, face-toof its employees to play a role in healthcare, patients or face sessions and applied learnings. caregiver associations. In 2019, more than 1300 employees In the most senior programs, the Executive Leadership spent up one day or their working hours with healthcare Team members are directly participating. communities. In France, more than 28,2% of all employees signed off to take part, with the Company offering them a day-off. • Translate commitment financially: To show its commitment to the CSR objectives, Ipsen has been willing to subject some financial obligations to its fulfilling of certain CSR criteria: this has been the case of the revolving credit facility negotiated in 2019, as well as of the French profit-sharing agreement. Objectives & Results The objective is to provide an environment where employees can fulfill themselves and grow. The main KPIs considered are the ones that: • reflect the stability of workforce (turnover, % of permanent positions, absenteeism), • the means to ensure their development (number of training hours per employee, % of employees with a formalized Along with developing employees, fostering their engagement development plan), for the benefit of Patients and of the community has also been a strong line of action: • and the level of engagement (engagement index, number of certified sites). • Combine Health with Patients support: The “Ipsen in Motion” initiative, launched in 2018 and reinforced in 2019, consists in a series of sporting challenges KPI 2019 2018 Engagement index (%) 78 NA (2) Number of sites which are certified “Great / Best Place to Work” 7 2 Number of training hours per employee (h) 26.8 26.3 % of employees with a formalized development plan 95% 58% % of employees having taken part in the Ipsen Patient Day France 28.2% NA Turnover (%) (1) 11.7 11.9 Percentage of permanent jobs in the Group (%) 85 85 Absenteeism rate (%) 2.5 2.3 (1) Voluntary turnover for permanent positions. (2) Last Engagement Survey in 2017 with 79% of engagement. 162 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace Definition of the risk Site level: The EHS Operational Teams drive the EHS performance at the site level. Ipsen identified its health and safety risks as follows: Policies & action plans • loss of employee engagement and trust Policies • loss of employees due to injury or illness Ipsen EHS policy drives the following principles: • loss of employees due to below standard working conditions • provide a safe, injury-free workplace • shut down of operations • communicate plans, goals and results • delay in product supply to patients • continually improve systems and approaches • regulatory impacts such as fines and penalties Ipsen EHS Manual: • changes in regulator y requirements af fecting Ipsen • drives the management and operational standards operations and those of supply chain necessary to protect the environment, and to respect • loss of partner of choice standing with partners and patients and manage the health and safety of employees. The goal of this manual is to drive continuous improvement in • reputation EHS performance at Ipsen and throughout its supply and All these risks can impact operations, costs and ability to customer networks. compete in the biotech business sector. Mission “A call-to-action – Ipsen EHS 2030 Strategy”: • Protecting our people and improving their well-being to Protecting our people and improving their well-being be ready for provinding drugs and patients to ensure provision of Ipsen drugs for patients • Design, manufacture, packaging and supply of Ipsen products that are sustainable for patients, society and Governance environment Environmental issues are managed by the Environment • Influence our suppliers to be sustainable for people, Health and Safety (EHS) governance bodies at every level of patients, communities and the environment the organization: • Protect and promote local and global biodiversity EHS Governance Pyramid • Minimize Ipsen’s contribution to global warming Group • Seek out and implement innovative solutions to improve Vision, Escalation Chairman of the Board, CEO, ELT, EHS VP EHS Council how we work as we provide drugs for our patients (appointed ELT members) • Tell our One Ipsen EHS story to fully engage our Global Leadership Teams Leadership Teams employees, patients and community (Divisional, Regional, Functional and GEHS (e.g. GEHSLT, NASCO, TOLT, CHCLT, RDLT, SCLT(1), Leadership Teams) Franchise, Other Functional Leadership Teams, etc.) • EHS Strategy will assist Patients by: EHS Operational Teams: • Sites and Office Affiliates • GEHS Projects Site & Affiliate EHS GEHS Projects – enhancing Ipsen’s reputation as “Partner of Choice” Operations Teams attracting the best talent and partnerships – enabling uninterrupted, sustainable drug supply (1) Global EHS Leadership Team, North American Steering Committee, Technical Operations Leadership Team, Consumer Healthcare Leadership Team, Research and Development Leadership Team. Group level: The Group EHS Council defines the vision of – enabling agile systems to accelerate pipeline and reduce the Group, set up the strategy and the shortand long-term costs objectives (1-20 years). • Partner of Choice by creating an industry-leading EHS Division level: The Global Leadership teams drive the EHS strategy to enhance Ipsen’s strong brand by having: performance for the Regional, Divisional and Functional – unique Group ISO Certifications Health and Safety Teams and are in charge of implementing EHS strategies (45001-2018) and objectives. – forward focused innovation to improve the way to deliver for patients 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 163 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT • Competitive advantage by: • employees are provided personal protective equipment to prevent potent compound exposures – benchmarking against peers to demonstrate EHS in Top 10% performance • employees working in these areas are made aware of the dangers and how to prevent exposure to these potent – being recognized by stakeholders as best in class compounds • Building agile sustainable business practices • monitoring of these areas where potent compounds are that produce savings: used to ensure that employees are not exposed – global EHS IT System (EHSphere) to optimize systems • additional CAPEX projects being implemented to reduce and costs risks Ipsen’s Code of Conduct includes a requirement to: “Provide Internal EHS audits are managed and conducted by Ipsen a safe work environment” EHS in 2019 FOCUS – The People Based Safety program Improved online EHS training for employees • Individual responsibility to raise awareness to the fact Coordinated multiple wellness efforts across Ipsen to ensure that all accidents are preventable employees health. • S3 visits (New term for visits safety managers) and Objectives & Results managerial safety visits on all R&D and manufacturing The aim was to drive the medicalized accident frequency sites are required and targets set rate under 2 (2016 as baseline to 2020 achievement year). This goal was achieved in 2018 with a rate of 1.45. Ipsen EHS 2019 Health and Safety Program Achievements Goals have been reset for 2025. Ipsen will aim to drive the medicalized accident frequency rate PROVIDE A SAFE to zero and maintain this into the future. WORK ENVIRONMENT Collective agreement contribution to performance and Ipsen provides a safe working environment which is key to protecting its employee well-being employees, its partners and the environment, and contributes to performance excellence. Ipsen has put in place a strong social dialogue with its Ipsen sets global standards for all aspects of its business operations. employee representatives: We care for our people and integrate safety principles into all aspects of our business, all the way from the research and development of our products, • Employees are represented in each Ipsen legal entity in through to supply chain, manufacturing operations, marketing and sales operations to our customers. accordance with the applicable local legislation, i.e. by the We comply with all applicable workplace safety laws, regulations, policies, Joint Consultation Group in the United Kingdom, by the “Environment, Health and Safety” (EHS) standards, wherever we operate. We ensure we do not put ourselves or others at risk by our actions. Rappresentanza Sindacale Unitaria in Italy, by the Comité We set targets to drive down incidents across the business. de Empresa in Spain. In France, employee representation is We take responsibility for maintaining an incident-free workplace. ensured at the local level (6 companies) and at the central We promptly report any concerns, accidents or near misses relating to security, environment, health and safety. level within the framework of an Economic and Social entity We strive to protect Ipsen’s workplace assets, including equipment, supplies or other items of value. (Unité Économique et Sociale), with a single Central Works We promote a healthy lifestyle and encourage employees to proactively Council (Comité Central d’Entreprise) for all employees in manage their personal health. France and a Central Negotiation Body (Instance Centrale de Négociation) which brings together trade unions FOR MORE INFORMATION representatives of the Economic and Social entity. We can refer to Ipsen’s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policies and S3 EHS Code Principles. If we have questions or concerns, we contact the EHS manager, our • The frequency of meetings between management and manager, Human Resources, or, for reporting any concerns, we can use the Whispli designated Alert Platform (https://app.whispli.com/ employee representatives depends on the applicable local IpsenAlerts) or the email address Ipsen.Ethics.Hotline@ipsen.com. legislation. • The Group ensures that the rights and freedom of employee representatives are strictly observed and that they enjoy the same promotion and training opportunities as other employees. Group OHSAS 18001 certification was converted to Group ISO 45001-2018 certification in 2019 A European Works Council, composed of 10 members representing European countries, was launched in 2014. Health and Safety and Wellbeing programs running at all sites, The members of the European Works Council work together, including R&D, manufacturing and commercial offices taking a concerted approach, and in compliance with the Specific Industrial Hygiene programs are implemented: legal and regulatory practices as well as the cultural and social characteristics of the various countries. Ordinary meetings • potent compound protection is accomplished by designing are held annually in order to present the progress in Ipsen’s facilities and equipment to prevent exposures business and its strategic directions. 164 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 DRIVING OUR EMPLOYEES’ EXCELLENCE AND ENGAGEMENT A European employee representation body for information corporate co-financed day-nurser y and prevention of and consultation on so-called “transnational” issues which psychosocial risks. is responsible for sharing information and exchanging In 2018, Ipsen signed the charter of the Institut National contre viewpoints, fostering experience-sharing and building le Cancer and thus committed itself to a set of 11 measures coordination between European countries. meant to improve the “patient/employee” life during and after In 2017, Ipsen signed a 4-year agreement aimed at fostering medical leave. well-being at work as well as gender equality. This agreement In 2019, the trade union rights agreement to implement the is structured around four pillars: new “Social and Economic Committee” within the seven • work-life balance, former legal structures (EC, DP and CHSCT) was completely • support of accountability and empowerment, renegotiated. • promotion of health and well-being at work, Finally, the three-year profit-sharing agreement signed for • monitoring of risky situations and psychological support. 2019-2021 set up three criteria related to CSR. The Ipsen Patient Day event, which offers employees the opportunity to As this agreement was being rolled-out in 2018, all Ipsen volunteer their time in associations, is based on these criteria. French sites have reinforced their specific actions for wellbeing at work, such as sports activities, concierge service, 4.5 MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate change Definition of the risk Ipsen identified its energy and climate change risks as follows: PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT • changes in regulator y requirements af fecting Ipsen THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE operations and those of supply chain PRODUCT LIFECYCLE • uncertainty of physical risks such as flooding and other Ipsen firmly believes that responsible environmental stewardship is essential to protect natural disasters which impact operations and supply chain the planet and improve efficiency for a sustainable future. Ipsen is committed to ensuring environmental stewardship across the entire business, from the purchasing of • carbon taxation raw materials to packaging and beyond. • mandatory trading programs We comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and Ipsen Environment, • mandatory energy efficiency standards Health & Safety (EHS) policies, standards and requirements wherever we operate. We protect the environment by preventing pollution and strive to conserve • mandatory emission limits, and product and process natural resources through innovative processes and continuous improvement methodologies with the goal of reducing, reusing, recycling, and identifying safer standards material substitutes or alternatives for our operations. • potential energy shortages We invest in energy and water conservation through focused efforts to identify where conservation opportunities exist and will continue to do so. • resource scarcity We work to reduce our carbon emissions over time which will reduce our impact on climate change. • price changes prompted by scarcity We design and manufacture products that strive to minimize impact on the environment. • consumer changes in attitude and demand We promote biodiversity wherever we can at our sites across the globe. • ability to adapt • reputation. FOCUS – The Dreux site conducted a major energy Governance assessment and identified that they could reduce the Environmental issues are managed by the Environment site energy consumption and associated scope 1 and 2 Health and Safety (EHS) governance bodies at every level of carbon equivalent emissions. the organization. For more details, please refer to 4.4.3. • In 2019, the site implemented several of these projects Ipsen’s Code of Conduct includes a requirement to: “Protect and achieved a 10% energy reduction the environment throughout the entire product life cycle”. • In 2020, another significant energy reduction is planned 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 165 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT All these risks can impact operations, costs and ability to cars) energy conservation opportunities and global specific compete in the biotech business sector. energy conservation initiatives such as evaluating motors across all sites to determine if more efficient upgrades along Policies & action plans with variable speed drives on these motors can reduce The Ipsen EHS 2030 Strategy discussed in section 4.4.3 also the energy consumption impactfully. Regarding carbon includes environmental objectives: scope 3 emissions equivalent emissions reductions, Ipsen • enhancing commercial sales using “green credentials” and has targeted business travel related carbon emissions by sustainability as a differentiator reducing flight travel to meetings by using teleconferences • unique Group ISO Cer tif ications for Environme nt instead as well as purchasing carbon credits for flight travel (14001-2015) that cannot be avoided. Business travel in 2019 makes up approximately 15% of Ipsen’s scope 3 carbon emissions • active in green chemistry and product design solutions to footprint. keep us ahead • Wrexham site has incorporated energy efficiency into its • EHS initiatives in Infrastructure, Process and Design to new building including solar panels to self-generate the drive: building’s energy requirement – cost efficiencies • Wrexham site has also upgraded major boiler equipment – prevent disruption to supply which has improved energy conservation significantly – streamline integrations of acquisitions • Dublin has automated much of their new active ingredient – minimize impacts on the environment. manufacturing which has included energy efficiency in the Mission design and operation of these facilities • Signes has incorporated energy efficiency in their new Ipsen EHS 2030 Strategy: facility for Somatuline® production which has significantly “Minimize Ipsen’s contribution to global warming” increased the footprint at the site but has not increased the energy requirement at the same level. 2019 Energy and Carbon Achievements The energy conservation and carbon reduction program Objectives & Results focused on individual site energy assessments to identify The aim was to drive the reduction of global energy energy reduction opportunities primarily at the facility level. consumption normalized to area (2016 as baseline to 2020 These energy reductions at Ipsen sites directly contributed achievement year). The goal was 5%, in 2018 it was achieved to greenhouse gas emissions in carbon scope 1 and 2 with a result of -13%. Ipsen EHS Goals have been reset for emissions equivalent reductions. The new program now 2025. includes fleet vehicle (including sales force and management 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 KPI without Cork (1) with Cork with Cork with Cork with Cork Ipsen Total Energy Normalized to Occupied Area (kWh/m2) 605 735 782 752 814 Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized to Occupied 0.127 0.176 0.152 0.161 0.166 Area (tCO2E/m2) Location based Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized to Occupied 0.095 0.130 0.102 0.110 Not Area (tCO2E/m2) Market based Collected (1) See reporting methodology concerning the joint venture between Ipsen and the Schwabe Group. 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions Definition of the risk • reputation. Water, waste and air emissions due to Ipsen’s activity, All these risks can impact operations, costs and ability to which could cause significant damage to sensitive areas compete in the biotech business sector. or ecosystems and to general public health. Mission Ipsen identified its water, waste and air emission risks as follows: Eliminate or reduce Ipsen’s adverse impacts • changes in regulator y requirements af fecting Ipsen on the environment operations and those of supply chain • mandatory emission limits, and product and process 2019 Waste, Water and Air Emissions Management standards Program Achievements • water resource scarcity The waste, water and air emissions management program focused on eliminating or reducing adverse emissions caused • price changes prompted by scarcity by Ipsen operations. Water conservation reduction is included • consumer changes in attitude and demand in these management programs. Water conservation is • ability to adapt implemented globally however the primary site being studied 166 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT to determine opportunities to reduce water consumption is the The Ipsen Global EHS team continue to design and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue site which consumes approximately 60% of implement a state of the art EHS program database system. the water consumed by Ipsen. The ISS site takes raw clay and The Phase I modules associated with this system were produces the active ingredient for Ipsen’s Smecta® product. implemented in 2019 and the design of the Phase II modules were also completed in 2019. Further phases are planned In 2019, site management has completed a preliminary design for the next couple of years. This has allowed a global look for a reverse osmosis system which will allow at a minimum at data and processes oriented to support innovation and 50% of the water consumed to be reused in the process. The technological opportunity identification regarding EHS and design will be finalized in 2020 and implementation of the the business. project will begin in 2021-2022. Ipsen expects the project to be operational at the beginning of 2023. Governance The Ipsen Green Chemistry team have reduced the solvent Environmental issues are managed by the Environment consumption required to manufacture new peptide products Health and Safety (EHS) governance bodies at every level of by more than 50%. They are also benchmarking against the organization. For more details, please refer to 4.4.3. best in class companies in this area to understand and stay ahead of the innovation being created in the space. This Objectives & Results team also is an active member of the American Chemical One of the goals , was to drive the reduction of global carbon Society Green Chemistry initiative and hosted this group in emission normalized to area (2016 as baseline to 2020 Dublin. achievement year). The goal was 5%, in 2018 it was achieved with a result of -19%. Ipsen EHS Goals have been reset for 2025. 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 KPI without Cork (1) with Cork with Cork with Cork with Cork Ipsen Total Water Consumption Normalized to Occupied 4.16 4.27 5.05 3.97 3.75 Area (m3/m2) (1) See reporting methodology concerning the joint venture between Ipsen and the Schwabe Group. • Signature of the French Business Climate Pledge employer federation in France (the Medef) to reduce drastically greenhouse gas emissions through investments in innovation For the first time in 2019, Ipsen is part of the Pledge on and R&D. Climate taken by 99 companies alongside with the largest Ipsen achievements end of 2018 as communicated in the French Business Climate Pledge: Ipsen’s achievements: Ipsen’s commitments: • Reduction in energy consumption by 13% in 2018 vs. 2016 • Since 2012, Ipsen has committed to and adheres to the Global • Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 19% in 2018 vs. 2016 Compact Program of the United Nations contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals, notably Goals 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, • Water consumption increased by 2% in 2018 vs. 2016 14, 15 on energy, water, biodiversity and climate preservation • In 2019, Ipsen will define environmental commitments towards 2025 • Conserving biodiversity • L’Isle-sur-La-Sorgue conducted a biodiversity assessment and implemented habitat improvement recommendations. Ipsen EHS 2030 Strategy: “Improve biodiversity This improved the habitat for bird species at Ipsen sites and reduce impact on global biodiversity” • Les Ulis, Signes and Dreux sites continued a multi-year program to monitor and enhance bee propulations on The 2030 Ipsen EHS Strategy identified biodiversity as one their sites. The bees are also excellent inidcators on of the seven key programs for Ipsen during the next ten-year environmental health of the area and they are thriving. A period. A project team has been assembled and a project side benefit is the production of honey which is shared with charter developed formalizing this process. Actions are being site employees and others. identified and ongoing programs at specific sites are being folded into the plan. The focus is on Ipsen sites and local • Dreux site identified and monitors endangered fish species biodiversity as well as on Ipsen opportunities to influence global that are endemic to this area of France and are found in a biodiversity through various strategic supply decisions and local stream that crosses the site. approaches such as restricting palm oil use in catering facilities and contracts at sites. Ipsen is already offsetting carbon • Signes site monitors other species and has conducted emissions through investments in projects that plant rain forest a biodiversity assessment. Recently, a seldom seen and and encourage the proliferation of green power alternatives threatened species of fox has been monitored on the site such as wind farms and solar energy generating projects. and appears to be thriving. • Wrexham site included solar panels into its new building • Milton Park has purchased carbon offset credits to offset thereby reducing climate change and fossil fuel extraction their business travel carbon emissions. The credits fund and generation projects that plant trees, build wind farms and implement solar panels. These projects are certified and confirmed. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 167 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX II: CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH GRI STANDARDS 4.6 ANNEX I: SCOPE OF RISKS COVERED Law Mandatory issue How the risk is tackled Decree implementing Consequences on climate change from the 4.5 Minimizing our environmental impact the European directive activity and the use of the company’s products (n° 2017-1265) and services Circular economy Considering Ipsen’s business and activities, this issue was considered as non material for the Company. Fight against food waste Considering Ipsen’s business and activities, this issue was considered as non material for the Company. Collective agreements 4.4.3 Providing a safe and healthy workplace Actions against discrimination and in favour of 4.4.2 Enhancing our employees’ engagement diversity and the inclusion of disabled people 4.2.5 Enlarging access to medicine Enhancing wo m e n re p re s e nt ati o n i n Le ad e r s h i p positions Societal engagements in favour of sustainable 4.1.1 Introduction and presentation of Ipsen’s development positioning regarding CSR 4.2.5 E nlarging access to medicine – Fondation Ipsen Law on the fight against fraud – Fight against tax evasion 4.3.2 Fighting corruption & Chapter 2 Fiscal policy 23 October 2018 Law on sustainable food – Fight against food poverty, respect of animal 4.2.2 Ensuring product safety – Animal welfare 30 October 2018 we ll-b e ing, re sponsible, e quita ble a nd sustainable food Considering Ipsen’s business and activities, other issues are considered as non material for the Company. 4.7 ANNEX II: CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH GRI STANDARDS Global reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 table correspondence GRI category and requirment Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE Strategy and Analysis G4-1 : CEO statement 4.1.1 Introduction and presentation of Ipsen’s Company Social Responsibility G4-2: Description of Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 4.1.2 Ipsen’s Business Model Organization profile G4-12: Organization’s supply chain 4.2.1 Bringing high quality product to patients 4.2.3 Committed to fight against counterfeit products 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace 4.5 Minimizing our environmental impact G4-15: Economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 4.1 C ompany Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy – UN or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which Global Compact it endorses. 4.5.2 R esponsibly manage waste, water and air emissions – Climate Pledge (MEDEF) 168 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX II: CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH GRI STANDARDS GRI category and requirment Reference G4-16: Membership of associations and organizations 4.1 C ompany Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy – UN Global Compact 4.2.5 Enlarging access to medicine – Access Accelerated initiative 4.2.4 Promoting products responsibly – IFPMA, EFPIA and other country industry associations in pharmaceutical industry Stakeholder Engagement G4-24: List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4.1.2 Ipsen’s Business model G4-26: Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 4.3 Enhancing integrity to maintain a trusted relationship with our stakeholders Governance G4-35 : Proc e s s for d e le gating au thor it y for e c onomic, 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36: Executive-level position or positions with responsibility 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37: Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-43: Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy g ove r n a n c e b o d y’s c o ll e c ti ve k n ow l e d g e of e c o n o m i c, environmental and social topics. G4-44: Expertise of the governance bodies in sustainability topics. 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy G4-45: Highest governance body’s role in the identification and 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy management of sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-46 : Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for sustainability topics. G4-48: Highest committee or position that formally reviews and 4.1 Company Social Responsibility’s Vision and Strategy approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. Ethics and Integrity G4-56: Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of 4.2.4 Promoting products responsibly behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 4.3.2 Fighting corruption 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights G4-57: Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on 4.3.2 Fighting corruption ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights G4-58: Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns 4.3.2 Fighting corruption about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights SPECIFIC STANDARDS DISCLOSURES Environmental – energy G4-EN3: Energy/fuel consumption within the organization 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate change G4-EN6: Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency initiatives 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate change G4-EN7: Reductions in energy requirements of products and 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate services change Environmental – water G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 169 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX II: CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH GRI STANDARDS GRI category and requirment Reference Environmental – biodiversity G4-EN11: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN13: Habitats protected or restored. 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions Environmental – Emissions G4-EN15: Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) – 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate Metric Tons of CO2 change G4-EN16: Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 4.5.1 Reducing our energy consumption and our impact on climate (Scope 2) – Metric Tons of CO2 change Environmental – Effluents and Waste G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 4.5.2 Responsibly manage waste, water and air emissions Social – Labor Practices and Decent work G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement turnover by age group, gender and region. G4-LA8: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace with trade unions. Social – Labor Practices and Decent work – Occupational, Health and Safety G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 4.4.2 Enhancing employees’ engagement and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. Social – Human Rights – Investment G4-HR2: Total hours of employee training on policies and 4.3.3 Promoting and defending Human Rights procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Social – Human Rights – Non-discrimination G4-HR4: Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Social – Human Rights – Security practices G4-HR7: Percentage of security personnel trained in the 4.4.3 Providing a healthy and safe workplace organization’s policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Social – Society – Anti-corruption G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 4.3.2 Fighting corruption and procedures. (GRI G3 involved only employees’ training) 170 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX III: SUMMARY OF OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIS) 2018 AND 2019 4.8 ANNEX III: SUMMARY OF OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIS) 2018 AND 2019 • Update this table when the list of KPIs will be definitive Description of the indicator KPI 2019 KPI 2018 Product quality Batch Acceptance level (%) 99.5% 99.8% First Time Quality (incl. Packaging Lots) Deviation (%) 94.6% 94.5% Rate of on-time CAPA closure (%) 92.0% 91.1% Product safety Ongoing definition of indicators for 2020 Counterfeit drugs Number of counterfeiting cases identified and reported to ANSM 11 5 Data privacy Number of cyber attacks cases reported to the authorities 2 2 Anti-Corruption Completion rate of trainings on the Code of Conduct 90% NA Completion rate of trainings on Anti-Corruption 91% NA Number of Due Diligences 458 NA Responsible product promotion Completion rate of trainings on the Code of Conduct 90% NA Human Rights Number of third parties 365 NA Completion rate of trainings on the Code of Conduct 90% NA Number of Due Diligences conducted by EcoVadis 62 NA Health and safety Medicalized accident frequency rate (%) 0.88 1.45 Medicalized severity rate 0 0 Employee engagement Engagement index (%) 78 79 (2017-2018 – 2 years) Headcount 5,824 5,345 Number of training hours per employee (h) 26.8 26.3 % of employees with a formalized development plan 95% 58% Turnover (%) (1) 11.7 11.9 Percentage of permanent jobs in the Group (%) 85 85 Absenteeism rate (%) 2.5 2.3 (1) Voluntary turnover on permanent positions. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 171 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX III: SUMMARY OF OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIS) 2018 AND 2019 Description of the indicator KPI 2019 KPI 2018 Number of sites which are certified “Great Place to Work” 7 2 % of employees having taken part in the Ipsen Patient Day in France 28.2% NA Share of women in the Global Leadership Team 36% 33% Talent attraction Number of recruitments 1,386 1,388 Energy reduction and Climate change Ipsen Total Energy Normalized to Occupied Area (MWh/m2) 0.605 0.782 Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized to Occupied Area (tCO2E/m ) Location based2 0.127 0.152 Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized to Occupied Area (tCO2E/m2) Market based 0.095 0.102 Management of water Ipsen Total Water Consumption Normalized to Occupied Area (m3/m2) 4.16 5.05 172 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX IV: SUMMARY OF OUR SUSTAINABLE KPIS 4.9 ANNEX IV: SUMMARY OF OUR SUSTAINABLE KPIS 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 Sustainability Area without Cork (1) with Cork with Cork with Cork with Cork Safety and Health Management Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Severity Rate 0.054 0.054 0 0.014 0.045 Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Medicalized Accidents 0.59 0.57 0 0.96 2.13 with Lost Days (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Medicalized Accidents 0.89 1.13 0.88 0.96 2.13 with and without Lost Days (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 0.2 0.2 0.83 1.41 0.75 (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days 0.71 0.79 1.45 1.88 0.75 (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen First Aids 58 58 74 88 68 Ipsen Near Misses 275 275 201 125 189 Ipsen Occupational Illness 6 6 0 1 2 Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 13 13 7 5 5 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost 16 16 12 10 6 Days Contractor First Aids 12 12 21 28 19 Waste Management Total Waste (tonnes) 6,125 12,823 14,604 12,265 13,163 Hazardous Waste (tonnes) 3,483 5,005 5,324 3,728 3,324 Non-Hazardous Waste (tonnes) 2,642 7,817 9,280 8,537 9,839 Recycled Materials (tonnes) 2,458 7,089 7,263 6,274 9,670 Recycling Rate 40.1% 55.3% 49.7% 51.2% 73.5% Energy Management Electrical Energy (kWh) 65,667,533 72,960,434 66,444,302 74,418,339 61,944,000 Renewable including Green Power (% of total energy) 42.1% 47.9% 47.3% 38.6% 5.8% Other Energy (kWh) 44,561 44,561 1,044,365 1,139,474 2,047,287 Fuel Derived Energy (kWh HCV) 48,283,375 72,505,622 74,159,823 71,005,301 71,551,005 Total Energy (kWh) Ipsen 114,241,271 145,756,419 143,573,937 136,618,119 136,448,451 Manufacturing and R&D Energy (kWh) 103,282,312 134,797,460 135,108,978 133,279,393 129,806,050 Affiliate Commercial Office Energy (kWh) 10,958,959 10,958,959 8,464,959 3,338,726 5,290,950 Vehicle Fleet Efficiency (km/l) 21 21 12 15 12 Vehicle Fleet Energy (kWh) 18,425,566 18,425,566 25,858,230 16,115,684 15,154,999 Carbon Management Carbon Scope 1 Total Emissions (tCO2E) 12,750 20,580 14,750 14,180 13,239 Carbon Scope 2 Total Emissions (tCO2E) Location-based 11,231 14,242 12,450 13,530 14,589 methodology Carbon Scope 2 Total Emissions (tCO2E) Market-based 5,191 5,191 3,470 4,750 Not methodology calculated 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 173 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX IV: SUMMARY OF OUR SUSTAINABLE KPIS 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 Sustainability Area without Cork (1) with Cork with Cork with Cork with Cork Carbon Scope 3 Total Emissions (tCO2E) 87,566 98,816 94,200 75,612 67,795 Carbon Scope 3 Fuel and Energy-related Activities (tCO2E) 5,208 6,207 5,288 3,853 4,230 Carbon Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services (tCO2E) 37,605 40,855 32,360 30,660 42,295 Carbon Scope 3 Capital Goods (tCO2E) 1,891 1,955 3,001 2,193 539 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 2,183 5,643 Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 Waste Generated in Operations (tCO2E) 2,607 4,034 4,795 3,058 2,351 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Leased Assets (tCO2E) 10,500 10,500 7,180 3,478 10,646 Carbon Scope 3 Business Travel (tCO2E) 6,816 6,816 17,914 12,000 3,371 Carbon Scope 3 Downstream Transportation and 5,961 5,961 10,515 6,956 Not Collected Distribution (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 End of life Treatment of sold products 11,381 13,349 10,088 10,311 605 (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 Employee Commuting (tCO2E) 3,412 3,495 3,023 3,103 3,755 Water Management Total Water Consumption (m3) 492,329 546,855 602,477 496,983 469,579 Rate of supply from Well and Surface Water Origin 74% 66% 69% 71% 66% Total Water Recycled (m ) 3 23,200 23,200 22,400 14,600 Not Collected Hazardous Materials Management Solvent Consumption (tonnes) 925 57,447 22,012 23,291 21,495 Reclaimed Solvents (tonnes) 77 55,431 20,428 21,819 20,042 Refrigerant Gas Losses (tonnes) 0.66 1.16 0.46 0.41 0.49 Compliance Management Notices of Violation Received 0 0 0 0 0 Fines and Penalties Paid (e) 0 0 0 0 0 Air Emissions Management VOC Emissions (tonnes) 1.99 6.34 11.94 4.18 9.55 NOx Emissions (tNO2) 0 5.814 8.251 1.880 Not Collected SOx Emissions (tSO2) 0 0.662 0.239 0.680 Not Collected Waste Water Management Waste Water Treated (m3) 459,282 510,606 429,920 416,916 359,699 COD Loading (tonnes) 11.01 11.86 4.73 4.2 Not Collected BOD Loading (tonnes) 6.18 6.25 1.76 0.7 Not Collected Total Suspended Solids (tonnes) 8.73 8.92 5.31 1.4 Not Collected Sales (eM) 2,576 2,576 2,224 1,909 1,585 Total Facility Area (m2) 188,728 198,266 182,979 123,220 102,966 EHS Investments (e000) 19,624 19,624 8,302 11,631 7,521 (1) See reporting methodology concerning the joint venture between Ipsen and the Schwabe Group. Implementation of an EHS information system to collect data from 2018 has led to increased reporting and increased accuracy of reporting of EHS data during 2018 and 2019. The Joint Venture Cork site, previously included in reported data will be excluded from future reports and so 2019 data is shown with and without Cork data. Headcount 2019 2018 Headcount (number) without joint venture 5,807 5,670 174 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT 4.10 ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT Human Resources Global Ipsen encompasses tertiary sites with a Human • Headcount Resource representative, namely: Algeria, Germany, Australia, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Mexico, Headcount indicators reported in the universal registration the United States (Basking Ridge and Cambridge), France document are based on Ipsen’s global Human Resources (Boulogne-Billancourt), Brazil, China, Korea, Spain, Italy, Information Systems deployed in all countries. It is being kept Russia, Sweden, Ukraine, Lithuania, Netherlands, Belgium, up-to-date by the local HR and globally reported. and Canada, the United Kingdom (Slough) and Vietnam. The headcount includes any employee with a current work Data collection is performed using an information system. contract with Ipsen. Notably, external resources (temporary The data is controlled and extracted from this central system, workers, trainees…) are excluded from headcount. which possesses means of control and alert (absurd data, • Recruitements problems of units…). This central system file has been introduced to persons in charge of EHS on site in order to Employees from acquisitions, as Clementia, are taken into minimize the sources of errors. consideration. The system has led to more accurate reporting. However, Regarding Joint Ventures, it must be noted that the Group some parameters and KPI results have changed due to the HR policy does not apply to these entities and that no HR improvement in data collection. reporting is being requested from them. Therefore, apart from the global headcount, all other HR indicators mentioned in the In light of new facts and circumstances, Ipsen has reassessed universal registration document are shown without the Joint the nature of the partnerships between Ipsen and Schwabe Ventures. Group. Subsidiaries involved in the partnership, previously consolidated ads joint operations are now consolidated • Absenteeism applying the equity method; the Group dies not have any direct right on the partnership’s assets and liabilities. Hence Absenteeism data are collected separately: the 2019 data is presented in two ways – with Cork data and • For France, they are retrieved from the French payroll without Cork data. Cork data will no longer be included in system, future reports. Data for 2019 as a baseline year will not include Cork data. • For other countries, they are collected from the HR manager. It is nevertheless advisable to note that the extra-financial At the end of 2019, this scope accounts for 92% of Ipsen’s reporting does not benefit from the same maturity as the headcount since data are requested only from the countries financial reporting. The practical modalities of data collection with a HR manager, namely: Algeria, Australia, Brazil, Canada, are still to be perfected, considering the diversity of Ipsen. China, France, Ireland, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Russia, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Vietnam. This data Further explanations are to be taken into account for the does not include Germany. The data could not be collected following indicators: due to a move of the team to Munich. Recuitements take • Emission factors used to calculate Greenhouse Gas into consideration employees coming from acquisitions (like emissions are those of the Base Carbone ADEME and Clementia). those provided by the IEA emission factors related to • Training international electricity consumption. Training activity is recorded in Ipsen Learning Platform by the Health and safety indicators in particular for determining the owner of the training (Training Manager, HR…). accident frequency and severity rates include the following calculations: The evidence of the training duration is provided on this platform and/or by paper attendance signed sheets. • The frequency rate 1 is the number of disabling injuries due to the work needing an external medicalized treatment The training report is extracted at corporate level and all the beyond first aid, with work lost time exceeding one day collected data is consolidated into a common Excel file. which have occurred over a period of 12 months per million • Human Rights hours worked (frequency rate 1 = number of disabling injuries due to the work with lost time x 1,000,000 / number The assessment of the Third Parties was made through the of hours worked). Third Parties Due Diligence Plateform live as of June 2019. For the First part of the year (January to May), an estimate was • The frequency rate 2 is the number of disabling injuries due made based on a manual dashboard. to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, with work lost time exceeding one day and without work • Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) lost time which have occurred over a period of 12 months Manufacturing and R&D sites include 8 manufacturing or per million hours worked (frequency rate 2 = number of production sites: Dreux (France), Dublin (Ireland), L’Isle sur-ladisabling injuries due to the work with and without lost time Sorgue (France), Signes (France), Tianjin (China), Cambridge x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). (USA) and Wrexham (United Kingdom), as well as 3 research • The severity rate is the number of worker-days lost as and development (R&D) sites: Les Ulis (France), Cambridge a result of disability injuries per thousand hours worked (United States) and Oxford-Milton Park (United Kingdom). (severity rate = number of worker-days lost x 1,000 / number The joint venture of Cork is included in the perimeter of this of hours worked). reporting as this site follows the Ipsen EHS policy. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 175 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT The following table represents the approaches used to derive carbon emissions for scope 1, 2 and 3 included in the fight to prevent climate change section of the document. Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 1 Direct emissions from Natural gas and fuel R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone® stationary combustion combustion (kWh) affiliates reporting sources 1 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant gas losses (tons) R&D manufacturing Base Carbone® reporting 2 Indirect emission from Electricity consumption (kWh) R&D manufacturing and IAE Highlights CO2 fossil electricity consumption affiliates reporting fuels and Base Carbone for French sites 2 Indirect emission from Steam and cooling R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone® steam, heat and cooling consumption (kWh). affiliates reporting consumption Only one site is concerned 3 Emissions due to fuels and Upstream emissions from R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone® energy (not covered by energy extraction and affiliates reporting scope 1 and 2) transportation (kWh) 3 Purchased goods or Extraction and Manufacturing R&D manufacturing: Base Carbone® and services of raw materials such Weight of every component CarbonEM methodology as paper, aluminum and of primary, secondary and excluding transportation tertiary packaging (tons) 3 Capital goods GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone® construction of buildings affiliates reporting (industrial and offices) Buildings (sqm) depreciation based on 50 years 3 Upstream and downstream Road, Air, sea transportation Upstream: Tons km Base Carbone® transportation and of raw materials and final from each site reporting distribution products from production site Downstream: Tons km from to first delivery local sites deliveries extraction 3 End of life treatment GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone® of waste generated treatment of production waste Reporting (tons) from site operations (incineration, landfill, recycling) 3 Business travels GHG Emissions due to the car Travel agency (km) and GHG Protocol fleet consumption and plane reporting on gasoline travel; Train travel and travel consumption (liters) by taxi is not included but a first estimation concluded an insignificant contribution to scope 3 emissions compared to other business travel modes covered in this report. Fugitive emissions (condensation trails) are not taken into account in the emissions factors of plane travel 3 Employee commuting GHG Emissions due to travels Distances (km) Base Carbone® between working sites and estimated from average employee’s home excluding (French national survey employee commuting using (ENTD INSEE)) car fleet 176 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 3 End-of-life treatment of sold GHG Emissions due to the Deliveries database Base Carbone products treatment of packaging waste (tons) and average waste (including paper, aluminum, treatment and plastic) after use of sold products (incineration, landfill, recycling) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société anonyme: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Report of one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated non financial statement For the year ended 31 December 2019 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of IPSEN SA, appointed as independent third party and accredited by COFRAC under number 3-1048 (scope of accreditation available at www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), presented in the group management report pursuant to the legal and regulatory provisions of Articles L.225 102-1, R.225-105 and R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). We also present our “Reasonable assurance” report on a selection of information included in the Statement for which we conducted work in further detail. Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a Statement pursuant to legal and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the main extra-financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented with respect to these risks as well as the results of these policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared by applying the company’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarized in the Statement and available on the company’s website or on request from its headquarters. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors (Code de déontologie). In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Responsibility of the statutory auditor appointed as independent third party Based on our work, our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on: • the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code; • the fairness of the information provided pursuant to part 3 of sections I and II of Article R.225 105 of the French Commercial Code, i.e. the outcomes of policies, including key performance indicators, and measures relating to the main risks, hereinafter the “Information.” However, it is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on the company’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, particularly with regard to the duty of vigilance, anti-corruption and taxation nor on the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. 1. Report due by articles L.225 102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) Nature and scope of procedures We performed our work in accordance with Articles A. 225 1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 (Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information). We conducted procedures in order to assess the Statement’s compliance with regulatory provisions, and the fairness of the Information: • We assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, taking into account, where appropriate, best practices within the sector. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 177 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT • We verified that the Statement covers each category of information stipulated in section III of Article L.225 102 1 governing social and environmental affairs, the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion. • We verified that the Statement provides the information required under article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence of the information required under article L.225-102-1 III, paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code. • We verified that the Statement presents the business model and a description of principal risks associated with all the entity’s activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with its business relationships, its products or services, as well as its policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators associated to the principal risks. • We referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to: – assess the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, including the key performance indicators used, with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented, and – corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the most important (1); concerning certain risks (Access to medicine), our work was carried out on the consolidating entity, for the others risks, our work was carried out on the consolidating entity and on a selection of entities. • We verified that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, i.e. all companies within the consolidation scope in accordance with Article L.233-16, with the limits specified in the Statement. • We obtained an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and assessed the data collection process to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information. • We carried out, for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes (2) that in our judgment were of most significance: – analytical procedures that consisted in verifying the correct consolidation of collected data as well as the consistency of changes thereto; – substantive tests, on a sampling basis, that consisted in verifying the proper application of definitions and procedures and reconciling data with supporting documents. These procedures were conducted for a selection of contributing entities (3) and covered between 69% and 92% of the consolidated data for the key performance indicators and outcomes selected for these tests. • We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement in relation to our knowledge of the company. We believe that the procedures we have performed, based on our professional judgment, are sufficient to provide a basis for a limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work engaged the skills of five people between December 2019 and February 2020. To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to our corporate social responsibility and sustainable development experts. We conducted around 10 interviews with people responsible for preparing the Statement. Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that cause us to believe that the non financial statement does not comply with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines. 2. “Reasonable assurance” Report on a selection of information included in the Statement Nature and scope of procedures Upon request of the Company, we have carried out the following procedures on the following information included in the Statement: • Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) • Ipsen Total Energy Normalized to Occupied Area (kWh/m2) • Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized to Occupied Area (tCO2E/m2) • Ipsen Total Water Consumption Normalized to Occupied Area (m3/m2) (1) Access Accelerated initiative & Introduction of CSR criteria in the Revolving Credit Facility (2) HR and Health & Safety information: Headcount, Share of women in the Global Leadership Team, Absenteeism rate (%), Number of recruitments, Turnover (%), Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Severity Rate. Environmental information: Carbon Scope 3 Total Emissions (tCO2E), Total Waste (tons), Solvent Consumption (tons), Reclaimed Solvents (tons).  O ther non-financial information: Employee Engagement: % of employees having taken part in the Ipsen Patient Day in France and Engagement index (%), Data Privacy: Number of cyberattacks cases reported to the authorities, Counterfeit drugs: Number of counterfeiting cases identified and reported to ANSM, Product safety: IPSEN pharmacovigilance team reinforcement (headcount) and cases submitted in compliance with regulatory timelines (%), Anti-Corruption: Completion rate of trainings on the Code of Conduct, Human Rights: Number of third parties, Responsible Product Promotion: Completion rate of trainings on the Code of Conduct, Product Quality: First-time quality (%) and Rate of on-time CAPA closure (%). (3) Dreux and Cork. 178 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ANNEX V: REPORTING METHODOLOGY AND AUDIT REPORT We conducted work of the same nature as the work described in section 1 (above) but in further detail, in particular: • analytical procedures consisting in verifying the correct consolidation of the data collected as well as the consistency of the variation; • detailed tests carried out on the basis of sample testing, consisting of verifying the correct application of definitions and procedures and reconciling the data with supporting documents. The selected sample represents between 10% and 34% of the published data. Conclusion In our opinion, based on the procedures performed, the Information selected in the Statement, has been prepared in all material respects in accordance with the Reporting Framework. Paris-La Défense, 17 February 2020 One of the statutory auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-Marie Le Guiner Partner, Audit 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 179 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5.1 FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES 182 5.1.1 The AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code as a reference code 182 5.1.2 Summary table of the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations which have not been applied 182 5.1.3 Ethics of the Board of Directors and Executive Management 183 5.2 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 185 5.2.1 The guiding principles 185 5.2.2 The Board of Directors 189 5.3 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 212 5.3.1 Organization and modus operandi of the Executive Management 212 5.3.2 Executive Management 212 5.4 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 215 5.4.1 Compensation policy of Corporate Officers 215 5.4.2 Compensation of Corporate Officers (Articles L.225-100 II and L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) 221 5.4.3 Comparative table of compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer with respect to other employees and put into perspective with the Company’s performance 233 5.4.4 Compensation paid or awarded in 2019 (Article L.225-100 III of the French Commercial Code) 235 5.5 AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS 237 5.6 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING 242 5.6.1 Share Capital 242 5.6.2 Shareholding 248 5.6.3 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 253 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES This section presents Ipsen SA’s Corporate governance The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. It determines and legal information and includes in particular the Board of the Company’s strategy and oversees its implementation. Directors’ Report on corporate governance. It will be presented Subject to the powers expressly granted to Shareholders’ to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to be convened in Meetings and within the limits of the Company’s corporate 2020 to review and approve the financial statements for the purpose, the Board of Directors considers all issues related financial year ended on 31 December 2019, in accordance with to the efficient operation of the Company and, through its the provisions of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial deliberations, settles all matters that may arise. Code. It has been prepared with the assistance of the Executive The Executive Management of the Company is provided by a Management, the Human Resources, Finance departments Chief Executive Officer. and the Company Secretary. 5.1 FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES 5.1.1 The AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code as a reference code The Company refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate of Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code, the Governance Code, revised on January 2020, available on the Company specifies the recommendations of the Code which website www.afep.com. In accordance with the provisions have not been applied and the reasons why. 5.1.2 Summary table of the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations which have not been applied The Company presents a summary table of the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code that have not been adopted. AFEP-MEDEF Ipsen’s practices and reasons why recommendations not applied Article 17.1 This provision was not being applied as the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Nominations Committee should Moreover, there are structural elements related to the Company’s governance (number have a majority of independent of independent directors (4), all of foreign nationalities and living abroad, several recent directors recruitments, the number of specialized Committees (6), separation of the Compensation and Nominations Committees) to be taken into account. There is nevertheless ongoing high quality of work within each Committee (including the Nominations Committee) whilst maintaining a balanced composition of the Committees without having a majority of independent directors. Furthermore, the Board believes that both the quality and experience of independent members ensure open debate and that the current composition does not undermine the proper functioning of the Committee. Article 18.1 This provision was not being applied as the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Compensation Committee should Moreover, two out of four members (50%) of the Compensation Committee are independent, be chaired by an independent director which is sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the Committee. Furthermore, it is specified that no executive officer is a member of this Committee. The Compensation Committee is chaired by Mr. Antoine Flochel, given his deep knowledge of the Group’s operation, the pharmaceutical industry and his experience in matters of compensation. Article 18.1 This provision has not been complied with. The Board of Directors meeting held on 28 May One of the members of the 2019 after the Shareholders’ meeting decided to appoint Jean-Marc Parant as member of the Compensation Committee should be Ethics and Governance Committee. This appointment was made upon recommendation of the an employee director Ethics and Governance Committee and as agreed with Jean-Marc Parant in light of the latter profile and background. Jean-Marc Parant contributes, as part of the attributions of the Ethics and Governance Committee, to the definition of the fundamental values of the Company and its ethics and compliance policy and gives his vision and feedback on those matters as employee within the Ipsen Group. 182 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AFEP-MEDEF Ipsen’s practices and reasons why recommendations not applied Article 22.1 This provision is not currently being applied by the Company. The functions of Aymeric Le When an employee becomes a Chatelier as interim Chief Executive Officer since 1 January 2020 being temporary in nature, company officer, it is recommended and given the exceptional nature of the situation, the Board of Directors decided to maintain the to terminate his or her employment employment contract of Aymeric Le Chatelier under his distinct and separate functions as Chief contract with the company or with Financial Officer of the Ipsen Group which he will continue to exercise. a group company, whether through contractual termination or resignation. Articles 24.3 and 25.5.1 The non-compete agreements entered into in July 2016 by the Company with David Meek, When the agreement is concluded, former Chief Executive Officer, and with Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board must incorporate a do not allow the Company to waive their application. The Company will review the possibility of provision that authorizes it to waive amending the terms of the non-compete clause entered into with the Chairman of the Board of the application of this agreement Directors upon the latter’s reappointment in 2023. when the officer leaves. 5.1.3 Ethics of the Board of Directors and Executive Management In accordance with the provisions of European Commission ■ 5.1.3.1 Prevention of conflicts of interest delegated regulation No. 2019/980 supplementing Regulation The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors provide some (EU) 2017/1129 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/980 of procedures to prevent any conflict of interest situations as 14 March 2019, the Directors declared that they were subject detailed herein below and in the present document. to the obligations relating to their functions. In order to comply, the Company has put in place procedures applicable to the Within this framework, the members of the Board of Directors Board members and Executive Management, some of which receive an annual questionnaire they deem to fulfill in order to being set out below in this document. prevent any risk of conflicts of interest. Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors relating to the prevention of conflicts of interest “3.6.2 Conflicts of interest Directors are elected by all the Company’s shareholders and must act in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. Directors must inform the Board of any conflict of interest situation, including a potential conflict of interest, between themselves and the Company or the Group and shall abstain from attending the debate and taking part in any discussions and vote by the Board on the corresponding deliberations. As part of its missions mentioned under paragraph 6.7.1, the Ethics and Governance Committee regularly reviews with the Board of Directors the issue of conflict of interest. Each Director must report his/her activities to the Ethics and Governance Committee on an annual basis for review and recommendation to the Board of Directors.” 6.4.4 Missions of the Audit Committee: “[…] examine and check the rules and procedures applicable to conflicts of interest, expenses incurred by members of the management and the identification and measurement of the main financial risks, as well as their application and submit its assessment every year to the Board.” 6.7.1 Missions of the Ethics and Governance Committee: “[…] examine situations of potential conflicts of interest of members of the Company’s Board of Directors and communicate the results of its findings in accordance with an internal procedure which protects confidentiality.” During 2019, in accordance with its missions, the Ethics ■ 5.1.3.2 Insider Trading Policy and Governance Committee reviewed the taking up of new The Company has revised its Insider Trading Policy, in mandates by Paul Sekhri, David Meek and Margaret Liu in accordance with the European Market Abuse Regulation (EU companies outside the Group. This review was the subject of Regulation No. 596/2014) and the position-recommendation specific reviews which concluded that there were no conflicts of the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) No. 2016-08 of interest. of 26 October 2016 aimed at preventing insider trading and In addition, as part of the annual review of conflicts of interest insider misconduct. More detailed information is provided in at the end of each financial year, members of the Board section 5.7.2.2 of this Document. of Directors receive a questionnaire to be completed and returned to the Company for this purpose. After review by the ■ 5.1.3.3 Code of conduct Committee, no conflict of interest situations were identified The Board of Directors and the Group’s employees adopted within the Board. and signed the Ipsen Group’s Code of Conduct. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 183 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES More detailed information can be found in chapter 4 of this • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation, Document. placement under judicial administration while having served as a member of an administrative, management or ■ 5.1.3.4 Statement concerning the members supervisory body; of the Board of Directors and the • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive Executive Management or supervisory board member or from participating in the Conflicts of interest involving governance and Executive management or conduct of business of a listed company. Management bodies Service contracts with members of the Company’s To the best of the Company’s knowledge and as of the date of governing bodies publication of this Document: To the Company’s best knowledge, no service contracts • there is no conflict of interest between the duties of the has been signed, involving directors or any member of the members of the Board of Directors, Executive Management, Board or of the Management and the issuing company or its and Company Officers vis-à-vis the Company and their subsidiaries likely to provide such benefits. personal interests and other duties; Loans and guarantees granted to members of the Board • there is no undertaking or agreement with the main No loan or guarantee has been granted by the Company shareholders, clients, suppliers, or other parties pursuant to any member of its Board of Directors or its Executive to which one of the members of the Board of Directors and Management. of the Executive Management of the Company has been appointed as Director; Specific terms for participating in Shareholders’ Meetings • no Director or members of the Executive Management The specific terms for the participation of shareholders in the have entered into any agreement restricting the sale of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting are found in section 5.6.3.4 of their shareholding in the Company, at the exception, for the this Document. Company Officers, of the minimum portion of shares that must be held until his term of office. Factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offer The E xecutive Of ficers have signed a non-compete commitment to prevent certain situations of conflicts of The factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public interest arising when they leave the Group. offer are found in section 5.6.2.6 of this Document. Absence of condemnation of the members of the Board Delegations currently valid granted by the Shareholders’ of Directors and the Executive Management Meeting on capital increases To the Company’s best knowledge, and as at the date of this The delegations currently valid and having been granted by Document, none of the members of the Board of Directors nor the Shareholders’ Meeting regarding capital increases are the Executive Management of the Company, have been over found in section 5.6.1.4 of this Document. the last past five years: • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had any official public disciplinary action taken against them by statutory or regulatory authorities; 184 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 5.2 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 5.2.1 The guiding principles ■ 5.2.1.1 Balanced governance structure ■ 5.2.1.2 Diversity policy of the Board of Ipsen is a French société anonyme with a Board of Directors, Directors for its composition where the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Nominations Committee and the Ethics and Governance have been separated since 18 July 2016. Committee ensure the monitoring of a balanced composition During its meeting of 8 July 2016, the Board appointed of the Board of Directors and report on it. The objectives Mr. David Meek as Chief Executive Officer, on 18 July 2016. of the Board of Directors are to ensure the presence of During the same meeting, the Board confirmed Mr. Marc de independent members, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Code recommendations, of the contribution of skills with regard to the Company’s activity particularly in management, On 17 December 2019, the Board of Directors acknowledged strategy, science, finance and legal affairs, international the resignation of David Meek, effective 31 December 2019 experience, a balanced representation of women and men in and has decided to appoint Aymeric Le Chatelier, currently compliance with law n° 2011-103 of 27 January 2011, and a Chief Financial Officer, as Interim CEO to replace David Meek diversity of nationalities figure amongst the criteria. as of 1 January 2020. The Committees consider each of these criteria when The Board has asked the Nominations Committee, chaired searching for future candidates and for every mandate by Carol Xueref, to immediately conduct a search process renewal. in order to identify the future Chief Executive Officer. The separation of functions allows the Chief Executive Officer to The Directors renewed at the last Shareholders’ Meetings focus on the Group’s operations and the continuation of its have been chosen pursuant to this policy. transformation, while the Chairman of the Board of Directors The skills of Directors are detailed in section 5.2.2.3 of the can give his full attention to leading and managing the Board present Document. of Directors. The Board of Directors is currently comprised of twelve In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of association, members, including five women ( Ms. Anne Beaufour, if he wishes to do so, the Chief Executive Officer may propose permanent representative of Highrock S.àr.l., Ms. Margaret to the Board of Directors to appoint one or several Deputy Liu, Ms. Michèle Ollier, Ms. Carol Stuckley and Ms. Carol Chief Executive Officers in order to assist him. Xueref) (1), and six non-French nationals (Ms. Carol Xueref, a UK national, Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley and Mr. Paul Sekhri, US nationals, Mr. Piet Wigerinck a Belgian national and Ms. Michèle Ollier, of French and Swiss nationality). The Board of Directors is comprised of four independent Directors. (1) Representing more than 40% (the Director representing the employees is not taken into account in this calculation), pursuant to article L.225-18-1 of French Commercial Code. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 185 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ■ 5.2.1.3 Independent Directors Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors relating to the independence of the Board Members “A Director is independent when he/she has no relationship of any kind whatsoever with the Company, its Group or the management that may interfere with his/her freedom of judgement. Accordingly, an independent Director is understood to be any non-executive Director of the Company or the Group who has no particular bonds of interest (significant shareholder, employee, other) with them. Independent Directors should account for at least a third of Board members. Directors representing the employee shareholders and Directors representing employees are not taken into account when determining the percentage of independent Directors within the Board and the Committees. The Board shall examine, upon recommendation of the Ethics and Governance Committee, at least once a year which Directors meet these independence criteria and shall report the conclusions of this review to shareholders (i) every year during the Shareholders’ Meeting convened to approve the financial statements for the previous financial year and (ii) during Shareholders’ Meetings convened to elect new Directors or ratify Directors co-opted by the Board. Qualification as an independent Director should be discussed in the light of the AFEP-MEDEF Code criteria as follows: • not to be and not to have been during the course of the previous five years: – an employee or executive Officer of the Company; – an employee, executive Officer of a company or a director of a company consolidated within the Company; – an employee, executive Officer or a director of the Company’s parent company or a company consolidated within this parent; • not to be an executive Officer of a company in which the Company holds a directorship, directly or indirectly, or in which an employee appointed as such or an executive Officer of the Company (currently in office or having held such office during the last five years) is a director; • not to be a customer, supplier, commercial banker or investment banker or consultant (or be linked directly or indirectly to these persons): – that is material to the Company or its Group; – or for a significant part of whose business the Company or its Group accounts. The evaluation of the significant or non-significant relationship with the Company or its Group must be debated by the Board and the quantitative criteria that lead to the evaluation (continuity, economic dependence, exclusivity, etc.) must be explicitly stated in the corporate governance report; • not to be related by close family ties to a company Officer; • not to have been an auditor of the Company within the previous five years; • not to have been a director of the Company for more than twelve years. Loss of the status of independent director occurs on the date at which this period of twelve years is reached. A non-executive Officer cannot be considered independent if he/she receives variable compensation in cash or in the form of shares or any compensation linked to the performance of the Company or Group. Directors representing major shareholders of the Company or its parent company may be considered as being independent, provided that these shareholders do not take part in control of the Company. Nevertheless, beyond a 10% holding of stock or 10% of the voting rights, the Board, upon a report from the Ethics and Governance Committee, should systematically review the qualification of a Director as independent in the light of the make-up of the Company’s capital and the existence of a potential conflict of interest.” At its meeting of 12 February 2020, the Board of Directors, hold management or employee positions in the Company. upon an Ethics and Governance Committee proposal, Mrs Anne Beaufour and Mr. Henri Beaufour are also brother deemed that: and sister. There are no family ties between the other members of the Board of Directors and/or the General • Margaret Liu, Carol Stuckley, Paul Sekhri and Piet Wigerinck Management of the Company; are independent directors as defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors • there is no business relationship between the members of described above. The other members of the Board of the Board of Directors and the Company. Directors are related to a shareholder of the Company or 186 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The detail of the current independence criteria evaluation is as follows: Independence Not to be and not to have Not to be an Not to be a Not to be related Not to have Not to have criteria (*) been during the course executive Officer customer, by close family been an been a of the previous five years of a company supplier, ties to a company auditor of director of an employee or executive in which the commercial Officer the Company the Company Officer of the Company; an Company holds banker or within the for more than employee, executive Officer a directorship, investment previous twelve years of a company or a director directly or banker or five years of a company consolidated indirectly, or consultant within the Company; in which an (or be linked an employee, executive employee directly or Officer or a director of the appointed as indirectly to Company’s parent company such or an these persons) or a company consolidated executive Officer within this parent of the Company (currently in office or having held such office during the last five years) is a director Directors (**) Marc de Garidel Marc de Garidel has been – – – – – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors since this date. Antoine Flochel Antoine Flochel is Vice – – – – – Chairman of the Ipsen SA Board, Chairman and Managing Director of Beech Tree SA, indirect shareholder of Ipsen SA, and Managing Partner of MR HB and of MR BMH, direct shareholders of Ipsen SA. Highrock S.àr.l. Highrock S.àr.l. is a direct – – Anne Beaufour – – (represented by shareholder of Ipsen SA. is the permanent Anne Beaufour) representative of Highrock S.àr.l., Anne and Henri Beaufour are brother and sister. Henri Beaufour Henri Beaufour is the sole – – Anne Beaufour – shareholder of Beech Tree SA, is the permanent member of the Board of representative of Directors of Ipsen SA and Highrock S.àr.l., indirect shareholder of Director of Ipsen SA. Ipsen SA. Anne and Henri Beaufour are brother and sister. Beech Tree SA Beech Tree SA is an indirect – – – – – (represented by shareholder of Ipsen SA. Philippe Bonhomme) Margaret Liu – – – – – – Michèle Ollier Michèle Ollier is closely linked – – – – – to Highrock S.àr.l., direct shareholder of Ipsen SA. Jean-Marc Parant Jean-Marc Parant is an – – – – – employee of Ipsen Pharma SAS, a subsidiary wholly owned by Ipsen SA, as Head of Digital Learning Solutions. Paul Sekhri – – – – – – 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 187 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Independence Not to be and not to have Not to be an Not to be a Not to be related Not to have Not to have criteria (*) been during the course executive Officer customer, by close family been an been a of the previous five years of a company supplier, ties to a company auditor of director of an employee or executive in which the commercial Officer the Company the Company Officer of the Company; an Company holds banker or within the for more than employee, executive Officer a directorship, investment previous twelve years of a company or a director directly or banker or five years of a company consolidated indirectly, or consultant within the Company; in which an (or be linked an employee, executive employee directly or Officer or a director of the appointed as indirectly to Company’s parent company such or an these persons) or a company consolidated executive Officer within this parent of the Company (currently in office or having held such office during the last five years) is a director Directors (**) Carol Stuckley – – – – – – Piet Wigerinck – – – – – – Carol Xueref Carol Xueref is closely linked – – – – – to Highrock S.àr.l., direct shareholder of Ipsen SA. (*) The criterion of non-executive Officer cannot receive a variable compensation and/or a compensation linked to the performance of the Company or Group is not presented in the table as only the executive Officers receive such compensation. The significant shareholder criterion is also not presented in the table as the links with the major shareholders are mentioned above and as there is no representative of any other significant shareholder at the Board of Directors. For more information on share ownership, please refer to section 5.6.2 of the present Document. (**) David Meek was Director and Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019. ■ 5.2.1.4 Employee representation at the Board of Directors Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors relating to the employee representation at the Board of Directors “The Board of Directors includes one or two Directors representing the employees. Pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of association of the Company: • If the Ipsen SA Board of Directors is comprised of twelve (12) members or fewer, the designation of a single employee representative is required. The Director representing the employees will be appointed by the Works Council of the existing economic and social unit within the Ipsen Group. • If the Board of Directors is comprised of more than twelve (12) members, the designation of a second employee representative is required. The second Director representing the employees will be appointed by the European Works Council. The office of Director representing the employees shall be incompatible with any office of trade union representative or with any office in one of the employee representative institutions listed in Article L.225-30 of the French Commercial Code. Subject to the specific legal provisions applicable to them, the Directors representing the employees have the same rights, shall be bound by the same rules, especially with respect to confidentiality, and shall incur the same liability as other Board members. They are bound by all the provisions of the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, with the exception of those relating to the obligation to own any share in the Company. The Directors representing the employees will not be paid as part of their mandate. The Director representing the employees has a preparation time of fifteen (15) hours per Board meeting which is considered as effective working time and remunerated for accordingly to his salaried position. The Director representing the employees receives, at his request, training suited to the exercise of his office of 40 hours of training a year.” In accordance with Article L.225-27-1 of the French Commercial representing the employees to the Board of Directors, under Code, it will be proposed to the next Shareholders’ Meeting the conditions prescribed by law. It will be proposed to the held in 2020 to approve an amendment of the Company’s Board of Directors, following this amendment to the Articles Articles of Association in order to take into account the of Association, to amend the provisions of its Internal Rules. provide for the possibility of designating a second director 188 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 5.2.2 The Board of Directors ■ 5.2.2.1 Chairman of the Board of Directors Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors relating to the Chairman of the Board “Article 2.1 The Chairman of the Board of Directors The Chairman organizes and directs the work of the Board and ensures the effective functioning of the corporate bodies in compliance with good governance principles. He coordinates the work of the Board with that of the Committees. He ensures that the Directors are able to fulfill their mission and shall particularly ensure that they have all of the information they require to fulfill their mission. The Secretary of the Board reports to the Chairman. He assists the Chairman in organizing the meetings of the Board, and fulfilling any other assignments linked to the corporate governance rules applicable to the Company. The Chairman reports each year the work of the Board of Directors to the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Chairman may be in contact with the statutory auditors to prepare the work of the Board. The Chairman fulfills the following specific missions: • he may represent the Company, in cooperation with the Chief Executive Officer and at the request solely of the latter, in its high-level relations, on a national and international level, especially with the public authorities, the Group’s main partners and other strategic stakeholders of the Company; • he may, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board of Directors and its Committees, be consulted by the Chief Executive Officer regarding any significant events related to the Company’s strategy and major growth projects. The Chairman may attend all of the meetings of the Committees of which he is not a member in an advisory capacity and may consult them on any issue within their area of competence. In all of these specific missions, the Chairman acts in close coordination with the Chief Executive Officer and at the request of the latter who will solely be in charge of the leadership and operational management of the Group (subject to limitations of powers expressly decided by the Board of Directors). The Vice Chairman of the Board, when one has been appointed, assists the Chairman in his mission to organize and supervise the Board’s work. He takes part in the preparation of Board meetings in coordination with the Chairman and, in that capacity, is consulted by the Chairman to set an agenda. Before the notice of a meeting is sent out, together with the Chairman, the Vice Chairman reviews the documents and information made available to Directors.” During the 2019 financial year, the Chairman of the Board of Committees during fiscal year 2018, as well as the Directors Directors organized and directed the work of the 14 Board whose renewal was proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting. meetings, assisted by the Vice President in compliance with the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors. Before ■ 5.2.2.2 Members of the Board of Directors each meeting of the Board, the President interviewed all the Directors are appointed for a four-year term. Exceptionally Directors to present the agenda and have their input, and more and exclusively in order to enable the staggering of Directors’ particularly with absent Directors. After every Board meeting, terms of office to be implemented and maintained, the he followed up to gather their opinions and gave report to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may appoint one or several Board members who were absent at the meetings. He also directors for one year, two years or three years. made a detailed report to the Company’s management on the follow-up of meetings, upcoming meetings and action plans to The number of Directors more than 70 years old cannot be be carried out on the implementation of the strategy decided higher than one-third of the Directors in office. When this by the Board of Directors. In this capacity, he prepared and led age limit is exceeded, the oldest Director is automatically the 9 meetings of the Innovation and Development Committee deemed to have resigned at the end of the following Ordinary – Specialty Medicine and the 3 meetings of the Innovation and Shareholders’ Meeting. Development Committee – Family Health. He coordinated the Duties of Directors come to an end upon the conclusion of work of these Committees with that of the Board. the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the In addition, in his capacity as Chairman of the Board, he financial statements for the previous financial year which is chaired the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2019, held in the year in which the term of office of the said Director during which he presented the organization and functioning expires. Incumbent Directors may always be re-elected. of the Board of Directors, the work of the Board and the 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 189 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors relating to the Directors “Every Director shall dedicate the time and attention required to discharge the duties of his/her mandate and attend the meetings of the Board and the Committee(s) of which they are a member. The report on corporate governance lists the mandates held by members of the Board of Directors and records their individual attendance at Board and Committee meetings. An Executive officer of the Company should not hold more than two other directorships in listed companies, including foreign companies, not affiliated with his or her group. The prior opinion of the Board must be sought prior to accepting a new directorship. A Director should not hold more than four other directorships in non-Group listed companies, including foreign companies. The Director must keep the Board informed of the offices and positions held in other companies. The non-executive Chairman must also obtain the opinion of the Board before accepting a new corporate office. The Board shall be made up of Directors chosen because of their competence and their experience with respect to the Company and the Group’s operations. Board members may attend training sessions on specific areas of the Company, its business line(s) and industrial sector, and the consequence of its social and environmental risks are to be arranged on the Company’s own initiative or at the request of the Board. Before accepting office, each Director should ensure he is familiar with any general or specific obligations relating to his position. In particular, they ought to acquaint themselves thoroughly with the legal provisions governing the Company, its Articles of Association, and provisions of the Board’s Internal rules which apply to them. Directors are elected by all the Company’s shareholders and must act in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. Directors must inform the Board of any conflict of interest situation, including a potential conflict of interest, between themselves and the Company or the Group and shall abstain from attending the debate and taking part in any discussions and vote by the Board on the corresponding deliberations. Directors are required to contribute to the determination of the orientations of the business of the Company and the Group and to supervise their implementation. They must exercise an effective and vigilant oversight of the Company’s and Group’s management. Directors have a general duty of discretion and confidentiality as regards the deliberations of the Board and its Committees. The same applies to all non-public information and documents provided to them at meetings or otherwise in connection with their functions as Board or Committee members or their participation in their deliberations. This duty of discretion and confidentiality shall continue to apply even after the end of the term of office. Directors undertake to comply with all stock market regulations designed to prevent any market abuse detrimental to the interests or image of the Company or the Group.” Board members in office as of the filing of this document Name Function Nationality Gender Age Date of first Date of last End of IndepenCommittee membership appointment renewal term of dence office Marc de Garidel Chairman of French M 62 11/10/2010 28/05/2019 ASM No • Innovation and Development Committee – the Board of with effect as 2023 Specialty Care (Chairman) Directors at 22/11/2010 • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Chairman) Antoine Flochel Vice Chairman French M 55 30/08/2005 07/06/2017 ASM No • Compensation Committee (Chairman) and Director 2021 • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Highrock S.àr.l. Director Luxembourg N/A N/A 06/01/2020* N/A ASM No • Innovation and Development Committee – 2022 Specialty Care (Guest) • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Guest) Anne Beaufour Permanent French F 56 30/08/2005* 30/05/2018 N/A N/A N/A representative of Highrock S.àr.l. Henri Beaufour Director French M 55 30/08/2005 28/05/2019 ASM No • Innovation and Development Committee – 2023 Specialty Care (Guest) • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Guest) 190 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Name Function Nationality Gender Age Date of first Date of last End of IndepenCommittee membership appointment renewal term of dence office Beech Tree SA **** Director Luxembourg N/A – 06/01/2020** N/A ASM No • Audit Committee 2020 • Nominations Committee • Ethics and Governance Committee • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Philippe Permanent French M 50 30/05/2018** – – – – Bonhomme representative of Beech Tree SA Margaret Liu Independent American F 63 07/06/2017 N/A ASM Yes • Ethics and Governance Committee Director 2021 (Chairperson) • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Michèle Ollier Director French-Swiss F 61 27/05/2015 28/05/2019 ASM No • Innovation and Development Committee – 2023 Specialty Care Jean-Marc Parant Director French M 60 27/11/2018 N/A ASM No • Ethics and Governance Committee*** representing the 2022 employees Paul Sekhri Independent American M 61 30/05/2018 N/A ASM Yes • Innovation and Development Committee – Director 2022 Specialty Care • Audit Committee • Nominations Committee Carol Stuckley Independent American F 64 07/06/2017 N/A ASM Yes • Audit Committee (Chairperson) Director 2021 • Compensation Committee Piet Wigerinck Independent Belgian M 55 30/05/2018 N/A ASM Yes • Innovation and Development Committee – Director 2022 Specialty Care • Compensation Committee Carol Xueref**** Director British F 64 01/06/2012 31/05/2016 ASM No • Nominations Committee (Chairperson) 2020 • Compensation Committee • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare • Ethics and Governance Committee * Anne Beaufour was appointed first on 30 August 2005 as Director and permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare on 28 May 2019. She has been appointed on 6 January 2020 permanent representative of Highrock S.à.r.l when it was coopted, in her replacement. The ratification of the provisional appointment of Highrock S.àr.l as a Director will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. ** Philippe Bonhomme was appointed on 30 May 2018 and member of the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Ethics and Governance Committee and of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare. He has been appointed on 6 January 2020 permanent representative of Beech Tree SA when it was coopted, in his replacement. The ratification of the provisional appointment of Beech Tree S.A. and its renewal as a Director will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. *** Jean-Marc Parant has been appointed member of the Ethics and Governance Committee since 28 May 2019. For further details, see table above, on the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations which have not been applied, concerning article 18.1. **** The renewal of the mandate will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. Marc de Garidel, Henri Beaufour and Michèle Ollier were David Meek, Chief Executive Officer and Director, resigned renewed as Director by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May from his functions with effect on 31 December 2019. He 2019 for a duration of four years, i.e., until the Shareholders’ was permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Meeting to be held in 2023 to approve the financial statements Committee – Specialty Care and of the Innovation and for the past financial year. Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare. Marc de Garidel has also been renewed as Chairman of the Board of Directors during the Board meeting held after the Shareholders’ Meeting on 28 May 2019. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 191 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Evolution of the Board composition Nature of the change Shareholders’ Meeting held Renewal of the term of office of Marc de Garidel as Director on 28 May 2019 Renewal of the term of office of Henri Beaufour as Director Renewal of the term of office of Michèle Ollier as Director Decision of the Board of Directors’ Meeting held Renewal of the term of office of Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board and on 28 May 2019 appointment as Chairman of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Appointment of Jean-Marc Parant to the Ethics and Governance Committee Decision of the Board of Directors’ Meeting held Acknowledgement of the resignation of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer on 17 December 2019 and Director as of 31 December 2019 and appointment of Aymeric Le Chatelier as interim Chief Executive Officer as of 1 January 2020 Decision of the Board of Directors’ Meeting held Cooptation of Highrock S.àr.l., represented by Anne Beaufour, as Director, replacing on 6 January 2020 the latter, following her resignation Appointment of Highrock S.àr.l. as a permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Cooptation of Beech Tree SA, represented by Philippe Bonhomme, as Director, replacing the latter, following his resignation Appointment of Beech Tree SA to the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Ethics and Governance Committee and the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare There are currently twelve Board members, four of whom are independent, and one is a Director representing the employees. ■ 5.2.2.3 Experienced, qualified and committed areas of management and strategy, science, pharmaceuticals Board members legal, regulation, corporate social responsibility, digital and technology. Skills of the Board of Directors The skills of the Directors are varied and complementary with respect to the Company’s business, particularly in the 192 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Presentation of the Board members Marc de Garidel Nationality: Shares owned: 138,501 Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 269,321 Committees: Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Marc de Garidel is a graduate from the French Engineering School ESTP, and has an Executive (Chairman) MBA from Harvard Business School. • Innovation and Development Marc de Garidel started his career with Eli Lilly with various responsibilities in countries like US, Committee – Consumer HealthCare Germany, France. Between 1995 and 2010, he held Executive position in finance & general (Chairman) management including the biggest region of Amgen International operations & the corporate controller of Amgen Inc. Date of birth: Marc de Garidel joined Ipsen as Chairman and CEO in November 2010. 16 March 1958 He is now Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ipsen since the third quarter of 2016 and is advisor of the Ipsen holding companies Highrock S.àr.l. and Beech Tree SA. Date of 1st appointment: 22 November 2010 Marc de Garidel has been CEO of Corvidia Therapeutics, Inc. since 29 March 2018. He was Vice President of EFPIA between 2014 and June 2017, the European Pharmaceutical Last renewal date: Trade Association, and chaired the Association of French Health Care companies (G5) between 28 May 2019 2011 and 2018. His mandate as Chairman of IMI governing board also expired in May 2017. Marc de Garidel was Vice-president of the Board of Vifor Pharma (Switzerland) between Term of office: May 2017 and 2018 (formerly Galenica) of which he was a board member since 2015. 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Ipsen SA** (France), Chairman of the Board • Highrock S.àr.l., (Luxembourg), advisor of Directors • Beech Tree SA, (Luxembourg), advisor • Corvidia Therapeutics, Inc. (United States of America), Chief Executive Officer* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Vifor Pharma GmbH** (formerly Galenica) (Switzerland), Director and Vice-president of the Board of Directors* • G5 Santé (France), Chairman and spokesperson* • Filière des Industries et Technologies de Santé (France), Vice President of the Strategic Committee* • Vectorlab GmbH (Switzerland), Chairman* • Ipsen SA** (France), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • Suraypharm SAS (France), Chairman • Pharnext (France), Director* • EFPIA, Director and Vice President* • IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), Chairman of the Board of Directors* • Vifor (formerly Galenica)** (France), Director* • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), advisor * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 193 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Antoine Flochel Nationality: Shares owned: 5,000** Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 10,000 Committees: Biography and experience • Compensation Committee (Chairman) Antoine Flochel is currently the legal manager of Financière de Catalogne (Luxembourg) and • Innovation and Development Vice Chairman of Ipsen SA’s Board of Directors. He is Chairman and Managing Director of Committee – Specialty Care Beech Tree SA and Managing Partner of MR HB and MR BMH. Antoine Flochel worked for Coopers & Lybrand Corporate Finance (now PricewaterhouseCoopers Date of birth: Corporate Finance) from 1995 to 2005 and was a partner in 1998. 23 January 1965 Antoine Flochel is a graduate of Sciences Po Paris, he holds a bachelor in law, an MPhil in economics from Dauphine University and a master of science in finance from the London School Date of 1st appointment: of Economics. 30 August 2005 Positions and functions currently held Last renewal date: Main functions: Other positions: 7 June 2017 • Ipsen SA** (France), Vice Chairman • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Chairman • Financière de Catalogne SPRL (Luxembourg), and Managing Director Term of office: Managing Partner* • MR HB (Luxembourg), Managing Partner 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting • MR BMH (Luxembourg), Managing Partner • Blue Hill Participations S.à.r.l (Luxembourg), Managing Partner* • KF Finanz AG (Switzerland), Director* • Financière CLED SPRL (Belgium), Managing Partner* • VicJen Finance SA (France), Chairman* • Meet Me Out (France), Director* • Institut Français des Administrateurs, IFA (France), Director* • Massa Management (Luxembourg), Managing Partner* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Alma Capital Europe SA (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Funds SICAV (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Managers (Luxembourg), Director* • Lepe Capital (United Kingdom), Member of the Investment Advisory Committee* • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Managing Director and Chairman of the Board * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Antoine Flochel is Chairman of VicJen Finance SA which held 2,000 shares of the Company and 4,000 voting rights as of 31 December 2019. He is also Managing Partner of Financière de Catalogne, which held 3,000 shares of the Company and 6,000 voting rights at the same date. 194 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Highrock S.àr.l Nationality: Shares owned: 21,816,679** Director Luxembourg Voting rights: 43,633,357** Committees***: Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Highrock S.àr.l. is a limited liability company under Luxembourg law incorporated on 25 May (Permanent guest) 2009. Since 19 December 2019, Highrock S.àr.l. has been a shareholder of Ipsen SA. • Innovation and Development Registered office: 3, rue Nicolas Adames – L-1114 Luxembourg. Committee – Consumer Healthcare RCS Luxembourg B146822. (Permanent guest) As of 31 December 2019, it held 21,816,679 shares, i.e. 26.03% of the share capital, and 43,633,357 voting rights, i.e. 33.07% of the actual voting rights. Date of 1st appointment: Highrock S.àr.l. was co-opted to replace Anne Beaufour by the Board of Directors on 6 January 6 January 2020 (co-option)**** 2020. Its permanent representative is Anne Beaufour. Term of office: 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting Anne Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1** Permanent representative of Highrock S.àr.l. French Voting rights: 2** Committees (in 2019***): Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Anne Beaufour holds a Bachelor’s degree in geology (University of Paris Orsay). (Permanent guest) Anne Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, as described in section 5.6.2.1, which • Innovation and Development directly and/or indirectly hold shares of the Company. Committee – Consumer Healthcare On 6 January 2020, the Board of Directors acknowledged her resignation and co-opted (Permanent guest) Highrock S.àr.l., represented by Anne Beaufour. Date of birth: Positions and functions currently held 8 August 1963 Main functions: Other positions: • Highrock S.àr.l. (Luxembourg), Permanent • South End Consulting Limited (SEC Ltd) representative at Ipsen Board of Directors (United Kingdom), Director* • Highrock S.àr.l. (Luxembourg), Manager Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • FinHestia S.àr.l. (Luxembourg), Legal Manager • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors and Managing Director • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director and Chairperson of the Board of Directors • Bluehill Participations S.àr.l. (Luxembourg), Manager* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** The indirect shareholding is described in section 5.6.2.1. *** Anne Beaufour was a director and a permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer Healthcare until 6 January 2020. Since 6 January 2020, the company Highrock S.àr.l is a Director and a permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer Healthcare. **** The ratification of the provisional appointment of Highrock S.àr.l. as Director will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 195 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Henri Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1** Director French Voting rights: 2** Committees: Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) Henri Beaufour holds a Bachelor of Arts degree (Georgetown University, Washington DC, United • Innovation and Development States). Committee – Consumer HealthCare Henri Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies which directly and/or indirectly hold (Guest) shares of the Company (see the section 5.6.2.1). Henri Beaufour is also involved in philanthropic activities, in particular children’s support Date of birth: associations helping young persons to have access to appropriate education, such as the Alasol 6 January 1965 Foundation. Positions and functions currently held Date of 1st appointment: 30 August 2005 Main functions: Other positions: • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director • Massa Management SARL (Luxembourg), Last renewal date: • Ipsen SA (France), Director Partner and Legal Manager* 28 May 2019 • Massa Art SAS (France), Chairman Term of office: Positions previously held that expired during the last five years 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director * Outside Ipsen Group. ** The indirect shareholding is described in section 5.6.2.1. Beech Tree SA Nationality: Shares owned : 21,816,679** Director Luxembourg Voting rights : 43,633,357** Committees***: Biography and experience • Audit Committee • Nominations Committee Beech Tree SA is a limited company under Luxembourg law, incorporated in 2001. • Ethics and Governance Committee Since 19 December 2019, Beech Tree SA has been an indirect shareholder of Ipsen SA. • Innovation and Development Registered office: 11, Boulevard Royal – L-2449 Luxembourg. Committee – Consumer Healthcare RCS Luxembourg B85327. As of 31 December 2019, it held indirectly 21,816,679 shares, i.e. 26.03% of the share capital, Date of 1st appointment: and 43,633,357 voting rights, i.e. 33.07% of the actual voting rights through its controlled 6 January 2020 (co-option)**** subsidiaries MR BMH and MR HB. Term of office: Beech Tree SA was coopted to replace Philippe Bonhomme by the Board of Directors on 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting 6 January 2020. It is permanently represented by Philippe Bonhomme. Philippe Bonhomme Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Permanent representative of Beech Tree SA French Voting rights: 1,000 Committees (in 2019***): Biography and experience • Audit Committee • Nominations Committee Since 2005, Phillippe Bonhomme has been Partner, Director and a member of the management • Ethics and Governance Committee committee of Hottinguer Corporate Finance, which is the investment banking arm of Hottinguer • Innovation and Development bank. He has been advising in France and abroad on numerous transactions in the pharma and Committee – Consumer Healthcare healthcare sectors as well as on private equity-backed transactions. From 1993 to 2005, Philippe Bonhomme was first an auditor and then, a Corporate Finance Date of birth: consultant within Coopers & Lybrand (renamed into PricewaterhouseCoopers). 5 November 1969 From 2012 to 2018, Philippe Bonhomme was the permanent representative of the Company Mayroy SA, Director of Ipsen SA. Since 30 May 2018, Philippe Bonhomme was a member of the Board of Directors of Ipsen SA. On 6 January 2020, the Board of Directors acknowledged his resignation and co-opted Beech Tree SA, in replacement, represented by Philippe Bonhomme. Philippe Bonhomme is a graduate of École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC, Paris) and a French Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Hottinguer Corporate Finance SA (France), • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director Partner, Director and Member of the • MR HB (Luxembourg), Managing Partner Management Committee* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Permanent representative of Mayroy at Ipsen’s Board of Directors • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director * Outside Ipsen Group. ** The indirect shareholding is described in section 5.6.2.1. *** Philippe Bonhomme was a member of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Ethics and Governance Committee and the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer Healthcare until 6 January 2020, when Beech Tree SA was co-opted to replace him. **** The ratification of the provisional appointment of Beech Tree SA as Director will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. 196 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Margaret Liu Nationality: Shares owned: 689 Independent Director American Voting rights: 689 Committees: Biography and experience • Ethics and Governance Committee Margaret Liu is currently a Global Health, Vaccines and Immunotherapy Consultant for pharma/ (Chairperson) biotech and investment companies, universities, and governmental scientific research councils. • Innovation and Development She also serves as a Professor at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden since 2003, first Committee – Specialty Care as Visiting Professor and then as Foreign Adjunct Professor. She is also Adjunct Full Professor at the University of California in San Francisco, CA since 2013. Date of birth: 11 June 1956 Before that, she occupied various functions in the private and public sector parallel to her academic career. From 1984 to 1988 she was Visiting Scientist at the Massachusetts Institute Date of 1st appointment: of Technology. From 1987 to 1989 she was Instructor of Medicine at Harvard University. From 7 June 2017 1989 to 1995, she was Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, PA. From 1990 to 1997, she served as Director, then Senior Director for Virus Term of office: and Cell Biology at Merck Research Laboratories. From 1997 to 2000, she served as a Vice 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting President of Vaccines Research and then Vice President of Vaccines and Gene Therapy at Chiron Corporation in Emeryville, CA. From 2000 to 2002, she was Senior Advisor in Vaccinology for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. From 2000 to 2006, she was Vice Chairman of Transgène in Strasbourg, France. From 2005 to 2009, she served as a Director of Sangamo Biosciences Inc. She was President of the International Society for Vaccines from 2016 until the end of 2017. She is an accomplished leader in the research and development of vaccine and immunization programs for infectious diseases, particularly HIV and in the field of gene-based therapies. She earned her B.A. in Chemistry, summa cum laude, from Colorado College and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. She was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science (D.Sc.) from Colorado College and received the Karolinska Institute’s highest distinction in May 2017, Medicine Doctor honoris causa-MDhc. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • ProTherImmune (United States of America), • International Society for Vaccines, President Global Health, Vaccines and Immunotherapy Emeritus, Member of the Board* Consultant* • Jenner Institute, University of Oxford (United Kingdom), Scientific Advisory Board* • PAX Therapeutics, (United States of America)*, CEO-designate* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • International Society for Vaccines, President* * Outside Ipsen Group. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 197 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Michèle Ollier Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director French-Swiss Voting rights: 500 Committees: Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Since 1 February 2016, Michèle Ollier is one of the partner and founder of Medicxi, a capital Committee – Specialty Care venture company located in Geneva and London. Medicxi is the spin-off of the life science section of Index Ventures. Date of birth: 2 June 1958 From February 2006 to February 2016, Michèle Ollier was Partner in the life science investment team of Index Ventures. Date of 1st appointment: From 2003 to 2006, she was the investment’s manager at Edmond de Rothschild Investment 28 May 2019 Partner in Paris. From 2000 to 2002, she was the corporate’s vice-manager at Serono International. From 1994 to 2000, she occupied various posts at Rhône-Poulenc Rorer Term of office: in particular in oncology and in the division “gene therapy”, RPR Gencell. Before, Michèle 2023 Shareholders’ Meeting Ollier occupied various functions in strategy, development, and commercialization in the pharmaceutical companies Sanofi International and Bristol-Myers Squibb France. Michèle Ollier is a graduate of the medicine faculty of Paris-Ouest. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Medicxi (Switzerland and United Kingdom), • Epsilon 3 Bio Limited (United Kingdom)* Partner* • LinguaFlex Inc. (United States of America)* • Human Antibody Factory (United Kingdom)* • Palladio Biosciences Inc. (United States of America)* • Kymo Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Kaerus France SAS (France)* • Kaerus Bioscience Limited (United Kingdom)* • Mavalon Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Gadeta BV (The Netherlands)* • Vitavest NL Coop (The Netherlands)* • Pega-One (France)* • Villaris Therapeutics (United States of America)* • Pearl River Bio (Germany)* • Yukin Therapeutics (France)* • Alderaan (France)* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Diasome Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (United States of America)* • STX pharma Limited (United Kingdom)* • Minerva Neuroscience, Inc.** (United States of America)* • Purple Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Encare Biotech BV (The Netherlands)* • AbTco BV (The Netherlands)* • Cyrenaic Pharma Inc (United States of America)* • Profibrix (The Netherlands)* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. Jean-Marc Parant Nationality: Shares owned: 30* Director representing the employees French Voting rights: 60* Committee**: Biography and experience • Ethics and Governance Committee Jean-Marc Parant has been designated Director representing the employees by the Works Council on 27 November 2018. Date of birth: 28 September 1959 Employee of the Ipsen Group since January 1989, he is currently Head of Digital Learning Solutions and was previously Training Director. He thus contributed to the implementation of Date of 1st appointment: the training management system within the Ipsen Group, notably through dedicated digital 27 November 2018 platforms. Jean-Marc Parant is graduated from the Bordeaux School of Medicine, specialized in the field of Term of office: medical informatics (artificial intelligence and data bases) and graduated in statistics. He is also 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting an expert in Training and Digital learning. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Head of Digital Learning None Solutions Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Shares held under the free share plan of 22 January 2009, approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the same day, for the benefit of all Group employees. In his capacity as Director representing the employees, and in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, the Director representing the employees is not required to hold a minimum number of Ipsen shares. ** Jean-Marc Parant has been a member of the Ethics and Governance Committee since 28 May 2019. 198 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Paul Sekhri Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Independent Director American Voting rights: 500 Committees: Biography and experience • Audit Committee Paul Sekhri has been President and Chief Executive Officer of e-Genesis, a company specialized • Nominations Committee in gene editing technology to deliver safe and effective human transplantable cells, tissues and • Innovation and Development organs, since 17 January 2019. Committee – Specialty Care Prior to this, Paul Sekhri was President and Chief Executive Officer of Lycera Corp., a US Date of birth: biopharma company focused on treatments for cancer and autoimmune diseases from 26 April 1958 February 2015 until January 2019. He served as Senior Vice President, Integrated Care for Sanofi from April 2014 through January 2015. Previously, he served as Group Executive Vice Date of 1st appointment: President, Global Business Development and Chief Strategy Officer for Teva Pharmaceutical 30 May 2018 Industries, Ltd. Before joining Teva he spent five years as Operating Partner and Head of the Biotechnology Operating Group at TPG Biotech, the life sciences venture capital arm of TPG Term of office: Capital. From 2004 to 2009, Paul Sekhri was Founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer of 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting Cerimon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to founding Cerimon, he was President and Chief Business Officer of ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Between 1999 and 2003, Paul Sekhri spent four years as Senior Vice President, and Head of Global Search and Evaluation, Business Development and Licensing for Novartis Pharma AG and also developed the Disease Area Strategy. His first role was as Global Head, Early Commercial Development – a department he established to ensure the differential competitive advantage of Novartis’ pipeline. Paul Sekhri is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Compugen Ltd., Petra Pharma Corp., Topas Therapeutics GmbH, Alpine Immune Sciences, Inc., Pharming Group NV and Veeva Systems, Inc. Additionally, he serves on non-profit boards such as the Knights, The Orchestra of St. Luke’s and the Metropolitan Opera. Paul Sekhri received his BS in Zoology from the University of Maryland, College Park and completed graduate work in Neuroscience at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • e-Genesis (United States of America), • Compugen, Ltd.** (Israel), Chairman of the President and Chief Executive Officer* Board* • Petra Pharma Corp. ( United States of America), Chairman of the Board* • Alpine Immune Sciences, Inc.** ( United States of America), Independent Director* • Pharming Group NV** (The Netherlands), Chairman of the Board of Super visor y Directors* • Veeva Systems, Inc.** ( United States of America), Independent Director* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Enumeral Biomedical, Inc. (United States of America), Director* • Nivalis Therapeutics, Inc. (United States of America) Director* • Lycera Corp. (United States of America), President and Chief Executive Officer* • Topas Therapeutics GmbH (Germany), Chairman of the Board of Supervisory Directors* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 199 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Carol Stuckley Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Independent Director American Voting rights: 500 Committees: Biography and experience • Audit Committee (Chairperson) • Compensation Committee Carol Stuckley was most recently the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Healthcare Payment Specialists, LLC in Fort Worth, TX. Healthcare Payment Specialists Date of birth: provided technology enabled solutions for health care eligibility, government reimbursement 20 September 1955 and compliance to hospitals and healthcare systems across the US. From 2010 to 2013, she was Vice President, Finance (Chief Financial Officer), North America at Date of 1st appointment: Galderma Laboratories, L.P., in Fort Worth, TX. Prior to Galderma, Carol Stuckley had a 23-year 7 June 2017 career at Pfizer, Inc., New York, NY, where she held several multinational and global, senior financial leadership roles including Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Officer and Vice President Term of office: of Finance. 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting She holds an MBA in International Business & Finance and an MA in Economics from Temple University (Fox Business School) in Philadelphia, PA as well as a BA in Economics and French from the University of Delaware in Newark, DE. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Financial Executives International (United None States), Fort Worth Chapter, Board Member* • Ipsen SA (France), Director Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Healthcare Payment Specialists, LLC (United States), Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President* • Financial Executives International (United States), Fort Worth Chapter, President* * Outside Ipsen Group. Piet Wigerinck Nationality: Shares owned: 680 Independent Director Belgian Voting rights: 680 Committees: Biography and experience • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Piet Wigerinck, Ph.D., joined Galapagos NV in April 2008 as SVP Development and was • Compensation Committee appointed Chief Scientific Officer in 2010. Under his leadership, Galapagos has developed a large pipeline of novel mechanism of action drugs. He has supervised multiple successful Date of birth: proofs-of-concept patient studies, including filgotinib, GLPG1690, and MOR106. 22 December 1964 Prior to his tenure at Galapagos, Piet Wigerinck was Vice President, Drug Discovery, Early Development and CM&C at Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson Date of 1st appointment: Services, Inc.). Under his leadership at Tibotec, TMC114 (Prezista™) and TMC435 (Olysio™) 30 May 2018 were selected and moved forward into clinical trials. Piet Wigerinck played a key role in Tibotec’s expansion into novel diseases such as Hepatitis C and advanced several compounds into Term of office: Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting Piet Wigerinck has over 30 years of R&D experience in the pharmaceutical industry and biotechnology. He holds a Ph.D. from the K.U. Leuven and is inventor on more than 25 patent applications. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Galapagos NV (Belgium)**, Chief Scientific None Officer* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 200 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Carol Xueref Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director British Voting rights: 1,000 Committees: Biography and experience • Nominations Committee (Chairperson) Carol Xueref is Chairperson of Floem SAS, a consultancy firm. She was Secretary General and a • Ethics and Governance Committee member of Essilor International’s Executive Leadership Team until 30 June 2016. • Compensation Committee From 1982 to 1986, Carol Xueref was Deputy to the Attachée for Commercial Affairs at the • Innovation and Development British Embassy in Paris. From 1986 to 1990, she was Head of Division at the International Committee – Consumer HealthCare Chamber of Commerce (Paris). In 1990, she became Director for Legal and Tax Affairs at the Banque Populaire de la Région Ouest de Paris. From 1993 to 1996, she was Head of a legal Date of birth: department within Crédit Lyonnais and subsequently Director for Legal Affairs of OIG (Crédit 9 December 1955 Lyonnais’ defeasance entity). From 1996 to 2014, Carol Xueref was Director for Legal Affairs and Group Development and from 2014 to 2016 Secretary General; she was a member of Date of 1st appointment: Essilor International’s Executive Leadership Team. She has been a member of the Autorité de la 1 June 2012 Concurrence (French Competition Authority) since 2006, and chaired its “Compliance” working group. Date of last renewal: Carol Xueref is a founder member and a past-President of the Cercle Montesquieu (Association 31 May 2016 of French Legal Directors (1998-2002)) and chaired its “Ethics of in-house lawyers” working group. She is member of the “Association Française des Femmes Juristes” and Director of the Term of office: Franco-British Lawyers Society. 2020*** Shareholders’ Meeting Carol Xueref holds a Master’s Degree in Law and a Post Graduate Degree in International Commercial Law (DESS) from the University of Paris II (Assas). Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Floem SAS (France), Chairperson* • Eiffage** (France), Director and Chairperson of the Compensation and Appointments Committee and member of the Strategic Committee* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Essilor International** (France), Director of several subsidiaries of the Group (France and abroad), Secretary General and Member of the Executive Leadership Team* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. *** The renewal of her office will be submitted to the 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting. For the purposes of their office, Directors are domiciled at the Company’s registered office. Director whose mandate ended during the 2019 financial • PhRMA, Board member of Pharmaceutical Research and year: Manufacturers of America, company in the United States Until 31 December 2019, David Meek, of American citizenship, of America, was Chief Executive Officer from 16 July 2016 and Director • Board member at EFPIA, European Federation of from 7 June 2017. He was permanent guest at the Innovation Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare. • D ire ctor and Non-E xe cutive Chair man of Entasis Therapeutics, listed company in the United States of He was also Chairman of Ipsen Pharma SAS, a subsidiary America. wholly owned by Ipsen SA. He did not hold previous positions that expired during the last His mandates outside Ipsen Group were: five years. • Non-executive Board member at uniQure, listed company For more information about David Meek, please refer to in The Netherlands, section 5.4 of this document. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 201 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Attendance rate of Directors Directors as of Board of Directors Innovation and Audit Nominations Compensation Ethics and Innovation and 31 December Development Committee Committee Committee Governance Development 2019* Committee – Committee Committee – Specialty Care Consumer HealthCare Marc de Garidel 14 meetings out of 14 8 meetings out of 9 – – – – 3 meetings out of 3 (100%) (89%) (100%) Antoine Flochel 14 meetings out of 14 8 meetings out of 9 – – 4 meetings – – (100%) (89%) out of 4 (100%) Anne Beaufour 13 meetings out of 14 – – – – – – (93%) Henri Beaufour 10 meetings out of 14 – – – – – – (71%) Philippe Bonhomme 14 meetings out of 14 – 6 meetings 7 meetings – 4 meetings 3 meetings out of 3 (100%) out of 6 out of 7 out of 4 (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) Margaret Liu 14 meetings out of 14 9 meetings out of 9 – – – 4 meetings – (100%) (100%) out of 4 (100%) Michèle Ollier 14 meetings out of 14 7 meetings out of 9 – – – – – (100%) (78%) Jean-Marc Parant 14 meetings out of 14 – – – – 4 meetings – (100%) out of 4 (100%) Paul Sekhri 11 meetings out of 14 5 meetings out of 9 6 meetings 7 meetings – – – (79%) (56%) out of 6 out of 7 (100%) (100%) Carol Stuckley 14 meetings out of 14 – 6 meetings out – 4 meetings – – (100%) of 6 out of 4 (100%) (100%) Piet Wigerinck 11 meetings out of 14 6 meetings out of 9 – – 2 meetings out – – (79%) (67%) of 4 (50%) Carol Xueref 13 meetings out of 14 – – 6 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 3 meetings out of 3 (93%) out of 7 out of 4 out of 4 (100%) (86%) (100%) (75%) * David Meek, director until 31 December 2019, attended 100% of the Board meetings during the financial year 2019. ■ 5.2.2.4 Activity of the Board of Directors in 2019 Extract from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors “Role of the Board of Directors In charge of managing the Company, in accordance with its legal obligations and the Articles of Association, the Board: • endeavours to promote long-term value creation by the company by considering the social and environmental aspects of its activities. If applicable, it proposes any statutory change that it considers appropriate; • in collaboration with the Chief Executive Officer, defines the strategic orientation, examines and decides on important operations, reviews the strategic orientations of the Company and the Group, which is made up of the Company and the business units it consolidates in its financial statements (hereafter “the Group”), its investment, disinvestment, or internal restructuring projects, the Group’s overall policy with regard to human resources, in particular its policy on compensation, profit-sharing, and performance-based incentives. It appraises the performance of the Company’s management on an annual basis and is consulted on new executive managers’ recruitments; • approves the annual budget presented by the Chief Executive Officer, and all its amendments when exceeding an amount of €10 million; • approves, on a proposal of the relevant Innovation and Development Committee and before any decision is made, acquisitions or divestments of equity interests or assets, partnerships, alliances, or cooperation agreements relating to research, development, industry, and business as well as, generally speaking, any transaction or any commitment that might significantly affect the Group’s financial or operating situation or its strategic guidelines; • is regularly informed via the Audit Committee about the financial situation, the Company’s cash position, and all the significant events affecting the Company; it is kept informed by its Chairman and by its Committees of all significant events related to the conduct of business for the Company and the Group; ... 202 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE • ensures that shareholders and the public are well informed of the strategy, development model, major non-financial matters of the Company, issues as well as its long-term outlook, in particular via the control it exercises on the information given by the Company; and in this respect, it defines the Company’s communication policy, in particular regarding the frequency with which financial information relating to the Group is released; • checks that the Company has reliable procedures in place to identify, assess, and monitor its commitments and risks, including off-balance sheet risks, as well as an appropriate internal control system; • is informed about market developments, the competitive environment and the most important aspects facing the company, including in the area of social and environmental responsibility; • regularly reviews, in relation to the strategy it has defined, the opportunities and risks, such as financial, legal, operational, social and environmental risks, as well as the measures taken accordingly. To this end, the Board of Directors receives all of the information needed to carry out its task, notably from the executive officers; • if applicable, ensures the implementation of a mechanism to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling; • also ensures that the executive officers implement a policy of non-discrimination and diversity, notably with regard to the balanced representation of women and men on the governing bodies. More generally, the Board exercises the functions assigned to it by the law to act at all times in the Company’s corporate interest and takes particular care to prevent any conflicts of interest and to take all interests into account. Furthermore, the non-executive Directors also carry out, once a year, an evaluation of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and, as the case may be, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s), outside their presence. The results of this evaluation are communicated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors to the Chief Executive Officer.” “Powers of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors defines guidelines for the Company’s business operations and monitors their implementation. Subject to the powers expressly conferred to Shareholders’ Meetings and within the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board of Directors is competent to consider any matters affecting the proper running of the Company, and can take decisions governing any matters concerning it. With respect to third parties, the Company is bound by the Board of Directors’ acts even when they run counter to the Company’s corporate object, unless the Company can prove that the third party knew the act was ultra vires or could not fail to have known this given the circumstances, on the understanding that the mere publication of the Company’s Articles of Association is not sufficient to constitute such proof. The Board of Directors shall carry out such controls and verifications as it deems fit.” The Board of Directors met 14 times during the 2019 financial • An evaluation on the performance of the Chairman and year. The average attendance rate at Board meetings was of the Chief Executive Officer has been conducted during 93% in 2019. 2019 without their presence, their conclusions have been presented to them; The Company’s Statutory Auditors were called to Board meetings held to approve the annual and half-year financial • Organization and functioning of the Board of Directors: statements. proposals to renew the appointments of Directors, report on the independence of the Directors, review of the Internal The following matters were reviewed and discussed by the Rules of the Board of Directors, a formalized evaluation Board of Directors in 2019: of the functioning of the Board of Directors and of the • Financial statements and financial position: review and Committees by an external consultant (for more information, approval of the 2018 annual and consolidated financial please refer to section 5.2.2.6), procedure for identifying statements, the 2019 half-year financial statements, current / regulated agreements; examination of the management forecast documents, the • Corporate Officers: approval of the succession plan 2020 budget, and 2019 guidance, refinancing; process for the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer • Strategy and development: review and follow-up of acquisition functions and implemented following the CEO’s resignation, projects (acquisition of Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc. as described below as described in section 5.2.2.6; and exclusive global license agreement with Blueprint • Shareholders’ Meeting: review and approval of the Medicines), partnership and development projects, and report on corporate governance, convening notice of the Group strategic review; Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2019, approval of the • Compensation policy: review and determination of the resolutions approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting Agenda, respective compensation of the Chairman of the Board and draft resolutions and report submitted by the Board of of the Chief Executive Officer, preparation of the report on Directors to the Shareholders’ Meeting; corporate governance including the Corporate Officers’ • Share capital: capital increase linked to the exercise of compensation policy and grant of free shares (subject to subscription options; performance conditions for corporate officers and certain executives and without performance conditions for certain • Human Resources: complete overview of the HR function Group managers and a “5 shares for all” plan for all eligible within the Ipsen Group, succession plan for the Executive employees of the Group); Leadership Team, policy of talent identification, non2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 203 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE discrimination and diversity implemented within the Group Evaluation carried out in 2019 (for more information, please refer to section 5.2.2.6 as In 2019, an external evaluation of the functioning of the part of the Committees’ activity and to Chapter 4 of this Board of Directors was realized with the assistance of an Document); independent consulting firm. It was conducted on the basis • Ethics and Compliance: review and approval of the CSR of a documentary analysis (Articles of Association, Internal strategy and policy, deployed in all the Group’s subsidiaries, Rules of the Board, Directors’ Code of conduct, Board review and individual approval of the Code of Conduct and Committees files and minutes) followed by individual by the Directors (for more information, please refer to interviews with each Director and selected members of the section 5.2.2.6 as part of the Committees’ activity and to Executive Leadership Team. An interview guide was prepared Chapter 4 of this Document). in association with the Chair of the Ethics and Governance Committee, the General counsel, and the Company Secretary. In addition, the Board of Directors met regularly during the 2019 financial year in the absence of the Chief Executive The results of this evaluation were presented to the Ethics and Officer and members of management, in restricted sessions. Governance Committee and then to the Board. Areas of satisfaction shared by Directors are the following: ■ 5.2.2.5 E  valuation of the functioning of • the overall quality of the governance including governance the Board and the Committees documents, as well as the improvement brought by the new digital platform; Evaluation from the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors • the material conditions made available to the Directors for exercising their mandate; “Once a year, the Board discusses its operation, • the composition of the Board and Committees that membership, and organization in an “executive session”, reflects the complementary skills of its members, whether without the Chairman of the Board if appropriate, and independent or not, and allows the Board to exercise its without the presence of the Chief Executive Officer and responsibilities. management team members. Areas of improvement have been identified, with corresponding This “executive session” is prepared by the Ethics and changes in the Internal Rules of the Board, in order to: Governance Committee in conjunction with the Vice Chairman of the Board or a Director who is specially • describe the new interaction between the majority appointed for this purpose. shareholders and its implications on the Board and the Committees in the decision-making process; The Board also performs a formal evaluation at least once • formalize a dedicated annual strategic seminar; every three years. • continue to analyze key skills required by the Board of The Board may call in an external consultant to conduct Directors. an evaluation.” ■ 5.2.2.6 Committees of the Board of Directors Internal Rules of the Board of Directors – Committees of the Board “Committee members chosen from among the Directors are appointed in a personal capacity for the duration of their term of office as a Director. They can delegate another member of the same Committee to represent them. They can be replaced or dismissed at any time by the Board. Their terms of office are renewable. A single Director can be a member of several Committees. The Chairperson of each Committee is appointed from among its members by the Board. Subject to the specific rules applicable to them, each Committee determines the frequency of its meetings. Said meetings are held at the head office or any other location decided by its Chairperson when he convenes it and sets the meeting’s agenda. A Committee can only meet if at least half of its members are present, in one of the ways allowed by the law or the Articles of Association with respect to Directors attending Board meetings. Each Committee shall rule by a simple majority of the votes of the members present or represented. The Chairperson of a Committee may invite all Board members to one or several of its meetings, as well as any other person. Only members of the Committee shall take part in its deliberations. The minutes of each Committee meeting are drawn up by the Secretary of the Board under the authority of the Chairperson of the Committee. The minutes are then sent to all members of the Committee. The Chairpersons of Committees report to the Board on the work carried out by their Committees under the conditions set by the Board. Within its own area of competence, each Committee issues proposals, recommendations, or opinions. To this end, each Committee may carry out or have carried out, at the Company’s expense, all external studies likely to enlighten the Board’s deliberations. ... 204 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Each Committee reports to the Board on its work at each one of the Board’s meetings. A summary of the activity of each Committee is included in the Report on the corporate governance. Each Committee may decide, if need be, on its other operating procedures. It ensures periodically that its rules and operating procedures enable it to assist the Board in deliberating validly on the issues within its remit and can propose to the Board a change in its Internal rules. The Board establishes six (6) permanent Committees: • a Nominations Committee, • an Ethics and Governance Committee, • a Compensation Committee, • an Audit Committee, • an Innovation and Development Committee Specialty Care, • an Innovation and Development Committee Consumer HealthCare.” The Nominations Committee Internal Rules of the Board of Directors “Role The role of the Nominations Committee is to: • in conjunction with the Ethics and Governance Committee (for aspects relating to conflicts of interest) and the Chairman of the Board, make proposals to the Board of Directors concerning the re-election, replacement or appointment of new Directors; • ensure the balance and complementarity of the skills of the directors and the diversity of their profiles; • organize a procedure to select future independent directors; • give its opinion, in conjunction with the Chairman of the Board, on the recruitment or the replacement of the Chief Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officers, if applicable, as well as on members of the Executive Leadership Team; • design, if applicable, in conjunction with the Chairman of the Board, a plan for replacement of Company Officers, so as to be able to propose replacement solutions to the Board in the event of an unforeseen vacancy; • regularly review directors training plans and the process for welcoming and integrating new directors. Composition The Nominations Committee comprises at least three and no more than six directors, one-third of whom are independent, according to the criteria set out above. The Board appoints the Chairperson of the Committee from among its members. When voting on the Nominations Committee, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Nominations Committee meets at least twice a year when convened by its Chairperson or at the request of the Chairman of the Board.” The Nominations Committee is currently comprised of three The Committee’s activity focused mainly on the: members, one of whom is independent. • renewal of Directors; Its members are: • monitoring of the balanced composition of the Board of • Carol Xueref (Chairperson), Directors in conjunction with the Ethics and Governance Committee; • Beech Tree SA (represented by Philippe Bonhomme); and • formalization of the welcome policy for new Directors; • Paul Sekhri (Independent member). • integration of the Director representing the employees During the 2019 financial year, Philippe Bonhomme was (trainings, appointment at the Ethics and Governance member of the Committee. Beech Tree SA was coopted as Committee, etc.); member of the Committee by the Board of 6 January 2020 in • review of the PACTE Law linked to the second Director replacement. representing the employees at the Board of Directors; The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the • succession plan process for Corporate Officers (Chief Nominations Committee and give his opinion when the Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board); agenda is about the appointment of Executive Leadership • review of the independence of Directors independence of Team members or managers of the Group. Directors in conjunction with the Ethics and Governance Activity of the Nominations Committee Committee, and The Nominations Committee met 7 times in 2019 with an • implementation of a research process to identify the future attendance rate of 95%. Chief Executive Officer. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 205 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when pre-identified candidates, setting out job descriptions appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after (predetermined criteria and profiles based on the Company’s each Committee meeting. ongoing needs), and pre-prepared press releases for each event. Succession plan for Corporate Officers The Nominations Committee continued its work in 2019 on The Nominations Committee also evaluated ELT profiles and the succession plans for Corporate Officers (Chief Executive performance, as well as their ability to assume an interim or Officer and Chairman of the Board). The succession plan is ongoing executive management position in whole or in part, based on several possible hypothesis: emergency succession immediately or over time. (e.g. in case of legal incapacity, sudden resignation, illness or The Nominations Committee also presented to the Board of death), planned succession (e.g. in case of renewal of office, Directors its progress after each of its meetings and discussed reaching a legal age limit, resignation given with lengthy conclusions within the terms of pre-arranged confidentiality prior notice (+/6 months), etc.) and accelerated succession constraints. (e.g. in case of a problem of availability, conflicts of interest, objectives not reached, strategic divergences, etc.). The succession plan is reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors, and at least once in a year. Each hypothesis for either of the Chief Executive Officer or for the Chairman of the Board was studied by the Nominations The Board of Directors implemented the emergency Committee, in conjunction with them and the Group Human succession plan after the resignation of David Meek on Resources Officer. 17 December 2019 by appointing Aymeric Le Chatelier as interim Chief Executive Officer from 1 January 2020, whilst The Nominations Committee also prepared an identification continuing his duties as Chief Finance Officer Group. process for CEO and Chairman successors including internal The Ethics and Governance Committee Internal Rules of the Board on the missions of the Ethics and Governance Committee “Role The role of the Ethics and Governance Committee is to: • review the definition of the Group’s fundamental values and its ethics and compliance policy; • submit recommendations on ethics and compliance to the Board of Directors; discuss all issues relating to ethics and compliance referred to it by the Board; • ensure the dissemination throughout the Group of the Code of Ethics and general ethics policies defined by the Group and their updates; • ensure the implementation, monitoring and efficiency of procedures for the communication and comprehension of the Code of Ethics and compliance with it and overall policies by employees of the Group; • examine the Group’s risks mapping from an ethics and compliance standpoint; • review the Group’s ethics and compliance activity report; • examine the organization of the ethics and compliance function and make recommendations, when relevant; • receive any information concerning possible breaches of the ethics and compliance policy and review action plans implemented to address these; • examine the evolution of corporate governance rules, particularly those of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, and report its conclusions and recommendations to the Board; monitor the application of the rules of corporate governance defined by the Board of Directors and ensure that the information is given to shareholders on this subject; specify, where appropriate, the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code that are not applied and explain the reasons in an understandable, relevant and detailed manner; • propose the referral of the High Committee monitoring the application of the AFEP-MEDEF Code on any question relating to a provision or the interpretation of said code; • examine situations of potential conflicts of interest of members of the Company’s Board of Directors and communicate the results of its findings in accordance with an internal procedure which protects confidentiality; • give a technical opinion – with regard to the rules of ethics and governance applied by the Group – on the mandates and functions performed outside the Group by the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and, as the case may be, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers, at the time of their appointment and annually as part of the review of the information mentioned in the Universal Registration Document; • prepare, under the direction of the Chairperson of the Committee, in liaison with the Vice Chairman of the Board or a specially appointed director, the annual “restricted session” of the Board of Directors on its operation, without the presence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the executive members; ... 206 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE • give an opinion, in liaison with the Chairman of the Board, on the list of independent directors of the Board of Directors when appointing a director and annually for all directors; • make proposals to the Board for the establishment and structuring of Board Committees; • carry out, under the direction of the Chairperson of the Committee, a formal evaluation of the structure, size and composition of the Board, periodically and at least every three years, and make recommendations to the Board regarding any changes; • propose to the Board the appointment of a Director in charge of the relations of the Board with the shareholders, in coordination with the Investor Relations Department of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer; • if applicable, ensure the implementation of a mechanism to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling. It receives all of the information needed for this purpose; • also ensure that the executive officers implement a policy of non-discrimination and diversity, notably with regard to the balanced representation of women and men on the governing bodies. The Ethics and Governance Committee may hear, when it deems necessary, the Executive Management or its members, Internal Audit, the Ethics & Compliance Department or any other member of the Management team. These hearings can be held, if applicable, without Executive Management being present. Composition The Ethics and Governance Committee comprises at least three and no more than six directors, including at least one independent director as defined by the criteria set out above, selected among members of the Board of Directors, who are not executive Company officers. The Board appoints the Chairperson of the Committee from among its independent members. When voting on the Ethics and Governance Committee, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Ethics and Governance Committee meets at least twice a year when convened by its Chairperson.” The Ethics and Governance Committee is currently comprised – review of the third-party compliance program, of four members, one of whom is independent. – revision of the Code of conduct of the Group. Its members are: Additional information on this work is referred to under • Margaret Liu (Chairperson and independent member), Chapter 4 of this document. • Carol Xueref, • the review of the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors (review of the threshold of decisions submitted to the prior • Beech Tree SA (represented by Philippe Bonhomme), and authorization of the Board), • Jean-Marc Parant (Director representing the employees). • the review of the new mandates of certain Directors, During the 2019 financial year, Philippe Bonhomme was • the review of the questionnaires on conflicts of interests and member of the Committee. Beech Tree SA was coopted as mandates of Directors, member of the Committee by the Board of 6 January 2020, in replacement. • the preparation of the formalized evaluation process of the Board and its Committees, the call for tenders, the Activity of the Ethics and Governance Committee selection process, the preparation of the questionnaire, the The Committee met 4 times in 2019 with an attendance rate follow-up of the evaluation until remittance of the report. of 93%. Conclusions of the report on the evaluation of the Board and its Committees is presented in section 5.2.2.5 of this The Committee’s work focused mainly on: Document, above in the “Activity of the Board” section, • the work of Ethics & Compliance Department, in particular: • the monitoring of the balanced composition of the Board – review of the objectives of the Ethics & Compliance of Directors in conjunction with the Ethics and Governance Department, Committee, – review of the surveillance and formation programs, • the review of the Directors’ independence. – review of the follow-up and risks control plans, The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when – review of the anti-corruption program at a world and appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after national scales, each Committee meeting. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 207 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Compensation Committee Internal Rules of the Board on the missions of the Compensation Committee “Role The role of the Compensation Committee is to: • make proposals to the Board of Directors on all components of the compensation paid to the Group’s Company officers, senior management and senior executives; • be informed on all the matters pertaining to the recruitment of the Group’s main senior managers, other than the Chief Executive Officer, as well as on any decisions related to all components of their compensation; • issue recommendations on the amount and allocation of directors’ fees among Board members; • make recommendations to the Board of Directors on Group compensation policies and employee savings plans, employee share ownership schemes, stock options and bonus shares or any other similar forms of compensation. If it deems this is useful, the Compensation Committee may ask the Chairman of the Board to help in its deliberations and work, except when it is discussing the Chairman’s compensation. Composition The Compensation Committee comprises at least three and no more than six directors, including a half of independent directors as defined by the criteria set out above, selected among members of the Board of Directors who are not executive officers. The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee from among its members. When voting on the Compensation Committee, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Compensation Committee meets at least twice a year when convened by its Chairman, or at the request of the Chairman of the Board.” The Compensation Committee is currently comprised of four • the report on elements of the compensation policy for members, two of whom are independent. Corporate officers, Its members are: • the information on compensation policy of the Group, • Antoine Flochel (Chairman), • the reflection and implementation of granting of performance • Carol Stuckley (Independent member), and “restricted” shares to the Corporate officers and to • Piet Wigerinck (Independent member), and some employees of the Group, • Carol Xueref. • the reflection on the harmonization and evolution of the compensation and the retention policy within the Group, The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the Compensation Committee and give his opinion mainly on • the defined benefits and contributions retirement plans, as the compensation of the senior managers of the Group, the described in section 5.4 of this Document incentives and the performance share plans. • the financial terms of David Meek departure. Activity of the Compensation Committee The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when The Compensation Committee met 4 times in 2019 with an appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after attendance rate of 88%. each Committee meeting. The Committee’s work focused mainly on: • the determination of elements of the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and of the Chairman of the Board, The Audit Committee Internal Rules of the Board on the missions of the Audit Committee “Role The role of the Audit Committee is to: • ensure the relevance and permanence of the accounting policies used to prepare both the Company’s and the consolidated financial statements, review and assess the consolidation scope as well as evaluate and verify the relevance of the accounting methods applied to the Group; • examine, before they are presented to the Board, draft annual and interim financial statements, draft annual and half-yearly reports, draft forecasts and annual budgets as well as any financial and extra-financial accounting information relating to any significant project; to that end, the Audit Committee should be able to cooperate (by exchanging information and working jointly) with the Innovation and Development Committee and the Executive Management before a summary of their work is presented to the Board; ... 208 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE • examine, before they are presented to the Board, press releases on financial results and guidance, as well as the related presentations; • examine draft resolutions relating to the financial statements in order to make comments or suggestions, before they are presented to the Board; • control the quality of procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and extra-financial accounting information compliance with them, and assess the information received from management, internal committees and internal and external audits; • monitor the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems; • examine the risk exposure including those of a social and environmental nature and significant off-balance sheet commitments as well as the accounting options chosen; • manage the selection and reappointment of the Statutory Auditors (through tendering procedure and submitted to the Board), verify their independence, give an opinion on the amount of fees they request, and submit the results of its work to the Board; • examine the details and appropriateness of the fees paid by the Company and the Group to the Statutory Auditors and ensure that said fees and corresponding services are unlikely to affect the auditors’ independence; • authorize services, other than statutory audit work, that the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks may be asked to perform in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations; • conduct an annual review of the status of major disputes. In the performance of its tasks, the Audit Committee: • submits to the Board its proposals regarding the appointment, compensation or replacement of the Company’s Statutory Auditors; • reviews, with the management and the Company’s Statutory Auditors, the quarterly, interim and annual financial statements, the accounting principles and policies implemented, the Group’s audit and internal control principles and methods, risk management procedures and the analyses and reports relating to financial reporting, accounting policy and communications between management and the Company’s Statutory Auditors; • examines and checks the rules and procedures applicable to conflicts of interest, expenses incurred by members of the management and the identification and measurement of the main financial risks, as well as their application and submits its assessment every year to the Board; • examines, checks and assesses on an annual basis the independence, the control procedures and the problems encountered by the Company’s Statutory Auditors, as well as the measures adopted to solve said problems, and monitors in the same manner the way in which internal audit operates; • more generally, it examines, checks and assesses everything likely to affect the regularity and fairness of the financial statements. The Audit Committee ensures it is provided, and in sufficient time, namely approximately one week in advance of each Committee meeting, all the necessary or useful information to be able to carry out the above task and calls on everybody whose testimony is deemed necessary or useful with regard to said task. It may in particular have recourse to outside experts. During the annual and half-year accounts examination an Audit Committee’s meeting is held in a sufficient time prior to the examination and the financial statements by the Board of Directors, namely two days before the Board meeting. The Company refers to the AMF recommendation dated 22 July 2010 on the report of Audit Committees. Its functioning is yearly evaluated during the global evaluation of the Board of Directors. Moreover, its work is subject to a report. Composition The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three Directors and a maximum of six Directors, including two-thirds of independent directors with regard to the independence criteria referred to above, chosen from among Directors who are not executive officers. All members of the Audit Committee must have financial or accounting expertise. The Board appoints the Chairperson of the Committee from among its members. The Chairperson of the Committee is also an independent director. When voting on the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, when convened by its Chairman.” 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 209 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Audit Committee is currently comprised of three the Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Tax and the Head members, two of whom are independent. of Risk Management. A presentation was also prepared for the members of the Audit Committee by the Executive Vice Its members are: President, Chief Financial Officer, regarding the Company’s • Carol Stuckley (Chairperson and independent member), significant risks and off-balance-sheet commitments. • Paul Sekhri (Independent member), and The Committee’s activities primarily involved: • Beech Tree SA (represented by Philippe Bonhomme). • the review of the 2018 annual and consolidated financial statements, During the 2019 financial year, Philippe Bonhomme was member of the Committee. Beech Tree SA was coopted as • the review of the 2019 guidance, member of the Committee by the Board of 6 January 2020, • the review of the 2019 half-year financial statements, in replacement. • the review of the 5-year strategic plan, In accordance with the terms of Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial Code at least one member of the • the review of the 2019 internal audit report, the 2019 and Audit Committee must be independent and have finance, 2020 internal audit plan, and the work of the Group’s accounting or statutory audit expertise. Carol Stuckley and internal audit and of the internal control procedures, Paul Sekhri fulfill the independence and financial, accounting • the presentation and review of the Group financial and nonor statutory audit criteria given their professional experience financial risk mapping, as described above. Philippe Bonhomme is also competent in the financial, accounting and statutory audit fields. • the 2019 closing options, Activity of the Audit Committee • the 2020 budget review, The Audit Committee met 6 times in 2019 with an attendance • outlook 2022, rate of 100%. • the review of the approval of Audit related services and The Statutory Auditors were present at meetings regarding other services. the review of annual and half-yearly financial statements and presented the main aspects of the outcomes of the statutory The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when audit and of the chosen accounting methods. The Committee appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after heard, in particular, the Statutory Auditors, the Executive each Committee meeting. Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller, The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Internal Rules of the Board of Directors “Role The role of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care is to: • review the proposals presented by Management on internal Research & Development programs, Business Development and Merger & Acquisitions; • follow the update of the Business Development portfolio by therapeutic areas; • review divestiture programs if any to be endorsed later by the Board. To carry out its work, the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care may audition the Group’s senior executives, whether corporate officers or not. Composition The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care comprises the Chairman of the Board and five (5) other permanent members of the Board of Directors. The skill set required from the participating committee members are science, drug development, financial, legal. When voting on the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Board may also decide the existence of permanent guests to the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care.” 210 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Highrock S.àr.l was coopted as permanent guest of the Care is currently composed of six members, whose three are Committee by the Board of 6 January 2020, in replacement independent of Anne Beaufour. Its members are: Activity of the Innovation and Development Committee – • Marc de Garidel (Chairman); Specialty Care • Antoine Flochel; The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care met 9 times in 2019 with an attendance rate of 80%. • Margaret Liu (Independent member); • Michèle Ollier; The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care mainly worked during the year on: • Paul Sekhri (Independent member); and • the review of proposed acquisitions, in particular Clementia • Piet Wigerinck (Independent member). Phamaceuticals, Blueprint and integrations, Anne Beaufour, permanent representative of Highrock S.àr.l. • the review of partnerships and Group development, and Henri Beaufour are permanent guests of the Innovation • as well as the regular review of Group R&D pipeline. and Development Committee – Specialty Care. The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee meeting. The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Internal Rules of the Board of Directors “Role The role of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare is to: • review the proposals presented by Management on Business Development and Merger & Acquisitions, relating to Consumer HealthCare; • follow the update of the Consumer HealthCare portfolio; • review Consumer HealthCare divestiture programs if any to be endorsed later by the Board. To carry out its work, the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare may audition the Group’s senior executives, whether corporate officers or not. Composition The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare comprises the Chairman of the Board and two (2) other permanent members of the Board of Directors. When voting on the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare, the Chairman of the Committee does not have a casting vote. The Board may also decide the existence of permanent guests to the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare. The Committee meets at least twice (2) a year, when convened by its Chairman, or by a majority of its members. The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare, in replacement of Anne Beaufour as of 6 January Healthcare is currently composed of three members. 2020. Its members are: Activity of the Innovation and Development Committee – • Marc de Garidel (Chairman); Consumer HealthCare • Beech Tree SA (represented by Philippe Bonhomme); and The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer • Carol Xueref. HealthCare met 3 times in 2019 with an attendance rate of 100%. During the 2019 financial year, Philippe Bonhomme was member of the Committee. Beech Tree SA was coopted as During the year, the Innovation and Development Committee – member of the Committee by the Board of 6 January 2020, Consumer HealthCare mainly reviewed development projects in replacement. and worked on the adaptation of the Consumer HealthCare organization. Anne Beaufour, permanent representative of Highrock S.àr.l. and Henri Beaufour are permanent guests of the Innovation The activity of the Committee has been reported and, when and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare. appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee meeting. Highrock S.àr.l. was coopted as permanent guest of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 211 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 5.3 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 5.3.1 O  rganization and modus operandi of the Executive Management In accordance with legal provisions, the executive management effective since 18 July 2016, the date of the appointment of of the Company is assumed, under his responsibility, either David Meek as Chief Executive Officer. With this change in by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, then qualified as governance, Marc de Garidel became Chairman of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or by another individual of Directors. appointed by the Board of Directors and bearing the title On 17 December 2019, the Board of Directors acknowledged of Chief Executive Officer. The choice between these two David Meek’s resignation from his position as Chief Executive methods of exercising Executive Management is made by the Officer and Director with effect on 31 December 2019. Board of Directors for a period of not less than one year. The Board of Directors has decided to appoint Aymeric Le At its meeting of 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors Chatelier, Executive Vice President, Group Chief Financial changed the Company’s mode of governance by separating Officer as interim Chief Executive Officer, in replacement of the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and of David Meek, from 1 January 2020. Chief Executive Officer. The separation of functions has been 5.3.2 Executive Management ■ 5.3.2.1 Chief Executive Officer Provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors “Article 2.2 The Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: • The general conduct of the Company; • The chairmanship of the Executive Leadership Team; • The direction of the Company and the management of its operations; • To act in all circumstances with the broadest powers on behalf of the Company, subject to the powers that the law assigns to the Board of Directors or the General Meeting of Shareholders. Notwithstanding the above responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer is required to obtain the prior approval of the Board of Directors in the following cases: • Acquisition, licensing, disposal of assets or equity investments or off-balance sheet commitments within the framework of an approved strategy and which exceed a unit amount of €20 million of commitments; • Transfers of assets and/or shareholdings, partnerships or joint ventures and financial investments exceeding a unit amount of €20 million; • Any off-balance sheet transaction or commitment, which would be outside the approved strategic framework for the Company and whose financial impact exceeds €10 million; • Capital expenditures or divestments that exceed a unit amount of €20 million; • Strategic internal restructuring operations (in particular the reorganization and/or location of major industrial and commercial sites) that have a financial impact exceeding €20 million; • Financial transactions (including lease agreements) that are likely to modify the Company’s financial structure, the financial value of which exceeds €20 million; • Any new medium or long-term financing transaction of the Company and its subsidiaries, the financial value of which exceeds €50 million; or any drawdown of financing by the Company and its subsidiaries that would result in the ratio of (i) consolidated net debt to (ii) consolidated EBITDA exceeding two (2) times the ratio of (i) consolidated net debt to (ii) consolidated EBITDA set forth in the latest budget approved by the Board of Directors for the period under review; • Creation, acquisition or transfer of legal entities, when the total investment relating thereto exceeds €20 million; • Litigation, penalties, fines, out-of-court settlements, compromises that exceed €10 million. ... 212 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT In each of the above cases, the amounts referred to above must, for the same project, be assessed by aggregating all the steps and decisions relating to the same object or pursuing the same goal (whether the investment, divestment, acquisition, disposal, indebtedness or contract in question is carried out on one or more occasions by the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries). The Chief Executive Officer is authorised to attend all meetings of Committees of which he is not a member in an advisory capacity, and to consult such Committees on any matter within their area of competence.” Appointment and dismissal circumstances in the name and on behalf of the Company. When the Board of Directors chooses to separate the He exercises these powers within the limits of the corporate functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief purpose and subject to those powers expressly granted by Executive Officer, it shall appoint the Chief Executive Officer, law to the Shareholders’ Meetings and the Board of Directors. set the term of his office and, where applicable, determine the The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company in its limits to his powers. dealings with third parties. The Company shall be bound The Chief Executive Officer may be dismissed at any time by even by acts of the Chief Executive Officer that are not in the Board of Directors. When the Chief Executive Officer does the Company’s interest, unless it proves that the third party not assume the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors, knew that the act exceeded this interest or that it could his dismissal may give rise to damages if it is decided without not have been unaware of this fact in the circumstances, it just cause. being specified that the mere publication of the Articles of Association is not sufficient to constitute such proof. The Chief Executive Officer is subject to the provisions of Article L.225-94-1 of the French Commercial Code relating to However, for certain Business Development transactions, the the simultaneous holding of offices as Chief Executive Officer, Board of Directors has determined thresholds, specific and member of the Management Board, sole Chief Executive distinct from those listed below, for which the authorization of Officer, Director or member of the Supervisory Board of the Board, upon recommendation of the relevant Innovation public limited companies having their registered office on and Development Committee, will be required. French territory. As part of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer, who is a When the General Management is assumed by the Chairman member of the Board of Directors, meets regularly with the of the Board of Directors, the provisions relating to the Chief Company’s investors and reports to the Board of Directors. Executive Officer apply to him. Executive Management Powers At its meeting on 17 December 2019, the Board of Directors The Chief Executive Of ficer is vested by the Ar ticles appointed Aymeric Le Chatelier as Acting Chief Executive of Association with the broadest powers to act in all Officer. Aymeric Le Chatelier Nationality: Chief Executive Officer French Date of birth: Biography and experience 26 May 1969 Aymeric Le Chatelier was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2020, and retains Date of 1st appointment: the function of Executive Vice President, Group Chief Financial Officer, which he has held since Interim Chief Executive officer: 2014. 1 January 2020 Aymeric, a graduate from HEC Business School, started his career at Arthur Andersen. He successively executed several roles in finance in France and the United States at Veolia. He then joined Arjowiggins, a leading manufacturer of creative and technical paper, as Group Chief Financial Officer. He was subsequently appointed Financial Director of Enedis and member of the Management Board. Mandats en cours au sein du Groupe • Ipsen SA (France), Chief Executive Officer as at 1 January 2020 • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman as at 1 January 2020 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 213 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT David Meek was Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016 opened to investors and shareholders. During those sessions, until 31 December 2019. For more information about David they answered to questions of investors. The presentations Meek, please refer to section 5.2.2.3 of the present Document. are available on Ipsen website www.ipsen.com. For the purposes of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer is ■ 5.3.2.2 Executive Leadership Team domiciled at the Company’s registered office. To allow the Chief Executive Officer to conduct its missions, During 2019 financial year, as part of their duties, the Chief an Executive Leadership Team (“ELT”) that is responsible Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Investor for managing the Company’s day-to-day operations and for Relations Department met regularly with the Company’s coordinating the Group’s various scientific, legal, financial, investors, notably at the moment of the presentation of commercial, and strategic actions has been set up. The ELT the Company’s financial results. During these meetings, is also responsible for establishing consistent management they answered investors’ questions about the Company’s policies throughout the Group and for assisting the Chairman of business. They reported to the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors in implementing the Board’s decisions. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer presented every quarter the results of the Company, Composition of the Executive Leadership Team at the date of the Document The members of the ELT are currently as follows: Date of entry in the Name Function ELT Aymeric Le Chatelier Interim Chief Executive Officer 2020 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2014 Dominique Bery Executive Vice President, Strategy & Transformation 2018 François Garnier Executive Vice President, General Counsel 2015 Benoît Hennion Executive Vice President and President, Consumer HealthCare 2017 Steven Hildemann, M.D., PHD Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer 2020 Dominique Laymand Executive Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 2017 Howard Mayer, M.D. Executive Vice President, Head of Research & Development 2019 Régis Mulot Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2018 Aidan Murphy Executive Vice President, Technical Operations 2018 Richard Paulson Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen North America 2018 Biographies of ELT members can be found on the Company’s The members of the ELT hold an employment contract website www.ipsen.com. with the Group. There are no other agreements or service contracts entered into between the Company or one of its There are no family relationships between the members of the subsidiaries and one of the members of the Company’s ELT. ELT, nor with the members of the Board. Policy of non-discrimination and diversity To the Company’s best knowledge and as of the date of publication of this document, over the last five years, none of A policy of non-discrimination and diversity has been the members of the Executive Leadership Team have been: implemented within the Group, presented to the Board of Directors in 2018 and reviewed during the 2019 financial year. • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had For more information, please see chapter 4 of this document. any official public disciplinary action taken against them by statutory or regulatory authorities; In 2020, the Executive Management will present to the Ethics • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation as an and Governance Committee and to the Board its work, in executive officer or director; detail, in particular within the governing bodies in compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive or supervisory board member or from participating in the management of a listed company. 214 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 5.4 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 5.4.1 Compensation policy of Corporate Officers These elements of the compensation policy for Executive The compensation policy reflects the level of responsibility of Corporate Officers are in line, in terms of principles and the Corporate Officers and Senior executives. It is adapted to structure, with the policy approved by the Shareholders’ the Group context, remains competitive and is an incentive to Meeting of 28 May 2019. promote the Group’s performance over the medium to longterm, in compliance with the corporate interest and the interests In accordance with Article L.225-37-2, I of the French of all the stakeholders, and contributes to the commercial Commercial Code, this compensation policy also applies to strategy as well as the sustainability of the Company. The Directors of the Company. It was drawn up by the Board of compensation policy ensures that trends in the compensation Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation of Corporate Officers are taking into consideration trends Committee. in compensation for all Group employees, and those of the Company. For the decision-making process followed for The compensation policy with regard to Corporate officers determining and adjusting the compensation policy, the and their individual compensation is decided by the Board terms of compensation and employment of the Company’s of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation employees have been considered by the Compensation Committee, outside the presence of the Executive Corporate Committee and the Board of Directors, specifically the Officers concerned. information covered in Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code. In accordance with Article L.225-100 III of the French Commercial Code, compensation elements paid during the The compensation policy covers all aspects of the fixed, 2019 financial year or granted for the 2019 financial year to the variable and exceptional compensation and of the benefits of Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Chief Executive any kind, paid or granted by the Company. It is decided not Officer shall be submitted to the vote of the shareholders at only on the basis of the work carried out, the results obtained, the Annual Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in and the responsibility assumed, but also on the basis of 2020 to approve the financial statements for the financial year practices for comparable companies and the compensation ended on 31 December 2019, following a specific resolution of the Company’s other senior executives. for each element. The compensation of the Corporate Officers is structured as follows: ■ 5.4.1.1 General principles • fixed or base compensation; Ipsen is a dynamic and growing global specialty-driven biopharmaceutical group focused on innovation and Specialty • annual variable compensation (only for Executive Corporate Care that is improving people’s lives through differentiated and Officers); innovative medicines in Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare • if applicable, multi-annual variable compensation (only for Diseases. The strong position in Specialty Care, combined Executive Corporate Officers); with the presence in Consumer Healthcare, provides the • if applicable, exceptional compensations and/or financial Group with the scale, expertise and stability needed to make indemnity (only for Executive Corporate Officers); a sustainable difference for people in a quickly-evolving healthcare environment. • eligibility for compensation paid or granted to Directors; • allocation of stock options and performance shares under In this context, several elements are taken into consideration plans approved by the Board of Directors (only for Executive to determine the compensation policy: consistency, Corporate Officers); comparability with the Ipsen environment reference market, well balanced nature of its alignment with the Group strategy • if applicable, other benefits; and compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF code. • if applicable, payments, benefits and compensation granted to Executive Corporate Officers upon termination of their The compensation policy adopted by the Board of Directors functions. contains incentive elements that reflects the Group Strategy, • If applicable, retirement schemes. including the sustainable growth over the long term by acting in a responsible way, respecting the social interest. In the event that the Board of Directors decides to appoint one or more Deputy Chief Executive Officers, the compensation To determine the compensation policy, the Board of Directors policy applicable to the Chief Executive Officer would be takes into account the principles of completeness, balance, applicable to the Deputy Chief Executive Officers. comparability, consistency, clarity and proportionality as recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate In the event that the Board of Directors decides to combine Governance. the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 215 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS compensation policy applicable to the Chief Executive Officer the financial performance of the Group, accounting and fiscal would apply to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. impacts of the Corporate Officers and with the Chairman of the Board to study the strategy of the Group. ■ 5.4.1.2  ecision making process for setting, D The members of the Compensation Committee also revising and implementing the invite the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive compensation policy Officer to discuss their performance. An evaluation on the The compensation policy for Corporate Officers is set by performance of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation Officer is conducted every year, without their presence. The Committee. The Board of Directors refers to the AFEPconclusions of the evaluation are presented to them. MEDEF Code for the determination of the compensation In addition, to avoid or manage any conflict of interests, the and benefits granted to the executive and non-executive Board of Directors has implemented a policy which is detailed Corporate Officers. in the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors and presented Pursuant to the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, the in section 5.1 of this document. Directors, including the Compensation Committee has the following missions: Chairman of the Board of Directors and, where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer, must inform the Board of any • make proposals to the Board of Directors on all components conflict of interest situation, including a potential conflict of of the compensation paid to the Group’s corporate officers, interest, between themselves and the Company or the Group senior management and senior executives; and shall abstain from attending the debate and taking part in • be informed on all matters pertaining to the recruitment of any discussions and vote by the Board on the corresponding the Group’s main senior managers, other than the Chief deliberations. The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, as well as on the fixing and changing of Executive Officer, if a Director, do not participate and do any elements of their compensation; not take part in the Board’s deliberations on an element or commitment to their benefit. Moreover, a conflict of interests • issue a recommendation on the amount and allocation of questionnaire is also sent to all Directors each year, which compensations among Board members; they are required to complete and which is reviewed by the • make recommendations to the Board of Directors on Group Ethics and Governance Committee. compensation policies as well as employee savings plans, The remuneration policy is not subject to an annual review; employee share ownership schemes, stock options and however, certain terms and conditions for implementing the bonus shares or any other similar forms of compensation. policy are defined by the Board of Directors on an annual The Compensation Committee is composed of a minimum basis, such as the performance criteria applicable to the of three (3) Directors and a maximum of six (6) Directors, half annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer. of whom are Independent Directors with regard to the AFEPAfter consulting the Compensation Committee and, where MEDEF criteria by which the Company abides, chosen from appropriate, the other Specialized Committees, the Board among the Directors, other than the Executive Corporate of Directors may temporarily waive the compensation policy Officers. The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee of the Chief Executive Officer in the event of exceptional from among its members. circumstances and in the event that changes are made are If it deems useful, the Compensation Committee may ask the in line with social interest and necessary to guarantee the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer to help sustainability or viability of the Company. in its deliberations and work, except when it is discussing the The elements of compensation to which derogations may be compensation of these officers. made are the fixed compensation and the annual variable, The Compensation Committee meets at least twice (2 times) and the derogations may consist of an increase or a decrease a year, when convened by its Chairman, or at the request of in the compensation concerned. The events which could the Chairman of the Board. give rise to the use of this possibility of derogation from the compensation policy could be, without being limited to, When the Compensation Committee votes, the Chairman of exceptional external growth operations or a major change in the Committee does not have a casting vote. strategy. The members of the Compensation Committee are chosen for In addition, the comments of shareholders during the their technical skills, as well as for their good understanding Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2019 have been considered of the standards in force, emerging trends and practices of by the Company and the Board of Directors in determining the the Company. compensation policy. To carry out their mission, the members of the Committee regularly invite the Executive Vice President, Chief Human ■ 5.4.1.3 Components of the compensation of Resources Officer, to attend some meetings in order to corporate officers present the Group compensation policy and review the (a) Compensation policy for directors compensation policy to Corporate Officers. The Board of Directors decided at its meeting of 10 November In addition, the Chairman of the Committee, who is also the 2009, with effect from the 2010 financial year, and within Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may exchange with the global limit of €1,200,000 approved by the Combined the Chairperson of the Audit Committee to study in particular Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017 (until new 216 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS decision), to allocate a compensation to the Board members compensation components applicable to the Chairman of the as follows: Board, taking into consideration the Group environment, the scope of responsibilities, the Chairman’ prior positioning and • each member of the Board of Directors receives an amount service within the Group if applicable, and any other factors of €40,000 for a full year of service, that would be relevant in the context of the Group. • the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors receives an b. Base compensation additional amount of €50,000 for a full year of service, Base compensation takes into account the reference markets • the members of Committees of the Board receive an of Ipsen, in particular in the pharmaceutical industry, and amount of €15,000 for a full year of service, companies with similar size and environment, both in France, • the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee and of the Europe and the US given the international footprint of Ipsen Compensation Committee receive an additional amount of and its strategy to be a global biopharmaceutical company €35,000 for a full year of service, focusing on Innovation and Specialty Care. It is subject to be reviewed by the Board of Directors, typically at relatively long • the Chairpersons of the Nominations Committee, the intervals, according to the Company’s market position and Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care taking account changing responsibilities. and Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare and the Ethics and Governance Committee c. Variable compensation receive an additional amount of €20,000 for a full year of The Board of Directors has decided that no annual or multiservice, annual variable compensation shall be paid or granted to the • each Director who is a member of at least one Committee non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. shall receive an additional amount of €5,000 for a full year d. Exceptional compensation and/or financial indemnity of service. The non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors shall The Board of Directors can decide to allow an additional not receive any exceptional compensation and/or financial amount of €5,000 for intercontinental travel to attend a indemnity. meeting of the Board. e. Compensation as a Director The Board of Directors has decided on 13 December 2017 to implement a variability system related to effective The Corporate Officers who are members of the Board of attendance based upon the number of absences at the Directors may, where appropriate, upon recommendation of annual meetings of the Board and the Committees, breaking the Compensation Committee, and by decision of the Board down as follows: of Directors, receive a compensation granted on the basis of their positions as Directors according to the rules applicable • payment of a fixed propor tion (40%) at the end of to all of the Directors. 1st half-year; f. Stock options and performance shares • payment of the variable proportion (60%) at the end of 2 nd half-year af ter taking into account the ef fective In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEPattendance at the Board and Committee meetings over MEDEF Code, the non-executive Chairman of the Board of the year. Directors shall not benefit from stock option or performance share plans. Pursuant to the Company’s bylaws, the Board of Directors may award exceptional compensation to Directors for the g. Other benefits missions or mandates entrusted to them; as appropriate, the The Chairman of the Board may also be awarded benefits Statutory Auditors are notified of such compensation, which is in respect of his duties carried out within Ipsen, including: submitted for approval to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. benefits in kind (company car, temporary accommodation Moreover, the Director representing the employees shall not and school fees), assistance for the preparation and filing receive any compensation in his/her capacity as Director. of personal income tax returns, global healthcare coverage He/she has an open-ended employment contract with a (health coverage and death/disability insurance) under the subsidiary of the Company, including terms of advance notice Group’s contract, reimbursement of travel expenses and and cancellation, in accordance with regulations. expenses incurred with the exercise of their corporate duties, and D&O liability insurance. Additionally, the term of office for Directors is mentioned in 5.1 of this document. h. Severance payment The Chairman may benefit from a severance payment clause, (b) Chairman of the Board granted in the event of termination of his duties, of which a. Allocation of the various compensation components the terms have been decided by the Board of Directors in The compensation policy is decided by the Board of Directors, accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, Code: outside the presence of the Chairman. • payment granted only in the event of a forced departure The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Compensation Commit tee, determines the relevant Code; 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 217 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS • equal to 24 months of gross fixed compensation paid for (c) E  xecutive Corporate Officers, the Chief Executive his duties; Officer • the granting of which is subject to maintenance of the a. Allocation of the various compensation components recurring operating margin of the Group for 2017 and The compensation policy is decided by the Board of Directors, 2018, at a rate of at least 15%, and, as from 2019 and for upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, subsequent years, maintenance of the operating margin for outside the presence of the Chief Executive Officer. the Group’s activities at a rate of at least 20%; and The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the • including, for a portion equal to 50% of its total, the amount Compensation Commit tee, determines the relevant payable in consideration for the non-compete clause of the compensation components applicable to the Chief Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. Officer, taking into consideration the Group environment, the scope of responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer’s prior i. Non-compete payment positioning and service within the Group, if applicable, and The Company has concluded a non-compete agreement any other factors that would be relevant in the context of the with the Chairman of the Board in case of departure from Group. the Group for a reason other than a change of control. This Furthermore, it is specified, for practical purposes, that some agreement shall be valid for a certain period following the date of the components below are not applicable to the current of his actual departure. Interim Chief Executive Officer, since the latter is under an open-ended employment contract with the Company for his The non-compete payment may not exceed a ceiling of two functions as Chief Financial Officer. An explanation of this years of base compensation, including, if applicable, the point is included in 5.1.2 of this document. amount owed as a severance payment, for up to 50%. b. Base compensation j. Retirement Schemes Base compensation takes into account the reference markets Executive Corporate Officers may benefit from definedof Ipsen, in particular in the pharmaceutical industry, and contribution plans or defined-benefit retirement plans, companies with similar size and environment, both in France, which benefit the Company’s executives more broadly, in Europe and the US given the international footprint of Ipsen accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. and its strategy to be a global biopharmaceutical company focusing on Innovation and Specialty Care. It is subject to be Pursuant to the PACTE Law No. 2019-486 of 22 May reviewed by the Board of Directors, typically at relatively long 2019 and Ordinance No. 2019-697 of 3 July 2019 on intervals, according to the Company’s market position and supplementary pension plans, the defined-benefit pension taking account changing responsibilities. plan described below can no longer grant a right to acquire supplementary conditional rights as from 1 July 2019. This compensation component is applied to the current On that date, it was also closed to new members of the Interim Chief Executive Officer. Company. c. Annual variable compensation This retirement scheme was implemented unilaterally by the Annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s Company in 2005 and adopted in a set of regulations. An overall performance and to the achievement of Executive open collective scheme not intended for specific individuals Corporate Officers’ personal targets. Every year, the Board of has been established. It specifies the rights and obligations of Directors defines and precisely predetermines qualitative and the relevant individuals in the Company. quantifiable criteria for determining the variable compensation and the target objectives. Quantifiable criteria are preponderant The establishment of non-vested rights is based on the level to the determination of total variable compensation and a limit of liability accrued in the Company’s books at 30 June 2019, is set on the qualitative part. i.e. the Projected Benefits Obligations, PBO. Annual variable compensation is set on the basis of a Establishment of the rights involves freezing the calculation target variable compensation equal to 100% of the base of the defined-benefits pension at the level of the PBO at the compensation, within a range between 0 and 200%, in closing date. No further rights were granted after the scheme case of under or overperformance. The annual variable was closed. compensation is based on the following quantifiable and At the same time, an additional collective defined-contribution qualitative performance criteria: two-thirds of this target plan (“Article 83”) was established as from 1 July 2019. Under bonus are based on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting, i.e. this plan, fully funded by the Company, executives may achievement of consolidated net sales levels, core operating build up a supplementary retirement pension with a certain income, earnings per share and cash flow; the remainder contribution percentage of the total compensation in cash is based on qualitative criteria, split into three categories: (annual base and variable compensation). Strategy/Business, Management and Social Responsibility. The Strategy/Business category includes targets supporting To manage several types of situations, a defined-contribution the Company’s long-term mission and goals; Management plan with individual rights was established (“Article 82”). includes corporate management targets to support the annual Under this scheme, fully funded by the Company, a custom execution of the strategy defined by the Board of Directors; amount to be outsourced to an insurance company can be and Social Responsibility includes objectives supporting determined, on an individual basis. the corporate social responsibility strategy as developed 218 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS through three pillars: employees, patients and society, and the Company’s financial position at 31 December of each environment. year. The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compe ns ation Commit te e, dete r mine s the leve l of This compensation component is applied to the current achievement of these performance criteria, with respect to Interim Chief Executive Officer. Potential variation Criteria Weight of the portion Consolidated net sales 1/6 0% to 200% Core operating income 1/6 0% to 200% Performance indicators Cash flows 1/6 0% to 200% Earnings per share 1/6 0% to 200% Quantifiable objectives 2/3 0% to 200% Qualitative objectives 1/3 0% to 200% Total 100% 0% to 200% d. Multi-annual variable compensation company outside the Group, in order to offset the loss of the benefits they received previously. The Board of Directors may decide to grant multi-annual variable compensation to the Chief Executive Officer and This compensation component is not applied to the current certain managing executives of the Group as part of plans Interim Chief Executive Officer. approved by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee; it is determined on the basis g. Compensation as a Director of a percentage of base compensation. The Corporate Officers who are members of the Board of Directors may, where appropriate, upon recommendation of These plans are subject to a presence condition and, if the Compensation Committee, and by decision of the Board applicable, precisely predetermined performance conditions of Directors, receive a compensation granted on the basis of which must be fulfilled during an acquisition period set by their positions as Directors according to the rules applicable the Board of Directors. Nevertheless, in the event of death, to all of the Directors. disability, retirement or exception granted by the Board of Directors before the end of the acquisition period, the h. Stock options and performance shares beneficiary may retain his rights. The details of the external Executive Corporate Officers as well as certain managing and internal criteria and the completion levels (expected and executives of the Group may benefit from stock options realized) of the external and internal criteria are not disclosed and/or performance shares under plans approved and set for confidentiality reasons. each year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee. In accordance with This compensation component is not applied to the current the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations (§25.2), nonInterim Chief Executive Officer. executive officers shall not benefit from stock option and/or e. Exceptional compensation and/or financial indemnity performance shares plans. The Board of Directors may decide, in case of specific The definitive number of stock options that will be granted to circumstances or events, to grant exceptional compensation Executive Corporate Officers, will depend upon the level of to the Chief Executive Officer. The grant of exceptional achievement of the performance conditions set by the Board compensation will be calculated based on the total annual of Directors, based on one or several internal criteria. compensation and should not exceed a certain number of The definitive number of performance shares that will be months of this total compensation. vested will depend upon the level of achievement of the It can decide to grant an exceptional compensation and/or an performance conditions set by the Board of Directors, which exceptional financial indemnity to the Chief Executive Officer are based on one or several internal criteria (e.g., quantifiable while taking into account the specific circumstances in which financial ratio) and on one or several external criteria (e.g., he carries out his duties. share price compared to a benchmark of comparable companies). Each of these conditions shall be assessed by This compensation component is not applied to the current comparing the target threshold and the actual performance Interim Chief Executive Officer. of the Company over the period used as reference for the applicable plan. Each of these conditions may generate a f. Special financial indemnity payout varying within a range between zero to a certain The Board of Directors may grant a special financial indemnity percentage pre-established and determined by the Board of to a new Executive Corporate Officer coming in from a Directors at the implementation of the plan. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 219 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS The Board of Directors decided that the Corporate Officers Payments, benefits and compensation granted to must retain, until the end of their term of office, a number of Executive Corporate Officers upon termination of their shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would functions be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from the j. Severance payment exercise of stock options and/or from the performance shares. Executive Corporate Officers may benefit from a severance payment clause, granted in the event of termination of their The total number of free shares allocated shall not exceed duties, of which the terms have been decided by the Board 3% of the share capital on the date of the Shareholders’ of Directors in accordance with the recommendations of the Meeting that authorised the Board to proceed with the share AFEP-MEDEF Code: grants, with the specification that the total number of shares to which the holders of options that may be granted by the • payment due only in the event of a forced departure (départ Board of Directors are entitled shall be applied against that contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, ceiling. • in an amount corresponding to 24 months’ gross The total number of free shares that may be granted to compensation (fixed plus annual variable) in respect of his Corporate Officers of the Company shall not exceed 20% term of office, of this budget, and vesting shall be subject to performance conditions set by the Board of Directors. • the granting of which is subject to maintenance of the recurring operating margin of the Group for 2017 and 2018 The shares granted to recipients shall be final at the end of a at a rate of at least 15%, and, as from 2019 and for the vesting period, for which the term shall be set by the Board subsequent years, maintenance of the operating margin of of Directors at not less than two years, with the specification, the Group’s business at 20% or more, and however, that the vesting period for Executive Corporate Officers shall not be less than three years. The Board of • which includes, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount, Directors may stipulate a retention requirement at the end of that due in respect of any non-compete undertaking by the the vesting period. Chief Executive Officer, Nevertheless, in the event of death, disability, retirement or This compensation component is not applied to the current change of control granted by the Board of Directors before the Interim Chief Executive Officer. end of the acquisition period, the beneficiary or, if applicable, k. Non-compete payment its assignees, can keep their rights. The Board of Directors may conclude a non-compete The Executive Corporate Officers who are beneficiaries of agreement with the Chief Executive Officer in case of these stock options and/or performance shares undertook departure from the Group for a reason other than a change a formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions of control. This agreement shall be valid for a certain period either on their options or on shares issued following the following the date of departure. exercise of options or on performance shares granted until the end of the holding period that has been decided by the The non-compete payment may not exceed a ceiling of Board of Directors. two years of compensation (base and annual variable), including, if applicable, the amount of a severance payment, The Board of Directors has established periods preceding up to 50%. the publication of half-yearly and annual financial statements and sales figures during which it is not permitted to carry out This compensation component is not applied to the current any transaction on Company shares and has established the Interim Chief Executive Officer. following procedure: l. Retirement Schemes • the dates of the blackout periods for each financial year are The Executive Corporate Officers may benefit from defined communicated at the beginning of each year and before contribution plans or defined benefit plan which more broadly each blackout period; benefits the Company’s executives, in accordance with the • outside blackout periods, an identified person must be AFEP-MEDEF Code. consulted to ensure that no insider information is held. Pursuant to PACTE Law No. 2019-486 of 22 May 2019 i. Other benefits and Ordinance No. 2019-697 of 3 July 2019 on additional pension schemes, the defined benefit pension plan described The Chief Executive Officer may also be awarded benefits below can no longer grant a right to acquire supplementary in respect of his duties carried out within Ipsen, including: conditional rights as from 1 July 2019. It was also closed to benefits in kind (company car and temporary accommodation, new joiners in the Company at the same date. school fees), assistance for the preparation and filing of personal income tax returns, global healthcare coverage This retirement scheme was implemented unilaterally by the (mutual and life/disability schemes) under the Group’s company in 2005 and adopted in a set of regulations. A group contracts, reimbursement of travel expenses and expenses scheme has been set up that is not restricted to specific incurred with the exercise of their corporate duties, D&O individuals, and determines the rights and obligations of the liability insurance. persons concerned within the Company. 220 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS The establishment of the non-vested rights is based on the to build a supplementary retirement pension with a certain level of liability in the Company’s registers on 30 June 2019, percentage of contribution of total cash remuneration (annual i.e the Projected Benefits Obligations (“PBO”). base compensation and variable). The establishment of the rights implies freezing the calculation To manage several types of situations, a defined contribution of the Defined Benefits pension at the level of the PBO as of scheme with individual rights (“Article 82”) was set up. the closure date. No further rights are granted post closure Under this scheme, fully funded by the Company, a custom of the plan. amount to be outsourced to an insurance company can be determined, on an individual basis. In parallel, an additional collective Defined Contribution scheme (“Article 83”) was set up from 1 July 2019. This This compensation component is not applied to the current scheme, fully funded by the Company, allows Executives Interim Chief Executive Officer. 5.4.2 C  ompensation of Corporate Officers (Articles L.225-100 II and L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) ■ 5.4.2.1 Compensation of the board members • each Director who is a member of at least one Committee shall receive an additional amount of €5,000 for a full year The Board of Directors decided at its meeting of 10 November of service. 2009, with effect from the 2010 financial year, and within the global limit of €1,200,000 approved by the Combined The Board of Directors can decide to allow an additional Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017 (until new decision), amount of €5,000 for intercontinental travel to attend a to allocate a compensation to the Board members as follows: meeting of the Board. • each member of the Board of Directors receives an amount The Board of Directors has decided on 13 December 2017 to of €40,000 for a full year of service, implement a variability system related to effective attendance • the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors receives an based upon the number of absences at the annual meetings additional amount of €50,000 for a full year of service, of the Board and the Committees, breaking down as follows: • the members of Committees of the Board receive an • payment of a fixed propor tion (40%) at the end of amount of €15,000 for a full year of service, 1st half-year; • the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee and of the • payment of the variable proportion (60%) at the end of Compensation Committee receive an additional amount of 2 nd half-year af ter taking into account the ef fective €35,000 for a full year of service, attendance at the Board and Committee meetings over • the Chairpersons of the Nominations Committee, the Innovation the year. and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Innovation The following table shows the amounts paid during the and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare and 2018 and 2019 financial years and awarded for those same the Ethics and Governance Committee receive an additional financial years. amount of €20,000 for a full year of service, Individual amount and other compensation paid or granted to Directors (gross amounts – rounded) (Table 3 of AMF recommendations) Directors Amounts granted Amounts paid (*) Amounts granted Amounts paid (*) for 2018 in 2018 for in 2019 in 2019 Marc de Garidel (1) – Compensation as Director – – – – – Other compensation see section 5.4.2.2 see section 5.4.2.2 see section 5.4.2.2 see section 5.4.2.2 Anne Beaufour – Compensation as Director €40,732 €62,532 €48,320 €39,200 – Other compensation – – – – Henri Beaufour – Compensation as Director €32,515 €49,266 €33,040 €29,249 – Other compensation – – – – Philippe Bonhomme (2) – Compensation as Director €32,515 €21,303 €115,000 €92,834 – Other compensation – – – – (*) Amounts paid on a half-year basis in arrears (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the half-year, if applicable. The variability system of the directors’ fees has been applicable since 1 January 2018. (1) Marc de Garidel does not receive any compensation as Director. It is stated that the compensation elements of Marc de Garidel paid or granted as Chairman of the Board of Directors are presented at section 5.4.2.2 of this document. (2) Director since 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees have been calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 221 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Directors Amounts granted Amounts paid (*) Amounts granted Amounts paid (*) for 2018 in 2018 for in 2019 in 2019 Hervé Couffin (3) – Compensation as Director €28,656 €66,156 – – – Other compensation – – – – Antoine Flochel – Compensation as Director €165,000 €144,000 €168,845 €170,000 – Other compensation – – – – Margaret Liu – Compensation as Director €111,835 €102,234 €120,000 €110,101 – Other compensation – – – – Pierre Martinet (3) – Compensation as Director €40,985 €95,985 – – – Other compensation – – – – Mayroy SA (3) – Compensation as Director €29,373 €53,072 €6,301 €6,301 – Other compensation – – – – David Meek (4) – Compensation as Director – – – – – Other compensation cf. section 5.4.2.3 cf. section 5.4.2.3 cf. section 5.4.2.3 cf. section 5.4.2.3 Michèle Ollier – Compensation as Director €65,826 €63,358 €67,360 €68,968 – Other compensation – – – – Jean-Marc Parant (5) – Compensation as Director – – – – – Other compensation – – – – Hélène Auriol-Potier(3) – Compensation as Director €32,902 €80,402 – – – Other compensation – – – – Paul Sekhri (2) – Compensation as Director €62,203 €22,752 €100,560 €85,451 – Other compensation – – – – Carol Stuckley – Compensation as Director €114,589 €95,427 €135,000 €118,162 – Other compensation – – – – Christophe Vérot (3) – Compensation as Director €28,656 €66,156 – – – Other compensation – – – – Piet Wigerinck (2) – Compensation as Director €49,382 €17,752 €66,245 €61,630 – Other compensation – – – – Carol Xueref – Compensation as Director €111,392 €75,082 €122,838 €128,810 – Other compensation – – – – Total – Compensation as Director €946,560 (6) €1,015 477 (6) €977,208 (6) €910,705 (6) – Other compensation – – – – (*) Amounts paid on a half-year basis in arrears (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the half-year, if applicable. The variability system of the directors’ fees has been applicable since 1 January 2018. (1) Marc de Garidel does not receive any compensation as Director. It is stated that the compensation elements of Marc de Garidel paid or granted as Chairman of the Board of Directors are presented at section 5.4.2.2 of this document. (2) Director since 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees have been calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. (3) Director until 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees have been calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. (4) David Meek didn’t receive any compensation as Director. It is stated that the compensation elements of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 are presented at section 5.4.2.2 of this document. (5) Jean-Marc Parant has been designated Director representing the employees by the Works Council on 27 November 2018 and doesn’t receive any compensation relating to his mandate. It is stressed that he holds an employment contract within the Group and as such receives compensation that is unrelated to the exercise of his mandate. As a result, this compensation is not communicated. (6) The amounts shown are gross amounts. Directors received a net amount after withholding of 12.8% was applied in 2019 for foreign tax residents and 30% for French residents. 222 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS ■ 5.4.2.2 C  ompensation of the Chairman of the 2019, in respect of his term of office as Chairman of the Board Board of Directors, comply with the compensation policy approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 28 May 2019 in its tenth For financial year 2019, the compensation elements of ordinary resolution. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, were determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation Furthermore, the compensation policy applicable to Marc de of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on Garidel, in respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board, was 28 March 2018. These elements take into account both duties determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of Marc de Garidel: his duties as Chairman of the Board of of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on Directors of Ipsen and his duties as Chief Executive Officer of 13 February 2019 and will be the subject of a resolution Corvidia Therapeutics Inc., a company organized and existing submitted to the approval of the next Shareholders’ Meeting. under American law based in the United States of America. Furthermore, it is specified that the Chairman of the Board of In accordance with the articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of Directors does not receive variable compensation nor multithe French Commercial Code, the compensation elements annual variable compensation, subscription or purchase paid during the financial year ended 31 December 2019 or options nor performance shares. granted to Marc de Garidel for the year ended 31 December A. S  ummary tables of compensations, options and shares granted to Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board a. Summary table of compensations, options and performance shares Total amount of compensations, options and performance shares granted for 2019 (table 1 of the AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2018 Financial Year 2019 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors Compensation due for the year (see details below) 654,270 600,000 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance shares granted during the year – – Total 654,270 600,000 b. Summary table of compensations (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) Total amount of the compensations for 2019 financial year 2018 2019 (gross rounded amount – in euros) Amounts granted Amounts paid Montants attribués Amounts paid Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors Base compensation 650,000 (1) 650,000 (1) 600,000 (2) 600,000 (2) Annual variable compensation – – – – Multi-annual variable compensation – – – – Exceptional compensation – – – – Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind (3) 4,270 4,270 – – Totaux 654,270 654,270 600,000 600,000 (1) The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 28 March 2018 has redefined Marc de Garidel’s missions as Chairman of the Board of Directors following his new duties as Chief Executive Officer of Corvidia Therapeutics Inc. The amount of his gross base compensation for 2018 has been amounted to €600,000, prorata temporis basis from 1 April 2018. For further information on the role and duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, see section 5.1 of this document. (2) The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 28 May 2019, confirmed the base compensation of Marc de Garidel to an annual amount unchanged at €600,000. For further information, see section 5.1.1. (3) Benefits in kind are defined in section B hereunder “Other benefits”. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 223 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS B. D etails of the compensation elements granted to Compensation as a Director Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has decided that Marc de Garidel will The compensation of the Chairman is determined by the Board not receive any compensation as a Director in respect of his of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation office as Chairman of the Board of the Company. The Board Committee. of Directors, on 28 May 2019, recalled that no compensation as a Director will be paid or granted to Marc de Garidel as For the 2019 financial year, the Board of Directors, upon part of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, Company. at its meeting held on 28 March 2018, the compensation elements of Marc de Garidel in respect of his duties as Stock options and performance shares Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has decided that Marc de Garidel will It is recalled that Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief not receive any stock options and/or performance shares in Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors, on 28 May 2019, recalled that no stock options Base compensation and/or performance shares will be paid or granted to Marc Base compensation is subject to be reviewed by the Board de Garidel as part of his duties as Chairman of the Board of of Directors according to the Company’s market position and Directors of the Company. taking into account changing responsibilities. Other benefits The Company Board of Directors, at its meeting of 28 March Marc de Garidel receives benefits resulting from the 2018, approved an amendment of the specific missions conditions linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen. of Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors, The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 May 2019, linked to his functions as Chief Executive Officer of Corvidia upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, Therapeutic Inc., and reviewed consequently the amount redefined Marc de Garidel’s benefits. The detail of those of his base compensation (for more information, see benefits is as follows: section 5.1 of this Document). Upon recommendation of the • assistance for the preparation and filing of personal income Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors fixed the tax returns, in relation to his Ipsen compensation in France; base compensation of Marc de Garidel to an annual gross • access to a car driver pool for travel in relation to his Ipsen amount of €600,000 previously fixed at €800,000. For 2018, functions; this amount has been paid in a prorata temporis basis as of 1 April 2018. • D&O liability insurance consistent with the D&O liability insurance of the Ipsen Group; The Shareholders’ Meeting held on 28 May 2019 renewed • reimbursement of professional expenses incurred in relation the office of Marc de Garidel as a Director for a duration to the exercise of his duties at Ipsen, of 4 years. The Board of Directors held after this Meeting also renewed him in his duties as Chairman of the Board • administrative support provided by the Ipsen executive of Directors, Chairman of the Innovation and Development assistants of the Company in relation to his duties at Ipsen. Committee – Specialty Care and Chairman of the Innovation Payments, benefits and compensation granted or to and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare, for the be granted to Marc de Garidel upon termination of his duration of his office as a Director. functions within the Group In compliance with the compensation policy applicable to In accordance with Ipsen policy and in accordance with the the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ipsen approved AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2019 in its tenth held on 8 July 2016, decided to grant Marc de Garidel: ordinary resolution, and in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF • a severance payment, Code, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, also confirmed the base • the benefit of a defined benefit additional pension scheme compensation of Marc de Garidel to an annual amount existing within the Company, unchanged at €600,000. • a compensation under a non-compete agreement. Annual variable compensation These payments and benefits that may be owed to the The Board of Directors has decided that Marc de Garidel will Chairman in connection upon termination of his duties replace not receive any variable compensation in respect of his duties those previously granted in respect of his duties as Chairman as Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors of on 28 May 2019, recalled that no variable compensation will 11 October 2010. be paid or granted to Marc de Garidel as part of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Board of Directors, on 28 May 2019, decided to modify the conditions under which Marc de Garidel could benefit from Multi-annual variable compensation a severance pay, in compliance with the recommendations of The Board of Directors has decided that Marc de Garidel will the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: not receive any multi-annual variable compensation in respect • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the Company. AFEP-MEDEF Code, 224 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS • of an amount equal to 24 months of gross annual fixed Compensation Committee. The number of shares vested compensation paid for his duties as Chairman of the Board, shall depend on whether applicable performance conditions are met. • the grant of which is subject to the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least For the record, in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief 15% for 2017 and 2018, and, from 2019 and the subsequent Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Marc de Garidel benefited years, to the maintaining of the core operating margin of the from options described below. Group at a rate of at least 20%, and In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§25.2), no stock • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, options and/or performance shares have been granted to the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete Marc de Garidel, in respect of his office as Chairman of the undertaking of Marc de Garidel. Board, since 18 July 2016. Details of these commitments are given below (see section D. a. Subscription or purchase options granted to Marc below). de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 C. S  ubscription and/or purchase options and performance shares granted to Marc de Garidel, Subscription or purchase options granted during the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2019 financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) 2016 No options were granted to the Chairman, Marc de Garidel, Executive directors and other senior executives of the during the 2019 financial year. Group can be awarded stock options and/or performance Summary of the subscription or purchase options of shares in the scope of the plans approved and set every Ipsen shares granted year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the For further details, see section 5.2.2.3. Number Quantity Nature des Date Date de début Date of options Date of grant granted options d’exercice exercice d’expiration granted Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 121,180 (2) Options de €25.01 01/07/2015 30/06/2019 121,180 (3) Chairman of the souscription Board of Directors (1) Totaux 121,180 (1) (1) Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) Marc de Garidel exercised 121,180 options on 3 November 2016. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-185 of Subscription or purchase options exercised during 2019 the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its (Table 5 of the AMF recommendations) meetings held on 30 June 2011, established rules requiring No options were exercised by Marc de Garidel during the the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to retain a number 2019 financial year. of shares resulting from options, until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would Summary of performance shares granted be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from option Marc de Garidel did not benefit from performance shares shares. during the 2019 financial year. The table below describes the total of performance shares granted to Marc de Garidel as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1). For further details, see Table 10, section 5.6.1.3.2. Number of Quantity Definitive acquisition shares to be Corporate Officer Date of grant granted date Date of availability held Marc de Garidel 01/04/2015 12,588 (2)(3) 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 20% capital Chairman and Chief gain net of Executive Officer until acquisition 18 July 2016 (1) 31/05/2016 5,070 (2)(3) 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 (5) value Total 17,658 (4) (1) Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) As part of the separation of the functions, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016 decided that Marc de Garidel, in proportion to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, would continue to benefit from and (i) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 (for the 2015 and 2016 financial years) as well as (ii) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance shares granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted to 5,070 shares (27.35% or 5,070 shares). (4) Representing 0.1% of the share capital on 31 December 2019. (5) 50% of shares became available on 1 June 2018 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 225 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of Performance shares that have become available the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its during the 2019 financial year (Table 7 of AMF meetings held on 30 June 2011, 30 March 2012, 28 March recommendations) 2013, 27 March 2014, 1 April 2015 and 31 May 2016 established Number of rules requiring the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to Date shares that became retain a number of shares resulting from performance shares, Corporate Officer granted available until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of the net Marc de Garidel capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares Chairman of the 01/04/2015 (3) 12,588 (2) resulting from performance shares. Board of Directors (1) Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until (1) Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, undertook a formal commitment not to engage 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. in hedging transactions either on his options or on shares (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) 7,681 shares were acquired after application of the achievement of issued following the exercise of options or on performance the in consideration of the Group’s performance. 50% of the shares shares granted until the end of the holding period that has becoming available during the 2018 financial year. The balance will been decided by the Board of Directors. be available on 1 June 2020. D. Summary of commitments made to Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Payments or benefits granted or to be granted Compensation in connection with the under Employment Additional pension termination or change of a non-compete contract scheme functions clause Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Marc de Garidel X X X X Employment contract Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, does not have any the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times employment contract. the PASS. The reference compensation is the average of the total gross Retirement scheme compensation received for a full time position (bonus included) Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, may potentially during the last 36 months preceding the end of the contract benefit from the defined benefit additional pension scheme and/or corporate mandate. Severance payments, expense of the Company pursuant to the decision of the Board of reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more broadly benefits the company’s executives. Seniority is limited to 40 years. The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in the plan. • a minimum 5-year service, The annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed • claiming Social Security pension at a full rate, 45% of their base and variable compensation. • the termination of any professional activity with the The potential rights are financed by non-individualized Company at the date of the liquidation of basic and premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums additional pensions. are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the contribution set forth in article L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement Security Code at the rate of 24%. or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or For Marc de Garidel, the amount of the annual pension 3rd category of disability. established, as of 31 December 2019, is estimated at €49,527. Furthermore, in case of death of the beneficiary during The closure of the Defined Benfit scheme in 2019, induces retirement, the potential right to widow or widower’s pension for Marc de Garidel a decrease of his expected pension is maintained. below the level calculated in 2016. This pension should progressively amount to a level comparable to the one In accordance with the regulations, the grant of this additional preceding his appointment as Chairman, should he leave pension scheme shall be subject to a performance condition, on 31 December of the year of his 62nd birthday (see 2015 since 2019, the level of the core operating margin of the Group Registration Document). during the three years preceding departure at a minimum threshold of 20%. Therefore, it was proposed to set up an additional individual Defined Contribution plan (“Art 82”) to fill the gap between The pension is calculated at a rate of 0.6% per year of seniority the Defined Benefit pension after crystallization and the level to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the calculated in 2016. This would be paid at time of retirement, 226 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS and in no event before November 2020. The retirement is • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, being qualified as (1) having vested full rights under the French the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete social security system (“retraite à taux plein”) and (2) not being undertaking of Marc de Garidel. a “mandataire social” (corporate officer) of Ipsen anymore. Non-compete payment The payment under this individual defined contribution plan Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, agreed, in the event will be subject to performance and presence conditions. of his departure from the Group, during a period of 24 months The criteria is the level of Core Operating Margin over the last following the date of his effective departure, not to perform 3 years preceding the payment; effective from the year 2019 or participate from an operational standpoint (including as onwards, the minimum level of achievement would be set at a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic 20% per year. Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to The payment related to this scheme would require the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as the top validation of the performance achievement by the Board of three products of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of Directors and submitted to vote at the first possible General his effective departure. Shareholders’meeting following the date of retirement. The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this Payments or benefits granted or likely to be granted non-compete undertaking will be included in the severance upon termination of his functions within the Group package described above if it were also granted, for a portion equal to 50%. At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors decided to grant Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, The compensation of Marc de Garidel, is fully aligned with the the right to a severance payment on the following terms, in Company’s compensation policy. His total compensation is accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF composed of an annual base salary, no variable remuneration, Code: no eligibility to performance shares, this compensation is also based on the recommendation of the Remuneration • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced Committee. departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, ■ 5.4.2.3 Compensation of the CEO • of an amount equal to the remuneration received from For financial year 2019, the compensation elements of David the Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months Meek, Chief Executive Officer, were determined by the Board preceding the effective date of his departure, of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on 13 February 2019. • the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three In accordance with Articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of the years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of French Commercial Code, the compensation elements paid 15%, and during the financial year ended 31 December 2019 or granted to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, for the financial • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, year ended on 31 December 2019, in respect of his term of the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete office, comply with the compensation policy approved by the undertaking. Shareholders’ Meeting held on 28 May 2019 in its eleventh At its meeting held on 28 May 2019, the Board of Directors ordinary resolution. decided to modify the conditions under which Marc de Garidel It is nevertheless specified that the payment of the variable could benefit from a severance pay, in compliance with the compensation elements granted to David Meek for the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: financial year ended on 31 December 2019 will depend • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced on the approval by the next Shareholders’ Meeting of the departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the compensation elements paid during the previous financial AFEP-MEDEF Code, year or granted on the previous year. • of an amount equal to 24 months of base compensation In accordance with Articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of paid for his duties as Chairman of the Board, the French Commercial Code, the compensation policy applicable to David Meek, in respect of his duties as Chief • the grant of which is subject to the maintaining of the Executive Officer, was determined by the Board of Directors, recurring operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at 15% for 2017 and 2018, and, from 2019 and the subsequent its meeting held on 13 February 2019 and will be subject to a years, to the maintaining of the core operating margin of the resolution submitted to the approval of the next Shareholders’ Group at a rate of at least 20%, and Meeting. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 227 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS A. S  ummary tables of compensations, options and shares granted to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Summary table of compensations, options and performance shares (Table 1 of AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2018 Financial Year 2019 Financial Year David Meek Chief Executive Officer Compensations due for the year (see details below) 1,886,049 3,706,715 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the bonus shares granted during the year (*) 1,240,512 (1) 1,314,933 (2) Total 3,126,561 5,078,059 (*) For further details, see section 5.1.3.3.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Book value for a target award of 9,230 performance shares, on the day of the grant. (2) Book value for a target award of 11,730 performance shares, on the day of the grant. Summary table of compensations (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) 2018 2019 (gross rounded amount – in euros) Amounts granted Amounts paid Montants attribués Amounts paid David Meek Chief Executive Officer Base compensation 900,000 900,000 950,000 950,000 Annual variable compensation – Annual performance 978,000 (2) 1,314,000 (1) 677,666 (3) 978,000 Multi-annual variable compensation – – – – Exceptional compensation – Integration within the Group – – – – Special financial indemnity – – – – Compensation as a Director – – – – Benefits in kind (4) 8,049 8,049 8,049 8,049 Non compete payment (5) – – 2,071,000 – Total 1,886,049 2,222,049 3,706,715 1,936,049 (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 14 February 2018, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2017 of the Chief Executive Officer at €1,314,000. This amount was paid in 2018, following the approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018, of the compensation elements paid or granted to David Meek due to his mandate and for the previous financial year. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented in paragraph B below. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 February 2019, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2018 at €978,000 in respect of David Meek’s exceptional bonus linked to the success of his integration within the Company. This amount was paid in 2019, following the Shareholders’ Meeting held in 2019 to approve the 2018 financial statements, of the compensation elements paid or granted to David Meek due to his mandate and for the previous financial year. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented in paragraph B below. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 12 February 2020, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2019 at €677,666. This amount will be paid in 2020, subject to the Shareholders’ Meeting approval of the compensation elements paid during the previous financial year or granted for the previous financial year to David Meek. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented in paragraph B below. (4) Benefits in kind are defined in paragraph B hereunder “Other benefits”. (5) Non Compete payment: the Board of Directors of 17 December 2019 noted that, on 8 July 2016, David Meek agreed to a non-compete undertaking, under which David Meek has undertaken not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant) in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as one of the top three products of the Ipsen Group based on the turnover generated or their importance from a strategic standpoint and any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of his effective departure, within the territory of the European Economic Area and/or North America, for a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, in return for a total consideration exceeding €300 million. David Meek also made an undertaking to the Company to prevent certain conflict of interest situations, for a period of 36 months following the date of his effective departure. The Board, having considered that it was in the Company’s interest to benefit from this protection, also verified that the new position to be taken by David Meek complied with the above-mentioned prohibition. The indemnity due by the Company with respect to the non-compete undertaking has been set at €2,071,000, corresponding to a year of gross compensation (fixed and short-term variable) based on the average of the compensation paid to David with respect to the last two financial year. 228 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS B. D etails of the compensation elements granted For the 2018 financial year, the Board of Directors, during to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until its meeting held on 14 February 2018, has decided to grant 31 December 2019 David Meek a gross target bonus of €900,000, which may The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined vary within a range between 0% and 200% (i.e. from 0 by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the to €1,800,000) based on the following quantifiable and Compensation Committee. qualitative performance criteria: the two-thirds of this target bonus depend on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting David Meek was Chief Executive Officer until 31 December based on the achievement of level of consolidated net sales, 2019. core operating income, earnings per share and cash-flow from operations; the balance is based on qualitative criteria Base compensation concerning managerial and strategic objectives. The detail of Base compensation takes into account Ipsen’s reference qualitative criteria has been precisely pre-established by the markets. It is subject to be reviewed by the Board of Board but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. Directors, typically at relatively long intervals, according to the Company’s market position and taking account changing At its meeting held on 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, responsibilities. upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, set the gross amount of the variable part of the compensation for Since he joined in 2016, his base compensation had financial year 2018 at €978,000. remained unchanged. The level of responsibility increased with the growth of the Company and the Board of Directors For the 2019 financial year, the Board of Directors, during decided to adjust, in a proportionate balance between the its meeting held on 13 February 2019, has decided to grant components of his total remuneration, the increase of his David Meek a target variable compensation of €950,000, base compensation in 2019. The benchmark was based on within a range of 0 to 200% (i.e., from 0 to €1,900,000), based European and international positions driven by an International on the following quantifiable and qualitative performance survey provider on the same structure of Companies. criteria: two-thirds of this target amount is dependent on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting based on achieving The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 February levels of consolidated net sales, core operating income, fully 2019 and upon recommendation of the Compensation diluted earnings per share and cash-flow from operations; Committee, had set David Meek’s base compensation at a the balance is based on managerial, strategic and Corporate gross annual amount of €950,000. Social Responsibility (CSR) qualitative criteria. The detail of Annual variable compensation qualitative has been precisely pre-established by the Board but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. The annual variable compensation was linked to the Group’s global performance and to the realization of personal goals The weighting, the possible variation and the percentage set for the Chief Executive Officer. of realization of the quantifiable and qualitative objectives decided by the Board of Directors are as follows: Potential variation Criteria Weight of the portion Consolidated net sales 1/6 0% to 200% Core operating income 1/6 0% to 200% Performance indicators Cash-flow from operations 1/6 0% to 200% Earnings per share 1/6 0% to 200% % of achievement Amount (in €) Quantifiable objectives 2/3 0% to 200% 91% 576,333 Qualitative objectives 1/3 0% to 200% 32% 101,333 Total 100% 0% to 200% 71% (*) 677,666 (*) (1) Amounts are rounded. The payment of the variable compensation elements of David year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Meek is subject to the approval of the Annual Shareholders’ Compensation Committee. Meeting of 29 May 2020 to approve the financial statements The Chief Executive Officer can benefit from these plans for the year ended 31 December 2019, of the elements of whose features are described at paragraph 5.6.1.3.2 of this compensation paid or granted in respect of the past year. Document. Multi-annual variable compensation The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 May 2019, David Meek did not receive any multi-annual variable granted to David Meek under the performance shares plan compensation. and contingent on Company performance 11,730 shares, Special financial indemnity representing 0.01% of the share capital. David Meek did not receive any special financial indemnity Details regarding this allocation are given below, see section C. during 2019. Other benefits Performance shares David Meek received benefits resulting from the conditions Executive Corporate Officers as well as certain senior linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, in particular: executives of the Group may benefit from stock-options and/ a relocation package in France, an assistance with filing his or performance shares under plans approved and set each personal income tax returns, the reimbursement of reasonable 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 229 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS attorney fees and expenses incurred in connection with the option and/or performance shares to vest will depend on the finalization of the terms and conditions of his office a company applicable performance conditions. car and driver, the business travel and accommodation expenses incurred whilst exercising his duties, an healthcare a. Subscription and/or purchase options granted coverage under a global healthcare policy, and death and to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until disability coverage under the Group’s policy or a specific 31 December 2019 policy, D&O liability insurance. Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2019 financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) Payments, benefits and compensations likely to be granted to David Meek upon termination of his functions No option was granted to the Chief Executive Officer, David Meek, during the 2019 financial year. Details regarding these commitments are given below (see section D). Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options granted (table 8 of AMF recommendations) C. S  ubscription and/or purchase options and performance shares granted to David Meek, Chief For more information about subscription or purchase options, see table 8, section 5.6.1.3.1. Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 Executive officers and other senior executives of the Group The Chief Executive Officer, David Meek, does not hold any can be awarded stock options and/or performance shares Ipsen option. in the scope of the plans approved and set every year Subscription or purchase options exercised during the by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the 2019 financial year (table 5 of AMF recommendations) Compensation Committee. The definitive number of stock No option was exercised by the Chief Executive Officer, David Meek, during the 2019 financial year. b. P  erformance shares granted to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 Performance shares granted during the 2019 financial year (table 6 of AMF recommendations) Number of Performance performance Book value of Book value of Acquisition Date of conditions Plan date shares granted the shares (1) the shares (1) date availability David Meek 28/05/2019 11,730 (2) €112.10 €1,314,933 29/05/2022 29/05/2022 Yes Chief Executive Officer (1) Share value at the date of grant. For other information see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. The global amount of granted shares book value is listed in table 1 below. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, representing 0.01% of the share capital as of 28 May 2019. The Board found that the condition of presence attached to • 1/3 of the number of allocated shares subject to a the 20,960 performance shares not yet acquired, granted to per formance condition internal to the Ipsen Group, David Meek under the plans dated 30 May 2018 and 28 May assessed with respect to the Clementia cumulative sales 2019, will no longer be met as from the date of his departure from 2019 to 2021. from the Company. Consequently, David Meek shall lose all The average of achievement of this 3 criterias will determine rights under said plans. David Meek will retain his rights with the total percentage of the number of shares to be acquired regard to the performance shares already acquired and not by the Beneficiary. transferred (i.e. 15,141 performance shares granted under the 2016 and 2017 plans). According to the compensation policy of the Chief Executive Officer approved by the Shareholders during the Shareholders’ Within the scope of the authorization of the Combined Meeting of 28 May 2019 in its eleventh ordinary resolution, the Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018 (15th extraordinary Board of Directors decided that the Chief Executive Officer resolution), the Board of Directors held after the Shareholders’ would have to retain, until the end of his term of office, a Meeting of 28 May 2019 had decided, upon recommendation number of shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain of the Compensation Committee, on the allocation of that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting 11,730 performance shares (corresponding to 100% of the from the performance shares. expected performance) to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen. Summary of performance shares granted The definitive acquisition of these performance shares was On 17 December 2019, the Board found that the condition subject to presence and performance conditions which would of presence attached to the 20,960 performance shares not have been assessed at the end of an acquisition period of yet acquired, granted to David Meek under the plans dated 3 years from the allocation date. The shares thus acquired 30 May 2018 and 28 May 2019, would no longer be met as were not subject to a holding period. from 31 December 2019. Consequently, David Meek lost all rights under said plans. • 1/3 of the number of allocated shares subject to a performance condition external to the Ipsen Group, measured against the David Meek will retain his rights with regard to the evolution of the Ipsen Share within the index of reference performance shares already acquired and not transferred STOXX 600 TMI Healthcare (the “Index”). (i.e. 15,141 performance shares granted under the 2016 and • 1/3 of the number of allocated shares subject to a 2017 plans). per formance condition internal to the Ipsen Group, assessed with respect to a Core Operating Income target. 230 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS The table below describes, as of 31 December 2019, the total of performance shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer. For further details, see Table 10, section 5.6.1.3.2. Corporate Officer Date of grant Quantity Vesting Date Date of availability Number of granted shares to be held David Meek 30/07/2020 (2) 29/07/2016 10,021 (1) 30/07/2018 Chief Executive Officer (for 50% of shares) 30/03/2021(3) 29/03/2017 13,365 (1) 30/03/2019 (for 50% of shares) 20% capital gain net of 31/05/2020 31/05/2020 acquisition (for 50% of shares) (for 50% of shares) 30/05/2018 9,230 (1) value 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 (for 50% of shares) (for 50% of shares) 28/05/2019 11,730 (1)(4) 29/05/2022 29/05/2022 Totaux 44,346 (4)(*) (1) Subject to performance conditions, see section above and below. (2) 50% of the shares have been made available on 30 July 2018. (3) 50% of the shares have been made available on 30 March 2019. (4) The Board of Directors, on 17 December 2019, acknowledged that the presence condition for the performance shares not yet vested granted to David Meek with respect to the performance shares plans dated 30 May 2018 and 28 May 2019, are no longer satisfied as from the date David Meek leaves the Company. (*) Approximately 0.05% of the share capital, as of 31 December 2019. At its meeting held on 30 May 2018, upon recommendation of of performance achieved by the Company during the first the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors decided and the second financial years set by the plan. Each of the to award David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, 9,230 shares in conditions was assessed on a scale of 0 to 250%. the form of performance shares under article L.225-197-1 of The performance conditions were based, for the one third of the French Commercial Code. the granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the core Vesting of the performance shares was subject to a condition operating income, for the second third on an internal criterion of presence at the Company. The number of performance based on specific incomes and, for the last third, on an external shares that vest would depend on the degree to which the criterion based on the relative performance of Ipsen’s stock applicable performance conditions are met, which would price compared to that of the other companies which are part be assessed annually by comparing the target level to of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details of these performance achieved by the Company during the first and internal and external performance conditions as well as the second financial years used as a reference for the plan. Each degree of achievement (expected and achieved), that have of the conditions is assessed on a scale of 0 to 250%. been precisely determined by the Board are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Considering the expected For one-third of the number of shares granted, the performance performance (i.e. 100%), the number of performance shares conditions were set using an internal criterion based on granted has been adjusted accordingly. These performance the Group’s core operating income; for the next one-third, shares have been subject to a 2-year acquisition period from using an internal criterion based on specific income; and for the date of grant and 50% of the shares thus acquired are the last one-third, using an external criterion based on the subject to a 2-year holding period. performance of the Company’s share price as compared to the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care index. The details of these The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 July 2016, internal and external performance requirements, as well as upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the degree of achievement (expected and reached), that have decided to grant to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, 10,021 been precisely determined by the Board of Directors, are not shares, in the form of performance shares in accordance with disclosed for confidentiality reasons. In view of the expected the article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. This performance (i.e. 100%), the number of performance shares number of shares was calculated on a prorata temporis basis. granted has been adjusted as a result. These performance The performance conditions were based, for the half of the shares were subject to a two-year vesting period from their granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the current grant date and 50% of the shares thus acquired are subject to operating income and, for the other half, on an external a two-year holding period. criterion based on the relative performance of Ipsen’s stock At its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation price compared to that of the other companies which are part of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details of these decided to grant David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, internal and external performance conditions as well as the 13,365 shares in the form of performance shares under degree of achievement (expected and achieved), that have Article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. been precisely determined by the Board but are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. In case of over achievement The vesting of the performance shares is subject to a of the expected performance (i.e. 100%), the number of presence condition in the Company. The definitive number performance shares granted will be adjusted accordingly. of performance shares acquired was dependent on the level These performance shares are subject to a 2-year acquisition of achievement of the performance conditions applicable, period from the date of grant and 50% of the shares thus that will be assessed annually by comparing the target level acquired will be subject to a 2-year holding period. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 231 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of 14,472 performance shares granted under the 29 March 2017 the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its plan). During the 2019 financial year, 50% of the performance meetings held on 29 July 2016, 29 March 2017, 30 May 2018 shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer became and 28 May 2019 had established rules requiring the Chief available. Executive Officer to retain a number of shares arising from the performance shares granted, equivalent to 20% of the capital For further information, see table 10, section 5.6.1.3.2. gain net of acquisition value that would be realized upon the sale of the performance shares, until the termination of his Corporate Officer Date Number duties as Chief Executive Officer. granted of shares becoming available David Meek had made a formal undertaking not to engage David Meek in hedging transactions, either on his performance shares Chief Executive 29/03/2017 7 236 (1) granted, until the end of the holding period that has been Officer decided by the Board of Directors. (1) Allocation subject to performance conditions. Performance shares that have become available during the 2019 financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) David Meek will retain his rights with regard to the performance shares already acquired and not transferred (i.e. D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits Compensation under contract scheme granted or to be granted a non-compete in connection with the clause termination or change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No David Meek X X X X Chief Executive Officer Employment contract a rate of 1% for the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times the PASS. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019, did not have an employment contract. The reference compensation is the average of the total gross amount of the compensation received for a full time position Additional pension plan (bonus included) during the last 36 months preceding the end David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, may potentially benefit of the contract and/or office. Severance payments, expense from the Company’s defined benefit additional pension reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. commitment pursuant to the decision of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more broadly Seniority is limited to 40 years. benefits to the company’s executives. Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in the plan. The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: • a minimum 5-year service, The annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed 45% of their base and variable compensation. • claiming the Social Security pension at a full rate, The potential rights are financed by non-individualized • termination of any professional activity with the Company premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums at the date that basic and additional pensions are claimed. are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement contribution set forth in L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Security or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption Code at the rate of 24%. of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or Given that entitlement to benefit from this plan requires a 3rd category disability. 5-year seniority, if David Meek had claimed any payment of his Furthermore, in case of death of the beneficiary during pension on 1 January 2019, he would have received nothing retirement, the potential right to widow or widower’s pension under the plan. is maintained. In addition, as the defined benefit plan is closed at 30 June 2019, the potential amount rights would have been based on In accordance with ar ticle L.225-42-1 of the French crystallized projected benefit obligation in the case. Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme shall be subject to a performance condition, the level As a reminder, the additional defined-benefit pension scheme of the core operating margin of the Group during the three of which David Meek was a beneficiary was closed with an years preceding departure at a minimum threshold of 20%. effective date of 30 June 2019 and, due to his departure, he has no rights thereunder. The pension is calculated at the rate of 0.6% per year of seniority to the part of the reference compensation below Furthermore, since 1 July 2019, David Meek was a beneficiary 8 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at of the mandatory additional defined-contribution group 232 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS pension plan for the Group’s senior executives, as indicated Meek might be entitled had not been met, since his departure above, and would be entitled, at retirement, to a pension was voluntary. Therefore, no severance payment has been calculated from the amount paid in respect of his office in awarded to him. 2019, as from 1 July 2019, the date on which said definedcontribution plan was set up. Non-compete payment The Board of Directors of 17 December 2019 noted that, on The estimated pension level for these contributions would be 8 July 2016, David Meek agreed to a non-compete undertaking, €2,022 per year, if he retired at the age of 62. The contribution under which David Meek has undertaken not to perform or appertaining to David Meek’s variable compensation for 2019 participate from an operational standpoint (including as a will generate an additional pension contribution to be paid in consultant) in any activity relating to the development and/or 2020. the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic Payments or benefits granted or likely to be granted category (source IMS-Health) as one of the top three products upon termination of his functions within the Group of the Ipsen Group based on the turnover generated or their importance from a strategic standpoint and any product At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and decided to grant David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, the the date of his effective departure, within the territory of the benefit of a severance payment on the following terms, in European Economic Area and/or North America, for a period accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, in Code: an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a return for a total consideration exceeding €300 million. forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, equal to 24 months of gross (base and David Meek also undertook, with regard to the Company, for a variable) remuneration, the grant of which will be subject to period of 36 months following the date of his actual departure, the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group a commitment to prevent certain conflicts of interest. during the three years preceding the departure at a minimum The Board, having considered that it was in the Company’s threshold of 15%, and including, for a portion equal to 50% interest to benefit from this protection, also verified that the of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration for new position to be taken by David Meek complied with the the non-compete undertaking. above-mentioned prohibition. At its meeting held on 28 May 2019, the Board of Directors The indemnity due by the Company with respect to the decided to modify the conditions under which David Meek non-compete undertaking has been set at €2,071,000, could benefit from a severance pay, in compliance with the corresponding to a year of gross compensation (fixed and recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: short-term variable) based on the average of the compensation • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced paid to David Meek with respect to the last two fiscal year. departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, The compensation of Mr David Meek was fully aligned with the Company’s compensation policy. His total compensation was • of an amount equal to 24 months of gross (annual base composed of an annual base salary, a variable compensation and variable) compensation paid for his duties as Chief linked to the Group performance and individual objectives, a Executive Officer, number of performance shares awarded by the Shareholder’s • the grant of which is subject to the maintaining of the meeting based on the recommendation of the Remuneration recurring operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least Committee and a benefit kind linked to his car. 15% for 2017 and 2018, and, from 2019 and the subsequent years, to the maintaining of the core operating margin of the Interim Chief Executive Officer, Aymeric le Chatelier Group at a rate of at least 20%, and You are reminded that Aymeric Le Chatelier was appointed • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, as interim Chief Executive Officer as from 1 January 2020. the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete Consequently, he is not affected by the resolutions submitted undertaking of David Meek. to the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2020. At its meeting on 17 December 2019, the Board of Directors Information on compensation elements for Aymeric Le Chatelier found that the terms of the severance payment to which David are available on the Company’s website www.ipsen.com. 5.4.3 C  omparative table of compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer with respect to other employees and put into perspective with the Company’s performance Under Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code, all Ipsen employees in France, so as to consider a scope as amended following the PACTE Law and Ordinance representative of Ipsen’s operations in France. No. 2019-1234 of 27 November 2019, and pursuant to the The Ipsen performance criteria shown, and their changes in recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the changes in comparison to the changes in compensation, were determined compensation of the Executive Corporate Officers with respect in light of their relevance to the Company’s strategy in terms of to other employees are shown below and put into perspective growth and profitability: with the Company’s performance over the past five (5) years. • Change in Ipsen sales (%) vs. prior year, The figures shown were calculated across the Company • Change in core operating income (%) vs. prior year. scope, as well as across an expanded scope including 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 233 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Relationship between compensation of Executive Corporate Officers Chairman of Chief Chairman and and that of employees (FTE), and changes, on average and median the Board Executive Chief Executive of Directors Officer Officer 2015 A average N/A N/A 5 A median N/A N/A 7 B average N/A N/A 46 B median N/A N/A 65 2016 A average 1 2 5 A median 1 2 6 B average 11 25 58 B median 16 38 87 Change annual change in compensation of Executive Corporate Officers N/A N/A 37.9% 2015-2016 annual change in average compensation of A and B employees 9.0% annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual change 11.8% in sales (at constant exchange rates) annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual 11.1% change in core operating income 2017 A average 4 3 N/A A median 3 3 N/A B average 46 40 N/A B median 67 60 N/A Change annual change in compensation of Executive Corporate Officers 351.6% 69.3% N/A 2016-2017 annual change in average compensation of A and B employees 5.6% annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual change 21.1% in sales (at constant exchange rates) annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual 38.4% change in core operating income 2018 A average 1 4 N/A A median 1 3 N/A B average 8 44 N/A B median 12 63 N/A Change annual change in compensation of Executive Corporate Officers -82.0% 7.3% N/A 2017-2018 annual change in average compensation of A and B employees -2.5% annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual change 20.1% in sales (at constant exchange rates) annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual 31.0% change in core operating income 2019 A average 1 3 N/A A median 1 3 N/A B average 8 38 N/A B median 10 50 N/A Change annual change in compensation of Executive Corporate Officers -8.3% -13.6% N/A 2018-2019 annual change in average compensation of A and B employees 1.8% annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual change 14.8% in sales (at constant exchange rates) annual change in Company performance as a percentage of annual 18.6% change in core operating income • A = the Company • B = all Ipsen Group employees in France Notes per year of reference: • 2015: Marc de Garidel in his role of Chairman & CEO full year • 2016: Marc de Garidel in his role of Chairman & CEO until 18 July then in his role of Chairman until the end of the year, David Meek in his role of CEO from 18 July until the end of the year. All calculations are made on annualized value for their respective compensation components • 2017: Marc de Garidel in his role of Chairman full year (including payout for multi-year variable pay granted in 2015), David Meek in his role of CEO full year • 2018: Marc de Garidel in his role of Chairman full year, David Meek in his role of CEO full year • 2019: Marc de Garidel in his role of Chairman full year, David Meek in his role of CEO full year. Additional methodological notes: • Elements of compensation: all the elements paid, granted or due during the reference year: Base pay, annual bonus, exceptional bonus, director’s fees, LTIs (IFRS value), benefits in kind, profit sharing. • Full time equivalents including all fixed-term and open-ended contracts present each year. 234 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 5.4.4 C  ompensation paid or awarded in 2019 (Article L.225-100 III of the French Commercial Code) Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors Compensation components Amounts paid during Amounts granted for Presentation of Marc De Garidel, Chairman the past financial year the past financial year, of the Board of Directors, or book value subject to a vote 2019 fixed compensation €600,000 €600,000 Fixed compensation David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 Compensation components of Amounts paid during Amounts granted for Presentation David Meek, Chief Executive the past financial year the past financial year Officer until 31 December 2019, subject to a vote 2019 fixed compensation €950,000 €950,000 Change in fixed compensation in light of market data. See Compensation of David Meek, paragraph 5.4.2.3. 2019 annual variable €978,000 €677,666 Mention of annual variable compensation compensation (Approved by the (Amount to be paid paid during the past financial year Shareholders’ Meeting after approval of the including, as applicable, the deferred on 28 May 2019) Shareholders’ Meeting, portion relating to one or more previous subject to its yes vote) financial years. Amount allocated for the past financial year with: • Quantifiable criteria for 2/3 and qualitative criteria (1/3) contributed to the determination of this variable compensation; • Maximum percentage of fixed compensation that variable compensation may represent: 100%; • The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee on 13 February 2019, and in view of the realisation of the preestablished criteria, set the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2018 at €978,000. This amount was paid following the Shareholders’ Meeting held in May 2019 to approve the amounts of the compensation components to be paid or granted to David Meek for the previous year. • See Table B in Chapter 5.4.2.3. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 235 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Compensation components of Amounts paid during Amounts granted for Presentation David Meek, Chief Executive the past financial year the past financial year Officer until 31 December 2019, subject to a vote Stock options, performance €1,314,933 11,730 shares were granted representing shares, or any other long-term (Book value of 0.01% of the share capital benefit (warrants, etc.) performance shares • 1/3 of the number of shares granted will granted for the past be subject to a performance condition financial year) external to the Ipsen Group, measured against the change in Ipsen stock on the reference index, STOXX 600 TMI Health Care. • 1/3 of the number of shares granted will be subject to a performance condition internal to the Ipsen Group, assessed in comparison with a target core operating income. • 1/3 of the number of shares granted will be subject to a performance condition internal to the Ipsen Group, assessed in comparison with cumulative sales of Clementia from 2019 to 2021. The average fulfilment these three criteria will determine the total percentage of the number of shares to be acquired by the beneficiary. See Section C in 5.4.2.3. David Meek has lost all rights under this plan. Benefits in kind €8,049 €8,049 Company car Non-compete payment €2,071,000 The Board of Directors has recognised that on 8 July 2016, David Meek accepted certain non-compete undertakings. The Board, having considered that it was in the Company’s interest to benefit from this protection, also verified that the new position to be taken by David Meek complies with the above-mentioned prohibition. The payment owed by the Company under this non-compete undertaking has been set at €2,071,000, corresponding to a year of gross compensation (fixed and short-term variable), based on the average of the compensation paid to David Meek with respect to the last two financial years. Reminder of the Board’s decision date: 17 December 2019. 236 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS 5.5 AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS Ipsen Société Anonyme 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Auditors’ Special Report concerning regulated agreements Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 To the Meeting of the Shareholders of Ipsen S.A.: As the auditors of your company (the “Company”), we hereby present to you our report on the regulated agreements. It is our duty to communicate to you, on the basis of the information provided to us, the characteristics, main methods and reasons justifying the interest for your Company of the agreements of which we have been advised or discovered during our audit, without our having to make any claims as to their usefulness or validity, or to determine the existence of any other agreements. In accordance with article R.255-31 of the French Commercial Code, it is your duty to assess the interest in finalising these agreements with a view to their approval. Additionally, it is our duty to advise you of the information stipulated in article R.255-31 of the French Commercial Code concerning the implementation during the previous financial year of the agreements, if any, approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We have conducted the due diligence we believed necessary in light of the professional code of the Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes (French association of auditors) with regard to this audit. This due diligence involved checking the veracity of the information provided to us against the basic documents used for its compilation. AGREEMENTS PRESENTED FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements authorised and signed during the past financial year We inform you that we were not advised of any agreements authorised and signed during the past financial year to be presented for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the provisions of article L.225-35 of the French Commercial Code. Commitments presented for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting Additionally, further to the information provided to us by the Chairman of your Board of Directors, we advise you of the commitments made in favour of Marc de Garidel and David Meek, which correspond to the regulated agreements subject to articles L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code prior to the Order No 2019-1234 dated 27 November 2019. Commitments made in favour of Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors The 28 May 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the office of Marc de Garidel as a Director for a term of 4 years. The Board of Directors held after this Meeting also renewed him in his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Chairman of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare, for the duration of his office as a Director. In compliance with the compensation policy applicable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ipsen approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2019 in its tenth ordinary resolution, and in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors’ meeting held after the Shareholders’ Meeting, upon a recommendation by the Compensation Committee, also decided the terms and conditions of his office, including the compensation elements and other benefits due or likely to be due as a result of the termination of his duties or at the end of his term of office. These compensation elements include the following: • Additional pension scheme The Board of Directors was notified of the decision to close the defined benefits additional pension scheme in force within the Company, of which Marc de Garidel benefits, and which more broadly benefits the company’s executives, with effect from 30 June 2019. This scheme had been originally introduced in 2005 and then modified by the regulations of June 2012, for which it was pointed out that the scheme was a contingent one in which the acquisition and liquidation of rights were conditional on completing one’s working life within the Ipsen Group. The Board of Directors noted that the terms of closure of the scheme result in the inability to acquire potential rights beyond 30 June 2019 and to determine an evaluation of the potential pension rights crystallised as at that date, and that could be acquired and liquidated by each beneficiary subject to the express condition of completing his or her 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 237 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS working life within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). In this context, and insofar as it is legitimate in terms of the interests of the company that its Chairman acquire pension rights of the same nature as those accruing to senior officers of the Group, the Board of Directors, upon a recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decided to crystallise the rights of Marc de Garidel, Chairman, it being expressly noted that the liquidation of the pension is conditional on the acknowledgement by the Board of Directors of the compliance with the performance conditions. The Board of Directors will thus have to acknowledge that, for the three financial years preceding the end of the term of office, the following performance criterion will have been strictly met or exceeded: maintain the recurring operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least 15%, for 2017 and 2018, and, from 2019 and the subsequent years, maintain the core operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least 20%. The acquisition and liquidation of the above pension is strictly subject to the completion of the working life of Marc de Garidel within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions at a full rate and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). After the closure of the defined and contingent benefits pension scheme, the Board of Directors has decided to grant Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, the benefits of an individual pension scheme in the form of the acquisition of an optional supplementary pension insurance contract, whereby the company will pay to the insurance company a single premium (this premium includes employer and employee contributions and is fully subject to income tax), it being specified that the payment will be made after the liquidation of his pension on a full rate and termination of office within Ipsen. The Board of Directors must have acknowledged that, for the three financial years preceding the end of the term of office, the following performance criteria must have been fully complied with or exceeded: maintain the recurring operating margin for 2017 and 2018 at a minimum of 15% and as of 2019 and thereafter a core operating margin of at least 20%, as well as a presence condition. Motivation of the interest for the Company The Board of Directors noted that the terms of closure of the scheme result in the prohibition to acquire potential rights beyond 30 June 2019 and to determine an evaluation of the potential pension rights crystallised as at that date and that could be acquired and liquidated by each beneficiary subject to the express condition of completing his or her working life within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). Given this context, the Board of Directors deemed that is legitimate in light of the Company’s interest for its Chairman to accumulate the same retirement benefits as those granted to the Group’s executives. • Indemnity granted for termination of the duties In light of the above, the Remunerations Committee proposed that the Board of Directors modify the performance criterion of the operational margin applicable to the departure indemnity, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, granted to Marc de Garidel by the Board of Directors at its 8 July 2016 meeting. The Board of Directors also decided to modify the conditions under which Marc de Garidel could benefit from severance pay, in compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code • of an amount equal to 24 months’ base compensation paid for his duties as Chairman of the Board • the granting of which is subject to maintaining the Group’s recurring operating margin rate for 2017 and 2018 at a rate of at least 15% and, starting in 2019 and for the following years, maintain the operating margin rate for the Group’s businesses at a rate of at least 20% • including, 50% of the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete agreement made by Marc de Garidel. Motivation of the interest for the Company The reason for the decision to grant a departure indemnity to Marc de Garidel taken by the Board of Directors at its 8 July 2016 meeting was the fact that he has been given a long-term mission within the Group and Company, and because he provides the Group and Company with his experience in the pharmaceuticals sector. Having modified this performance criterion applicable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ pension scheme, the Board of Directors also modified this performance criterion with regard to the departure indemnity that had already been authorised for him. Commitments made in favour of David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 The Board of Directors Meeting on 28 May 2019 approved the elements of compensation for David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2019. These compensation elements include the following: • Additional pension scheme The Board of Directors was notified of the decision to close the defined benefits additional pension scheme in force within the Company, of which David Meek benefits, and which more broadly benefits the company’s executives, with effect from 30 June 2019. 238 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS This scheme had been originally introduced in 2005 and then modified by the regulations of June 2012, for which it was pointed out that the scheme was a contingent one in which the acquisition and liquidation of rights were conditional on completing one’s working life within the Ipsen Group. The Board of Directors noted that the terms of closure of the scheme result in the inability to acquire potential rights beyond 30 June 2019 and to determine an evaluation of the potential pension rights crystallised as at that date and which could be acquired and liquidated by each beneficiary subject to the express condition of completing his or her working life within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). In this context, and insofar as it is legitimate in terms of the interests of the company that its Chairman acquire pension rights of the same nature as those accruing to senior officers of the Group, the Board of Directors, upon a recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decided to crystallise the rights of David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, it being expressly noted that the liquidation of the pension is conditional on the acknowledgement by the Board of Directors of the compliance with the performance conditions. The Board of Directors will thus have to acknowledge that, for the three financial years preceding the end of the term of office, the following performance criterion will have been strictly met or exceeded: maintain the recurring operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least 15%, for 2017 and 2018, and, from 2019 and the subsequent years, maintain the core operating margin of the Group at a rate of at least 20%. The acquisition and liquidation of the above pension is strictly subject to the completion of the working life of David Meek within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions at a full rate and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). At the same time, the Board of Directors has been informed of the setting up in favour of the active senior executives of the Company of a new collective and mandatory supplementary pension scheme with defined contributions, and deeming it to be legitimate with regard to the interests of the Company that its Chief Executive Officer acquire pension entitlements of the same nature as those received by the senior officers of the Group, has authorised its granting to David Meek, subject to the conditions strictly applicable to all the senior executives who benefit from this scheme. Given David Meek’s resignation effective from 31 December 2019, and given that he has benefited since 1 July 2019 of this supplementary pension scheme, he will be entitled to receive, when he retires, an income calculated on the basis of the amounts paid as part of his term of office in 2019, effective from 1 July 2019, being the date on which the above-said scheme with defined contributions was introduced. Motivation of the interest for the Company The Board of Directors noted that the terms of closure of the scheme result in the inability to acquire potential rights beyond 28 May 2019 and to determine an evaluation of the potential pension rights crystallised as at that date and which could be acquired and liquidated by each beneficiary subject to the express condition of completing his or her working life within the Ipsen Group (liquidation of legal pensions and termination of any activity including as a corporate officer within Ipsen). Given this context, the Board of Directors deemed it legitimate in light of the Company’s interest for its Chief Executive Officer to accumulate the same retirement benefits as those granted to the Group’s executives. • Indemnity granted for termination of duties Following a proposal by the Remunerations Committee to modify the performance criterion based on the operational margin applicable to the departure indemnity, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF code, granted to David Meek by the Board of Directors at its 8 July 2016 meeting, the Board of Directors’ meeting on 28 May 2019 decided to modify the conditions under which David Meek could benefit from a departure indemnity in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations, namely: • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code • of an amount equal to 24 months’ base compensation (fixed and annual variable) paid for his duties as Chairman of the Board • the granting of which is subject to maintaining the Group’s recurring operating margin rate for 2017 and 2018 at a rate of at least 15% and, starting in 2019 and for the following years, maintaining the operating margin rate for the Group’s businesses at a rate of at least 20% • including, 50% of the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete agreement made by David Meek. Within the context of David Meek’s resignation effective from 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors has acknowledged that the conditions for the payment of the departure indemnity of which he was liable to benefit had not been met insofar as his departure was voluntary. As a consequence, he has not been awarded any departure indemnity. Motivation of the interest for the Company The reason for the decision to grant a departure indemnity to David Meek taken by the Board of Directors at its 8 July 2016 meeting was the fact that he had been given a long-term mission within the Group and Company, and because he provided the Group and Company with his experience in the pharmaceuticals sector, particularly on the American market, which is a strategic area of development for the Company. Having modified this performance criteria applicable to the Chief Executive Officer’s pension scheme, the Board of Directors also modified this performance criterion with regard to the departure indemnity that had already been authorized for him. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 239 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS AGREEMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements approved in previous fiscal years We advise you that we have not received notice of any agreements already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting for which the implementation would have continued in the past fiscal year. Commitments approved in previous fiscal years Additionally, further to the information provided to us by the Chairman of your Board of Directors, we advise you of the commitments made in favour of Marc de Garidel and David Meek, which correspond to the regulated agreements subject to articles L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code prior to the Order No 2019-1234 dated 27 November 2019 which had already been approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Non-compete agreement made by Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors When he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Marc de Garidel undertook, in the event of his departure from the Group, for a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, not to exercise or participate in any operational capacity (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Space and/or the North American continent, in any activity involving the development and/or marketing of products in the same therapeutic class (source IMS-Health), as that of the Group’s leading two products in terms of revenue at the time of his effective departure. At the 8 July 2016 Board of Directors’ Meeting, Marc de Garidel accepted to maintain this commitment within the context of his sole role as Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, it being stated that the non-compete obligation shall henceforth apply to the Group’s leading three products in terms of revenue at the time of his effective departure. It is stated that the indemnity payable by the Company in exchange for this commitment would be included in the departure indemnity referred to above if said indemnity were also due. It is recalled that the non-compete commitment made by Marc de Garidel at the 8 July 2016 Board of Directors’ Meeting remains in force, as does the commitment he made concerning certain conflicts of interest. This commitment was not invoked in the 2019 fiscal year. Non-compete agreement made by Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 At the 8 July 2019 Board of Directors’ Meeting, David Meek undertook, in the event of his departure from the Group, for a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, not to exercise or participate in any operational capacity (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Space and/or the North American continent, in any activity involving the development and/or marketing of products in the same therapeutic class (source IMS-Health), as that of (1) the Group’s leading three products in terms of revenue generated or strategic importance as at the date of his effective departure, and (2) that of any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of his effective departure, with a financial valuation in excess of €300 million, this financial valuation being (i) the sum of all initial payments and all commercial or regulatory payments at a later stage, or (ii) in the event of the company’s acquisition, the portion of this acquisition price equal to the sum of the initial price and all earn-out or other additional price corresponding to the product concerned. It is stated that the indemnity payable by the Company in exchange for this commitment would be included in the departure indemnity referred to above if said indemnity were also due. It is recalled that the non-compete agreement made by David Meek at the 8 July 2016 Board of Directors’ Meeting remained in force during the 2019 financial year, as does the commitment he made concerning certain conflicts of interest. At its 17 December 2019 meeting, the Board of Directors acknowledged David Meek’s resignation from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective from 31 December 2019. At its 17 December 2019 meeting, the Board of Directors noted that David Meek had signed a non-compete agreement on 8 July 2016, under the terms of which, he may not: • for a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, exercise or participate in any operational capacity (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Space and/or the North American continent, in any activity involving the development and/or marketing of products in the same therapeutic class (source IMS-Health), as that of one of the Group’s leading three products in terms of revenue generated or strategic importance as at the date of his effective departure, and (2) that of any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of his effective departure, with a financial valuation in excess of €300 million • for a period of 36 months following the date of his effective departure, exercise the position of executive, board member or consultant in (A) companies (and their direct and indirect subsidiaries) that are strategic partners of the Group at the date of his effective departure, (B) companies in which the Company has a direct or indirect stake of 10% or more at the date of his departure, and (C) companies with which the Company has an ongoing dispute or with which there is the threat of legal proceedings at the date of his departure. This 36-month agreement aimed at preventing certain situations of conflicts of interest shall not give rise to any additional indemnity. 240 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT CONCERNING REGULATED AGREEMENTS The indemnity payable by the company in exchange for this agreement has been set at an amount corresponding to half the maximum amount liable to be payable as a departure indemnity, that is, one full year’s gross salary (fixed and variable) on the basis of the average of the compensation (fixed and short-term variable) paid in 2018 and 2019, that is €2,071,000. At its 17 December 2019 meeting, the Board of Directors, having deemed that it was in the Company’s interest to have this protection, also made sure that the new position to be taken up by David Meek was compatible with this non-compete agreement. Paris-La Défense, 9 April 2020 The Auditors KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés A department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean-Marie Le Guiner 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 241 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING 5.6 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING 5.6.1 Share Capital ■ 5.6.1.1 Amount of the share capital All the shares are registered or bearer shares and are freely transferable. They are traded on Euronext Paris As of 31 December 2019, the share capital of the Company (Compartment A) (ISIN code FR 0010259150). amounted to €83,814,526 divided into 83,814,526 shares fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par value of €1. ■ 5.6.1.2 Changes in share capital Date Operation Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euros) (in euros) premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 31/12/2016 Options exercises 1 10,000 10,000 322,100 732,941,986 83,557,864 83,557,864 22/02/2017 Options exercises 1 22,630 22,630 796,433 733,738,419 83,580,494 83,580,494 07/06/2017 Options exercises 1 57,440 57,440 1,967,094 735,705,513 83,637,934 83,637,934 30/06/2017 Options exercises 1 2,600 2,600 92,664 735,798,177 83,640,534 83,640,534 26/07/2017 Options exercises 1 20,000 20,000 712,800 736,510,977 83,660,534 83,660,534 04/10/2017 Options exercises 1 32,289 32,289 1,150,780 737,661,757 83,692,823 83,692,823 13/12/2017 Options exercises 1 38,724 38,724 1,418,879 739,080,636 83,731,547 83,731,547 31/12/2017 Options exercises 1 510 510 18,176 739,098,812 83,732,057 83,732,057 14/02/2018 Options exercises 1 50,251 50,251 1,790,946 740,889,758 83,782,308 83,782,308 30/05/2018 Options exercises 1 11,820 11,820 421,265 741,311,022 83,794,128 83,794,128 31/12/2018 Options exercises 1 14,633 14,633 420,439 741,731,462 83,808,761 83,808,761 31/07/2019 Options exercises 1 5,765 5,765 138,418 741,869,880 83,814,526 83,814,526 ■ 5.6.1.3 Potential share capital which were still valid during the 2019 financial year, conferred the right to subscribe to or purchase one Company share. As of 31 December 2019, the potential share capital represents a maximum potential dilution of less than 0.01% distributed as The rights resulting from options granted to beneficiaries were follows: entirely acquired at the end of a four-year period and were to be exercised on one or several occasions. 5.6.1.3.1 Stock purchase or subscription options plans Description With respect to all plans, in the event of a tender offer, granted options were immediately acquired and exercisable. The last stock subscription or purchase option plan Moreover, the underlying shares were negotiable, without any implemented by the Company has expired on 10 November condition attached. 2019. As of 31 December 2019, with respect to all Ipsen plans, no Before that, every Ipsen SA stock subscription or purchase option was still valid due to the expiration of the last plan on option, of which the detail is summarized below for the plans 10 November 2019. 242 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING The following table (Table 8 of AMF recommendations) presents, as of 31 December 2019, the description of the Ipsen Options that had been granted and valid during the 2019 financial year: Date of Date of Board Grant date Number of options granted Nature of Date Date Exercise Number of options Shareholders’ of Directors the options of exercise of expiry price Meeting Total number Of which number granted granted (in euros Exercised Cancelled or Outstanding as at expired as at as at Of Of options To company Of options 31/12/2019 31/12/2019 31/12/2019 beneficiaries officers 02/06/2006 30/03/2009 30/03/2009 41 148,300 – – Purchase 30/03/2013 30/03/2019 26.39 44,550 103,750 0 04/06/2009 10/11/2009 10/11/2009 1 12,000 – – Subscription 10/11/2013 10/11/2019 34.74 12,000 0 0 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 10 16,005 – – Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 12,980 3,025 0 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 6 189,703 (*) 1 121,180 Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 175,867 13,836 0 (1) Total 366,008 245,397 120,611 0 (*) Options granted under performance conditions. (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noticed the achievement of performance conditions attached to these options based on the evolution of income and the achievement of strategic objectives. Grant of stock options during 2019 financial year to the acquired shares at the term of the two-year acquisition ten employees of the Group receiving the highest period and of half of the remaining acquired shares two number (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) years after the term of the acquisition period. The shares During the 2019 financial year, no options were granted. are transferable as from their delivery to the beneficiaries; • of a four-year duration starting from the grant date for nonExercise of stock options during 2019 financial year by French and US tax resident beneficiaries at the grant date. employees of the Group exercising the highest number The shares are transferable as from their delivery to the (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) beneficiaries. During the 2019 financial year, the options exercised by The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2018 the ten employees that have exercised the highest number plans mentioned in the table below is effective for all the reached a total of 7,765 options at a weighted average price beneficiaries at the end of the acquisition period: of €25.37. These exercises resulted in the attribution of 7,765 Ipsen shares. • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date, with an effective delivery of 50% of the acquired shares at the term The last stock subscription or purchase option plan of the two-year acquisition period; implemented by the Company has expired on 10 November • of a three-year duration starting from the grant date, with 2019. an effective delivery of the remaining 50% of the acquired 5.6.1.3.2 Bonus Shares and Performance shares grants shared at the term of an acquisition period of three years; Description • the shares granted are not subject to any holding periods. The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2015 The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the plans mentioned in the table below, is effective at the end of 2019 plans mentioned in the table below is effective for all an acquisition period: the beneficiaries after an acquisition period of two years • of a two-year duration starting from the date of grant for half of the acquired shares and of three years for the for French tax resident beneficiaries. These shares must remainder, with the exception of the Executive Leadership be retained by French tax resident beneficiaries for an Team members, for whom the acquisition period is of three additional two-year period following the final acquisition; years. The acquired shares are not subject to any holding period, with the exception of the limitations applicable mainly • of a four-year duration starting from the date of grant for to the corporate officers. non-French tax resident beneficiaries as of the date of grant. The Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 May 2018, acting as an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, authorized the Board of The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2016 Directors to carry out free grants of existing shares and/or to and 2017 plans mentioned in the table below, is effective at be issued to salaried staff members and/or certain corporate the end of the acquisition period: officers, on one or several occasions. This Shareholders’ • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for Meeting granted all the powers to the Board of Directors to French tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery of implement such free grant of shares. the acquired shares at the term of the two-year acquisition period. Half of the shares are transferable as from their The final acquisition is then effective subject to a presence delivery to the French tax resident beneficiaries and half of condition and, for certain plans, to the achievement of the shares must be held during an additional period of two performance conditions, mainly for the Executive Leadership years following the final acquisition date; Team members, set out by the Board of Directors. • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for US During the 2019 financial year, 121,861 shares were transferred tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery of half of to beneficiaries at the end of the acquisition period for bonus 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 243 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING shares granted under the 1 April 2015 and 29 March 2017 with Group employees, the Board of Directors decided to plans, under the form of existing shares. grant 5 Ipsen shares to all the eligible employees of the Group (except ELT members). The allocation of the shares As of 31 December 2019, with respect to all Ipsen plans, is effective after an acquisition period of two years and the 984,741 rights to bonus shares that may be acquired by shares acquired are not subject to any holding period. beneficiaries were still valid (after deduction of the number of shares acquired or of rights cancelled to take into account the The following table (table 10 of AMF recommendations) departure of certain beneficiaries), under the form of existing presents, as of 31 December 2019, the description and terms shares, no increase of share capital is to be planned. of the Ipsen bonus shares and performance shares granted, subject to the completion of presence conditions and, for To celebrate the crossing of the 2-billion-euros sales mark for certain grants, of performance conditions set out by the the first time in Ipsen’s history, and to share Ipsen’s success Board of Directors: Date of the Date Grant date Number of Bonus shares granted Nature of Date of final Date of Number of Bonus shares Shareholders’ of the Board the Bonus shares acquisition availability Meeting of Directors Total number Of which number granted granted Cancelled as Number of shares Outstanding as at 31/12/2019 transferred or at 31/12/2019 Of Of Bonus To company Of Bonus created beneficiaries shares officers shares 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 89 95,882 (1) 2 22,658 Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 15,056 (2) 80,826 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 17 39,970 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 9,066 (2) 30,904 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 31 26,195 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2019 02/04/2019 9,240 (4) 16,955 – 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 59,963 (1) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 17,276 (3) 64,502 – 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,010 (1) 1 5,010 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 – (3) 7,905 – 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 58 47,571 (1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 22,450 – 45,465 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,360 (1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 10,906 (3) – 32,504 (*) 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,472 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 6,066 (4) 24,406 – 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,428 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 7,734 (4) 22,694 – 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,683 (1) 1 6,683 Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 – 7,236 (4) – 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,682 (1) 1 6,682 Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 – 7,236 (4) – 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 68 35,790 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2021 30/03/2021 9,075 – 26,715 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,923 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 8,493 (4) 12,430 – 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,912 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 8,487 (4) – 12,425 (*) 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 410 43,755 – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 12,655 – 31,100 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 410 43,755 – – Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 12,655 – 31,100 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 153 61,815 (1) 1 4,615 Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 10,245 – 51,570 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 153 61,815 (1) 1 4,615 Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 10,245 – 51,570 30/05/2018 13/02/2019 13/02/2019 5 176 25,880 (5) – – Existing shares 13/02/2021 13/02/2021 3,730 – 22,150 30/05/2018 28/05/2019 28/05/2019 156 58,580 (1) – – Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 2,140 – 56,440 30/05/2018 28/05/2019 28/05/2019 156 58,580 (1) – – Existing shares 30/05/2022 30/05/2022 2,140 – 56,440 30/05/2018 28/05/2019 28/05/2019 644 64,100 – – Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 4,815 – 59,285 30/05/2018 28/05/2019 28/05/2019 644 64,100 – – Existing shares 30/05/2022 30/05/2022 4,815 – 59,285 30/05/2018 28/05/2019 28/05/2019 12 43,520 (1) 1 11,730 Existing shares 30/05/2022 30/05/2022 0 – 43,520 Total 984,741 187,289 275,094 579,569 (1) Bonus shares granted under performance conditions, see 5.1.3.2. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2018, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 Mars 2019, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (5) Actions granted under the “5 Shares for all” plan. (*) The registration on the accounts will be made after a four-year period following the date of grant. 244 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING Grants of Ipsen performance Shares to the employees ■ 5.6.1.4 Authorized and non-issued share during financial year 2019 capital During the 2019 financial year, the top ten Group employees The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings held on 30 May 2018 (excluding corporate officers) to whom have been granted and 28 May 2019 authorized the delegation of authority to the highest number of performance shares, received a total the Board of Directors regarding shares capital increases as number of 30,420 rights to performance shares. followed, being specified that below are mentioned only the ongoing delegations and authorizations as of 31 December 2019: Issues reserved to shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by incorporating reserves, 28 May 2019 (14th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, c, e, i) profits and/or premiums as bonus shares grant (27 July 2021) and/or increase share par value Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 28 May 2019 (15th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, b, e, i) and/or securities with retention of preferential (27 July 2021) subscription rights for shareholders Issues without preferential subscription rights for shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 28 May 2019 (16th) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (27 July 2021) capital (a, c, d, e, i) for shareholders by offer to the public Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 28 May 2019 (17th) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (27 July 2021) capital (a, c, d, e, i) for shareholders by private placement Share capital increase to compensate contributions 28 May 2019 (19th) 26 months 10% of the share capital (a, e, i) in kind of shares or securities (27 July 2021) Issues reserved to employees (and, if applicable, to company officers) Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase reserved for members of a 28 May 2019 (20th) 26 months 5% of the share capital (a, e) company savings plan (27 July 2021) Stock subscription and purchase options granted 28 May 2019 (21st) 26 months 3% of the share capital (e, f, h) to employees and company officers (27 July 2021) Authorization to allocate free of charge existing 30 May 2018 (15th) 26 months 3% of the share capital (f, g, h) shares and/or shares to be issued to waged (29 July 2020) staff members and/or certain company officers (a) Based on a share capital of €83,808,761 as at the date of the combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 28 May 2019. (b) Global common limit of 20% of the share capital as of the date of the 28 May 2019 combined Shareholders’ Meeting. (c) The issues decided under this delegation are deducted from the global common limit of 20% of the share capital. (d) The issues decided under delegations by offer to the public or private placement are deducted respectively from limits of each delegation, in addition to the global limit of 20% of the share capital. (e) Unused. (f) Common limit of 3% of the share capital. (g) On the basis of the share capital on the grant date. This authorization has been used in 2018 up to a target number of 211,140 shares (free and performance), i.e. 0.25% of the share capital and in February 2019 as part of the free grant of shares to the Group employees up to 25,880 shares, without any performance condition but with a presence condition, i.e. 0.30% of the share capital. It was also used in 2019 as part of the grant of a target number of 288,880 shares (free and of performance), i.e. 0.34% of the share capital. (h) Sub-ceiling of 20% of the share capital within this envelop for allocation to company officers. (i) Suspended in period of public offer. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 245 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING ■ 5.6.1.5 Number of shares held by the Company Authorizations Share repurchase program and cancellation of shares Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Characteristics Shareholders’ Meeting (resolution number) Share repurchase 28 May 2019 18 months Maximum repurchase price per share: €250 (12th resolution) (27 November 2020) Limit of 10% of the number of shares comprising the share capital (a) Cancellation of shares 28 May 2019 24 months 10% of the share capital as of the date (13th resolution) (27 May 2021) of decision of cancellation (a) Suspended in period of public offer. This authorization has been used in 2019, mainly as part of a share buyback program in a total number of 150,000 shares of the Company, see 5.2.2.6 below. Treasury shares (excluding liquidity agreement) repurchase the Company’s shares for a 18 month period and As of 31 December 2019, the Company held 777,182 of its terminated the prior authorization granted on 30 May 2018. own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase Pursuant to this decision, the Board of Directors decided on options, bonus shares and performance shares plans. 28 May 2019 to set up a new share repurchase program with a limit of 10%. As of 31 March 2020, the Company held 770,532 of its own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase On 18 June 2019, the Company announced having given a options, bonus shares and performance shares plans (see mandate to purchase 150,000 Ipsen SA shares, or about sections 5.6.1.3.1 and 5.6.1.3.2). 0.18% of the share capital, for a maximum period of 2 months. The shares purchased under this agreement will be mainly ■ 5.6.1.6 Share repurchase program allocated to cover its free share allocation plans and its new employee share ownership plan implemented during the Since 26 February 2007, the Company had mandated Natexis financial year 2019. This mandate ended on 12 August 2019 Bleichroder, a subsidiary of Natixis, to implement a liquidity due to the acquisition of the target number of shares for a total contract for a one-year period with tacit renewal. This contract amount of 13.3 million euros. This mandate had been given to is compliant with the market practice admitted by regulations. Kepler Cheuvreux. As per the liquidity contract, the following assets appeared on the liquidity account: 46,838 shares and €1,259,939.79. 2,000 treasury shares have been used in 2019 as part of the exercised purchase options’ coverage and 121,861 as part of The liquidity contract originally implemented with Natixis has share grants to employees (see 5.6.1.3.1). been transferred to the company ODDO BHF with effect 18 July 2018.The operations carried out in this context are Review of the share buyback program summarized in the table below. The following tables present the purchase and sale The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 28 May 2019 transactions carried out by the Company in respect of its own conferred to the Board of Directors a new authorization to shares, between the opening and closing dates of the 2019 financial year: Number of shares purchased: 622,764 Average purchase price: €105.40 Number of shares sold: 465,344 Average sale price: €103.78 Total amount of dealing and brokerage expenses: €89,969.17 Number of shares used in 2019: 123,861 allocated shares: • 2,000 shares for the coverage of options and • 121,861 shares for performance shares plans Number of shares registered in the name of the 777,182 (of which 29,068 shares within the liquidity contract and 150,000 Company at the end of the financial year: within the repurchase program) Estimated value at the average purchase price: €81,914,982.80 Nominal value: 777,182 including: • 558,114 dedicated to the coverage of options and shares plans • 150,000 as part of the share buyback program • 29,068 within the liquidity contract for the purposes of the animation of shares price 246 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING Distribution of own shares % of the share capital Animation of share price 0.03% Coverage of stock purchase options or other employee share ownership system 0.71% Securities giving right to shares – Acquisitions – Cancellation – ■ 5.6.1.7 Non-equity securities The case of financial display about the emission plan of commercial papers and the outstanding discounted bills of As at 2 December 2015, the Company organized an emission emissions can be consulted on the banque of france website plan of commercial papers (NEU CP – Negotiable EUropean (www.banque-france.fr). Commercial Paper) to satisfy the general needs for financing the Group. 5.6.2 Shareholding ■ 5.6.2.1 Share ownership and voting rights The difference between the number of shares and voting rights results from the double voting right. As of 31 December 2018, the Company’s share capital amounted to €83,814,526 divided into 83,814,526 shares, The difference between the number of theoretical voting each with a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical rights and the number of real voting rights corresponds to the number of voting rights amounted to 131,948,358 and the number of treasury shares. number of net voting rights amounts to 131,171,176. As of 31 December 2019, to the best knowledge of the Company, the main shareholders were: Share capital Gross voting rights Net voting rights Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Beech Tree (1), incl.: 21,816,679 26.03 43,633,357 33.07 43,633,357 33.26 • MR HB 8,310,253 9.92 16,620,505 12.60 16,620,505 12.67 • MR BMH 13,506,426 16.11 27,012,852 20.47 27,012,852 20.59 Highrock (1) 21,816,679 26.03 43,633,357 33.07 43,633,357 33.26 MR Schwabe (1) 3,636,455 4.34 7,272,910 5.51 7,272,910 5.54 Beaufour-Schwabe concert 47,269,813 56.40 94,539,624 71.65 94,539,624 72.07 Free Float 34,588,599 41.27 34,588,599 26.21 34,588,599 26.37 Other registered shareholders 803,543 0.96 1,366,775 1.04 1,366,775 1.03 (including free shares to employees (*)) Treasury shares (2) 777,182 0.93 777,182 0.59 0 0 Employee FCP (3) 218,276 0.26 387,243 0.29 387,243 0.30 Board of Directors 157,113 0.18 288,935 0.22 288,935 0.21 Total 83,814,526 100 131,948,358 100 131,171,176 100 (1) The agreement establishing the concert between the Beaufour family and the Schwabe family and the sub-concerts was subject to a decision of the French Autorité des marchés financiers n° 219C2985 dated 31 December 2019. (2) Including the liquidity agreement (3) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the sole employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the company. (*) The free shares granted mainly include the ones provided in accordance with article L.225-102 of the French Code of Commerce, i.e. 68,768 shares, representing 0.08% of the share capital on 31 December 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the law and its bylaws • the company AXA Investment Managers, acting on its own providing the disclosing of any detention of more than 1% account and the account of its affiliates, declared to the of the share capital or voting rights, the Company has been Company that it crossed: informed of the following thresholds during the last three – downwards, on 25 October 2018, the 1% of the share financial years: capital threshold; • the company Amundi declared to the Company that it – upwards, on 8 November 2018, the 1% of the share crossed: capital threshold; – downwards, on 5 March 2019, the 2% share capital – downwards, on 28 November 2018, the 1% of the share threshold; capital threshold. – downwards, on 9 December 2019, the 1% share capital threshold; 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 247 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING • the company BlackRock, Inc., acting on its own account companies MR HB and MR BMH which he controls and and the account of its affiliates, declared to the Company 30% of the voting rights of the Company; that it crossed: • the limited liability company under Luxembourg law Highrock – upwards, on 23 September 2019, the 3% of the share (9B boulevard du Prince Henri, L-1724 Luxembourg, Grand capital threshold; Duchy of Luxembourg) declared to have crossed upward – upwards, on 27 September 2019, the 3% of the share individually the thresholds of 5%, 10%, 20% and 25% capital threshold; capital and voting rights and 30% of the voting rights of the Company; – downwards, on 17 January 2020, the 3% of the share • Anne Beaufour declared that she had indirectly crossed capital threshold; upward, through the company Highrock which she controls, – upwards, on 20 January 2020, the 3% of the share the thresholds of 5%, 10%, 20% and 25% of the capital and capital threshold; voting rights and 30% of the voting rights of the Company; – downwards, on 21 January 2020, the 3% of the share • the limited liability company under Luxembourg Law MR capital threshold; Schwabe (3 rue Nicolas Adames, L-1114 Luxembourg, – upwards, on 22 January 2020, the 3% of the share Grand Duchy of Luxembourg) declared to have crossed capital threshold; upward individually the threshold of 5% of the voting rights of the Company; – downwards, on 24 January 2020, the 3% of the share capital threshold. • the companies MR HB, MR BMH, Altawin and MR Schwabe declared that they together crossed upward in concert the • the company BNP Asset Management declared to the thresholds of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 1/3, 50% Company that it crossed: of the capital and voting rights and 2/3 of the voting rights – upwards, 10 November 2017, the 1% voting rights of the Company. threshold. Overall, the Beaufour-Schwabe concert did not cross any • the company BNP Paribas Investment Partners declared to threshold and holds, on 31 December 2019, 47,269,813 Ipsen the Company that it crossed: shares representing 94,539,624 voting rights, i.e. 56.40% of the capital and 71.65% of the voting rights of this company. – downwards, on 17 March 2017, the 2% share capital threshold. To the Company’s knowledge, on this declaratory basis, no other shareholder owns, directly or indirectly, acting alone or • the Caisse des Dépôts declared to the Company that it in concert, more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights crossed: except to what is described above. – downwards, on 9 May 2017, the 1% share capital As at the setting-up date of this Universal Registration threshold. Document, and to the Company’s knowledge, there were no Further to the demerger of the company Mayroy and the significant alterations of the share capital distribution, with internal reclassification of its shares, according to the terms regard to the one presented above on 31 December 2019. described in the press releases published by IPSEN and Beech Tree is a limited company under Luxembourg law Mayroy on 5 November and 19 December 2019, were whose capital is controlled, on the date of filing of this declared the following threshold crossings (it being specified document, by Henri Beaufour. Beech Tree controls the limited that the family shareholding controlling the Company remains liability companies under Luxembourg law MR HB and MR unchanged following these operations) : BMH, direct shareholders of Ipsen SA. • the limited liability company under Luxembourg law MR HB (11 boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy Highrock is a limited liability company under Luxembourg law, of Luxembourg) declared that it had individually crossed the capital of which is controlled, on the date of filing of this upward the thresholds of 5% of capital and voting rights document, by Anne Beaufour. and 10% voting rights of the Company; MR Schwabe is a limited liability company under Luxembourg • the limited liability company under Luxembourg law MR law, the capital of which is indirectly controlled, on the date of BMH (11 boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg, Grand this document by the Schwabe family. Duchy of Luxembourg) declared that it had individually crossed upward the thresholds of 5%, 10% and 15% of the ■ 5.6.2.2 Transactions on Company’s Shares capital and voting rights and 20% of the voting rights of the Definition of blackout periods Company; The Company complies with the recommendation n°2016-08 • the limited company under Luxembourg law Altawin (3 rue of the Autorité des marchés financiers of 26 October 2016, and Nicolas Adames L-1114 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of the European Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on market abuse. Luxembourg) declared that it had individually crossed Accordingly, purchases and sales of Company securities upward (by assimilation), the thresholds of 5%, 10% and or financial instruments are prohibited during the periods 15% of the capital and voting rights and 20% of the voting running from the date on which persons having managerial rights of the Company ; responsibilities, as well as any other person who has access • Henri Beaufour declared that he had indirectly crossed to privileged information on a regular or occasional basis, upward the thresholds of 5%, 10%, 20% and 25% of the have knowledge of information of a precise nature, which capital and voting rights through the intermediary of the has not been made public, relating, directly or indirectly, to 248 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING one or more issuers ot to one or more financial instruments, shares granted until the end of the holding period that has and which, if it were made public, would be likelty to have a been decided by the Board of Directors. significant effect on the prices of those financial intruments In addition, each director, with the exception of the director or on the price of related derivative financial instruments. representing the employees, must be a shareholder of the Furthermore, they are also prohibited during a period of: Company in a personal capacity and own, directly or indirectly, • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of press release on a relatively significant number of shares. The director, natural the annual and half-year financial statements and the day of or legal person, permanent representative of a legal person publication included, and to whom a compensation in this capacity has been paid, • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of quarterly must hold, before the expiry of a two-year term after his first information and the day of publication included. appointment, 500 Company shares. At the beginning of every year, the Company draws up and Corporate Officers must retain, until the end of their term releases, a timetable that defines the periods during which of office, a number of shares equivalent to 20% of the net trading in Company securities is prohibited and stipulates that capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares the indicated periods do not anticipate the existence of other resulting from the exercise of stock options and/or from the blackout periods that result from knowledge of precise non performance shares. public information that directly or indirectly concerns Ipsen, These shares must be held in the registered form. which, if it were disclosed, would be likely to have a significant affect on the price of the securities concerned. The Company regularly communicates to the directors the calendar of the black-out periods as well as their new In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF obligations. Code (section 24.3.3), hedging of any kind on securities of the Company, with regard to options, to shares resulting from the Transactions on the Company’s Securities Carried Out exercise of options or to performance shares, is prohibited. in 2019 Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Pursuant to Article 223-26 of the General Regulations of the David Meek, Chief Executive Officer until 31 December Autorité des marchés financiers, the table below sets out 2020, undertook a formal commitment not to engage in transactions on Company’s securities carried out in 2018, hedging transactions either on the options or on shares as such transactions were notified to the Company and the issued following the exercise of options or on performance Autorité des marchés financiers: Purchases Sales Other operations Date Number Price per unite Date Number Price per unite Date Number Price per unite Carol Stuckley 05/03/2019 148 123.50 – – – – – – Director David Meek 29/03/2019 7,236 (1) – – – – – – – Director and Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 David Meek – – – 06/06/2019 7,236 111.41 – – – Director and Chief Executive Officer until 31 December 2019 Marc de Garidel – – – 18/06/2019 3,048 118.21 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Highrock S.àr.l. 19/12/2019 21,816,679 – – – – – – – Legal entity related to Anne Beaufour, Director (2) Highrock S.àr.l. – – – – – – 19/12/2019 3,601,635 (*) – Legal entity related to Anne Beaufour, Director (2) MR HB S.àr.l. – – – – – – 19/12/2019 8,310,253 (**) – Luxembourg legal entity related to Henri Beaufour, Director (3) MR BMH S.àr.l. – – – – – – 19/12/2019 13,506,426 (**) – Luxembourg legal entity related to Henri Beaufour, Director (4) (1) Acquisition of performance shares granted as part of the 29 March 2017 plan. (2) On the occasion of the restructuring of Mayroy (including its demerger, see AMF decision 219C2587), Highrock controlled by Anne Beaufour, acquired on 19 December 2019 21,816,679 shares. On the same date, Highrock granted several pledges for a total number of 3,601,635 shares. (3) On the occasion of the restructuring of Mayroy (including its demerger, see AMF decision 219C2587), MR HB acquired on 19 December 2019, 8,310,253 Ipsen shares. MR HB is wholly owned by Henri Beaufour. (4) On the occasion of the restructuring of Mayroy (including its demerger, see AMF decision 219C2587), MR BMH acquired on 19 December 2019, 13,506,426 Ipsen shares. MR BMH is wholly owned by Henri Beaufour. (*) Pledges. (**) In connection with the restructuring of Mayroy, including its demerger. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 249 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING ■ 5.6.2.3 E  volution of share ownership and voting rights over the past three financial years (as of 31 December 2019) 2019 Number of % Number of % Number of % shares gross net voting rights voting rights Beech Tree, incl. : 21,816,679 26.03 43,633,357 33.07 43,633,356 33.26 • MR HB 8,310,253 9.92 16,620,505 12.60 16,620,505 12.67 • MR BMH 13,506,426 16.11 27,012,852 20.47 27,012,852 20.59 Highrock 21,816,679 26.03 43,633,356 33.07 43,633,356 33.26 MR Schwabe 3,636,455 4.34 7,272,910 5.51 7,272,910 5.54 Beaufour-Schwabe concert 47,269,813 56.40 94,539,624 71.65 94,539,624 72.07 Free Float 34,588,599 41.27 34,588,599 26.21 34,588,599 26.37 Other registered shareholders 803,543 0.96 1,366,775 1.04 1,366,775 1.03 (including shares granted to employees) Treasury shares (*) 777,182 0.93 777,182 0.59 0 0 Employee FCP (**) 218,276 0.26 387,243 0.29 387,243 0.30 Board of Directors 157,113 0.18 288,935 0.22 288,935 0.21 Total 83,814,526 100 131,948,358 100 131,171,176 100 2018 2017 Number of % Number of % Number of net % Number of % Number of % Number of net % shares gross voting rights shares gross voting rights voting rights voting rights Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.40 94,539,624 71.70 94,539,624 72.11 47,269,813 56.45 94,539,623 71.85 94,539,623 72.49 Free Float 34,627,518 41.32 34,627,518 26.26 34,627,518 26.41 34,223,963,518 40.87 34,223,963 26.01 34,223,963 26.24 Treasury shares (*) 743,622 0.89 743,622 0.56 0 0 1,159,476 1.39 1,159,476 0.88 0 0 Other registered shareholders 779,305 0.93 1,286,034 0.98 1,286,034 0.98 740,922 0.89 1,229,941 0.93 1,229,941 0.94 Employee FCP (**) 235,725 0.28 384,545 0.29 384,545 0.29 178,366 0.21 265,941 0.20 265,941 0.20 Board of Directors (excl. 152,778 0.18 275,060 0.21 275,060 0.21 159,517 0.19 166,051 0.13 166,051 0.13 Mayroy SA) Total 83,808,761 100 131,856,403 100 131,112,781 100 83,732,057 100 131,584,995 100 130,425,519 100 (*) Including the liquidity agreement. (**) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the sole employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the Company. ■ 5.6.2.4  hareholders’ agreements and parties S as well as rules for the composition of the Board of Directors acting in concert of the Company. Agreements between shareholders of the Company In terms of securities transfers, this agreement provides for an inalienability period of two years for the securities held By letter dated 23 and 26 December 2019, the French Autorité by the parties, followed by an undertaking of each party to des marchés financiers and the Company were informed of hold a sufficient number of shares during the 12 months the conclusion, on 19 December 2019, of the following three following the expiry of this inalienability period so that the shareholder agreements (AMF notice 219C2985): shares held by the Beaufour concert represent at least • The “Ipsen” shareholders’ agreement: the companies 50.01% of the voting rights of the Company. Highrock, Beech Tree and Altawin (controlled by B.I.O Trust) In addition, this pact provides in particular for mechanisms have concluded a shareholders’ agreement constituting a of right of first offer for the benefit of Highrock or Beech Tree concert between them vis-à-vis Ipsen. in the event of transfer by Highrock, Beech Tree or Altawin This agreement is entered into for an initial period of four except for free transfers or below a certain threshold, as years, renewable by tacit agreement for 3-year periods. well as a right of joint sale in favor of Beech Tree and Altawin In terms of governance, it provides for a concertation in certain cases of acquisition of shares by Highrock. procedure between Highrock and Beech Tree in order to • The “Beech Tree” governance agreement : Henri reach, as far as possible, a common position mainly on the Beaufour and the company Altawin (controlled by B.I.O strategic decisions about the Company and its subsidiaries, 250 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING Trust), in presence of Beech Tree, have concluded, on ■ 5.6.2.5 Nature of control 19 December 2019, a governance agreement. The Company is controlled as described above. Measures This agreement is entered into for an initial period of five taken to avoid any abusive control are, in particular, the years, renewable by tacit agreement for 2-year periods. following: The Beech Tree shareholders’ agreement arranges the • separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and following particular rights to the benefit of Altawin as a result Chief Executive Officer; of the holding by this company of participatory notes issued • presence of one independent Director of three members in by Beech Tree: the Nominations Committee; – A right of veto with regard to certain strategic decisions • presence of one independent Director of three members concerning in particular the transfer of the shares of the in the Ethics and Governance Committee, including the Company held by Beech Tree and Bee Master Holding Chairperson of the Committee; and the modification of the capital; • presence of two independent Directors of four members in – A discretionary liquidity option ; the Compensation Committee; – An enhanced information right. • presence of two independent Directors of three members The agreement also organizes the composition of the Board in the Audit Committee, including the Chairperson of the of directors of Beech Tree and its representation at Ipsen’s Committee; level. • presence of four independent Directors of twelve members • The “Schwabe” shareholders’ agreement: the members in the Company’s Board of Directors as described in of the Beaufour sub-concert on the one side and FinHestia, chapters 5.1.1. of this universal registration document; Finvestan and Finveska (controlled by the Schwabe family) • presence of three independent Directors of six members on the other side, have concluded, on 19 December 2019, a in the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty shareholders’ agreement constitutive of a concert between Care; the parties with respect to Ipsen. • presence of a director representing the employees to the The agreement is entered into for a duration of four years, Board of Directors, designated on 27 November 2018. In renewable for 3-year periods. Except express renewal compliance with French law, it will be proposed to the next the agreement will end after ten years; this agreement Shareholders’ Meeting to deliberate on a modification of will terminate early in respect of a party in the event of the the Articles of Association aiming at amending the Articles transfer of all of its shares under the agreement. of association to lower from 12 to 8 the threshold for the This pact provides for a voting syndicate mechanism relating mandatory representation to designate a second director to 28% of Ipsen shares, for which voting at sharehoders’ representing the employees to the Board. meetings will be determined by a majority of 75% of the shares under the agreement. ■ 5.6.2.6 Information or agreements likely to In terms of transfer, any plan to transfer the shares subject involve a change in control or to have to the agreement (except between the parties or to entities an impact in the event of a takeover bid wholly owned by them) must be authorized by the parties to Agreements likely to involve a change in control the Schwabe agreement ruling by a majority of 75% of the None. shares subject to the agreement. Information likely to have an impact in the event of a • The French Autorité des marchés financiers has been public offer informed of the intention of Anne Beaufour to set up 3 asset holdings in order to make donations of bare ownership In accordance with provisions of Article L.225-37-5 of the of shares in the said holdings for the benefit of each of French Commercial Code, the following information may have her children, Anne Beaufour and the said holdings (of an impact in the event of a public offer: which Anne Beaufour would retain the usufruct), owning • Ownership of the Company’s share capital: see section 5.2.3 100% of the company Highrock. The Autorité des marchés of the present document. financiers has also been informed of the intention of Anne • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on Beaufour and her 3 children to conclude, once these voting rights: none; except, in case of none-statement of donations have been made, an agreement organizing a crossing a statutory threshold, temporary suspension of concerted action between them vis-à-vis Ipsen providing for voting rights which may be requested during a shareholders’ a consultation within a family meeting in order to exchange meeting by one or more shareholders holding at least 1% of views and reach, as far as possible, a common position, in the share capital or voting rights (article 10.3 of the Articles particular on the draft resolutions submitted to the vote of of Association, see section 5.2.1.5). the shareholders of Ipsen. As of the date of this document, the donations have not been made and this shareholders’ • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on agreement has not yet been concluded. transfer of shares or agreements whose the Company has knowledge in accordance with the provisions of Article L.233Parties acting in concert 11 of the French Commercial Code: not applicable. To the Company’s knowledge, there is no other concerts • Direct and indirect interests in the share capital known than the Beaufour-Schwabe concert and it sub-concerts, by the Company in accordance with the provisions of formalized by the shareholders’ agreements and governance Articles L.233-7 and L.233-12 of the French Commercial agreement as mentioned above. Code: see section 5.2.3 of this document. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 251 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING • Shareholders holding any share conferring specific control • Provisions governing the election and replacement of Board rights and description: there are no shares conferring Members: see section 5.1.1 of the present document. specific control rights. However, a double voting right • Provisions governing the amendment of the Company’s exists for any fully paid-up registered under the name of Articles of association: legal rules. a same shareholder for at least 2 years as described in • Powers of the Board of Directors, in particular concerning section 5.2.1.3 (Article 26 of the Articles of association). issuance or repurchases of shares: see sections 5.2.2.4 • Control mechanisms provided for in an employee and 5.2.2.5 of the present universal registration document. shareholding system if controlling rights are not exercised by • Agreements entered into by the Company that are amended said system: voting rights attached to the Ipsen shares held or expire in the event of a change of control of the Company, by employees through the FCP Ipsen Shares, the only mutual unless this disclosure, except if required by law, may have a fund for employees, are exercised by a person empowered material negative impact on its interests: none. by the supervisory board of the mutual fund in order to be represented in shareholders’ meeting (see section 5.2.3 of • Agreements providing for compensations of members of the present universal registration document). the Board of Directors or employees in case of resignation or dismissal without cause or if their employment ends as • Agreements between shareholders of which the Company a result of a public offer: see section 5.1.3 of the present is aware that may cause restrictions to transfers of shares universal registration document. and exercises of voting rights: see section 5.2.3.4 of the present universal registration document. ■ 5.2.3.7 Dividends Dividends paid in the past five financial years Dividends paid in 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total number of shares giving rights 83,808,761 83,782,308 83,580,494 83,246,502 82,882,958 to dividend Distribution (in euros, excluding 83,808,761 83,782,308 (*) 71,043,419,90 (*) 70,759,526,70 (*) 70,450,514,30 (*) tax credit) Gross dividend amount per share 1.00 1.00 0.85 0.85 0.85 (in euros, excluding tax credit) (*) Including dividends on treasury shares assigned to the carry-forward profit account. Dividends and reserves distribution policy Subject to, (i) the agreements entered into with the Schwabe The dividend payout policy is determined by the Company’s group described in section 1.2.2.2 of the present document, Board of Directors after analysis, mainly, of the Company’s (ii) information regarding related-party transactions described financial results and position. The Company’s objective for in section 3.2, note 2.1, (iii) the agreements and commitments future years is to develop a payout policy consistent with its described in the Special Report of the Statutory Auditors growth strategy. on regulated agreements and commitments presented in section 5.5 of the universal registration document, there are Statute of limitations no other agreements between the Group and related parties. Dividends which are not claimed within five years of their payment In addition, in accordance with the Pacte law, a procedure date shall lapse and become the property of the State. to assess the current conventions concluded at normal conditions have been put in place to facilitate the monitoring ■ 5.6.2.8 Related-party transactions of agreements entered into by the Company. The Company and the Schwabe group hold joint participations in certain companies, consolidated applying the equity method, see section 3.2, note 2.1. 5.6.3 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association ■ 5.6.3.1 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the • to conduct all industrial and commercial activities directly Articles of association) or indirectly related to the foregoing purpose, including research and design, acquiring, owning, exploiting and The Company’s corporate purpose is the following in France selling patents, licenses, know-how and more generally all and any other country whether directly or indirectly: intellectual and industrial property rights; and • to invent, manufacture, process, and sell pharmaceutical • more generally, to conduct all industrial, commercial, products, para-pharmaceutical products, cosmetics or financial or property transactions which may directly any other manufactured products in the fields of drugs or indirectly facilitate or further the achievement of the and fine chemicals, and all products and materials used to foregoing purposes and any similar purposes. manufacture, process and sell such products; 252 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING ■ 5.6.3.2 Governance of the Company The Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to offer payment of all or part of the dividend or interim dividends in cash or in shares Board of Directors at the personal choice of each shareholder. The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. The Board A shareholder’s right to the profits and contribution to losses of Directors is responsible for defining and implementing is proportional to the percentage of share capital owned. the Company’s strategic objectives. Subject to the powers expressly reserved for the Shareholders’ Meeting and within Form of shares issued by the Company (Article 9 of the the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board Articles of association) of Directors is competent to consider and settle all issues The shares issued by the Company may be registered or involving the proper functioning of the Company through the bearer shares. Existence of the shares is evidenced by their passing of its resolutions. registration on securities accounts held in the name of the holder under the terms and conditions set out by law either Executive Management by the Company or its appointed custodian in the case of In accordance with the legal provisions, the executive registered shares or by an authorized intermediary authorized management of the Company is the responsibility either of of bearer shares. the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as Shareholders’ voting rights (Articles 26.1 and 11.3 of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person Articles of association) appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief Executive Officer. In Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, each shareholder has a voting right equal to the number of shares The Board of Directors is responsible for electing one of these he/she holds or represents without limit. two options for a period which may not be less than one year. However, the Board of Directors held on 30 August 2005 decided that a double voting right is attached to any ordinary At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors fully paid-up share which is owned under the registered form decided to change the Company’s form of governance by by the same shareholder for at least two years. The double separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors voting rights shall automatically end with its conversion to the and Chief Executive Officer. The separation of said functions form of bearer share, as well as its transfer, except in cases is effective since 18 July 2016 date of entry into office of David provided for by law. Meek as Chief Executive Officer, until 31 December 2019. Within this change of governance, the appointment of Marc According to the provisions of article 11.3 of the Articles of de Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors had been association, the voting right attached to shares belongs to the confirmed. usufruct holder in Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and to the bare owner in Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. Further to David Meek’s resignation from his position as Chief Executive Officer, and member of the Board of Directors, Actions necessary to modify shareholder’s rights effective 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors decided There are no specific existing rules regarding the modification to appoint Aymeric Le Chatelier, currently Chief Financial of shareholders’ rights which are made in accordance with Officer, as Interim CEO to replace David Meek as of 1 January the legal provisions. 2020. The Board has also asked the Nominations Committee, chaired by Carol Xueref, to immediately conduct a search ■ 5.6.3.4 Shareholders’ Meetings (Articles 21 process in order to identify the future Chief Executive Officer. to 26 of the Articles of association) For further details, see section 5.1. Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings ■ 5.6.3.3 R  ights and obligations attached Any shareholder has the right to attend Shareholders’ Meetings and take part in the vote either in person or by proxy, to shares regardless of the number of shares owned, by providing Distribution of profits (Article 29 of the Articles of evidence of his/her status as shareholder. association) In accordance with article R.225-85 of the French Commercial In accordance with the terms and provisions of Article 29 Code, the right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings of the Articles of association, after approval of the financial is subject to the account registration of the shares being statements and recognition of a distributable profit within the registered in an account in the name of the shareholder meaning of the law, the Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to or of the financial intermediary acting on the shareholder’s transfer the distributable profit to one or more discretionary behalf, at midnight, Paris time, on the second business day reserve accounts, for which it fixes the allocation or use, preceding the date of the General Meeting, either in the or retained earnings or to distribute it as a dividend. After registered share accounts kept by the Company or in the deduction of any prior year losses, at least 5% of each year’s bearer share accounts kept by the authorized intermediary. net profit is transferred to the statutory reserve as required by Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting law. This provision ceases to apply once the statutory reserve has reached one tenth of the Company’s share capital. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting receives the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ reports, The Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute amounts approves the annual financial statements and votes on the from reserves to which the shareholders are entitled. In this distribution of profits. It appoints and dismisses the Directors case, the resolution must expressly indicate which reserve and sets their compensation in accordance with the legal accounts are to be used. However, dividends must be drawn provisions and the Articles of association. It appoints the in priority from the year’s distributable profit. Company’s Statutory Auditors. 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 253 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDING The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may delegate authority ■ 5.6.3.5 C  rossing of thresholds (Article 10.3 to the Board of Directors at the Board’s request to deal of the Articles of association) with all matters not specifically reserved for Extraordinary In addition to the legal disclosure requirements set out in Shareholders’ Meetings. Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code, any person More generally, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting resolves or legal entity, acting either alone or in concert, who holds on all matters that do not entail a direct or indirect modification by any mean a number of shares representing one percent of the Articles of association. (1%) of the share capital or voting rights, or any multiple thereof, must no later than five (5) business days after the The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held every year no occurrence, advise the Company by fax of the total number later than six months after the end of the previous financial and percentage of shares and voting rights held, with written year-end, unless this time period is extended by court order. confirmation sent the same day by recorded delivery mail. Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Such persons are also required to advise the Company if their The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may amend any holding falls back below those thresholds, under the same and all of the provisions of the Articles of association of the terms and conditions. Company. However, it may not increase the shareholders’ liability, or change the nationality of the Company except under In case of failure to comply with these requirements, the the terms and conditions set forth by law and international shares exceeding the part that should have been disclosed treaties. are deprived of the voting right for any Shareholders’ Meeting that would be held in a two-year period following the date of Notice and Meeting of Shareholders’ Meetings regularization of the disclosure. Except in the case of crossing General Shareholders’ Meetings are called by the Board of one of the thresholds provided for by Article L.233-7 of the Directors or, if applicable, by the Statutory Auditors or any French Commercial Code, the deprival of the voting rights, other person duly empowered by law. The meetings take which will be recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders’ place at the registered office or any other place indicated in Meeting, may only occur if requested by one or more of the the notice of meeting. shareholders representing at least one percent (1%) of the share capital and voting rights of the Company. The agenda is set by the person who convenes the meeting. However, one or several shareholders may request, under ■ 5.6.3.6 Identification of bearer shareholders the terms and conditions set forth by legal and regulatory provisions in force, the inclusion of items or draft resolutions in (Article 10.2 of the Articles of the agenda. The works council may also require the inclusion association) of proposed resolutions in the agenda in accordance with The Company may at any time, in accordance with the the regulation in force. The Shareholders’ Meeting may not applicable legal and regulatory provisions and at its own resolve on items which are not on the agenda, in accordance expenses, request the relevant central depositary for financial with the current regulation. However, it may in any event instruments, to provide it with the name, or the corporate remove one or more Directors from office and appoints new name in case of a legal entity, nationality and address or as directors in replacement. The agenda may not be revised for the case may be, the registered office, of holders of securities an adjourned meeting. conferring the right to vote at its General Shareholders’ Meetings either immediately or in the future, as well as the Quorum number of securities held by each of them and any restrictions The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates, on attached thereto. first notice, if the shareholders present or represented, or voting by postal vote, represent at least one fifth of the shares ■ 5.6.3.7 S  pecific provisions governing changes with voting rights. No quorum is required for an adjourned in the share capital meeting. It passes its resolution by a simple majority vote of the shareholders present or represented or voting by postal The share capital and the rights attached to shares can only vote. The quorum is calculated on the basis of the shares be modified in accordance with applicable legal provisions. comprising the share capital, less any shares deprived of The Articles of association of the Company do not provide for voting rights in accordance with the law and provisions of the any specific provision in that respect. Company’s Articles of association. ■ 5.6.3.8 Financial year (Article 27 of the Articles The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates if of association) the shareholders present or represented, or voting by postal Each financial year has a 12-month term beginning on vote, represent, on first notice, one quarter of the shares with 1 January and ending on 31 December. voting rights, and one fifth on second notice. In the event this quorum is not reached, the second Shareholders’ Meeting ■ 5.6.3.9 Provisions that could delay, defer or may be postponed to a further date no later than two months from the original convening’s date. prevent a change in control There is no specific provisions of the Articles of association Shareholders attending the meeting by videoconferencing or that could delay, defer or prevent a change in the control of other means of telecommunication allowing their identification the Company. and compliant with the legal and regulatory provisions are counted as present for the purpose of calculating the quorum. 254 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 6 ANNEXES 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 256 6.1.1 Person responsible for the universal registration document 256 6.1.2 Attestation by the person responsible for the universal registration document including the Annual Financial Report 256 6.1.3 Persons responsible for financial information 256 6.1.4 Person responsible for account audit and fees 256 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS 257 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS 257 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 257 6.4.1 Universal registration document concordance table 257 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 261 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 261 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements 264 6 ANNEXES PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1.1 Person responsible for the universal registration document Aymeric Le Chatelier Chief Executive Officer 6.1.2 A  ttestation by the person responsible for the universal registration document including the Annual Financial Report “I affirm that having taken all reasonable care to ensure that table on chapter 6 of this universal registration document such is the case, the information contained in this universal gives a fair description of the business developments, results registration document is, to the best of my knowledge, in and financial position of the Company and all the other accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as affect its import. a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted.” I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Boulogne-Billancourt, the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair 14 April 2020 view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of Aymeric Le Chatelier the Company and all the other companies included in the Chief Executive Officer scope of consolidation, and that the Management Report which different sections are mentioned in the concordance 6.1.3 Persons responsible for financial information Aymeric Le Chatelier Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Eugenia Litz Vice President, Investor Relations Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex Phone: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 01 investor.relations@ipsen.com www.ipsen.com 6.1.4 Person responsible for account audit and fees ■ 6.1.4.1 Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Represented by Mr Jean-Marie Le Guinier Department of KPMG S.A. 6 place de la Pyramide Represented by Catherine Porta and Cédric Adens 92908 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France 2, avenue Gambetta CS 60055 First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France 17 December 1998. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 18 June 2005. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. 256 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES ■ 6.1.4.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors ■ 6.1.4.3 Auditors’ fees B.E.A.S. The auditors’ fees can be found in section 3.2.5, note 30. 7-9, villa Houssay 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10 April 2002. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS None. 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS During the validity period of the present universal registration Copies of the present universal registration document are document, the Articles of incorporation, the Statutory available free of charge at the Company’s registered office Auditors’ reports, the annual financial statements of the past (located at 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulognethree years, as well as any reports, letters or other documents Billancourt cedex – France – Tel.: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00) as and historical financial information of the Company and its well as on Ipsen’s website (www.ipsen.com) and on the AMF’s subsidiaries over the past three years and, valuations and website (www.amf-france.org). statements made by experts, where such documents are provided for by law and any other document provided for by law may be consulted at the Company’s registered office. 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.1 Universal registration document concordance table To facilitate consultation of this universal registration document, the table below outlines the minimum information to be included in this registration document pursuant to Appendices I and II of EU Regulation 2019/980 of 14 March 2019. New URD Title Previous Paragraph Pages references registration document references SECTION 1 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS, INFORMATION FROM THIRD 1. PARTIES, EXPERT REPORTS AND APPROVAL FROM THE RELEVANT AUTHORITY Point 1.1 Persons responsible for the registration document 1.1 6.1.1 – 6.1.3 256 Point 1.2 Attestation from persons responsible for the document 1.2 6.1.2 256 Point 1.3 Expert Statement 23.1 6.2 257 Point 1.4 Other attestations in cases of information from third parties 23.2 NA Point 1.5 Declaration regarding document approval Cover page 1 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 257 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES New URD Title Previous Paragraph Pages references registration document references SECTION 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2. Point 2.1 Identities and addresses 2.1 6.1.3 256 Point 2.2 Changes 2.2 NA SECTION 3 RISK FACTORS 4. 2.1 32 Point 3.1 Description of key risks SECTION 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5. Point 4.1 Corporate name and trading name 5.1.1 1.1.1.1 6 Point 4.2 Trade register no. and LEI 5.1.2 1.1.1.1 6 Point 4.3 Date of incorporation and term 5.1.3 1.1.1.1 6 Point 4.4 Headquarters – legal form – applicable law 5.1.4 1.1.1.1 6 SECTION 5 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6. Point 5.1 Principal activities 6.1 Point 5.1.1 Operations and principal activities 6.1.1 1.1.1.2 6 Point 5.1.2 New products and/or services 6.1.2 1.2.1 10 Point 5.2 Principal markets 6.2 1.2.1 – 1.2.5 10 – 28 Point 5.3 Key events 5.1.5 3.1.1 44 Point 5.4 Financial and non-financial (1) strategy and goals 1.1.2.3; 4 10 – 141 Point 5.5 Extent to which the issuer is dependent 6.4 2.1 32 Point 5.6 Competitive position 6.5 1.2.5.2 28 Point 5.7 Investments 5.2 Point 5.7.1 Key investments 5.2.1. 3.1.3.1 51 Point 5.7.2 Ongoing key investments or firm commitments 5.2.2. + 3.1.3.1 51 5.2.3 NA NA Point 5.7.3 Joint ventures and significant interests 1.2.7, 3 29 – 43 Point 5.7.4 Environmental impact of the use of the tangible assets 8.2 4.5 165 SECTION 6 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 7. Point 6.1 Brief description of the Group/Organization chart 7.1 1.2.7.1 29 Point 6.2 List of significant subsidiaries 7.2 3.2.5 note 29 111 SECTION 7 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9. Point 7.1 Financial condition 9.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 Point 7.1.1 Description of developments and profit/loss from operations 3 43 Point 7.1.2 Future developments and research and development activity 1.2.3, 3.1.6 20, 58 Point 7.2 Operating results 9.2 3 43 Point 7.2.1 Significant factors 9.2.1 3 43 Point 7.2.2 Material changes in net sales or revenues 9.2.2 3 43 SECTION 8 CAPITAL RESOURCES 10. Point 8.1 Capital resources (short and long term) 10.1 3.1.3 50 Point 8.2 Cash flows 10.2 3.1.3 50 Point 8.3 Financing requirements and funding structure 10.3 3.1.3 50 Point 8.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources 10.4 3.1.3 50 Point 8.5 Anticipated sources of funds needed 10.5 NA SECTION 9 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Point 9.1 Description of the regulatory environment and external 9.2.3 1.1.2.1, 1.2.6 – 3 8, 29 – 43 influencing factors (1) Refer to the statement of non-financial performance. 258 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES New URD Title Previous Paragraph Pages references registration document references SECTION 10 TREND INFORMATIONS 12. Point 10.1 a) Recent trends production 12.1 1.1.2.1, 1.2.6 – 8, 29 – 58 3.1.6 b) Key changes to the financial performance of the Group Note 28, 3.2.5 111 since the end of the financial year Point 10.2 Events that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on 12.2 1.2.6 29 prospects SECTION 11 PROFIT FORECAST OR ESTIMATES 13. Point 11.1 Ongoing profit forecast or estimation 13.4 3.1.6 58 Point 11.2 Principal assumptions 13.1 3.1.6 58 Point 11.3 Attestation on profit forecast or estimation 13.3 3.1.6 58 SECTION 12 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY 14. BODIES Point 12.1 Name, business address, and functions of the corporate officers 14.1 5.2 – 5.3 185 – 212 in the issuing company Point 12.2 Conflicts of interest 14.2 5.1.3 183 SECTION 13 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15. Point 13.1 Remuneration and benefits paid or granted 15.1 5.4 215 Point 13.2 Amounts set aside to provide pension, retirement or similar 15.2 5.4 215 benefits SECTION 14 BOARD PRACTICES 16. Point 14.1 Date of expiration of the current term of office 16.1 5.2.2 189 Point 14.2 Service contracts 16.2 5.1.3.4 184 Point 14.3 Committees 16.3 5.2.2 189 Point 14.4 Compliance with principles of corporate governance 16.4 5.1.1 182 Point 14.5 Significant potential events and future changes in governance NA SECTION 15 EMPLOYEES 17. Point 15.1 Breakdown of employees 17.1 4.9 173 Point 15.2 Shareholding and stock options 17.2 5.6 242 Point 15.3 Arrangements for involving the employees in the capital 17.3 NA SECTION 16 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18. Point 16.1 Breakdown of capital [or appropriate declaration] 18.1 5.6.2.1 247 Point 16.2 Various voting rights [or appropriate declaration] 18.2 5.6.2.1 247 Point 16.3 Control of the issuer 18.3 5.6.2.1 – 247 – 250 5.6.2.4 Point 16.4 Description of any arrangements 18.4 5.6.2.4 – 250 – 251 5.6.2.5 SECTION 17 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 19. 5.6.2.8 252 Point 17.1 Detail of transactions SECTION 18 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ASSETS AND 20. LIABILITIES, THE FINANCIAL SITUATION AND RESULTS OF THE ISSUER Point 18.1 Historical financial information 20.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 Point 18.1.1 Historical financial information 20.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 Point 18.1.2 Change of date of the universal accounting registration NA Point 18.1.3 Accounting standards 20.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 Point 18.1.4 Change in accounting standard 20.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 Point 18.1.5 Minimum content of audited financial information 20.1 Introduction – 3 3 – 43 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 259 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES New URD Title Previous Paragraph Pages references registration document references Point 18.1.6 Consolidated financial statements 20.3 3.2 60 – 119 Point 18.1.7 Age of latest financial information 20.5 3.2.5 note 3 69 Point 18.2 Interim and other financial information 20.6 NA Point 18.2.1 Quarterly or half-yearly financial information [specify if not 20.6.1 NA audited] Point 18.3 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4 Point 18.3.1 Audit report 20.4.1 3.2.6 – 3.3.3 114 – 134 Point 18.3.2 Other audited information 20.4.2 5.5 237 Point 18.3.3 Non-audited financial information 20.4.3 NA Point 18.4 Pro forma financial information 20.2 NA Point 18.4.1 Significant changes to gross values 20.2 NA Point 18.5 Dividend policy 20.7 5.6.2.7 252 Point 18.5.1 Description [or negative declaration] 20.7 5.6.2.7 252 Point 18.5.2 Amount of dividend per share 20.7.1 3.2.5 Note 21.5 102 Point 18.6 Legal and arbitration proceedings 20.8 2.1.5.5 36 Point 18.6.1 Significant procedures 20.8 2.1.2 32 Point 18.7 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or trading position 20.9 3.2.5 notes 1 68 and 2 Point 18.7.1 Significant changes since end of financial year 20.9 3.2.5 notes 1 68 and 2 SECTION 19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21. Point 19.1 Share capital 21.1 5.6.1 242 Point 19.1.1 Amount of capital issued 21.1.1 5.6.1 – 5.6.1.5 242 – 246 Point 19.1.2 Shares not representing the capital 21.1.2 NA Point 19.1.3 Treasury shares 21.1.3 5.6.1.5 246 Point 19.1.4 Securities 21.1.4 5.6.1.3 242 Point 19.1.5 Conditions of right to buy and/or any obligation 21.1.5 NA Point 19.1.6 Option or agreement 21.1.6 NA Point 19.1.7 History of share capital 21.1.7 5.6.1.2 242 Point 19.2 Memorandum and articles of association 21.2 Point 19.2.1 Register entry and corporate purpose 21.2.1 5.6.3.1 252 Point 19.2.2 Categories of existing shares 21.2.3 5.6.3.3 253 Point 19.2.3 Provision affecting a change in control 21.2.6 5.6.2.5 251 SECTION 20 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 22. 1.2.2 17 Point 20.1 Summary of each contract 22. 1.2.2 17 SECTION 21 AVAILABLE DOCUMENTS 24. 6.3 257 Point 21.1 Declaration on available documents 24. 6.3 257 260 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table INFORMATION Chapters Pages Attestation by the person responsible 6.1.1 256 Annual financial statements 3.3 119 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 60 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual financial statements 3.3.3 134 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements 3.2.6 114 Statutory Auditors’ fees 3.2.5 note 30 113 Management Report: 6.4.3 261 Information contained in Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code: • Analysis of changes in the business, results and financial position of 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 44 – 45 – 50 – 68 the Company and the Group 3.2.5 notes 1 and 2 • Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and Introduction 3–4 the Group • Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.1, 3.1, 3.2.5 notes 1 32 – 44 – 68 and 2 • Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation 2.2 37 and processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group • Objective and hedging policy for transactions of the Company and the Group 2.1 – 2.2 – 3.2.5 32 – 37 – 105 – 107 for which hedge accounting is used notes 24 and 25 • E xposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group • Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group • Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy of 2.1.3.2 34 the Company and the Group Information regarding the buying back of shares (Article L.225-211 of the French 5.6.1.5 – 5.6.1.6 246 Commercial Code) 6.4.3 C  ross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ■ Management Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Information regarding the activities of the Company and the Group Position of the Company and the Group during the previous financial year, foreseeable 1.2, 3.1.1, 3.1.6 10 – 44 – 58 changes and significant events after the reporting period (Articles L.232-1 and L.23326 of the French Commercial Code) Activities and results of the Company and the Group by business segment 3.1.2.4 49 (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and exhaustive analysis of developments in the business, results and 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 44 – 45 – 50 – 68 financial position of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French 3.2.5 notes 1 and 2 Commercial Code) Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and the Group Introduction 3–4 (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.1, 3.1, 3.2.5 notes 1 32 – 44 – 68 (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) and 2 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 261 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Chapters Pages Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and 2.2 37 processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and hedging policy of transactions for which hedge accounting is applied in 2.1, 2.2 and 3.2.5 32 – 37 – 105 – 107 the Company and the Group notes 24 and 25 Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy of 2.1.3.2 34 the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Research and Development activities of the Company and the Group (Articles L.232-1 1.2.3 20 and L.233-26 of the French Commercial Code) Existing branches within the Company (Article L.232-1 of the French Commercial NA Code) Legal, financial and tax information of the Company Breakdown and changes in share ownership (Article L.233-13 of the French 5.6.2.1 247 Commercial Code) Names of controlled companies and portion of the Company’s share capital they hold 1.2.7 29 (Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code) Significant holdings acquired during the financial year in companies whose NA headquarters are located in France (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Cross-shareholding (Article R.233-19 of the French Commercial Code) NA Statement of employee profit-sharing (Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) 5.6.2.1 247 Acquisition and disposal by the Company of its own shares (buyback of shares) 5.6.1.5 – 5.6.1.6 246 – 247 (Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital in the event of financial NA transactions (Article R.228-91 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital and the stock options in NA the event of the buyback of shares (Articles R.228-90 and R.225-138 of the French Commercial Code) Dividends distributed for the three previous financial years (243 bis of the French 5.6.2.7 252 General Tax Code) Non-tax deductible expenses and charges (223 quater of the French General Tax 3.3.4.14 138 Code) Court orders or financial penalties imposed for anti-competitive practices NA (Article L.464-2 I paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code) Payment deadlines and breakdown of the accounts payable and accounts receivable 3.3.4.13 138 balances (Article L.441-6-1; D.441-4; A.441-2 of the French Commercial Code) Amount of the inter-company loans (Article L.511-6 3 bis of the French Monetary and 3.3.2 note 3 124 Financial Code) Information on the operation of a SEVESO site (Article L.515-8 of the French NA Environmental Code) (Article L.225-102-2 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the corporate officers Summary of securities transactions performed by persons with managerial 5.6.2.2 248 – 249 responsibilities and closely affiliated persons (Article L.621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code; 223-26 of the AMF Regulation) CSR Information Awareness of the social and environmental consequences of the activities, including 4.1 – 4.5 142 – 165 the impact on climate change and the impact resulting from the use of the goods and services produced, as well as the societal commitments promoting sustainable development, the circular economy, the fight against food waste, the fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity (Articles L.225-102-1; R.225-105; R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code) Monitoring plan NA 262 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES ■ Appendices to the Management Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Report on payments to governments (Article L.225-102-3 of the French Commercial NA Code) Table on the Company’s results during each of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 139 (Article R.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) ■ Corporate Governance Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Compensation information Information on the compensation policy of Corporate Officers (Articles L.225-37-2 and 5.4.1 215 L.225-82-2 of the French Commercial Code) Total compensation and benefits in kind paid during the fiscal year to each corporate 5.4.2 221 officer of the Company, the companies it controls or the company that controls it (Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) Commitments of any type undertaken by the Company for the benefit of its corporate 5.4.1 – 5.5 215 – 237 officers (Article L.225-37-3 and D.225-104-1 of the French Commercial Code) Option selected by the Board regarding the procedures for the retention of free shares 5.4.1 – 5.4.2.2 – 215 – 223 – 227 and/or shares resulting from the exercise of stock options by the corporate officers 5.4.2.3 (Articles L.225-197-1 and L.225-185 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the composition, operation and powers of the Board List of all offices and positions held by each of the corporate officers in or outside the 5.2.2 189 company during the financial year (Article L. 225-37-4 1° of the French Commercial Code) Agreements entered into directly or via an intermediary (i) between a corporate 5.5 237 officer or shareholder holding a percentage of voting rights in excess of 10% and (ii) a company of which more than 50% of the share capital is held, directly or indirectly (with the exception of agreements involving ordinary transactions that are entered into under normal conditions) (Article L.225-37-4 2° of the French Commercial Code) Summary of the delegations regarding capital increases (Article L.225-37-4 3° of the 5.6.1.4 245 French Commercial Code) Form of Executive Management (Article L.225-37-4 4° of the French Commercial Code) 5.3.1 212 Composition, conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board 5.2.2 189 (Article L.225-37-4 5° of the French Commercial Code) Application of the principle of balanced gender representation on the Board 5.2.1.2 185 (L.225-37-4 6° of the French Commercial Code) Potential limitations that may be imposed on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer 5.3.2.1 212 by the Board of Directors (Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code) Reference to a company government code and application of the “comply or explain” 5.1.1 – 5.1.2 182 principal, together with the place in which this code can be consulted (Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code) Procedures for the participation of shareholders in the Annual General Meeting 5.6.3.4 253 (Article L.225-377-4 9° of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding items likely to have a material impact in the event of 5.6.2.6 251 a public offer (Article L.225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code) 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document 263 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements INFORMATION Chapters Pages Annual financial statements 3.3 119 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 60 Management Report 3.1 44 Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance and conclusions of 5 – 3.3.3 181 – 134 the Statutory Auditors Activities of the Company and the Group/Other 1.2 10 Results of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 139 264 2019 Ipsen Universal Registration Document Contacts Readers can address any comments and questions on this document to: Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Phone: +33 1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 1 58 33 50 01 www.ipsen.com 2019 Universal registration document This universal registration document is also available on the Company’s website at www.ipsen.com. Designed & published by +33 (0)1 40 55 16 66 * Innover pour mieux soigner. www.ipsen.com
