Sustainability Report 2019 MVV in Figures Select key sustainability figures at MVV (fully consolidated companies) FY 2019 FY 2018 % change Ecological Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) (tonnes 000s) 1,545 1,547 0 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2 and 3) (tonnes 000s) 6,354 8,393 – 24 Net CO2 savings (tonnes 000s) 486 485 0 Share of renewable energies in proprietary electricity generation (%) 63 63 0 Economic Value added (Euro million) 895 881 +2 Concluded development of new renewable energies plants (MW) 460 1,011 – 55 Electricity generation volumes (kWh million) 1,745 1,836 –5 Investments (Euro million) 310 290 +7 Social Number of employees at 30 September (headcount) 6,113 5,978 +2 of which women 1,756 1,701 +3 of which men 4,357 4,277 +2 Share of female managers at 30 September (%) 15 14 +7 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) rate 7.7 6.7 + 15 Energy operations Average fuel efficiency rate (%) 57 57 0 Installed renewable energies capacities (MWe) 474 467 +1 Contents 2 Foreword 4 We are Shaping the Future 4 Our Business Model 4 Our Strategy 8 Sustainability Management 9 Materiality Analysis 10 Our Material Topics (GRI) 12 Further Topics of Great Relevance to MVV’s Business 14 Value Chain 17 Material GRI-Based Topics 17 System Change 18 Supply Reliability 20 Sector Coupling 21 Changed Energy Demand 23 Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround 24 Climate Protection 29 Renewable Energies 31 Energy Efficiency 33 Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection 35 Resource Efficiency 36 Local Environmental Protection 37 Digital Transformation 38 Industry 4.0: Changed Patterns of Consumption and Customer Relationships 39 Individual Customer Solutions 40 Information Security and Data Protection 40 Employee Concerns 42 Corporate and Management Culture 42 Training and Development 44 Diversity 46 Occupational Health and Safety 2  eference to other information R contained in this report. 47 Social Commitment : Reference to other information 48 Economic Output on the internet. 50 Local Communities T GRI Reference to a sentence or para51 Society graph that contains disclosures in accordance with the Sustainability 52 Further Information Report Guidelines of the Global 52 About this Report Reporting Initiative. 54 GRI Content Index T GRI If underlined, the reference 57 Progress Report for UN Global Compact indicates a section. 58 UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDG)  Externally audited. 59 Imprint/Contact Foreword T GRI 102-14 DEAR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, The progress made by the energy industry in implementing the energy turnaround is clearly apparent. It will probably be the only sector in Germany to meet its climate protection targets for 2020. Ambitious tasks nevertheless still lie ahead. These include raising the renewable share of the electricity supply to 65 percent by 2030 and, now that the relevant resolutions have been adopted, actually establishing a CO2 pricing regime for those sectors that have not participated in European emissions trading to date, and in particular for the transport and building sectors. Necessary infrastructure measures, above all for generation and grids, also have to be implemented in the near future. Achieving our targets is and will remain the common challenge facing the worlds of politics, (the energy) business and society as a whole. Climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest For MVV, climate protection is and will remain a key pillar of our strategy. We are unreservedly committed to the objectives of the Paris Climate Accord. We will reduce emissions from our proprietary conventional generation positions and thus become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. We are looking into technologies to reduce, use or offset unavoidable residual emissions. Our long-term vision is to build a recycling-based economy that is as self-contained as possible and powered by renewable energies. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Foreword | 2 ﻿ On our course towards climate neutrality, the sustainFocus on supply reliability ability targets we adopted in 2016 represent major The energy supply has to be secure at all times milestones that we intend to reach by 2026: We will throughout the transformation. We therefore need double our proprietary renewables-based electricity smart ways to back up renewable energies. Here, generation to more than 800 megawatts and, to this the new gas-fired combined heat and power plant end, continue to invest in expanding our portfolio. In at Stadtwerke Kiel is an outstanding example. It our project development activities, we will newly consecures the environmentally-friendly supply of heating nect a total of 10,000 megawatts of renewable enerenergy to the state capital of Schleswig-Holstein gies to the grid. Here, we will focus on onshore wind and can be adjusted flexibly in line with electricity power and solar plants, as well as on generating generation that is greener, more volatile and thus energy from waste, biomass and biogas. At the same less controllable. Its 20 gas motors can go from zero time, we will triple our annual CO2 savings to one to full capacity in just five minutes. Not only that, million tonnes a year. As a competent and experithe associated heat storage facility and electrode enced partner, we support our customers as they boiler can react to supply and demand signals in themselves head for climate neutrality. Here, we offer the electricity and heating energy markets. them solutions to enhance their energy efficiency, improve their CO2 balance sheets and expand their Pioneering the energy turnaround proprietary energy generation, as well as a range of innovative services. For MVV, 2019 was a busy year, and one we concluded on a pleasing note. We achieved a great deal Renewable energies are the way forward in implementing our sustainability-based strategy and thus also laid foundations for our future growth. The Renewable energies are the only way for us to meet energy which drives us comes from our employees, our national and international climate protection tarwhom I would like to thank on behalf of all members gets. MVV is promoting this expansion in two key of the Executive Board. Their commitment and expeways. Firstly, we are changing our own generation rience are making MVV a pioneer of the energy turnportfolio. In the 2019 financial year, 63 percent of our around. electricity generation already came from renewable energy sources. Secondly, we are planning and buildYours faithfully, ing renewable energies plants for others. In the year under report, we connected a total of 460 megawatts to the grid. Dr. Georg Müller CEO MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Foreword | 3 ﻿ We are Shaping the Future Our Business Model We are one of Germany’s leading energy companies We also produce and distribute water. Renewable and cover all major stages of the energy industry energies are a particular focus of our business model. value chain: from energy generation, energy trading, Here, our activities include project development energy distribution via proprietary distribution grid and operations management for windfarms and companies through to sales activities for energy solar parks, as well as biomass power plants. solutions and our environmental energy business. Reporting segments and business fields Target attainmen Strategic Reporting segments Customer Solutions New Energies Supply Reliability Other Activities Investments Proprietary electricity g (installed renewable en Concluded developme new renewable energie Business fields Environmental Combined Strategic Shared Retail Energy Heat and Power Investments Services Investments Wind/ Cross-Divisional Business Grids Biomethane Functions Project Commodities Development Our Strategy Sustainability has been a fixed component of our stratThis way, we are making an active contribution to egy for years now. During this time, our companies, tackling the ecological and social challenges of our the environment in which we operate and the undertimes. standing of corporate sustainability have all developed further. The future has already begun. With us. The new energy world is currently being shaped For us, corporate responsibility involves: by three key developments: Alongside the need for further decarbonisation by expanding renewable • M  aintaining a balance between profitable growth energies and the related process of decentralisation, and social responsibility the digitalisation of the energy industry is playing a • Consistently developing our business model key role. This is promoting a process of technological further and thus securing our long-term economic change that affects all stages of the value chain and success makes new solutions possible. With our investments • Being aware of the ecological and social implicain renewable energies, energy efficiency, supply reli­ tions of our own business activities and reducing ability and developing innovative services and prodour impact on the natural world ucts enabling our customers to participate directly in • Creating and retaining sustainable jobs and the energy turnaround, we are actively addressing training positions for our employees these trends and seizing them as an opportunity for • Making a measurable contribution to converting the further development of our group of companies. the energy industry and to protecting the climate : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, Pages 19 – 21 and the environment. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Our Business Model Our Strategy | 4 We are aware that our current generation portfolio Our sustainability targets represent major milestones and our range of products and services are not yet as we head for climate neutrality. fully consistent with long-term ecological sustainability targets. After all, by using limited natural resources Our sustainability targets our economic activities have an impact on the natural Sustainability is the key pillar of our corporate strategy. world. Not only that, we have an adverse impact on At the end of 2016, i.e. at the beginning of our 2017 our environment by using land and by directly and financial year, we set sustainability targets that we indirectly emitting pollutants. We bear and accept our intend to achieve by the end of the 2026 financial responsibility for these activities. We must and will year: reduce our resource use, greenhouse gas emissions and unavoidable residual emissions in the long term. • We will triple annual CO2 savings at our fully consolidated companies and the companies we Climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest recognise at equity to 1 million tonnes a year. Protecting the climate is an indispensable aspect of • We will double our proprietary electricity generaour strategic alignment and thus part of our responsition volumes from renewable energies at our fully bility towards society. We are committed to the targets consolidated companies and the companies we agreed in the Paris Climate Accord: Our aim is to be recognise at equity. climate neutral as a company by 2050 at the latest. • We will connect 10,000 MW of renewable energies to the grid. Specifically, this means that we will: • The energy system of the future will remain our key investment focus. We will invest a further total •  educe the emissions from our conventional genR of Euro 3 billion in the energy turnaround. eration positions to zero by 2050 at the latest • As a competent partner, we will offer all customers • Continue to press consistently ahead with – from private households to industrial players – expanding renewable energies the products and services they need to implement • Gradually reduce the CO2 intensity of our heating their own energy turnarounds. energy generation • Promote climate neutrality as achieved at and by We are implementing these targets and further our customers by implementing energy efficiency company-­internal requirements with the assistance measures, planning and operating renewable of our corporate strategy. We continually look into energies plants and offering innovative services new approaches, our resource use and our target • Look into new technologies facilitating the climate-­ contributions 2 Page 58. neutral management of unavoidable remaining emissions. Target attainment FY 2019 from FY 2017 FY 2026 Net CO2 savings per year 1 0.34 million tonnes 0.44 1 million tonnes Proprietary electricity generation 430 MW 493 860 MW (installed renewable energies capacities) 1 Concluded development of 0 MW 1,882 10,000 MW new renewable energies plants Investments Euro 0 million 794 Euro 3 billion 1 Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Our Strategy | 5 MVV’s sustainability at a glance MVV’s stakeholders What drives us What we focus on How we implement sustainability » System Change » Decarbonisation and MVV is a key driver Energy Turnaround Focus on sustainability-related of the energy industry » Resource Efficiency and activities in and around transformation Local Environmental Protection our core business » Digital Transformation » Employee Concerns » Social Commitment Corporate strategy Feedback/impulses Sustainability programme Compliance Our CMS is structured in such a way as to ensure that breaches of compliance are basically avoided in Consistent adherence to all regulations and laws advance, above all by working with preventative applicable to MVV is an absolute prerequisite for the measures in the respective business processes company to act and be accepted as a reliable and (systemic compliance). We already check relevant trustworthy partner. High-quality compliance also processes in sensitive areas during the respective makes an important contribution to our company’s operating process, for example, and act early to sustainable development and value creation. take corrective measures where necessary. Donations and payments to parties and political organisations Our compliance management system (CMS) helps us are strictly prohibited. Payments to equity providers to safeguard compliance with applicable laws, as well are made exclusively in the form of dividends. as with in-company guidelines and the ethical standards to which we are committed. This way, we protect Together with the various organisational units involved, the integrity of our employees, our customers and our Compliance Officer compiles relevant compliance business partners and save MVV from any negative regulations, documents them and sees to their impleconsequences. mentation in business processes. He is responsible for ensuring that employee training measures are impleWe have summarised the most important requirements mented and that due account is taken of all CMS proand the necessary organisational structures and processes. Furthermore, he also acts in an advisory and cesses in our Compliance Management Handbook, supportive capacity to accompany measures intended which also lists relevant personnel responsibilities and to prevent and, where necessary, investigate any violalays down details about our reporting system. This tions of the law, corruption or deliberate acts harmful handbook is binding for all limited liability companies at to the company. He reports to the Executive Board and the Mannheim subgroup of MVV Energie AG and is the Audit Committee on compliance and any violations permanently available for downloading to all of the of human rights. employees at this subgroup. The other subgroups have introduced equivalent compliance management We aim to avoid any infringements of compliance systems. Our Compliance Management Handbook is requirements on a preventative basis. also available in English, for example for our British and Czech subgroups. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Our Strategy | 6 By actively implementing prevention measures within At the end of each financial year, all senior managers the relevant business processes themselves, we make and managing directors of subsidiaries and certain every effort to avert all criminal or grossly incorrect shareholdings are required to submit a Compliance actions or violations of the law. MVV has a zero-tolerManagement Declaration (CMD) in which they must ance policy towards bribery and all other forms of state whether the relevant compliance regulations corruption. To help prevent corruption, we therefore and legal requirements have been complied with. The provide training, particularly to employees working in matters covered by the CMD include an enquiry as sales, related areas and procurement. Employees to whether, as required, the employees of the respective also receive instructions on how to deal with gratuities manager have received instruction and suitable trainand invitations. We record and check any gratuities ing for the CMS. Moreover, in the CMD the managers offered or invitations received. These measures enable also respond in detail to questions specifically tailored us to minimise the risk of “soft bribery”. We also to circumstances at their respective business unit. continually monitor adherence to compliance requirements, and that in all business fields, specialist diviRespect for human rights is also integrated into our sions, group departments and subsidiaries. Employcompliance management system. Our human rights ees and third parties can contact the Compliance policy : www.mvv.de/responsibility underlines Officer or an external confidence lawyer directly. Via our commitment to internationally recognised principles “Whistleblower Hotlines”, they can provide anonyof human rights. With this commitment, we also take mous tip-offs on potential misconduct. The telephone due account of the National Action Plan for Business number of the confidence lawyer is also published and Human Rights (NAP). Our human rights policy on our website at : www.mvv.de. was adopted by our Executive Board, while the management at our companies and locations is responsiAlongside a number of minor infringements, two more ble for compliance with all requirements of the policy. notable incidents occurred at a subgroup in the period T GRI 102-16 under report. One related to breaches of the law committed by a temporary manager, who was dismissed Furthermore, our procurement terms : www.mvv.de/ immediately, while the other involved a tax-related centralprocurement also require our suppliers to error. respect and comply with human rights and privacy rights. The overwhelming share of our business To make sure that all of MVV’s managers and all activities takes place in Germany, as well as in the employees with contact to customers or suppliers UK and the Czech Republic. Our suppliers are mostly are well informed of general compliance requirements located in Germany and other countries in which and familiar with the legal requirements relevant to respect for human rights can generally be assumed. their respective business units, we also provide reguFor select business fields with potentially critical lar training. The topics covered by this training include terms, we have implemented specific sustainability the requirements of capital market, securities and stock evaluation measures in the context of our supplier market law, competition and cartel law, combating management. money laundering, sanction lists and energy industry law. We provide extensive training to new manageAcquisitions of companies or shareholdings are subment staff. For this, upcoming management staff and ject to a painstaking due diligence process that also newly appointed managing directors take part in a covers compliance with human rights, adherence to seminar held over several days with attendance obligcompliance-related requirements and further sustainaatory for all management staff from section manager bility aspects, such as environmental protection and upwards. In the 2019 financial year, 304 employees at occupational safety. the Mannheim subgroup and 330 employees at the other subgroups took part in this training. During this period, a further 190 individuals completed an online training programme provided by our Stadtwerke Kiel subsidiary. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Our Strategy | 7 Sustainability Management Focus on customer satisfaction We aim to continually improve our relationships with Our sustainability management focuses on those topour customers. To measure our performance objectively, ics, processes and measures that we view as forming we regularly perform customer surveys in cooperation part of our core business. Our strategic sustainability with a variety of market research institutes. targets were adopted by the Executive Board for the years 2016 to 2026 and are an integral component of In the past year, we took part in the BDEW service our corporate strategy. T GRI 102-44 monitor once again in order to survey the medium-­ term trend in our customers’ satisfaction. This moniOur sustainability management is anchored across toring programme focuses in particular on how our various levels of the Group. The Executive Board customers perceive their service contacts in their bears overall strategic responsibility. We continually day-to-day business dealings. The customer service review, evaluate and manage MVV’s performance study aims to survey customer satisfaction, identify on the basis of sustainability indicators and medium-­ potential improvements and facilitate comparison term targets. We also evaluate investment projects with other study participants. In the year under report, by reference to sustainability criteria. In organisational the survey revealed a significant increase in our terms, the sustainability programme is located in our customers’ satisfaction with our telephone customer group strategy and energy industry department, where support. Overall, satisfaction with MVV Energie the team coordinates the sustainability strategy, plans remained unchanged compared with the previous projects and measures in connection with our groupyear and, like customers’ willingness to remain with wide sustainability management and implements the company, remained at a pleasing level. these. It regularly reports to the steering committee on group level, as well as to the Executive Board. Furthermore, we also survey our “net promoter score” T GRI 102-18 and extended the questioning performed for this in the 2019 financial year. The net promoter score has Regular exchange of ideas and been a recognised parameter of customer loyalty for information with our shareholders many years now and is used worldwide by prestigWe describe our groups of shareholders and our ious companies across all sectors. The score provides involvement in networks and initiatives in the Local our sales units with insights into our customers’ level Communities section 2 Page 50. of satisfaction over a longer-term period. T GRI 102-43 T GRI 102-44 We draw on our regular talks and interviews with stakeholders to review the material topics. Together with MVV’s specialist departments and companies, we ascertain the extent and ways in which specific concerns are to be accounted for. The results of this process are subsequently discussed by the experts in the sustainability programme and then implemented. In our comments on material topics, we refer to the core concerns of our stakeholders. T GRI 102-42 T GRI 102-44 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Sustainability Management | 8 Materiality Analysis In determining the GRI-based material topics, we proceed in accordance with the approach recommended To perform our materiality analysis, we continually by the GRI. When identifying topics, we took account monitor public debate and the positions of our stakeof the perspective of MVV’s specialist departments holders and regularly assess whether and how and companies, as well as of the findings of extensive these have altered the relevance of our material topstakeholder analyses. We classify a sustainability ics. This multistage process involves desk-based topic as material when our stakeholders deem it releresearch, internal analysis and surveys of those vant and/or the impact of MVV’s business activities is specialist departments with interfaces to external high. We report in detail on these GRI-based material stakeholders. Furthermore, we hold workshops and topics 2 Pages 10 – 11 and base our reporting on interviews with select stakeholders. We review all GRI standards. The results of this process were disaspects of the materiality process every three to cussed on Executive Board level and their relevance four years, most recently in the 2018 financial year. confirmed. T GRI 102-46 Moreover, we also update the main characteristics and prioritisations on an annual basis. Within our sustainability reporting, we regularly publish an updated list of GRI-based material topics and In terms of its contents, the materiality analysis comment on any changes compared with the previous accounts for global challenges and megatrends, year 2 Page 53. sustainable development goals (SDGs) 2 Page 58, industry and technology-related trends and the expec­ With the exception of employee concerns (only tations of internal and external stakeholders. In this, inside) and social commitment (only outside), all we account for three levels. On the one hand, we the GRI-based material topics listed in the table include the two perspectives relevant to the GRI, below are material both inside and outside MVV. namely significance to stakeholders and the impact T GRI 103-1 T GRI 102-44 of our business activities. These perspectives result in the topics that we then identify as material pursuant to GRI. Furthermore, we also consider further topics that are of relevance to our company. Results of materiality analysis Implications due to MVV bility Water Supply Smart Cities/ System Change Regional Decarbonisation and Infrastructures Energy Turnaround Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection Digital Transformation e Employee Concerns Social Commitment Changed Market and Competitive Structures Economic Acceleration and Stakeholder Intensity of Competition Relevance for expectations in MVV Energy and Company Regulation MVV’s business Political Stability Price Changes Material topics (GRI) MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis | 9 OUR MATERIAL TOPICS (GRI) Material topic: System Change 2 Pages 17 – 22 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Supply reliability (MVV) We are smartly combining renewable and highly efficient We further expanded our broadly diversified generation portfolio conventional energies and contributing to supply reliability. and are implementing projects in our onshore wind and solar power ­businesses. These are expected to increase the diversity of our We aim to minimise interruption-­induced failure in the power supply. generation capacity in the years ahead. Our new highly flexible gas-fired CHP plant in Kiel commenced operations at the end of 2019. We were able to ensure a largely interruption-free supply of electricity. Indirect economic In the years ahead, we will invest a further total of Euro 3 billion We invested Euro 310 million. implications (GRI) in the energy turnaround. Sector coupling (MVV) We actively contribute to sector coupling. We launched operations with sector coupling infrastructure projects. We installed 25 new charging points for electric vehicles in Mannheim and the region and 19 new charging sites in Kiel. Changed energy We prepare our supply grids for changes in energy demand in the We systematically accounted for this factor in our strategic investment demand (MVV) electricity and heating energy sectors as a result of the energy system planning and also initiated and/or maintained research projects. conversion or energy efficiency measures. Material topic: Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround 2 Pages 23 – 32 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Emissions (GRI) We will triple our annual CO2 savings to 1 million tonnes a year Annual CO2 savings at our fully consolidated companies and the by 2026. companies we recognise at equity amounted to 480,000 tonnes. (basis: start of 2017 financial year: around 339,000 tonnes) Electricity generation We will double our proprietary electricity generation from Installed capacities for renewable energies and the biogenic share of volumes from renewable renewable energies by the end of the 2026 financial year. waste/RDF at our fully consolidated companies and the companies energies (MVV) (basis: start of 2017 financial year: 430 MW) we recognise at equity amounted to 493 MW, 14 MW more than one year earlier. Concluded development We will connect 10,000 MW of renewable energies to the grid We developed projects with capacities of 460 MW. of new renewable energies by the end of the 2026 financial year. plants (MVV) (basis: start of 2017 financial year: 0 MW) Energy (GRI) We will raise plant efficiency levels and reduce emissions from We enhanced energy efficiency in numerous projects. our proprietary generation and at our customers. The fuel efficiency rate at our fully consolidated companies and the companies we recognise at equity rose from 61 % in the previous year to 63 %. System efficiency (MVV) We aim to reduce grid losses in our electricity and heating Grid losses fell year-on-year in our district heating grids and remained energy grids. almost unchanged in our electricity grids. Material topic: Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection 2 Pages 33 – 37 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Materials (GRI) We reduce our ecological footprint by expanding highly efficient We further expanded and increased the density of district heating combined heat and power (CHP) generation and district heating at our locations. This also included connecting the CHP plant in and thus reducing the use of non-renewable fuels. Mannheim to the district heating grid. We completed the construction of the new gas-fired CHP power plant in Kiel. Moreover, we initiated projects that will be implemented in the years ahead. 1 (GRI): Disclosure pursuant to GRI standards; (MVV): additionally reported contents T GRI 102-47 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis | 10 Material topic: Digital Transformation 2 Pages 37 – 40 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Industry 4.0 (MVV) By promoting digitalisation and networking in our own processes, We made further progress both in our digital dialogue with customers at our customers and in our products, we safeguard MVV’s future and in automating processes. In our digitalisation programme, we performance capacity. made substantial advances in terms of digitalisation and networking our activities. Customer solutions (MVV) As a competent partner, we offer all customers – from private houseWe supplemented our portfolio of solutions with newly developed holds to industrial players – the products and services they need to services and products relating to the energy turnaround and climate implement their own energy turnarounds. neutrality and also extended our sales activities. Information security and We work with an extensive range of technical and organisational We are continually improving the processes used to protect informadata protection (MVV) security measures to ensure information security and data protection. tion. In the year under report, we further enhanced our processes. Material topic: Employee Concerns 2 Pages 40 – 47 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Training and development With our broad range of training programmes, we aim to present We employed 330 trainees as of 30 September 2019. Our employees (GRI) to young people the whole variety of professional opportunities took part in a variety of internal and external training and development at the company. programmes. We aim to further develop the potential of our employees. Promoting women (MVV) By 2021, we aim to raise the share of female employees at our As of 30 September 2019, women accounted for 29 % of our workforce Group to 35 % and the share of management positions held by and for 15 % of our managers. women to 25 %. (basis: 30 June 2015: 27 % and 14 %) Occupational health We support our employees in remaining healthy. The lost time injury frequency (LTIF) rate amounted to 7.7. We impleand safety (GRI) mented our new inspection concept in further areas of the company We aim to keep the lost time injury frequency (LTIF) rate as low and supplemented our company health management programme with as possible. new preventative measures. Material topic: Social Commitment 2 Pages 47 – 51 Specific disclosure 1 What we aim to achieve What we achieved in the 2019 financial year Economic output (GRI) We aim to continue generating value and meet our responsibility We raised our net value added year-on-year by Euro 14 million to as an economic player. Euro 895 million. Local communities (GRI) We aim to communicate transparently and openly with our We further developed our communications instruments and increased stakeholders. public transparency. Society (MVV) We aim to show our commitment to the society in which we operate. We continued our sponsoring and support measures in a targeted manner. 1 (GRI): Disclosure pursuant to GRI standards; (MVV): additionally reported contents T GRI 102-47 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis | 11 FURTHER TOPICS OF GREAT RELEVANCE Of key importance in this respect is the decision to TO MVV’S BUSINESS decommission the final coal-fired power plant by 2038 at the latest and, if reasonably possible for the energy Our aim is to provide extensive information about our industry, even by 2035. In the intervening years, coalbusiness activities and company objectives. We therebased generation capacities will gradually be decomfore also report on those topics that were identified in missioned across Germany (see chart), with extensive our analysis as primarily being of relevance to MVV’s structural aid available to cushion any social hardship business performance but which do not form part of in lignite-producing regions. the GRI topics. Furthermore, the German Coal-Based Electricity GenImplementation of coal exit eration Termination Act (in the version approved by the Cabinet at the end of January 2020) provides for MVV welcomes Germany’s commitment to greater granting the operators of lignite-fired power plants climate protection. We aligned our own strategy to this compensation of more than Euro 4.3 billion on the more than ten years ago already. This topic is also basis of individual agreements. In return, statutory relevant to our stakeholders, who on many occasions decommissioning deadlines have been set, starting seek to discuss this with our Executive Board and our with a reduction of 2.8 GW in the Rhine Region by employees, for example at our Annual General Meetthe end of 2022. The last lignite capacities of around ing. Moreover, we are also active participants in relevant 6 GW are scheduled to leave the market permanently discussions in the political arena and within society. by the end of 2038. The coal exit not only became increasingly relevant A two-stage procedure is envisaged for decommiswithin society in the course of the 2019 financial sioning hard coal-fired power plants. In Phase 1, year; it is also a topic for which political decisions such plants should leave the market voluntarily, parwere taken. The phasing out of the use of brown ticularly in northern Germany. A tender process is to coal (lignite) and hard coal (anthracite) in Germany be used to determine the amount of compensation was specified in greater detail with the publication paid, with the maximum price paid set to fall in each in early 2019 of the recommendations made by the subsequent tender round. Southern German hard Commission on Growth, Structural Change and Employcoal-fired power plants are not allowed to participate ment (KWSB) established by the Federal Government. in the first tender round and will also be structurally The adoption by the Federal Cabinet of the German disadvantaged in subsequent rounds due to the proCoal-Based Electricity Generation Termination Act posed price mechanism. In Phase 2, starting in 2027, (Kohleverstromungsbeendigungsgesetz) in January the remaining hard coal-fired power plants will be 2020 means that a specific roadmap for phasing out decommissioned by regulatory law, with the measures the use of coal is now in place. However, this legislation already taking effect from 2024 should tender volumes still has to be conclusively addressed within the not be met. Here, older power plants will be obliged to parliamentary process. close first. No compensation is provided for in Phase 2. Due to the high volume of lignite capacities initially remaining in the grid, the final hard coal-fired power Exit from coal plants are currently only expected to leave the market Installed capacities 1 (GW) several years before 2038. 50 200 Many hard coal-fired power plants are operated using 180 combined heat and power (CHP) generation and 40 38 160 play a major role in supplying district heating to large 30 140 built-up areas. In most cases, CHP power plants can 30 120 20 only be decommissioned once a solution for replacing 15 100 17 the heating energy generation has been secured. 20 80 This requires a suitable lead time of several years to 8 60 10 40 implement the necessary planning, approval and 18 15 6 9 20 construction measures. To account for this, key frame­ 6 0 0 0 work requirements for the future decarbonisation of 2019 2022 2030 2037 31.12.2038 centralised heating supply systems are stipulated in Anthracite Lignite the amendment to the German Combined Heat and Power Generation Act (KWKG). With the “coal substi1 Capacity based on Cabinet Resolution on coal exit legislation, excluding reserves; tution bonus”, the KWKG also offers incentives for hard coal based on assumptions voluntarily replacing hard coal-based CHP with natural gas-based CHP. The legislative amendment adopted MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis | 12 by the Federal Cabinet in January 2020 has further decarbonising the district heating system may involve developed the subsidy system for replacing coal-based extending the existing biomass-fired power plant (waste CHP with gas-based CHP, as well as for green heating timber) in Mannheim to include a district heating decouenergy. However, the level of subsidies provided for in pling facility. This would enable it to act as a CHP plant the amendment falls significantly short of the minimum supplying an additional contribution to the district heatlevel needed to safeguard the economic viability of the ing grid from 2024 onwards. Further options for decarreplacement investments as calculated by energy bonising district heating generation are currently being industry associations. investigated in detail. Among others, they include solutions such as geothermal energy, solar thermal energy, We significantly reduced the role of coal in our proprieriver heat pumps, the use of biomass, biomethane tary generation portfolio in the 2019 financial year. With plants and of waste industrial heat. Which technologies the decommissioning in March 2019 of the joint power are ultimately implemented will mainly depend on the plant in Kiel (Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Kiel – GKK), a technical and economic potential harboured by the hard coal-fired power plant with an installed capacity of respective alternatives, as well as on the medium to 354 MWe which we owned together with Uniper, we long-term regulatory environment. made a major contribution to the national coal exit. For our second German hard coal-fired power plant, which Changed infrastructures and smart cities is located in Offenbach and has a capacity of 60 MWe, Transforming the energy supply system will require we only expect decommissioning to take place during large numbers of individual projects to be conducted the 2020s. This is due to the lead time of several years on a decentralised basis. There is a need for end-toneeded to build low-CO2 heating energy generation end concepts for urban districts and quarters, for capacity. example, as the ongoing trend towards urbanisation is creating substantial environmental burdens. GrowAt our strategic investments in the Czech Republic, ing populations in large built-up areas make it neceswe operate several small coal-based plants to genersary to further develop towns and cities, their infraate and secure the supply of heating energy. There structures and their environmental and climate protectoo, we will be discontinuing the use of coal and tion measures, while also offering an opportunity to decarbonising the heating energy supply in the years implement sustainable forward-looking concepts. The ahead. trend towards smart cities is a process in which we act as a partner to local authorities and innovative We are a minority shareholder in the large power municipal utility companies. Information and commuplant in Mannheim (Grosskraftwerk Mannheim AG – nications technology can help in mastering the chalGKM), with a 28 % stake, and do not operate the lenges involved. Integrating existing municipal infraplant ourselves. The GKM plant currently operates structure and connecting this to IT, mobile and cloud four hard coal-fired CHP blocks. The decommissioncomputing technologies can help make cities more effiing dates for these blocks will largely depend on the cient and sustainable and improve their quality of life. definitive decisions taken concerning the specific This involves changing various aspects of urban life, structure of the hard coal exit and on KWKG legislasuch as public transport concepts, parking policies or tion. This means that conclusive decisions still have the digital management of supply functions. Examples to be taken. With a plant age of five years, Block 9 here include the measures needed for senior citizens, at GKM is one of the newest and most efficient hard senior citizen-friendly apartments and district solutions, coal-fired power plants in Germany. Based on the or senior citizen-friendly mobility. To manage the very Cabinet decision concerning the German Coal-Based detailed tasks involved in smart cities in a transparent Electricity Generation Termination Act, the hypothetical and targeted manner, we subdivide our activities into decommissioning date would be in the first half of the five segments: Smart City Management, Smart Energy, 2030s. Smart Mobility, Smart Infrastructure und Smart Living. To decarbonise the district heating supply, MVV is Energy and corporate regulation compiling various concepts which account for all significant and forward-looking technologies. One The future market design for renewable energies and first step to reduce heating energy generation from energy efficiency directly impacts on our core business, the GKM plant was implemented in February 2020 as does grid regulation. Political decisions are due to by linking up the waste-fired CHP plant on Friesenbe taken on various levels – EU, federal and regional – heimer Insel (Mannheim CHP plant) 2 Pages 31 – 32. in the months and years ahead. Starting in 2020, this CO2-neutral form of generation will cover up to 30 % of annual district heating volumes. One potential second step towards further MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis | 13 The decisions taken by the Climate Cabinet were Value Chain highly significant in the 2019 financial year. One key point involves CO2 pricing in the transport and heating We exercise influence on topics relating to sustainabilenergy sectors, a policy due to take effect from 2021 ity along our upstream and downstream supply chains onwards. Revenues from this levy are to be used, as well. In the upstream supply chain, for example, among other purposes, to benefit people and busiwe can decide who we wish to do business with and nesses, in particular by lowering electricity costs and which minimum requirements we place in our suppliraising the allowance for long-distance commuters. ers. Key factors influencing our supplier selection from These are accompanied by numerous sector-specific a non-financial perspective include the topics of antimeasures, such as subsidies for district heating grids corruption measures, human rights, employee rights, and expanding e-mobility. Moreover, with the German including work safety, and environmental protection. Structural Reinforcement Act (Strukturstärkungsgesetz) already adopted in August 2019, the Federal We aim to avoid any situation in which activities Government will be supporting those regions particualong our value chain have or favour any harmful larly affected by the exit from coal. The gradual phaseffects in terms of human rights. ing out of coal-based electricity generation is governed by the German Coal-Based Electricity Generation TerFor our customers in the downstream supply chain, mination Act adopted by the Federal Cabinet at the we create incentives, for example by enabling them beginning of 2020. The numerous other measures to monitor and reduce their energy consumption. We also include introducing tax incentives for energy-effiourselves also make investments in decentralised ciency building refurbishments, irrespective of the speenergy solutions. cific technology used. We only have limited influence on developments such as these. We nevertheless The energy industry supply chain is very much shaped observe and analyse them very closely and align our by trading with energy sources, while other suppliers activities accordingly. account for a markedly smaller share of total procurement volumes. Overall, our value chain comprises the Developments in prices on the energy markets following elements: Energy prices impact directly on the economic viability of energy-saving services and thus on their market •  urchasing and marketing electricity and natural P volumes. Moreover, they also influence generation gas in the international wholesale business and volumes and therefore CO2 emissions and the profitamarketing electricity from renewable energies bility of our proprietary power plants. Our structured • Procuring waste, biomass and, to a minor extent, procurement activities mean that we are able to offer coal the best possible prices at all times to our business • Generating electricity, heating energy and bio­ customers. Not only that, we also support our custommethane ers in enhancing their energy efficiency and thus in • Developing new generation plants, especially realising cost savings 2 Page 32. onshore wind and photovoltaics plants, for proprietary and third-party operation The development in national and international energy • Operating electricity, natural gas, district heating prices for natural gas, oil, coal and CO2 directly affects and water grids and energy storage facilities the energy price for end customers. We have little • Supplying electricity, gas, heating energy and direct influence in this respect as we too are exposed water to end customers and secondary distributors to fluctuations in energy prices. We pass on develop• Producing, processing and supplying drinking ments on the wholesale markets to our customers. water Within the limits of the possibilities available to us, we • Providing energy-related services. are nevertheless committed to ensuring price stability for our customers, particularly for the basic supply. T GRI 102-9 One way we do this is by implementing efficiency enhancements. , MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Materiality Analysis Value Chain | 14 The majority of our procurement volumes involve The basis for our cooperation with suppliers and energy carriers such as electricity and natural gas. We service providers in Germany and the EU is provided typically hedge these by way of financial transactions by applicable laws and ordinances, as well as those but do not physically procure them. For these commodicompliance regulations, forms of conduct and work ties, we are not aware of any material sustainability-­ practices relevant to us. related topics that we are able to influence directly. Contractual relations with suppliers and service proOne matter of public interest is the origin of the hard viders are additionally governed by our procurement coal used at power plants and whether we exert influterms and compliance guidelines, which are published ence on production conditions at the coal mines. The on our website at : www.mvv.de/centralprocurement. only coal-fired plant we operate ourselves is the CHP Our procurement terms include specific requirements plant in Offenbach. For this, we directly procured in terms of compliance, adherence to employee rights around 76 thousand tonnes of hard coal in the 2019 and environmental protection. We expect our supplifinancial year. Most of this came from Russia. Due to ers, for example, to uphold the basic employee rights our longstanding relationships with suppliers, we are set out in the international conventions of the United familiar with the conditions there. We nevertheless do Nations (UN), the International Labour Organization not have any direct contractual relationships to mine (ILO) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation operators but, given the low volumes involved, procure and Development (OECD), as well as the UN Global the fuels via intermediaries. Not only that, our very low Compact. volume of demand means that we have hardly any possibility of exerting influence on location. Hard coal Suppliers to MVV Energie, Energieversorgung Offenis also used at the large power plant in Mannheim bach, Juwi and Stadtwerke Kiel are all assessed in (Grosskraftwerk Mannheim – GKM), where we are terms of sustainability, risks and compliance, as are minority shareholders. Here, we have no direct influthe subcontractors we approve. Within our supplier ence on business activities and fuel procurement, as management system, all suppliers are required to we are not the operators of the plant. We are neverprovide disclosures on whether they have compliance theless aware of our responsibility and exert our influor anticorruption requirements and a code of conduct, ence by raising sustainability topics and requesting as well as on whether they are committed to the UN information. Global Compact. Furthermore, they must disclose whether they have a sustainability concept and, if so, At our biomass-fired power plants, we chiefly use how this is implemented. Corresponding information waste timber, residual forest timber and green cutand certificates are deposited in our supplier mantings. We obtain these fuels from disposal companies agement system. Should we commission a supplier, and incinerate them in accordance with strict legal then as standard practice we make our compliance requirements. Most of the waste timber incinerated requirements a component of the contract. Among comes from the regions surrounding the respective other issues, these provide for contractual penalties plants. in the event of corruption and bribery and require compliance with basic employee rights. Both aspects Other than fuel procurement, our remaining procureare monitored in our compliance management system. ment volumes are relatively low. They mostly involve Compliance with social welfare standards also forms procuring goods and highly qualified services from part of our contract awarding process. As a general rule, contract partners often known to us for many years. we do not obtain data from suppliers located further upstream in the supply chain. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Value Chain | 15 The overwhelming share of our business activities take Large numbers of subcontractors, most of which place in Germany, the UK and the Czech Republic, i.e. based in European Union countries, work on behalf in European Union member states where respect for of MVV. As human and employee rights are legally human rights is a core aspect of entrepreneurial activity. protected in these countries, we assume that Within our supplier management, we have taken speemployment conditions there are humane. High cific measures to perform a sustainability evaluation of safety standards are also important to us for our select business areas with potentially critical conditions. subcontractors. We are therefore committed to If we access new regions or markets outside Europe, ensuring that they comply with legal requirements this mostly relates to our project development business. and have issued corresponding requirements To safeguard respect for human rights along the value which provide, for example, for health and safety chain there as well, and more clearly than previously, instructions to be issued to employees at third-­ in the 2019 financial year we launched new processes party companies. At present, however, we do not and measures within the respective compliance manperform systematic audits of our subcontractors. agement systems. These will become part of standard We do not keep comprehensive records of working processes in the 2020 financial year. Acquisitions of conditions at our subcontractors, especially at their companies or shareholdings are subject to a painstakproduction locations. ing review process that also covers compliance with human rights, adherence to compliance-related requirements and further sustainability aspects, such as environmental protection and occupational safety. T GRI 102-16 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | We are Shaping the Future | Value Chain | 16 Material GRI-Based Topics Our reporting on material GRI-based topics refers to MVV and thus to all fully consolidated companies. For Material aspects of system change some disclosures, we also report on the companies we report at equity. We are a co-shareholder with a stake in the large power plant in Mannheim (Gross­ cy kraftwerk Mannheim AG – GKM). As the blocks there ien y ffic tralit Exit from coal e generate conventional energy, we would also like to gy er neu provide transparency as to their impact. Furthermore, En ing nergies ate and pr Exp wable e icing the activities at Stadtwerke Ingolstadt are within the W in e Clim d re n gy Ph po m er 2 scope of companies consolidated at equity. If, for select Sto oto vo we CO t i af ro r en te protecti Ex cle lta r ima rag on topics, we focus our reporting on the major locations e/b atte cs i Cl nu e ries ranc of Mannheim, Offenbach, Kiel and Wörrstadt, then we E-mo t tole bility Cos hnology Tec indicate this accordingly. Society Green gas System Acceptance Digitalisation change er Des to-pe inde ire for Peerure pen c t den ite System Change dul ea rch gri s art tion ds R eg ulation Us er be ce Mo S m ha va Op l vio in no e ica ur of ning log ity Competition/ Energy companies play a key role in the energy r no utral e ma up rth rke h system transformation. They do this by investing in Fu c Te ne t the energy infrastructure to prepare this for the market design energy turnaround and make it fit for the future. At the same time, they perform what is for society the important task of ensuring a reliable and stable supply of electricity, gas, heating energy and water. The advancing energy turnaround raises new questions, as the volume of electricity fed in from renewable energies such as wind turbines or photovoltaics fluctuates in line with weather conditions In what follows, we address further important specific and the time of day. As an energy company and distridisclosures relating to the GRI-based material topic bution grid operator, we ensure that we provide our of system change. These include market developments customers with a secure and reliable supply of energy of significance to society as a whole, to which we as at all times throughout the transformation in the energy a company contribute. Among others, they include system. As we head for the energy system of the future, sector coupling, i.e. the use of electricity generated in we need to smartly combine renewable energies with environmentally-friendly ways in the transport and highly efficient, flexible and controllable power plants. heating energy sectors as well, thus enabling the climate The reliability, smartness and performance capacity of protection targets set by the Federal Government to our grids have a key role to play in this respect. That is be met. We are pressing ahead with this topic and, why we are investing on an ongoing basis in maintainwith regard to the heating energy supply, are currently ing, expanding and optimising our grids and plants. focusing on making conventional generation more flexible, for example by working with power-to-heat solutions such as heating energy storage facilities, and on e-mobility. We also have to align our business to changing energy demand, as this has implications for strategic planning in all our business fields, as well as for the decisions we make concerning future growth investments. T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 17 SUPPLY RELIABILITY portfolio will help us to ensure a secure energy supply for our customers. That is particularly true for the Gradually converting our generation portfolio supply of heating energy to those private, business and industrial customers connected to our district heating As we shape our course towards the energy system of and industrial steam grids in Mannheim, Offenbach the future along social, ecological and economic lines, and Kiel. At the end of the year under report, our fully we are working to an increasing extent with renewable consolidated companies had electricity, district heatand to a decreasing extent with conventional energies ing, gas and water grids with a total length of more and relying here on a variety of energy sources and than 19,000 kilometres. technologies. Doubling our proprietary electricity generation from renewable energies between 2016 and We are smartly combining renewable and 2026 will change our generation portfolio, which is set highly efficient conventional energies and to become even more diversified. This kind of generation contributing to supply reliability. Electricity generation volumes  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity kWh million FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomass and biogas plants 418 498 – 80 – 16 452 529 – 77 – 15 Biogenic share of waste/RDF 309 274 + 35 + 13 309 274 + 35 + 13 Wind power 370 367 +3 +1 387 383 +4 +1 Hydroelectricity 2 6 –4 – 67 2 6 –4 – 67 Photovoltaics 4 3 +1 + 33 4 4 0 0 Electricity generation from renewable energies 1,103 1,148 – 45 –4 1,154 1,196 – 42 –4 Electricity from CHP 418 501 – 83 – 17 1,121 1,260 – 139 – 11 Other electricity generation 224 187 + 37 + 20 1,184 1,422 – 238 – 17 Total 1,745 1,836 – 91 –5 3,459 3,878 – 419 – 11 The reduction in electricity generation volumes at reduced electricity generation volumes in the previous biomass and biogas plants was due above all to turbine year. The decrease in the volume of electricity generdamage at our biomass power plant at Ridham Dock ated using CHP largely resulted from the reduced use and the resultant lower level of plant availability. Our of our heating energy-based CHP plants in Kiel and plants which generate energy from waste and refuse-­ Offenbach. The growth in other electricity generation derived fuels (biogenic share of waste) generated was chiefly driven by higher electricity generation more electricity, a development due to the fact that volumes at our energy from waste plants. inspection and planned maintenance work had T MVV-1 Heating energy generation volumes  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity kWh million FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomass and biogas plants 198 202 –4 –2 199 202 –3 –1 EfW/RDF 1,725 1,851 – 126 –7 1,725 1,851 – 126 –7 Heating energy generation from renewable energies 1,923 2,053 – 130 –6 1,924 2,053 – 129 –6 Other heating energy generation 1,754 1,837 – 83 –5 4,625 4,827 – 202 –4 Total 3,677 3,890 – 213 –5 6,549 6,880 – 331 –5 The reduction in our heating energy volumes was mainly due to weather conditions. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 18 Biomethane generation volumes  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity kWh million FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomethane generation 233 254 – 21 –8 234 254 – 20 –8 The year-on-year reduction in biomethane generation Safeguarding grid stability despite volumes was attributable to the lower energy content growing grid loads of the substrates, as well as to lower plant availability One way to assess the reliability of the energy supply levels. involves measuring the frequency and duration of grid downtime. Our three large grid companies MVV Netze Our generation structure hardly changed on the previGmbH, Energienetze Offenbach GmbH and SWKiel ous year in the 2019 financial year. The slight reduction Netz GmbH have set themselves the goal of ensuring in renewable electricity generation in absolute terms a secure supply free of interruptions and thus to avoid was mainly due to scheduled and unscheduled downgrid downtime and remedy any such downtime as time at our biomass plants. The slight downturn both quickly as possible. One key task for our grid compain conventional electricity generation and in heating nies is to work on further developing and operating energy generation chiefly resulted from weather our grid infrastructure. They therefore invest large conditions, as well as from short-term developments sums in maintenance and modernisation measures. in market prices. One key non-financial performance indicator which Our investments help to minimise grid downtime as shows the security of the energy supply is the system far as possible and thus to ensure a secure energy average interruption duration index (SAIDI), which supply. We invest in our existing plants, in expanding presents the average interruption to the supply in minand maintaining our grid infrastructure, in developing utes per year and customer. The SAIDI figure only smart grids and in energy storage systems. Renewaaccounts for unplanned downtimes lasting longer than ble energies are a further focus of investment and three minutes and not due to force majeure. we have a constantly growing portfolio of plants in this field. These mostly involve onshore wind turbines and We aim to minimise interruption-induced biomass plants to generate electricity, heating energy failure in the power supply. and biomethane. We invested a total of Euro 310 million in the 2019 financial year. T GRI 203-1 In Kiel, The Executive Board and management bodies are we completed our new gas-fired CHP power plant provided with an annual overview of interruptions and as the successor solution for the joint power plant continually informed about the implementation of (Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Kiel – GKK). The new measures to counter such interruptions. We draw stra­ plant, which secures the supply of district heating tegic conclusions on this basis and factor these into to the city, launched operations at the beginning our investment and maintenance projects. of the new 2020 financial year. With a total volume of Euro 290 million, it is the largest investment we We invested Euro 103 million in maintaining and have made in recent years. The mod­ular and flexible expanding our grids in the 2019 financial year. structure of the plant brings supply reliability in line with the energy turnaround. It sets completely new standards in terms of flexibility, efficiency and sustainElectricity supply interruptions (SAIDI)  ability. The basis here is provided by combined heat Minutes/year 2018 1 2017 1 +/– change % change and power generation, which results in a high effiGrid regions ciency level and an efficient primary energy use rate MVV Netze of more than 90 %. Electricity and heating energy are Mannheim 29.8 18.5 + 11.3 + 61 generated by burning gas, rather than the hard coal Energienetze previously used. As a result, the new plant emits 70 % Offenbach 6.3 8.0 – 1.7 – 21 less CO2 than did the former GKK plant. Its 20 gas SWKiel Netz 15.3 12.2 + 3.1 + 25 motors can go from zero to 190 MW of electricity Germany 2 13.9 15.1 – 1.2 –8 capacity in just five minutes. At the same time, when 1 Calendar year in operation the plant has heating energy capacity 2 Source: Federal Network Agency (BNetzA) of 192 MW. The extremely short time needed for the new Küstenkraftwerk plant to reach full capacity means that it can react quickly and flexibly to changing requirements on the volatile energy market. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 19 The SAIDI figures for the Mannheim grid region in Promoting heat storage and decentralised 2017 and 2018 were significantly influenced by an energy management increased number of interruptions on medium-voltage We are pressing ahead with sector coupling and are level. These resulted from the use of a special compocurrently focusing on enhancing flexibility by working nent. In 2018, one related interruption in particular with heat storage facilities and power-to-heat. One meant that the SAIDI figure was significantly higher major component involves large-scale heat storage than in the previous year. By mid-2019, grid compofacilities, enabling CHP power plants to shut down nents of this type were replaced in a special project. their electricity generation for up to 24 hours when We expect this to impact positively on the SAIDI figure required by the market or grid situation. We have for 2019. corresponding district heating storage facilities in operation in our major district heating grids. One key Following a result at the lower end of the long-term field of application for us once again in the year normal range in the previous year, the SAIDI figure under report was urban district and quarter managefor the Stadtwerke Kiel grid region returned to the ment. This is one area in which decentralised generaexpected level in 2018. Here too, we reported a tion, e.g. from photovoltaics, can be smartly combined slightly higher number of interruptions on medium-­ with covering heating energy requirements, for examvoltage level. ple by working with heat pumps or other technologies. The FRANKLIN conversion site in Mannheim is one example where we are testing these kinds of technical SECTOR COUPLING and business concepts. Smartly combining electricity, heating energy and mobility Heating energy storage capacity One change in the energy market that is set to play a Cubic meters FY 2019 FY 2018 major role is sector coupling. Only this way will it be MVV Energie 45,000 45,000 possible to turn the existing electricity turnaround into Stadtwerke Kiel 42,000 42,000 a comprehensive energy turnaround. First and foreEnergieversorgung Offenbach 8,000 8,000 most, this is about making electricity from renewable Stadtwerke Ingolstadt 3,200 – energies fit for use in the transport and heating energy sectors and about networking the entire system. One We are actively promoting decentralised energy sub-goal involves distributing and storing surplus elecmanagement and sector coupling and act as a onetricity from fluctuating renewables-based generation stop source of smart and decentralised energy volumes in ways that make sense. Here, use can also management services and products for our industrial, be made of energy storage facilities outside the elecretail and housing customers, as well as for business tricity sector, such as innovative power-to-heat soluand private customers. T MVV-2 tions like heat storage units and electrode boilers. Putting electricity to intelligent use in this way represents Expanding e-mobility one of the key challenges presented by the heating energy turnaround. E-mobility is another core compoMaking renewables-based electricity suitable for use nent of the energy system transformation and of a by the transport sector as well requires smart needsnew, resource-efficient lifestyle : www.mvv.de/ based charging solutions. In the 2019 financial year, smart-energy. Sector coupling will also have reperwe installed charging points at 25 locations in Manncussions in terms of demand for renewables-based heim and the region and new charging points are being generation, as well as for grid loads and expansion. added on an ongoing basis. We are also expanding In view of this, expanding sector coupling is a factor e-mobility at our other locations in Offenbach and Kiel of strategic significance for us, particularly in the fields and thus combining the energy of the future with the of project development, generation, grids and sales. mobility of the future. This also involves examining our own mobility solutions. In Kiel, for example, we are We actively contribute to sector coupling. converting the car pool at Stadtwerke Kiel to electric vehicles and aim to increase the share of these vehicles to 80 % by the end of 2021. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 20 CHANGED ENERGY DEMAND CO2 gap in building sector Structural changes accounted for million tonnes of CO2 p.a. in our strategic planning 200 Demand for energy will change significantly in the 180 – 40 % years ahead. This is true both of the energy sources achievable with 160 existing energy used to generate heating energy and of electricity. On 140 policy the one hand, we expect demand for heating energy 120 to gradually decrease throughout the economy, with 100 CO2 gap this being driven in particular by rising building energy 80 efficiency. By 2050, buildings will require around 40 % 60 to 50 % less heating energy. At the same time, the 40 energy mix used for heating energy will also change – 20 away from fossil fuels such as heating oil and natural 0 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 gas. On the other hand, demand for electricity will also continue to change, with this being mainly due to the Building sector target by 2030 Fully con If current policy upheld Fully con regulatory framework. The shift towards renewable Climate protection trajectory needed energies in the electricity mix and reduction in end energy consumption are backed up with ambitious Source: “MVV, Take-Off Wärmewende 2019” political targets. In parallel, our customers are increasingly interested in covering their electricity needs with their own generation plants. The Climate Package adopted by the Federal GovernAlongside the increased provision of renewable ment in autumn 2019 contains numerous measures energies, two factors that are particularly gaining that we had proposed in the study nine months earlier. in significance are enhanced flexibility and energy Among others, these include appropriate CO2 pricing, storage. We systematically account for foreseeable subsidies and tax deductibility for building refurbishchanges in demand in our strategic investment planment measures, a ban on new oil heating systems and ning and continually adapt our business in line with a programme of immediate action for central heating actual market developments. We report on research systems in large built-up areas. projects in our 2019 Annual Report : www.mvv.de/ GB2019.pdf, Pages 23 – 24. As we illustrated in the study by reference to specific practical examples, the main challenge is the substanWe prepare our supply grids for changes in tial viability gap between conventional fossil-based energy demand in the electricity and heating heating technology on the one hand and green heatenergy sectors as a result of the energy system ing energy or enhanced building efficiency on the conversion or energy efficiency measures. other. In typical applications, such as natural gas-fired condensing boilers – based on full-cost analysis and District heating has a key role to play in excluding CO2 tax – falling investment costs are balthe heating energy turnaround anced by rising energy prices (see chart). For the economy as a whole, the viability gap already amounts Together with ifeu Institut and the consultancy Navigant, to around Euro 9 billion by 2030 and is set to rise furat the end of 2018 we published a study showing how ther in subsequent years. Even a CO2 price of Euro 50 the heating energy turnaround in Germany can actually is, taken alone, not sufficient for many applications work and what steps are required. Even though heating (see chart). energy accounts for a third of Germany’s total CO2 emissions, energy policy has so far focused on the electricity sector. The measures urgently needed to launch the heating energy turnaround were omitted, meaning that the climate targets for the building sector were not met. The same applies looking ahead: The shortfall to the required reduction in CO2 is set to grow further (see chart), particularly if heating oil and fossil-­ based natural gas are to be fully phased out by 2050. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 21 District heating at MVV Real heat production costs As well as industrial district steam grids, in Mannheim, (cent/kWh) Kiel and Offenbach we also operate integrated district heating systems and provide our customers with a 20 19 supply of environmentally-friendly, centrally generated 16 heating energy. We aim to further decarbonise the 15 14 14 heating energy supply for which we are responsible – not least in view of the climate protection targets for 10 the building sector. The 2050 Climate Protection Plan adopted by the Federal Government provides for a 40 % reduction in emissions in this sector by 2030 5 already compared with 2014. The building heating energy turnaround can be realised in three areas: 0 energy efficiency, low-CO2 heating energy grids and 2016 2040 2016 2040 renewable energies located close to the respective Gas condensing boiler Air heat pump properties. The task for us will be to reduce CO2 emisCO2 tax of Euro 50/tonne of CO2 sions in our district heating energy supply, which is already operated using highly efficient CHP, to enable Source: “MVV, Take-Off Wärmewende 2019” us to meet future customer requirements. We are therefore working consistently on concepts to further reduce CO2 intensity. We are expanding green heatThe political standstill to date is also due to significant ing energy in Mannheim and the region by connectoutstanding questions as to how the resultant burdens ing our waste-fired CHP plant at Friesenheimer Insel should be distributed. The electricity turnaround mainly to our existing district heating grid and thus raising our addressed energy companies, with the costs being energy efficiency from 57 % to 73 % 2 Pages 31 – 32. allocated to electricity consumers in their entirety (EEG levy). In the heating energy turnaround, it will Alongside these three integrated district heating grids, now be necessary to focus in particular on tenants, we also operate several smaller district heating, dishomeowners and landlords, as most of the investtrict steam and property-specific grids in Germany, the ments involved relate to end customers. In short, the Czech Republic and the UK. In the Czech Republic heating energy turnaround has many more dimenalone we operate heating energy grids at 15 locations, sions and is, in terms of distributing costs, more in this case via our MVV Energie CZ subgroup. complex than the electricity turnaround. T MVV-3 We circulated the findings of this study within our industry and contributed them to the political debate : www.mvv.de/Take-off.pdf. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | System Change | 22 Decarbonisation and National decarbonisation has attained a new quality due to the increasing calls for long-term climate Energy Turnaround neutrality. This would involve moving away from the European and national target, which initially provided Since 2018, climate protection has become even for reducing emissions in a range of 80 % to 95 % more prominent as a topic within society, among the by 2050. By contrast, climate neutrality implies not general public and in the political arena. With new only decarbonising by at least 95 %, but also comanalyses, such as the IPCC Special Report 1.5°C, pensating for or capturing unavoidable residual emisclimate science has underlined the urgency of adoptsions. For the energy industry, climate neutrality means ing a far more ambitious approach towards decaron the one hand that the use of fossil fuels will have to bonisation, not least as global warming is advancing be reduced more rapidly than previously planned. On far more quickly than projected just a few years ago. the other hand, more renewable energies will have to be Taken together with the fact that Germany will miss planned and implemented to cover the full decarbonisaits climate protection targets for 2020, the results of tion of other sectors, for example by working with powerthe Commission on Growth, Structural Change and to-gas or power-to-liquids. Decarbonisation and energy Employment (the so-called “Coal Commission”) and turnaround are of core significance to us as an energy international and national movements within society, company. there is ever greater momentum in the field of climate and energy policy. In what follows, we present our approaches and results for the topic of decarbonisation and the energy While the “2050 Climate Protection Plan” adopted turnaround, which based on GRI we classified as in 2016 only defines sector CO2 reduction targets being material, by reference to specific disclosures and CO2 budgets until 2030, since 2019 the Federal on climate protection and renewable energies. Scope 1 Government has been compiling specific policy greenhouse gases, which are emitted upon the measures to safeguard compliance with the decargeneration of electricity and heating energy, are the bonisation targets for 2030. There is political consenfactor most decisively influencing our climate balance sus concerning the accelerated exit from coal by sheet. The medium to long-term development in our 2038 at the latest together with a more rapid expanScope 1 emissions will be determined on the one hand sion in renewable energies to 65 % by 2030. In by the decommissioning dates for existing power and September 2019, the “Climate Cabinet” of the Federal heating energy plants and on the other hand by potenGovernment adopted the key points of the 2030 tial additional sources of emissions resulting from Climate Protection Programme. These include growth investments. When implementing our ambitious imposing prices on CO2 emissions resulting from climate protection targets, we therefore aim to avoid fuels not covered by European emissions trading. or reduce CO2 emissions in the overall energy system. With a broad mix of additional subsidies, pricing To this end, we are increasing our generation capaciinstruments and regulatory law, the Federal Governties at renewable energies plants and at plants with mental aims to accelerate decarbonisation in private highly efficient combined heat and power (CHP) genhouseholds and companies alike and thus ensure eration. The figures achieved and progress made are that the climate protection targets set for 2030 are evaluated each year on Executive Board level and actually met. further measures are planned. Moreover, we also address energy efficiency, a further important specific disclosure in respect of the GRI’s material topic of decarbonisation and the energy turnaround. Increasing energy efficiency is a significant factor both in our own business and at our customers. T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 23 CLIMATE PROTECTION the latest. Our strategic sustainability targets for the period from 2016 to 2026 mean that we have already Our climate strategy set clear and measurable milestones as we head to climate neutrality. Our objective is climate neutrality We are committed to the Paris Climate Accord and will Our decarbonisation strategy covers four areas: achieve climate neutrality as a company by 2050 at Climate protection Generation positions Renewable energies Climate neutrality at customers Handling remaining emissions Reduce emissions from our Consistently press ahead with Facilitate climate neutrality Review new technologies for conventional generation positions renewable energies expansion achieved at and by our customers, climate-neutral handling of to zero by 2050 at the latest particularly with energy efficiency unavoidable residual emissions measures, renewable energies and services • Generation positions • C  limate neutrality at our customers We will reduce emissions from our conventional Our products and services promote climate neuenergy generation positions to zero by 2050 at the trality at and by our customers. Today, we already latest. The trajectory here depends on the specific facilitate substantial reductions in CO2 in other time at which existing power and heating energy industries and sectors, for example by means of plants are decommissioned, as well as on the releenergy efficiency measures, by planning and vant replacement investments, including the availoperating renewable energies plants and by offerability of green gas products, such as renewable ing innovative services. We will significantly cut hydrogen or biomethane. Key aspects of the energy-related emissions at our customers and underlying conditions will be fixed by the legislaimprove their climate footprints. Decarbonisation tion governing the exit from coal. at our customers will be reflected in higher annual net CO2 savings and the scope of projected vol• Renewable energies umes of renewable energies. For both these factors, We have pressed ahead with expanding renewable we set specific interim targets in 2016 already for energies for years now and will maintain this focus. the period until 2026. One ambitious interim target involves doubling our own renewable electricity generation volumes in the •  andling residual emissions H period from 2016 to 2026. Furthermore, convenAt our plants, we exploit ways of cutting emissions tional heating energy generation will be replaced by in order to reduce unavoidable emissions to an low-CO2 alternatives and gradually by renewable absolute minimum. Any remaining residual emissources. sions, such as those resulting from waste incineration, can only be offset or used by drawing on new technologies, such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) or carbon capture and utilisation (CCU). This being so, we are monitoring and reviewing all relevant options in terms of reducing, using or offsetting CO2 emissions. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 24 Consistently implementing our decarbonisation Within direct emissions, we make a distinction between strategy will gradually reduce our group-wide CO2 energy industry emissions, i.e. from generation plants, intensity. We measure this figure as the relationship on the one hand and disposal industry emissions on the between value added and CO2 emissions. We report other hand. The latter emissions arise upon incineration on the development in this key figure just as trans­ of household and commercial waste at energy from parently as on our direct and indirect CO2 emissions waste plants. Here, the focus is on the hygienisation of and CO2 savings. materials that are in some cases harmful and toxic. As the products included in waste are in some cases made Our decarbonisation strategy is specified in greater of non-renewable energies, the process of incineration detail on a decentralised basis by our business fields, gives rise to fossil CO2. Only once product manufacturtaking due account of local conditions. On group level, ing has been decarbonised will it ultimately be possible the investments made by all business fields are to reduce the fossil share of the waste and thus the assessed in terms of their contribution to decarbonisavolume of emissions at energy from waste plants. tion. Successful decarbonisation measures are regularly reviewed by our sustainability management team In view of this, the CO2 reduction targets for the on group level. Taking due account of their strategic energy industry sector cannot be taken as the CO2 implications, the Executive Board then decides on reduction targets at energy from waste plants. measures. Increasing efforts to achieve higher rates of recycling, increase cascaded product use and reduce plastic As well as implementing climate neutrality in our and waste volumes will only lead to a significant business fields, we will also rapidly reduce direct change in waste volumes in the longer term. In the emissions in our business operations. Even though, medium term, we therefore do not expect to see at around 8 thousand tonnes CO2 eq a year, these falling waste flows or any resultant reduction in CO2 so-called Scope 2 emissions appear negligible, our emission at energy from waste plants. employees and stakeholders expect us to achieve climate neutrality at our properties and in our mobilThe coal-fired joint power plant in Kiel (Gemeinschafts­ ity in the medium to long term. kraftwerk Kiel – GKK), in which Stadtwerke Kiel owns a 50 % stake, was decommissioned in the 2019 Our climate balance sheet for financial year. We launched operations with the new the 2019 financial year gas-fired CHP plant in November 2019. In the before/ after comparison, the decommissioning of GKK has Absolute emissions significantly reduced emissions at the Kiel location in In our climate balance sheet, we distinguish between absolute terms. Viewed from a full consolidation perdirect and indirect CO2 emissions. spective, however, MVV’s direct CO2 emissions will not decrease once operations begin at the gas-fired Direct CO2 emissions designated as Scope 1 under CHP plant, but may possibly rise slightly. That is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol arise upon energy because our 50 % stake in GKK involves a shareholdgeneration at our proprietary plants or at plants from ing recognised at equity whose CO2 emissions were which we procure contingents. outside MVV’s reporting boundaries from a fully consolidated perspective. By contrast, the new, highly Direct CO2 emissions are influenced by weather-­ efficient gas-fired CHP plant will be fully consolidated. based demand for heating energy, as well as by Following the launch of operations, 100 % of its emisthe development in wholesale electricity prices and, sions will therefore be reported under our direct CO2 related to this, capacity utilisation rates at our emissions. generation plants. MVV is not able to influence these factors. In the medium to long term, the development in direct emissions will largely depend on the dates on which existing plants are decommissioned and the replacement investments implemented. CO2 key figures depending on reporting boundaries MVV plants Upstream/downstream Overall economy stages of value chain CO2 emissions Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2/3) CO2 reductions Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2/3) Net CO2 saving Net CO2 saving Net CO2 saving MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 25 In the short term, the development in our indirect CO2 emissions is largely dependent on sales volumes for Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) electricity, gas and heating energy, as well as on the 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq performance of the renewable energies project devel5,000 opment business. In this respect, the reduction in the 4,463 4,500 4,189 2019 financial year was mainly due to lower sales 3,869 volumes, lower fuel use and less capacity installed by 4,000 3,583 3,500 our project development business. 3,000 2,500 The short-term development in direct and indirect 1,469 1,646 1,547 1,545 CO2 emissions provides only a limited picture of our 2,000 efforts to protect the climate. Even an increase in 1,500 CO2 emissions in absolute terms in the climate balance 1,000 sheet may be compatible with the long-term objective 0 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 of climate neutrality in cases where our activities replace those of other more CO2 intensive emitters Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity and thus reduce the CO2 intensity of the overall system. For this reason, in 2016 we already set ourselves the following climate protection target: We will triple our annual CO2 savings to The counterintuitive circumstance that a reduction in 1 million tonnes a year by 2026. CO2 by around two thirds in absolute terms does not impact positively on our direct emissions underlines Here, we account for climate-effective CO2 savings the highly limited meaningfulness of this key figure along the entire value chain. We assess the extent to in terms of the success achieved in decarbonisation. which all of the new strategic activities, projects and The same applies to other investments which may investments at our group of companies impact on their lead to higher direct CO2 emissions despite a local direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. For all reduction in CO2 emissions. For this reason, we activities, we record the average CO2 savings for a record and report on all reductions in CO2 arising in maximum period of ten years from the beginning of the economy as a whole as a result of our strategic the measure. We do not account for historic reduction measures and investments by way of the “net CO2 projects and financial transactions. saving” key figure. Having said this, we have nevertheless reduced our Scope 1 emissions by around The target also includes our at-equity shareholdings, 20 % since 2016. whose specific target contributions we present in our separate Sustainability Report. However, the path Indirect CO2 emissions comprise greenhouse gases towards the 2026 target year will not follow a linear arising in upstream and downstream stages of the trajectory. It will depend on the time at which new value chain. CO2 emissions in upstream value chain plants, such as the gas-fired CHP plant in Kiel, comstages arise at suppliers manufacturing products and mence operations, as well on the market and regulaservices purchased by MVV. These relate, for examtory climate, as these factors influence the attractiveple, to the production of photovoltaics systems and ness of investments and emission-cutting projects wind turbines or to procurement of electricity not genand the speed at which they can be implemented. erated by MVV. Emissions activities in downstream stages of the value chain chiefly involve the use of In the year under report, net CO2 savings at our fully natural gas supplied by MVV to customers. Reporting consolidated companies amounted to 485,507 tonnes on indirect CO2 emissions forms part of any complete of CO2 eq (previous year: 484,789 tonnes of CO2 eq). climate balance sheet. These disclosures are neverWe achieved additional savings with energy efficiency theless largely of an informational nature, as we act projects and by launching operations with new renew­ here exclusively as a sales company and cannot conable energies plants. Our at-equity shareholdings also trol or even influence the CO2 balance sheet of these slightly increased their CO2 reductions compared commodities. with the previous year, in this case mainly as a result of activities relating to the supply of green heating energy at Stadtwerke Ingolstadt. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 26 Climate balance sheet  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity 1,000 tonnnes CO2 eq FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 1, 2 T GRI 305-1 1,545 1,547 –2 0 3,582 3,869 – 287 –7 Energy industry activities 594 627 – 33 –5 2,631 2,949 – 318 – 11 of which Germany 426 478 – 52 – 11 2,463 2,799 – 336 – 12 of which abroad 168 149 + 19 + 13 168 150 + 18 + 12 Disposal activities (energy from waste plants/RDF) 951 920 + 31 +3 951 920 + 31 +3 of which Germany 705 689 + 16 +2 705 689 + 16 +2 of which abroad 246 231 + 15 +6 246 231 + 15 +6 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 1 T GRI 305-2 8 8 0 0 8 8 0 0 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 1, 3 T GRI 305-3 6,346 8,386 – 2,040 – 24 5,119 6,925 – 1,806 – 26 of which from purchased goods and assets (GHG category 1) 303 730 – 427 – 58 303 730 – 427 – 58 of which from fuel and energy procurement (GHG category 3) 4,431 5,928 – 1,497 – 25 3,054 4,305 – 1,251 – 29 of which from transport and distribution (GHG category 9) 173 195 – 22 – 11 204 217 – 13 –6 of which from use of products sold (GHG category 11) 1,439 1,533 – 94 –6 1,558 1,673 – 115 –7 1 For fuels, we refer to industry-typical emissions factors from GEMIS/Öko-Institut; for electricity to the Federal Environment Agency (UBA) and for district heating to certified emissions factors for the respective locations. 2 Around 23 % of Scope 1 emissions are attributable to ETS plants (fully consolidated and at-equity companies: around two thirds). 3 The method used to calculate indirect Scope 3 emissions was developed further in the 2019 financial year; direct comparison with the previous year’s figures is therefore only possible to a limited extent. In 2013, we worked together with the Institute of within and outside our accounting entity. This means Applied Ecology (Öko-Institut) in Freiburg to develop a that, alongside electricity, account is also taken of method to calculate net CO2 avoidance and reviewed heating energy, services and efficiency measures for this in 2017. The net CO2 avoidance figure includes third parties. We record all CO2 emissions avoided the emissions avoided throughout the value chain. for a maximum of ten years from the beginning of the This figure reflects the genuine savings actually taking respective measure. No account is taken of historic effect in the climate system. We assess how all new reduction projects and financial transactions. The net strategic activities, projects and investments at our CO2 avoidance figure rose only slightly in the 2019 group of companies impact on their direct and indirect financial year. In the years ahead, however, we expect greenhouse gas emissions. In this, all additional emisto achieve significantly higher savings due to our cursions (charge) and CO2 reductions (credit) are netted rent and planned investments. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 27 Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 600 500 482 485 486 429 438 439 418 400 339 300 244 244 200 146 146 146 146 100 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity Hard coal Lignite 1 Leistung gem. Kabinettsbeschluss zum Ko T GRI 305-5 CO2 intensity added advantage that potentially opposing items in Alongside absolute CO2 savings, the CO2 intensity of various business fields can be identified more easily. our business activities may also indicate whether, and We use value added as the reference figure here, as to what extent, MVV is succeeding in decarbonising its the total value of the company’s output provides a betactivities. For this reason, we use CO2 intensity key ter indication for the development in business volumes figures to offer visibility concerning the long-term sucthan sales or operating earnings, for example. The cess of our decarbonisation measures on the level of reduction in CO2 intensities in the 2019 financial year our reporting segments as well. Compared with the was due both to the increase in value added, as well group-wide presentation of CO2 intensity, this has the as to lower CO2 emissions. CO2 intensity For direct emissions For direct and indirect emissions kg CO2 per Euro of value added FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2018 Customer Solutions 1 1 11 11 New Energies 2 3 3 5 Supply Reliability 6 9 7 11 Strategic Investments 5 5 10 12 MVV 3 4 7 10 Particularly in Mannheim and Kiel, the specific CO2 Specific CO2 emissions for district heating 1 emissions for district heating will fall substantially in g CO2/kWh FY 2019 FY 2018 the coming years once work on connecting lower-CO2 Mannheim district heating system 201 201 generation sources is complete. Offenbach district heating system 150 150 SWKiel district heating system 218 218 SWIngolstadt district heating system 36 36 Decentralised gas heating systems in Germany 274 274 1 The figures are reassessed around every three years if the generation structure has changed. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 28 RENEWABLE ENERGIES We will be extending our renewable energies generation portfolio in the 2020 financial year. Our Juwi and Renewable energies contribute Windwärts subsidiaries, for example, are currently to climate protection targets building two windfarms with a total capacity of around 24 MW. We will be including these in our proprietary By 2050, electricity generation in Germany should be generation portfolio upon their completion in the 2020 based almost entirely on renewable energies. They financial year. have a crucial role to play in meeting national climate protection targets. This situation harbours growth We will connect 10,000 MW of potential for our company; not least because of this, renewable energies to the grid by the end renewable energies are a key focus of our strategic of the 2026 financial year. alignment. By expanding renewable energies, we are also making a measurable contribution on behalf of Due in particular to Juwi and Windwärts, we have allsociety as a whole to the success of the energy turnaround expertise in developing, building and launching round and achievement of climate protection targets. operations with renewable energies plants. We aim to reach the projecting target in particular by installing Here too, we set two specific sustainability targets in onshore wind turbines and photovoltaics systems both 2016 already and intend to reach these by the end of in Germany and abroad. Biomass plants and photo­ the 2026 financial year. voltaics systems at customers’ locations will contribute smaller amounts. We will double our proprietary electricity generation from renewable energies by the end Since the beginning of the 2017 financial year, we have of the 2026 financial year. connected renewable energies plants with capacities of 1,882 MW to the grid. In the 2019 financial year, we This target of doubling our generation to more than connected 460 MW of new capacities. 800 MW also includes the shareholdings we recognise at equity. We report on their specific renewable enerForward-looking generation portfolio gies generation capacities in our separate Sustainability Report. To enable us to reach our target, we are At the end of the 2019 financial year, electricity consistently investing in expanding our proprietary generation at renewable energies plants (including renewable energies generation portfolio. One primary biomass CHP and the biogenic share of waste/ focus here involves onshore wind turbines. refuse-derived fuels) accounted for a 63 % share of our total electricity generation volumes (previous The renewable energies electricity generation capacity year: 62 %). at our fully consolidated companies amounted to 474 MW at the end of the 2019 financial year, 7 MW higher Overall, we generated 1,095 million kWh of climate-­ than in the previous year. This increase was due to neutral electricity at our renewable energies plants in the fact that we included wind turbines from Juwi’s the year under report. portfolio for the first time in the 2019 financial year. Electricity generation capacity at our at-equity shareholdings also showed a slight year-on-year increase. Electricity generation  Women Shares (%) Shares ( FY 2019 Electricity from renewable energies 1 63 Electricity from biomass and Women biogas plants 24 Men Electricity from wind power 21 Electricity from biogenic share of waste/RDF 18 Status: 30 S Electricity from CHP 24 Other electricity generation 13 1 Due to their immaterial shares, electricity generation volumes from hydroelectricity and photovoltaics have not been presented in this overview. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 29 Electricity generation capacity from renewable energies and energy from waste (EfW)/refuse-derived fuels (RDF)  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity MWe FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomass and biogas plants 1 104 104 0 0 116 109 +7 +6 EfW/RDF 160 161 –1 –1 160 161 –1 –1 Wind power 204 196 +8 +4 211 203 +8 +4 Hydroelectricity 2 2 0 0 2 2 0 0 Photovoltaics 4 4 0 0 4 4 0 0 Total 474 467 +7 +1 493 479 + 14 +3 1 Including biomethane plants T MVV-4 Heating energy supply The heating energy generation capacity at our renewable energies plants for the first time also includes the figure for our energy from waste plant in Dundee. Heating energy generation capacity from renewable energies and energy from waste (EfW)/refuse-derived fuels (RDF)  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity MWt FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomass and biogas plants 119 119 0 0 119 119 0 0 EfW/RDF 719 682 + 37 +5 719 682 + 37 +5 Total 838 801 + 37 +5 838 801 + 37 +5 Increasing significance of our The project development business is by its very nature project development business volatile. The volume of new renewable energies plants at which operations are launched each year depends, With our Juwi and Windwärts subsidiaries, we offer among other factors, on social and political acceptend-to-end project development and services for planance, the length of approval processes, regulations ning, building and managing operations at renewable governing subsidies for renewable energies, as well energies plants. as on specific implementation dates for individual projects, and can therefore vary widely from year to year. Concluded development of new renewable energies plants  T MVV-5 MWe FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Operations management for renewable energies plants  Wind power 62 336 – 274 – 82 Photovoltaics 398 675 – 277 – 41 MWe FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Total 460 1,011 – 551 – 55 Wind power 1,246 1,295 – 49 –4 Photovoltaics 2,288 1,768 + 520 + 29 Total 3,534 3,063 + 471 + 15 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 30 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Under the German Building Energy Act (GEG), decentralised natural gas or oil-fired heating systems are Great economic significance currently assessed with a PEF of 1.1, while uncertified district heating from combined heat and power has a Enhancing energy efficiency is high up on the political standardised PEF of 0.6. The new GEG legislation agenda. The term energy efficiency refers both to adopted at the end of 2019 has updated the methodoreducing end energy consumption, i.e. at the consumer, logical basis used to calculate the primary energy facand to reducing primary fuel use at energy generators. tors, which may lead to slight adjustments in our PEF Raising our energy efficiency is also important to us figures in the medium term. from an economic perspective. Starting points here for us as an energy company with its own electricity and heating energy generation include measures to PEF certification for district heating grid increase the efficiency of our plants and measures FY 2019 valid until to minimise grid losses in the operation of electricity Mannheim district heating supply system 0.42 2024 and heating energy grids. At our plants, we achieve a Offenbach district heating supply system 0.47 2021 high average fuel utilisation rate of 63 % 2 Page 35. Kiel district heating supply system 0.00 2024 Within our investment programme, we are enhancing the generation efficiency of our proprietary power Fuel use at our conventional power plants is manplants, for example by working with combined heat aged on the basis of economic criteria. In absolute and power generation, and are continually investing terms, our primary energy consumption is deterin modernising our plants and grids. With our prodmined by demand levels on the wholesale markets, ucts and services, we are supporting our customers i.e. by wholesale electricity prices and the gener­ in reducing the energy used at their own plants and ation margin (clean dark spread or clean spark spread). in optimising their energy management. Moreover, weather-dependent electricity and heating energy demand has a major influence on capacity We will raise plant efficiency levels and utilisation rates at our CHP plants. We therefore only reduce emissions from our proprietary have limited ability to control this factor. We report on generation and at our customers. the fuels used at our power plants on 2 Page 35. Increasing the efficiency of our own generation Higher energy efficiency, lower CO2 emissions, and our infrastructure green heating energy One important project in the year under report which We assess the increase in energy efficiency at our has enabled us to raise the energy efficiency of our generation plants due to modernisation measures on waste-fired CHP plant on Friesenheimer Insel in a project-by-project basis. The listed projects show Mannheim from 57 % to 73 % was the connection that rising levels of energy efficiency at the plants also of this plant to our existing district heating grid. At lead to lower CO2 emissions. We are also tapping its Friesenheimer Insel location, MVV generates both extensive energy efficiency potential in our own infraprocess steam for neighbouring industry and elecstructure and in our cooperation with customers. tricity. For the first time, part of the district heating will now be fed in from this renewable source. Up to Primary energy 30 % of annual heating energy needs in Mannheim For our major district heating supply systems in Mannand the municipalities connected to the regional disheim, Offenbach and Kiel we calculate the primary trict heating grid – reaching to Schwetzingen, Heidelenergy factor (PEF), which indicates the efficiency of berg and Speyer – will then be covered from Friesenthe infrastructure. The lower the PEF is, the more heimer Insel. This way, district heating will remain an environmentally-friendly and efficient the energy use indispensable and forward-looking component of a is. This factor, which presents the ratio of primary sustainable heating energy supply in future as well. energy used to the volume of end energy yielded, is relevant for meeting legal requirements in terms of heating insulation and building facility technology. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 31 Now that the necessary work has been completed, the Grid losses can be reduced with long-term infrastrucCHP plant can feed in district heating throughout the ture measures, such as improved insulation and other year. This project also involved connecting Roche by technical methods. In a pilot project conducted in launching a new steam pipeline between that comMarch 2019, for example, we photographed several pany’s factory and MVV’s CHP plant. This pipeline streets in Mannheim using a thermography camera. passes through a new culvert built under the Old The resultant images provide information about heatRhine, which was completed in the autumn. With the ing energy losses and energy efficiency potential in opening of the pipeline, MVV supplies heating energy these areas. T MVV-6 to Roche in the form of hot steam totalling around 105,000 MWh a year. This corresponds to the needs Increasing energy efficiency at customers of around 7,500 households. These connections will We support our customers in the industrial, retail, increase the efficiency of our heating energy generation commercial and real estate sectors in reducing portfolio. We expect this to result in total net savings energy input in their systems and optimising their of 61,000 tonnes of CO2 eq a year from 2021. Not only energy management. This way, we are making a that, we are extending the CHP plant to include a facility major contribution to the energy turnaround. Our that involves a further component of a sustainable portfolio includes, for example, transparent electricity recycling-based economy. Here, we will be incinerating and gas procurement, solutions for sustainable municipal sewage and simultaneously facilitating the energy generation, digital energy data management, recovery of phosphorous, a valuable material used in billing services, contracting, smart metering, e-mobility the production of manure. T GRI 302-5 and LED solutions for lighting concepts. We build efficiency partnerships with our customers in which Grid losses we combine modern measurement technology, Limiting grid losses is an important task for us, and software and services. We can make all energy and one that also benefits our energy efficiency. Grid process costs and all consumption visible to our losses arise when electrical energy is transported in customers, automate their monitoring and reporting electricity grids. They are mainly due to electrical and compile and implement plans to optimise all resistance in the transmission cables and transfor­ these factors. This way, we provide our customers mation losses between various voltage levels. Grid with comprehensive solutions and services covering losses in heating energy grids are due to technical all aspects of energy efficiency. factors and mainly relate to the transport route between the source of the heating energy and the Among other projects, in the year under report MVV heat sink. The scale of grid losses depends on how worked with one of Europe’s largest recycling comwell insulated the transport pipes are. The most panies to identify and tap energy saving potential. important factors determining the scale of losses The sorting and treatment facilities at several of the nevertheless involve natural circumstances, such company’s locations were investigated using stateas the temperature and weather conditions. of-the-art measurement technology. In the first stage, the associated energy flows were made transparent. We aim to reduce grid losses in our By optimising the mode of operation of screw comelectricity and heating energy grids. pressors and training the staff, for example, it was possible to achieve CO2 savings of 150 tonnes a year, Grid losses at MVV  and that at just one sorting facility. kWh million 2018 1 2017 1 +/– change % change In the year under report, MVV also successfully comElectricity 139 141 –2 –1 pleted an efficiency project performed at a longstandHeating energy 491 551 – 60 – 11 ing customer, a Mannheim-based mechanical engi1 Calendar year neering company that we supply with gas, electricity and district heating. We installed around 1,700 light sources in ten of the company’s halls and generated energy savings of 60 % for the customer. This will reduce its CO2 emissions by around 185 tonnes a year. A further project, a follow-up order for 1,200 light sources which should generate further CO2 savings of 190 tonnes a year, is currently in the planning stage. T GRI 302-5 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround | 32 Resource Efficiency and Local produce pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and dust. While CO2 emissions have a global Environmental Protection impact in terms of climate change, other air pollutants can have negative implications on local ecosystems We use natural resources to generate energy. Our and the health of people living in the regions affected. thermal power plants also use resources such as We treat the pollutants thereby incurred very carefully. natural gas and hard coal as fuels. These are finite In the interests of recycling, unavoidable waste from and we aim to use them as efficiently as possible. energy generation and waste incineration, such as ash One key indicator of efficient use involves high fuel and slag – so-called by-products – is turned wherever efficiency rates resulting from optimised use of the possible into products for other companies. Where energy contained in the fuel. This means we minimise this is not possible, the waste is disposed of correctly. the energy losses arising when the fuels are converted T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 into end energy, such as electricity or heating energy. We describe this focus in detail in the section DecarbonEnvironmental impact in our isation and Energy Turnaround 2 Pages 23 – 32. We input/output balance sheet are consistently investing in enhancing the energy efficiency of our generation plants and in expanding district We have compiled an input/output balance sheet heating in conjunction with highly efficient combined each year for several years now. This balance sheet heat and power generation. succinctly compares our environmental impact with our value added. The input/output balance sheet Local environmental protection is a fixed component goes beyond a mere consideration of environmental of our management systems, into which quality and concerns; as these concerns nevertheless account compliance aspects are also integrated. Our subsidifor a significant share of the information provided, aries and shareholdings are responsible for the operthe balance sheet offers transparency on key enviative management of all environmental concerns ronmental implications. on a decentralised basis. As they work with different technologies and our stakeholders in the regions Recent years have not seen any significant changes have a variety of concerns, these companies set their in terms of our emissions and by-products. Due own accents within the framework provided by our to lower generation volumes, the volume of dust group-wide guidelines. We work with decentralised and other emissions fell slightly compared with the environmental and energy management systems for previous year. Over the same period, we generated the control and operative implementation of environgrowth above all with renewable energies and thus mental protection measures. developed lower-CO2 forms of generation. Overall, that shows that, based on a similar volume of input, We avoid other harmful environmental effects resulting we have managed to increase our business volumes, from the generation and provision of our products and and thus the productivity of our natural resource, services where possible or reduce these to a minicapital and employee factors. mum. We accord priority, for example, to cutting emissions of other air pollutants. Large combustion plants MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection | 33 MVV’s input/output balance sheet Fully consolidated and at-equity companies Direct CO2 emissions Scope 1: 3,582 thousand tonnes SO2: 1,444 tonnes NOx: 3,426 tonnes Indirect CO2 emissions Scope 3: 3,357 thousand Indirect Climate-effective tonnes CO2 emissions CO2 savings: Scope 3: 1,762 486 thousand tonnes thousand tonnes Indirect CO2 emissions Scope 2: 8 thousand tonnes Electricity: 5,136 million kWh 1 Electricity product: 20,428 million kWh Gas: 5,927 million kWh 1 Natural gas product: 26,226 million kWh District heating product: 6,421 million kWh Water product: 41.1 million cubic metres Fly ash: 151 thousand tonnes Ash and slag: 523 thousand tonnes Biomass: 535 thousand tonnes Biogenic share of waste/refuseEmployees: 6,113 derived fuels: 1,939 thousand tonnes Accidents (LTIF): 7.7 Natural gas: 1,830 million kWh Hard coal: 886 thousand tonnes Other fossil fuels: 338 million kWh Concluded development of new renewable energies plants: 460 MWe Investments: Euro 310 million Employee benefit expenses: Euro 438 million Value added: Euro 895 million Cost of materials: Adjusted sales: Euro 3,683 million Euro 2,827 million Adjusted EBIT: Euro 225 million 1 Excluding sales volumes from trading transactions MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection | 34 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY We make targeted investments in highly efficient combined heat and power (CHP) generation – after all, To generate electricity and heating energy, power the fuel efficiency rate for CHP is significantly higher plants use fossil fuels, and here especially natural gas than when electricity and heating energy are generand hard coal, as well as regenerative fuels. These ated separately. In Kiel, we launched operations with include both solid biomass and so-called refuse-derived our new gas-fired CHP plant 2 Page 19. fuels, which are produced from waste and have a biogenic share of around one half. We describe our The volume of fuel that has to be used in individual value chain in greater detail on 2 Pages 14 – 16. financial years largely depends on developments in weather conditions and market prices, as well as on One way we help to protect resources is by reducing the properties of the fuel in question. By products, primary energy use with high fuel efficiency rates. The primarily ash and slag, arise in our waste incineration fuel efficiency rate presents the volume of end energy and our CHP plants 2 Page 35. generated (electricity and heating energy) as a ratio of the energy input (primary energy) and thus quantifies Ash and slag volumes are due to technological factors the efficiency of generation. and do not lie within our control. We put these by-products to further use wherever this is technologiWe reduce our ecological footprint by expanding cally possible and economically viable. Consistent highly efficient combined heat and power (CHP) with the cascade use principle, we prepare them so generation and district heating and thus reducing that they can be returned to the economic cycle, for the use of non-renewable fuels. example as products for the construction industry. Residual volumes that are not recyclable have to be If the fuel efficiency rate increases, a given generation sent for landfilling in line with legal requirements. portfolio has a higher energy yield. This way, we are Other by-products and toxic or hazardous substances, also making what is an important contribution to cutting such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PBC), play no role, emissions. Our plants achieved an average fuel effior only a subordinate role, in our business activities. The ciency rate of 63 % in the year under report. This puts rules for handling such substances and relevant control our energy yield ahead of the German average for mechanisms are set out in our management systems generation activities, which the Federal Environment for work safety and for quality and the environment. Agency has quantified at an average of 48 % for all energy sources (based on gross electricity generation in 2016). Fuels used at power plants  Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Biomass (1,000 tonnes) 501 602 – 101 – 17 535 636 – 101 – 16 Biogenic share of waste/refuse-­ derived fuels (1,000 tonnes) 1,939 1,889 + 50 +3 1,939 1,889 + 50 +3 Natural gas (kWh million) 1,809 1,931 – 122 –6 1,830 1,953 – 123 –6 Hard coal (1,000 tonnes) 71 78 –7 –9 886 1,045 – 159 – 15 Other fossil fuels (kWh million) 337 359 – 22 –6 338 360 – 22 –6 T GRI 301-1 Average fuel efficiency rate Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity % FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change 57 57 0 63 61 +2 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection | 35 LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION around 20 % in this building (approx. 96,000 kWh a year). By implementing technical measures at a proFor us, environmental protection on both national and duction operation at the industrial park, whose wastelocal levels is closely based on legal requirements. water activities were supported and accompanied by Approval requirements and strict threshold values MVV, we managed to reduce the wastewater dirt load form the basis for our activities, and that both when at the sewage plant operated by MVV by around 125 we build new plants and in our day-to-day operations. tonnes of chemical oxygen demand a year. Six chargCompliance with these values is monitored by the ing points for electric cars were installed in spring relevant authorities. Certain aspects of our operations, 2019 and are available to customers and employees. such as plant-specific emissions at large combustion We also act as the initiator and moderator of two plants, are subject to reporting requirements. energy efficiency networks at the industrial park. The GEENI Network established in 2016 was successfully The new European requirements governing air polcompleted as of 31 December 2018, with the project lutant emissions were adopted in national law in the partners achieving savings of almost 100 GWh of 2019 financial year. The amendment to the German electricity and heating energy. In view of these pleasFederal Immissions Protection Ordinance introduced ing results, in spring 2019 we founded a new energy stricter threshold values for various size categories efficiency network – LEEN2019 – with an amended of incineration-based generation plants. These chiefly group of participants. relate to topics such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and heavy metals. All our plants will continue Our generation plants emitted around 1.6 million tonnes to comply with the threshold values, some of which of climate-neutral biogenic CO2 in the year under stricter than previously, in future as well. report. This results from the direct use of timber, other biogenic waste and other regenerative materials We actively promote environmental protection deployed as fuels at our plants. with our investments. In our operating business, the use of natural resources A major share of our environmental protection activities in our energy generation has the largest environon local level involves investments to modernise our mental impact. Compared to this, other business proplants. By enhancing their efficiency, we can save cesses at our plants, buildings and business operaresources and protect the environment. One example tions, such as administration, have a notably smaller here involves our activities at Gersthofen Industrial impact. As a result, the environmental protection Park. The environmental management system at MVV measures we take to improve our own direct electricIndustriepark Gersthofen GmbH is certified in accordity and water consumption and our use of other materiance with ISO 14001 and EMAS. In the year under als or to reduce our own waste volumes only have a report, we implemented numerous efficiency enhancerelatively limited effect in terms of their environmental ment measures there. The canteen ventilation manbenefits. We nevertheless promote several aspects in agement system was renewed, for example, with our decentralised environmental management systems. speed-regulated power units being installed. We expect this measure alone to generate savings of Other emissions and residues Fully consolidated companies Fully consolidated companies and companies recognised at equity tonnes 2018 1 2017 1 +/– change % change 2018 1 2017 1 +/– change % change NOx 2,227 2,236 –9 0 3,426 3,441 – 15 0 SO2 772 900 – 128 – 14 1,444 1,675 – 231 – 14 Dust 34 45 – 11 – 24 72 91 – 19 – 21 Ash and slag 519,502 506,537 + 12,965 +3 522,648 510,767 + 11,881 +2 1 Calendar year T GRI 305-7 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection | 36 Further environmental protection aspects form part of Digitalisation at the company – both in terms of its the environmental management systems at our local processes and of its products and services – is a key companies, which are responsible for these on a driver to secure MVV’s future success. As well as decentralised basis. These companies also set their securing sustainability at the company in economic own accents. MVV Netze and Stadtwerke Kiel, for terms, digital solutions also offer opportunities to example, play an active role in protecting ground reach ecological and social targets. At MVV, the cross­ water and water surfaces. As they are responsible divisional topic of digitalisation is being implemented for the supply of drinking water in their regions, their across all business fields. We coordinate key aspects supply systems have to be regularly analysed and of this process in our digitalisation programme and checked. Here, the production, treatment and distrialso ensure this is closely dovetailed with our sustainbution of drinking water are not only of economic ability programme. significance; the public supply mandates serve the common good. As the most important source of life, We are also committed to protecting information and drinking water is governed by strict quality standards. data with a wide range of technical and organisational The most important objectives for the water supply security measures. These apply in particular to perinvolve complying with these quality standards and sonal data, which we collect in connection with the minimising relevant contents. We have published our solutions and service products we offer to our customtargets and management approach for our drinking ers and for employment and other contractual relationwater supply in our Water Policy : www.mvv.de/ ships with employees and suppliers. Working with an water-policy. information security management system based on the international norm DIN ISO 27001 and a data protection management system, the employees entrusted Digital Transformation with this task manage and monitor the security of business processes in terms of IT and data protection law Traditionally a demand-driven market, energy generon a decentralised basis and ensure that the informaation is already characterised by interactive relationtion is protected against unauthorised viewing, loss or ships between supply and demand. This process manipulation. All measures we implement in terms of is set to intensify further in future. One major future information security and data protection are intended trend for us is the digitalisation, networking and to detect and manage any potential risks. Our goal automation of business processes, an approach here is to maintain existing relationships of trust with partly described by the catchword “Industry 4.0”. our customers, shareholders, suppliers, service proWe provide our customers with individual solutions viders and employees and, where possible, to extend enabling them to align their processes even more this trust even further. holistically and enhance their efficiency – this way we are also helping to reduce the long-term impact In the year under report, we met our objective of of energy consumption on the environment. protecting information and data with technical and organisational security measures based on the As we head for the energy system of the future, recommendations made by the Federal Office for renewable energies will have to be smartly linked Information Security (BSI). The same applies to with highly efficient conventional energies and energy the data we collect from our customers in connection storage facilities. Not only that, flexible sources of with our solutions and service products. demand will also have to be integrated. For us as a T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 company, that means we are making sure our customers themselves can play an active role in the energy turnaround. In the following sections, we state our specific targets and associated activities. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection Digital Transformation | 37 INDUSTRY 4.0: CHANGED PATTERNS By promoting digitalisation and networking OF CONSUMPTION AND in our own processes, at our customers and CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS in our products, we safeguard MVV’s future performance capacity. For the energy system of the future, we need a decentralised communications infrastructure that networks Digitalisation on end customer level and Industry 4.0 generators, marketers and consumers with each other. on B2B level – both form part of the energy system This will give rise to consistent end-to-end processes. of the future. In view of this, we are systematically As the industrial transformation already underway evaluating technological options resulting from these – Industry 4.0 – progresses further, all industrial equiptrends and extending the range of solutions for our ment and tools down to end points will in future be customers. The topic of Industry 4.0 is therefore conconnected both to each other and to the internet. This tinuing to merge with the following topic of Individual way, they will form the “Internet of Things”. The aim Customer Solutions. In the 2019 financial year, for then will be for end consumers to use large quantities example, we equipped a customer with an electricity of electricity when this is available in large quantities storage facility that charges itself with self-generated and inexpensive. At times when less electricity is availelectricity from a photovoltaics system. The storage able due to more significant fluctuations at renewable facility is managed by a smart energy management energies plants, electricity demand will also have to fall. system that safeguards the discharging process durThe electricity price will thus fluctuate in the course of ing times of high output requirements. This increases the day. In summary: In the past, power plant producthe own-use quota for the photovoltaics system while tion was aligned towards electricity demand. In the simultaneously lowering grid fees. Working with this future, the electricity supply will be influenced by wind solution, our customer has achieved a 75-percent rate and sun conditions, meaning that electricity demand of self-sufficiency. will have to adapt in line with these. This process, which involves demand side management, will lead We implemented a further digital solution in the 2019 to changes both in patterns of consumption and in financial year, in this case for the business incubator customer relationships. mg: mannheimer gründungszentren gmbh, which we assisted in managing its eight sites. Each of these Combining digitalisation, automation and networking incubators enables between 30 and 100 start-ups to should make it possible to coordinate generation and promote their wide variety of business ideas by offerconsumption in real time. This will create further beneing flexible office space. The innovative digital solution fits, as data aggregation and analysis will enable busimeasures all utilities consumed at a given site and ness processes to be structured more efficiently, thus bills this on a room-specific, consumption-driven basis. reducing CO2 emissions. Early warning indicators will It works by connecting smart meters for electricity and also make it possible for plant maintenance processes district heating with the meters used for electricity and to be planned more effectively. Not only that, the avoidheating cost billing and by integrating these within a ance of peak loads means the investment costs holistic wireless infrastructure. This digital wireless needed to expand Germany’s grids can be expected infrastructure also makes sense when used solely for to turn out lower. energy monitoring purposes, as it offers a more comprehensive and up-to-date basis of data and thus provides an overview of potential savings. T MVV-7 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Digital Transformation | 38 INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS Our business models are based on a consistent focus on service, smart networking and maximum flexibility Digitalisation is not the only trend that will contribute (see chart). Long-term partnerships are the structure towards the energy system transformation. The degree that best enable us to support our customers in masof networking between energy sources and with other tering the complex energy-related challenges they industries is also set to increase in connection with face, taking part in the energy turnaround and meeting sector coupling. These factors will be accompanied by their own individual decarbonisation targets. In the the trend towards end customers increasing their pro2019 financial year, for example, we compiled an innoprietary electricity and heating energy generation from vative compressed air concept for a customer with a renewable energies – a trend that applies both to busiphotovoltaics system and energy monitoring. By viewness and to retail customers. On the one hand, we ing various areas from a holistic perspective and have to record our customers’ energy data in real time drawing on previously unused waste heat potential, and network this with applications intended, for example, we were able to significantly enhance the customer’s to optimise energy consumption or enhance energy energy efficiency. Thanks to the resultant CO2 saving efficiency. On the other hand, we must enable our cusof 171 tonnes a year, it was possible to apply for subtomers to supply themselves and to integrate, and thus sidies which reduced the customers’ investment costs secure, this supply in ways that make best sense. by 30 %. T MVV-8 As a competent partner, we offer all customers – from private households to industrial players – the products and services they need to implement their own energy turnarounds. As an energy service provider, we have a key role to play here. Our customers require individual advice accompanied by increasingly automated solutions. This is clearly relevant for our business and commercial customers, but we also expect to see the same developments in our relationships with retail customers. Here, automation will affect all interfaces from customers right up to the energy system as a whole. Energy supply, generation & Energy management Buildings & TGA Services marketing decentralised/centralised » (Green) electricity » Energy check » E-mobility » Smart metering » Gas » Data-based energy » LED lighting » Smart metering plus » District/local heating management » Engineering (heating, » Portal solutions » Contracting solutions » Energy efficiency analysis cooling, air-conditioning, » Electricity/natural gas tenders » Energy efficiency controlling ventilation, sanitary) » Direct marketing » Subsidy consulting » Smart analytics & control » Electro/ICE » Flexibilities management » Invoice verification » Peak load management » Engineering/planning services » Tenant electricity » Mobility check » Management systems » Data centre solutions » Sustainable generation plants » Data centre risk analysis (biomass, PV) (ISO 50001, » Storage solutions Energy Audit 16247, » Utility energy (steam, Alternative System) compressed air, cooling energy) » Heating direct service MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Digital Transformation | 39 INFORMATION SECURITY AND Employee Concerns DATA PROTECTION We offer attractive and secure jobs to around 6,100 Information security and data protection are indispenemployees. That is a great responsibility, and one sable foundations for any successful business activity. that we are aware of and account for in our strategic Due not least to the advance of digitalisation in all decisions. areas, we continuously review, question and optimise our processes to protect personal data and information. Motivated, healthy and well-qualified employees are crucial to MVV’s success. Viewed in the long term, We work with an extensive range of technical demographic trends and changes in the population and organisational security measures to ensure structure will create additional challenges when it information security and data protection. comes to finding and retaining suitable employees. This being so, our personnel strategy focuses on the We act on the basis of applicable legal requirements. following areas: In an extensive project conducted in the year under report, we implemented the stricter requirements •  eadership: We are continually and systematically L resulting from the European General Data Protection improving the quality of management at the comRegulation (GDPR) and the new version of the Gerpany and adapting this in line with changing market man Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) concerning and employee requirements. the treatment of personal data, and that across all areas of the company and in all business processes. •  emographics, work-life balance, compensaD Here, we supplemented the existing information tion management: Our aim is to remain an attracsecurity management system by setting up a data tive employer. That is why we offer attractive comprotection management system in order to ensure pensation packages and are committed to helping that data protection risks are sustainably addressed. our employees combine their work with their family We have established a central point of contact to deal or nursing care commitments. In our recruitment, with all internal and external enquiries and issues we have a particular focus on promoting women relating to data protection. and expanding diversity at the company. We regularly train all our employees with a variety of •  ngoing change management: We are making O measures, inform them about the steadily rising standcontinuing efforts to further develop our company ards applicable to information security and data proand corporate culture and aim to retain and tection and work to raise their awareness both of enhance our employees’ skills. To this end, we existing risks and threats and of the need to treat perinvest in training our workforce and enhancing sonal data and information with due care. T MVV-9 its willingness to embrace change. After all, we need highly trained, flexible and innovative specialists and managers willing to make their contribution to the new energy system. • T  alent management: We deliberately identify, support and cultivate upcoming talent – and that from among our trainees and new recruits right up to our managers. The Labour Director is a member of the Executive Board and is responsible for all personnel-related activities. Reporting on relevant personnel-related topics is provided to the full Executive Board on a MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Digital Transformation Employee Concerns | 40 regular basis and whenever necessary due to individKey figures for our employees ual events or topics. The specific structure and impleWe employed a group-wide total of 6,113 individuals mentation of the personnel strategy is organised on a as of 30 September 2019. The increase compared decentralised basis. This way, targeted focuses can with the previous year was mainly due to the first-time be set in line with circumstances on location. MVV has consolidation of DC-Datacenter-Group in the year a Group Works Council and numerous works council under report. Our employees abroad include 500 bodies and committees. The company’s management employees at our Czech subgroup, 241 at Juwi’s forworks together with these bodies on a basis of trust, eign shareholdings and 135 at the British subsidiaries meaning that both the company’s concerns and those of MVV Umwelt. of its workforce are accounted for in all significant decisions. The Supervisory Board of MVV Energie AG Employee key figures includes equal numbers of shareholder and employee representatives. This means that employee concerns FY 2019 FY 2018 are central to any important company decisions. Number of employees  6,113 5,978 of which We aim to protect the physical and mental wellbeing of Germany  5,232 5,137 our own employees and of those employees who work Abroad  881 841 on our behalf. To this end, we are continually working of which to improve work safety at the Group. Consistent with Women  1,756 1,701 this objective, the work safety committees organised Men  4,357 4,277 on a decentralised basis offer structured programmes of which trainees 1 and measures about which the Executive Board is Women 87 79 also kept regularly informed. Men 243 233 Total  330 312 In our integrated safety management system, we lay down organisational and technical framework of which part-time employees (%) requirements for occupational safety and fire safety, Women 10 10 as well as for plant and environmental safety. Our Men 4 4 work safety committees formed pursuant to § 11 of Total 14 14 the German Occupational Safety Act (ArbSicherG) of which permanent employees are established by the companies on location. They Women 1,568 1,507 include employee and employer representatives Men 3,910 3,823 and meet at least once a quarter. Around 120 individuals Total 5,478 5,330 across the Group are active as members of work Average age (years) safety-related committees at the various companies. Women 42.4 42.2 We agree our occupational safety and accident preMen 44.6 44.7 vention strategies and measures with professional Total 44.0 44.0 associations and employee representatives and Average length of maintain close links with these. When it comes to years of service (years) reintegrating employees, we work with a clearly Women 11.9 12.1 structured operative integration management system Men 13.6 13.8 which also involves employee representatives and Total 13.1 13.3 occupational health professionals. T GRI 403-1 Number of employees on childcare leave 2 In the following section, we deal with the employee Women 105 125 concerns topic defined by GRI as material and present Men 91 97 our approaches and results for the specific disclosures Total 196 222 of training and development, diversity and occupaStaff turnover rate 2 (%) 10.0 9.6 tional health and safety. T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 Employees with severe disabilities 2 (%) 5.0 5.1 1 Including students at Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University (DHBW) 2 In Germany T GRI 102-8 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 41 CORPORATE AND MANAGEMENT CULTURE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Our cultural values of Community, Responsibility, Training with promising prospects for the future Appreciation and Courage shape our dealings with Training acts as a key pillar of MVV’s recruitment one another and are a firm component of our compastrategy. We therefore offer a wide variety of training ny’s DNA. To ensure that these values are not only programmes. protected, but can also be experienced by everyone, employees, managers, the Works Council and the In Mannheim alone, we offer the next generation of Executive Board worked together on a shared defiemployees training in more than 20 different commernition of high-quality leadership at MVV. This also cial and technical vocations, as well as combined provided transparency as to the fact that and the training and study programmes. In the year under differing extent to which markets/customers, organireport we took on two refugees for the first time as sational structures and employees influence our employees. In Mannheim, Offenbach, Kiel and Gerstcompany in a very wide variety of ways. This led to hofen close to Augsburg, we are among the largest a management concept with nine principles. What trainers in the regions. makes this concept special is that we see leadership as a task not only for managers, but rather for Our broad range of training programmes aims all employees. Everyone has responsibilties – to show young people the wide variety of whether in a project, a meeting or in preparing a career opportunities at our company. decision for a manager. As of 30 September 2019, a total of 330 young women We aim to inspire our employees with MVV’s and men were in training at MVV. Our trainees also corporate culture and management concept. include five former refugees who are training as specialists in metals technology and industrial electricians. Together with the opportunities and challenges presented by digitalisation, the shared management In 2019, we participated in a STEM (science, techconcept of “Leading towards the Future” were the nology, engineering and maths) internship that we main topics in our dialogue formats in the 2019 are offering with other companies in the region. financial year. Mainly held at the Mannheim location, Pupils from Year 9 upwards spend five days at five these addressed a very wide variety of target groups companies getting to know five training vocations and attracted more than 1,000 participants in total. and five study programmes in STEM subjects. This The first event, attended by around 200 managers in innovative approach, in which our trainees and our March 2019, was the second “Lived Energy Conferstudents present the contents of their subjects in ence”. This set a key milestone in terms of making practical terms, enables us to arouse young people’s our corporate culture actually liveable and tangible. interest in STEM vocations and provide them with As active designers of our culture, the managers initial guidance. worked together to develop ideas as to how they themselves can actually contribute very specifically Since 2018, we have taken part in the European to successfully leading MVV towards the future. In research project EATAP (European Apprenticeship the following months, MVV employees discussed Talent Program). In cooperation with partners from this issue with their managers and colleagues in Austria, Lithuania and the UK, we are looking into their respective units and also on a cross-departways of promoting the talent of high-potential apprenmental basis with each other and our Executive tices in STEM vocations in line with common standBoard members at “MVV in Dialogue”. By sharing ards across Europe. In the year under report, we also ideas closely in this way, we laid a foundation for took part once again with our City College partner in anchoring our jointly developed management conPlymouth in the ERASMUS+ European exchange cept at the company on a long-term basis. programme for trainees in programmes offered by the Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK). MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 42 Targeted measures to secure the next generation In Mannheim, we work with a management review of talent: the Junior Consulting Team (JCT) system to record the skills and further training needs The JCT is an interdisciplinary team of university of our managers and high-potential employees and graduates from a variety of disciplines. Within MVV, to plan their next career steps. This involves a graded the team acts as an internal consulting unit and process including self-assessment and third-party independently acquires projects and tasks. Projects assessment, internal management review conferences addressed by the JCT in the year under report and concluding feedback talks held between employincluded analysing the heating energy market, alterees and managers. In the year under report, 239 mannative heating energy concepts for new buildings, agers and employees with management potential took and marketing opportunities available to our sales part in this programme. Individual development meascompany for these kinds of concepts. The team’s ures are implemented under the responsibility of spestrength lies in its independence of departments and cialist departments, while employees with managedivisions. This enables it to gain fresh perspectives ment potential are developed within a well-established and provide momentum. With their analytical and talent management process. This function is being theoretically sound approach, team members base continually expanded to enable the company to retain their activities on their internal client’s objectives high-potential employees. Our understanding of talent and develop and propose qualified solutions. At the also extends to specialist and upcoming staff, such same time, the participants themselves also gain as trainees and career starters. experience and obtain a good overview of our individual business fields. The MVV-specific competency model forms the basis for personnel development meetings and individual Targeted personnel development support programmes. We regularly hold bottom-up appraisals and surveys at our main locations in GerFor us, targeted personnel development is a key many. This way, our employees have the opportunity factor which also determines our competitive success. to provide honest feedback and we can enhance the We have therefore developed numerous measures quality of management at our company. T GRI 404-2 and instruments based on the experience we have gained in the rapidly changing economic climate in Change management which we operate. Changes in the energy industry are arising in ever Our further training measures enable us to ensure more rapid cycles – this fact, and the appreciative and a shared basis of knowledge on overriding strategic positive approach we aim to adopt to addressing such topics. Alongside in-house training, we also offer changes, are the reason for our focus on professional team development and individual measures, such and continuous change management, and that both as coaching and mentoring. on the level of the organisation as a whole and of individuals. On an organisational level, we train managers We aim to develop the potential and the personnel department in planning and impleof our employees. menting changes affecting the organisation and its way of work. On an individual level, employees can rely on When it comes to the individual further development us to extend their skills in line with further developmeasures we provide to our employees, we have set ments in their areas of work, as well as to offer them one key focus on the topic of digitalisation. In the past personal support in viewing changes positively. financial year, we held more than 30 events in MannGiven the numerous change initiatives underway, heim, with topics ranging from specialist areas, such we have designed the MVV Change Model on a as artificial intelligence, robotics, blockchain and augcentral basis. In structured talks with those involved in mented reality, to general knowledge transfer and and affected by change processes, we developed a digital aids in everyday office life through to questions phase-based model comprising a total of 30 modules relating to the interplay of ethics and digitalisation. that can be deployed in line with the respective change One of our key focuses in the 2020 financial year will logic. Decentralised change offices in those areas be on collaboration. Looking at our everyday working implementing restructuring measures are qualified in life in a large organisation, the aim here will be to neta multi-part change curriculum. work our cooperation even more closely, share knowledge, accept mutual impulses and information and integrate new topics into our own work processes. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 43 DIVERSITY Women accounted for 29 % of our workforce and 15 % of our managers at 30 September 2019. For With a view to the company’s sustainable development, MVV Energie AG, we report on the share of women MVV has set itself the strategic target of designing in both first and second management tiers. In August and gradually implementing an approach to diversity 2017, the Executive Board set targets to be achieved management that is tailored to the company’s needs by 30 September 2021. By that date, the share of and consistent with the times in which we live. This women in the first management tier should have approach, which we refer to as “Energy for Diversity”, reached 25 %, with a corresponding target of 30 % is based on three pillars: promoting women, work for the second management tier. At 10 %, the share and family and demographic management. of female managers in the first tier as of 30 September 2019 was slightly lower than in the previous year Equal opportunity on all levels (30 September 2018: 11 %). The share of women in the second management tier rose year-on-year and, Women have traditionally accounted for a comparaat 29 %, almost reached the specified target (30 Septively low share of the overall workforce at energy tember 2018: 22 %). companies, and MVV is no exception in this respect. That is why we aim to offer more targeted and closer The age structure of our workforce will raise the share support to women. We are convinced that different of female employees at the company in the years skills and management styles impact positively on our ahead. That is because women account for a higher business performance. We therefore see raising the share of employees in age groups up to 45 than in share of women in our Group’s workforce on a longage groups from 46 upwards. Our personnel structure term basis as one key to MVV’s successful further will therefore help us to meet our targets. Having said development. We are addressing the low share of that, this factor will be insufficient to achieve the women in management positions typical to our indusdesired increase. try with targeted promotional measures. By 30 September 2021, we aim to raise the female share of the workforce to 35 % and Age structure of employees Allocation o of our total management staff to 25 %. (%) Euro million 35 These targets were adopted by the Supervisory Board and Executive Board of MVV Energie AG in 2015. Both 30 29 key figures are collected and analysed each year. 25 27 23 21 20 17 32 22 15 Women and men 33 10 Shares (%) 10 73 32 68 78 5 67 35 68 FY 2019 30 0 under 26 26 – 35 36 – 45 46 – 55 56 and over Women 29 25 Men 71 Women Men Status: 30 September 2019 20 Status: 30 September 2019 15 10 5 0 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 44 To reach our targets, we are adopting various Another area in which our employees will have greater approaches, drawing on a variety of promotional needs in future relates to caring for relatives. We are measures and programmes and expanding these also supporting them here. Employees caring for relafurther. One major package of measures involves tives can be granted leave from work. We also inform offering targeted personnel development to women our staff about care options by holding information with suitable potential. One example is the individual events, providing emergency folders with information support offered to women in mentoring schemes. In about work and care and – like at Energieversorgung X-Company-Mentoring, a cross-company programme Offenbach, for example – by cooperating with a nursing organised each year in cooperation with other wellcare service. known companies in the region, male and female mentors in the management tiers of participating companies Our family-oriented personnel policies are important pass on their skills and experience to talented female to us and we intend to become ever better in this employees for a period of one year. This is intended significant and rapidly developing area. That is why to support employees in their own personal developwe have drawn for many years now on the impetus ment, with a separate special focus on management. provided by the berufundfamilie® programme offered A further focal point involves building networks between by the Hertie Foundation. This assists companies in current participants and those who took part in the their efforts to improve the compatibility of their employprogramme in previous years. As part of our corporate ees’ work and family commitments. In the audits, membership of “European Women’s Management catalogues of measures are compiled and bindingly Development”, an association for professional women, agreed for the respective locations. Checks are we offer free membership for interested female performed at a later date to ascertain whether and employees. This way, they can benefit from free how these agreements have been implemented. contingents of places in presentations and semiOur Mannheim location has been audited and certified nars. Since the 2018 financial year, we have offered within this scheme since 2008 already. Audits have an internal lecture series specially targeted at women. been performed in Offenbach since 2009 and in Kiel These lectures, which have attracted great interest, deal since 2012. In Wörrstadt, the audit was introduced in with career-related topics such as how to deal with 2017. The certification at Stadtwerke Kiel was renewed power and status, as well as body language. T MVV-10 in December 2017. In Mannheim, MVV successfully passed the certification process in March 2018; since Combining work and family commitments May 2018, the new certificate will be valid for a further three years. The relevant certificate in Wörrstadt was A further key plank of our personnel policy relates to also granted in 2018. employees’ ability to combine their work and family commitments. Our aim here is for our employees to Proactive demographic management be able to successfully combine these commitments, and that on an ongoing basis. We offer a variety of With the third pillar of “Energy for Diversity”, we address working hour models at the company, such as flexible the demographic challenges we face. In select departworking hours. Digitalisation and the use of modern ments in Mannheim, we perform so-called “parallel communications appliances also facilitate teleworking runs”, in which employees due to retire from the in line with specific needs. Parents in Mannheim, company help to train their new colleagues over an Offenbach and Wörrstadt have the option of taking extended period of time. We have also established their children to care facilities at or close to company a trainee programme specially tailored to the needs locations. In Mannheim, Kiel and Offenbach, we have of departments in order to counter the loss of experset up parent and child rooms which can be used tise resulting from employees retiring. when any childcare difficulties arise at short notice. In Wörrstadt, parents can take their children to work Furthermore, we established “Age-Appropriate Work”, with them in these situations. a workgroup which coordinates its own activities and operates across various departments and functions. At numerous meetings and workshops, this group compiled a broad range of measures aimed at countering the effects of rising average ages and the shrinking pool of available employees. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 45 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our accident statistics and accident prevention measures are regularly evaluated on Executive Board level, Avoiding accidents with further measures also being discussed and planned. One important matter for us involves protecting the physical and mental health of our employees and of those employees who work on our behalf. We thereAccident statistics fore make permanent efforts to improve work safety FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change at the Group. Lost time injury frequency rate As well as laying down organisational and technical (LTIF) 1, 2, 3  7.7 6.7 +1 + 15 framework requirements for occupational, fire, plant Fatal and environmental safety, we also regularly reassess accidents 0 1 –1 – 100 our occupational safety and prevention measures and 1 Includes all fully consolidated companies in Germany and individual develop these further. Our work safety committees, shareholdings recognised at equity in Germany comprising both employer and employee representa2 Calculation based on work-related accidents from first day of absence per 1,000,000 working hours tives, are formed by the companies on location. We 3 Basis for centrally recorded FTE figures: liaise closely with professional associations and FTE figures at reporting date on 30 September Basis for non-centrally recorded FTE figures: employee representatives and agree our occupational FTE figures directly from companies at reporting date on 30 September safety and accident prevention strategies with them. Working hours = number of FTE (full-time equivalents) at reporting date on 30 September multiplied by 1,700 hours (=^ 1 FTE) We aim to prevent accidents and health risks by raising awareness among our managers and Our target for the 2019 financial year amounted to employees for the risks and dangers of accidents. 4.6 and was based on our target of achieving an LTIF In our instructions, we explain the interrelationships figure of 3.9 by the 2020 financial year. By systeminvolved and lay down work safety requirements. With atically recording and evaluating accidents and reguan electronic instruction system we offer work safety larly communicating accident statistics, we recognised training units specially tailored to individual workplaces. at an early stage that we would not reach the target This way, our employees can flexibly and individually set in the year under report. We therefore took immeaddress a variety of basic work safety topics. As diate measures to counter this trend. well-informed contact partners for occupational health and safety in their organisational units, our safety We implemented our new inspection concept in furofficers also perform an important function. They are ther areas of the company and stepped up our regular regularly trained by our occupational safety specialists safety briefings in order to further raise awareness and work safety coordinators, who communicate our for safety-related issues on all levels. Furthermore, company-specific safety requirements and prevention we analysed all work-related accidents in detail, profocuses. cessed these and made suitable information available to our employees in the “Learning from previous We aim to keep the lost time injury frequency accidents” section of our electronic instruction system. (LTIF) rate at MVV as low as possible. We backed up these measures with campaign days focusing on occupational health and safety. We regularly inspect our plants and operating divisions to identify weak points and make every conceivable effort to prevent accidents. We systematically evaluate accidents at the Group. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns | 46 We consider all accidents at or on the way to work, Social Commitment including more minor injuries. The assessment and evaluation are performed on a gender-neutral basis As a company with regional roots, we are an active and in line with data protection requirements. Based part of society in the locations and regions in which on the insights gained, we inform our managers and we operate. We are aware of our relevance to society employees, not least via our electronic instruction sysin this respect. We assume responsibility for our tem. Furthermore, we review which additional predecisions, actions, products and services, and that ventative measures would make sense. In the 2018 towards our customers and capital providers, as well financial year, we regrettably reported one fatal accitowards the environment and the society in which dent on the way to work at a subsidiary of Juwi. No we live. The value we create on site makes us a major fatal accidents occurred in the year under report. We economic factor at our locations. We make investments, will continue to make every effort to avoid accidents award contracts to local or regional businesses where and work-related health risks and to reach our targets possible, secure jobs, offer high-quality training and in this area. We will therefore be further intensifying pay taxes and duties. It goes without saying that we do our activities in the field of occupational health and not use any questionable measures to avoid taxes or safety. T GRI 403-2 move profits across borders. Protecting health and avoiding We have the responsibility to use our resources to health-related problems promote the conversion in the energy system so as We have set ourselves the goal of boosting the health to provide a more sustainable and efficient energy of our employees with a prevention-based approach supply and, to this end, to maintain a transparent and therefore support them with a variety of company dialogue with our stakeholders. For many of the prohealth management measures. Alongside the extenjects involved in expanding renewable energies and sive range of services available at our occupational the necessary infrastructure, acceptance by people health service, we also offer employees at our major on location is absolutely crucial. One aspect of our locations in Germany further health promotion opporsocial commitment involves planning and implementing tunities that go far beyond legal requirements. We projects together with local popu­lations and their make therapeutic devices available, for example, and representatives on location, promoting acceptance experienced coaches guide participants in health-­ for these projects on the basis of dialogue and to related courses. We offer a very wide range of sports reach decisions that also convince third parties. groups and have cooperations with fitness centres. We also offer nutritional advice and wide-ranging preWe contribute to the common good in those regions vention measures, such as flu vaccinations, skin in which we operate. The way we deal with and cancer screening and laboratory diagnostics services exchange information with all relevant groups within to detect common metabolic illnesses at an early society shapes the relationship between us as a comstage. By organising courses and holding presentapany and local populations. As a general rule, our tions on topics such as nutrition or exercise, we help social commitment is project-based and supports the our employees to obtain the specific information they fields of social welfare, education, culture and sports. need. The key focuses and services on offer vary in We set our focuses here in line with the specific line with the requirements and circumstances at our context. Responsibility for our social commitment lies individual locations. Employees at all of our locations with the management of the respective companies. have shown great interest in the services on offer. T GRI 103-2 T GRI 103-3 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Employee Concerns Social Commitment | 47 ECONOMIC OUTPUT Our value added statement calculates the net value creation of our operations. This figure comprises our Creating value production value, from which our input costs and capital consumption are deducted. This measurement In our input/output balance sheet, we present all signevertheless only approximates to the value we actually nificant flows of materials, energy, goods and money create. After all, measuring net value creation on the associated with our business activities. Our adjusted basis of market prices does not account for non-monEBIT and ROCE key figures show how successful etary output such as intellectual capital and other exterMVV was in economic terms in the past financial year. nal costs like environmental damages. Environmental Consistent with the logic of business administration, scientists criticise the fact that the actual contribution at base these and other key figures chiefly refer to the to social prosperity is lower than value added or the economic capital committed or created. The value contribution to gross domestic product. One indisputaadded statement we compile each year supplements ble fact, for example, is that global biodiversity is the perspectives provided in the input/output balance shrinking due to the consumption of natural resources sheet, as well as those in the annual financial stateand unavoidable environmental pollution. This is ments, by presenting all “added values” created by known to have negative long-term ecological and ecoMVV and measured at market prices. Value added nomic implications, such as those due to falling natural reflects the output generated at market prices and yields. Given that no robust and systematic possibiliresulting from the efficient deployment of all resources – ties of quantifying these and other so-called external capital, employees and natural resources. It repreeffects are yet available, however, these factors are sents MVV’s contribution to gross domestic product. not accounted for in monetary accounting. As a company, we nevertheless aim to minimise any such impliWe aim to continue generating value and meet cations of our activities for society, people and the our responsibility as an economic player. natural world. Generation of value added Euro million FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Company performance 1, 2 4,033 4,211 – 178 –4 Input costs 2, 3 – 2,954 – 3,116 – 162 –5 Depreciation – 184 – 214 – 30 – 14 Value added 895 881 + 14 +2 1 Mainly sales 2 Previous year’s figures adjusted due to first-time application of IFRS 9 3 Cost of materials/energy and fuel procurement, other expenses, other taxes MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Social Commitment | 48 Utilisation of value added Euro million FY 2019 FY 2018 +/– change % change Recipient Utilisation Employees Wages, salaries and social security payments 438 422 + 16 +4 State authorities Taxes on income, other taxes, concession duties and levies 274 294 – 20 –7 Shareholders Dividend 59 59 0 0 Lenders Interest expenses 52 50 +2 +4 Other shareholders Share of group earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 17 17 0 0 MVV 1 Retention of earnings 88 39 + 16 + 41 895 881 + 14 +2 1 Previous year’s figures adjusted The figures presented in the value added statement reflect fundamental trends. The value added stateAllocation of value added Euro million ment for the 2019 financial year shows we were able to increase our net value added despite a slight 900 871 881 895 reduction in sales and a high volume of investments – 842 800 761 a result of our diversified business portfolio. 700 We also present the uses to which this value added is 600 put. We enabled our shareholders to participate stably 500 in the value added we created, and that although the 400 trend towards low returns on capital seen in recent 300 years has persisted. The high distribution quota, corre200 sponding to 61 % of adjusted annual net income after 100 minority interests, clearly demonstrates our commit0 ment to long-term continuity in our dividend payment. FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Just under a third of our value added benefits state mber 2019 FY 2019 authorities in forms including taxes and concession Shares % duties. Part of this sum is paid to the City of Mannheim MVV (retention of earnings) 6 Minority interests (share of group earnings on top of the dividend payments it receives as majority attributable to non-controlling interests) 2 shareholder. The largest share of our value added is Lenders (interest expenses) 6 attributable to our employees. The slight year-on-year Shareholders (dividend) 7 State authorities (taxes on income, other taxes, increase here is due to the higher number of employconcession duties and levies) 30 ees, as well as to pay rises on a scale customary to Employees (wages, salaries and social security payments) 49 the sector. T GRI 201-1 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Social Commitment | 49 LOCAL COMMUNITIES We occasionally finance studies and surveys on matters relating to the energy industry. These are pubIn dialogue with stakeholders lished and our involvement is suitably signalised. We commissioned the Wuppertal Institute to compile an We operate at a variety of locations and in diverse energy framework study for Mannheim in order to business fields and therefore come into contact with illustrate the transformation processes that will be the interests of numerous, often heterogeneous triggered as we head for climate neutrality across all groups of stakeholders. Our shareholders, employees sectors. The study should show how existing energy and customers are among our most important stakeinfrastructures and services can contribute to the holders, as are government and political representaelectricity, heating energy and transport turnarounds tives. Other major stakeholders include non-governand indicate which new infrastructure measures will ment organisations (NGOs), analysts, local residents be needed for Mannheim to achieve its ambitious at our locations, the media, associations and suppliers. climate protection targets. We expect results at the These are joined by cooperation partners, business end of 2020. In the year under report, Kiel began implepartners and research institutes. T GRI 102-40 menting the climate protection masterplan developed in 2018. We too were involved in the compilation of Our aim is to communicate transparently this plan. and openly with our stakeholders. T GRI 102-12 T GRI 102-13 We attach great value to maintaining an open and We have the responsibility to use our resources to transparent dialogue with our stakeholders, and that promote the conversion in the energy system to proboth in our one-to-one contacts and in the publicavide a more sustainable and efficient energy supply. tions on our websites, in press releases, on social Acceptance by local populations is crucial for many networks and in specialist formats such as analysts projects aimed at expanding renewable energies and and press conferences. We take part in public disthe infrastructure needed for these. cussions and other events, such as specialist energy industry conferences and public information events. Constructing new generation plants, extensively T GRI 102-43 converting and expanding the electricity grid and implementing far-reaching modernisation projects We play an active role in the relevant bodies, associfor existing plants – all these measures change the ations and networks, participate in research projects local environment and often involve restrictions for and take part in the public debate focusing on the local residents. transformation of the energy system. Via our member­ ship in industry associations, we participate in energy We already give systematic and comprehensive conpolicy and energy industry discussions. We are memsideration to these challenges when selecting suitable bers, for example, in the following associations relelocations. Our companies weigh up the conservation, vant to the areas in which we operate: Bundesverband economic and social aspects on a decentralised basis der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e. V. (BDEW), Veron location for each individual case. In the project band kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. (VKU), Energie­ planning stage, they perform environmental compatieffizienzverband für Wärme, Kälte und KWK e. V. bility audits in accordance with approval requirements. (AGFW), Bundesverband Neue Energiewirtschaft e. V. These deal, for example, with emissions loads, con(BNE), Bundesverband WindEnergie e. V. (BWE) servation requirements and immission protection. Not and Bundesverband deutscher Wohnungsund Immoonly that, they also look into the potential implications bilienunternehmen (GdW). Not only that, our subsidiof the projects for the surrounding countryside or for aries and shareholdings on location are involved in architectural and natural monuments. The results of local initiatives and networks. Apart from memberthese analyses are mostly published. ship fees and project contributions, we do not make payments to associations or other institutions. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Social Commitment | 50 Various authorities and project partners are involved SOCIETY in the approval process. We actively involve residents, local clubs, associations and citizen’s initiatives, and Regional focuses that to an extent that goes beyond minimum legal At the same time, the companies within our Group requirements. Our companies provide information support local and regional projects, especially in the about projects, for example in their general press fields of social welfare, education, science, culture work and on their respective homepages. Representaand sport. One key focus is on promoting upcoming tives of our companies attend information events and talent and young people. Based on shared values, are on hand to answer any questions. These activities the specific structure and scope of regional social are important for ensuring the necessary degree of commitment is organised on a decentralised basis. acceptance among local residents. Particularly for infraStaff on location are familiar with local needs, have structure projects, such as onshore wind turbines, we contacts to local projects and determine the priorities have observed growing resistance to the associated they would like to address with their activities. In most interventions in the natural world and changes to the cases, the support provided is financial, taking the appearance of the countryside. The best way to counter form of donations or sponsoring. concerns and reservations is to enter into face-to-face dialogue. We are committed to the social environment in which we operate. In view of this, in the 2019 financial year we were once again actively involved in planning and implementing At MVV Energie, the Sponsoring Fund represents projects together with local populations and their repone key example of its commitment. Twice a year, this resentatives on location, promoting acceptance for provides financial support to clubs, organisations and these projects on the basis of dialogue and reaching institutions in Mannheim and the Rhine-Neckar metrodecisions that also convince third parties. We perform politan region. The new Kunsthalle art gallery in Mannthese measures on a project-by-project basis. We do heim holds MVV Art Evenings with free entry every not collect any quantitative data on the measures we first Wednesday in the month. With its “Heart and Soul take to involve local stakeholders, the evaluation of for Your Project!” sponsorship contest, Energieverimplications or the subsidy programmes implemented. sorgung Offenbach supports regional clubs and organisations. Stadtwerke Kiel has partnered Camp 24/7, All our existing generation plants continually benefit in which around 6,000 children and young people a from technical supervision in accordance with legal year learn how to sail and the only project of its kind requirements. Should any interruption to operations in Germany, since 2002 already. T MVV-11 arise that could affect local populations, we proactively and quickly inform all affected parties. Here, all companies have routine processes in place to protect the safety of local communities. T GRI 413-1 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Material GRI-Based Topics | Social Commitment | 51 Further Information About this Report We manage MVV in five segments on which we also base our external reporting. Various business fields In our 2019 Sustainability Report, we have documented are allocated to the reporting segments. The Customer information about sustainability at MVV in accordance Solutions reporting segment comprises the business with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the fields of Commodities, Retail and Business CustomGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the GRI Standards ers. The Environmental Energy, Wind/Biomethane version. and Project Development business fields are allocated to the New Energies reporting segment. Alongside The listed company MVV Energie AG, which has its the Combined Heat and Power business field, the legal domicile in Mannheim, is the parent company Supply Reliability reporting segment also includes of MVV. It has its own operations and also directly the Grids business field. The Strategic Investments and indirectly holds shares in those companies which reporting segment mainly consists of Köthen Energie belong to the Group. As a stock corporation under and MVV Energie CZ, as well as the at-equity result German law, it has three governing bodies: the Annual of Stadtwerke Ingolstadt. We pool our shared service General Meeting, the Supervisory Board and the companies and cross-divisional functions in the Other Executive Board. T GRI 102-5 Information about the Activities reporting segment. Our shared service areas of responsibility and modes of operation of the companies perform metering, billing and IT services Executive and Supervisory Boards of MVV Energie AG for the Group. T GRI 102-2 can be found in the Corporate Governance Report : www.mvv.de/CGe.pdf. T GRI 102-18 Including Unless otherwise stated, the information provided MVV Energie AG, the MVV Group comprises a total refers to our 2019 financial year (1 October 2018 to of 165 fully consolidated companies and 36 companies 30 September 2019). T GRI 102-50 that are recognised at equity. The largest locations of our group of companies are in Mannheim, Kiel, OffenThis report has been compiled in accordance with the bach and Wörrstadt. We are also present in more than “Core” option of the GRI Standards. T GRI 102-54 20 countries. Alongside Germany, these particularly In our GRI Content Index 2 Pages 54 – 56 we list include the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. both the material topics for our Group and associated : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, Page 100 topic-specific disclosures for GRI. We also publish proT GRI 102-1 T GRI 102-3 T GRI 102-4 prietary topic-specific disclosures. The page references T GRI 102-7 T GRI 102-45 in the index all refer to this 2019 Sustainability Report, which we published on 25 February 2020. Our previous With around 6,100 employees, MVV is one of Ger­many‘s Sustainability Report, which also complied with the leading energy companies. Our activities focus on “Core” option of the GRI Standards, formed one providing a reliable, economical and environmentally-­ component of our 2018 Annual Report, which we friendly supply of energy to our industrial, commercial published on 11 December 2018. T GRI 102-51 and private household customers. Their individual In the previous year, the Sustainability Report and needs and expectations motivate us in developing the associated Combined Non-Financial Declaration innovative products and business models. Here, we were included in the Annual Report. In the GRI Concover all major stages of the energy value chain: from tent Index, we indicated which reporting contents were energy generation, energy trading, energy distribution subject to an external audit. In the year under report, via proprietary distribution grid companies through to the information contained in the Sustainability Report sales activities for energy solutions and our environwas not subject to any external audit. By contrast, mental energy business. We also produce and distribour Combined Non-Financial Declaration published ute water. Renewable energies are a particular focus in our 2019 Annual Report was externally audited. of our business model. Here, our activities include proInformation on the various concerns has been included ject development and operations management for in this Sustainability Report. The scope of external windfarms and solar parks, as well as biomass power assurance therefore did not differ to any material extent plants. T GRI 102-6 between 2018 and 2019 T GRI 102-56 : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, Page 187 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | About this Report | 52 Within this report, indications and references are For select topics, we focus on our largest locations denoted as follows: of Mannheim, Offenbach, Kiel and Wörrstadt. Unless stated otherwise in the comments on the various 2 R  eference to other information contained indicators, our reporting focuses on those markets in this report. and regions in which we primarily operate. These : Reference to other information on the internet. are Germany, the UK and the Czech Republic. Most T GRI Reference to a sentence or paragraph that of our suppliers and partners are also located in contains disclosures in accordance with the these regions. T GRI 102-6 Sustainability Report Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. We compile our greenhouse gas balance sheet on T GRI If underlined, the reference indicates the basis of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The overa section. whelming share of the CO2 emissions we report  Externally audited. comes from plants governed by the emissions trading system (ETS) and is therefore certified. We collect Unless we indicate otherwise, the information refers further data with the assistance of various internal to MVV, i.e. to all fully consolidated companies. In our and external systems. Among others, these include sustainability reporting, we publish additional data energy audits and energy management systems, about our at-equity shareholdings as our stakeholders occupational health and safety systems such as rightly expect a high degree of transparency from us. OHSAS 18001, environmental management systems Most of the energy we generated conventionally in the such as EMAS and compliance management systems. 2019 financial year, for example, came from the large power plant in Mannheim (Grosskraftwerk Mannheim – In the following table, we show how our material topics GKM) and from the joint power plant since decom­ changed compared with the previous year and explain missioned in Kiel (Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Kiel – GKK), the changes made. both of which we consolidate using the equity method, or did so through to decommissioning. T GRI 102-45 Material sustainability Material sustainability Changes on previous year topics 2019 topics 2018 T GRI 102-49 System Change System Change Supply Reliability • Supply Reliability • Secure Energy Supply (designation adapted in line with • Sector Coupling • Sector Coupling Non-Financial Declaration) • Changed Energy Demand • Changed Energy Demand Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround – • Climate Protection • Climate Protection • Renewable Energies • Renewable Energies • Energy Efficiency • Energy Efficiency Resource Efficiency and Resource Efficiency and – Local Environmental Protection Local Environmental Protection Digital Transformation Digital Transformation – • Industry 4.0: Changed Patterns of • Industry 4.0: Changed Patterns of Consumption and Customer Relationships Consumption and Customer Relationships • Individual Customer Solutions • Individual Customer Solutions • Information Security and Data Protection • Information Security and Data Protection Employee Concerns Employee Concerns – Social Commitment Social Responsibility Social Commitment (designation adapted in line with Non-Financial Declaration) T GRI 102-49 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | About this Report | 53 GRI Content Index T GRI 102-55 GRI Standard Designation Page Notes External assurance 1 T GRI 102-56 Foundation GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 52 FSA 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 52 FSA 102-3 Location of headquarters 52 FSA 102-4 Location of operations 52 FSA 102-5 Ownership and legal form 52 : www.mvv.de/shareholderstructure 102-6 Markets served 52, 53 FSA 102-7 Scale of the organisation 52 FSA 102-8 Information on employees 41 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 14 102-10 Significant changes to the – None organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach – Given our strategy, we account for the precautionary approach towards dealing with potentially negative implications for the environment. 102-12 External initiatives 50 102-13 Membership of associations 50 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and 6 − 7, 15 − 16 ISAE 3000 (revised) norms of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 8 ISAE 3000 (revised) – : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, FSA Pages 173 – 180 52 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 50 ISAE 3000 (revised) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements – 73 % of our employees in Germany are employed at companies that have concluded collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 8 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8 50 − 51 ISAE 3000 (revised) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8, 9 Key stakeholder concerns are dealt with in greater detail under Material Topics (Pages 27 – 59). MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | GRI Content Index | 54 GRI Standard Designation Page Notes External assurance 1 T GRI 102-56 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 52, 53 : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, FSA financial statements Page 100 102-46 Defining reporting content 9 Supplementary information on and topic boundaries Pages 17 – 19 102-47 List of material topics 10, 11 102-48 Restatements of information 53 None 102-49 Changes in reporting 53 102-50 Reporting period 53 102-51 Date of most recent report 52 102-52 Reporting cycle – Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions 59 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 52 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 54 − 56 102-56 External assurance 52 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material 9 topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach 17, 23, 33, 37, and its components 41, 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 23, 33, 37, 41, 47 Specific standard disclosures on material topics Material topic: System Change Specific disclosures MVV-1 Diversified generation portfolio 18 GRI 203-1 2016 Infrastructure investments and 19 services supported MVV-2 Sector coupling 20 MVV-3 Changed energy demand 22 Material topic: Decarbonisation and Energy Turnaround Specific disclosures GRI 302-5 2016 Reductions in energy requirements 32 GRI 305-1 2016 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 27 ISAE 3000 (revised) GRI 305-2 2016 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 27 ISAE 3000 (revised) GHG emissions GRI 305-3 2016 Other indirect (Scope 3) 27 ISAE 3000 (revised) GHG emissions GRI 305-5 2016 Reduction of GHG emissions 28 MVV-4 Installed renewable 30 ISAE 3000 (revised) energies capacities MVV-5 Concluded development of 30 ISAE 3000 (revised) new renewable energies plants MVV-6 Grid losses 32 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | GRI Content Index | 55 GRI Standard Designation Page Notes External assurance 1 T GRI 102-56 Material topic: Resource Efficiency and Local Environmental Protection Specific disclosures GRI 301-1 2016 Materials used 35 GRI 305-7 2016 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), 36 sulphur oxides (SOX) and other significant air emissions Material topic: Digital Transformation Specific disclosures MVV-7 Changed patterns of consumption 38 and customer relationships MVV-8 Individual customer solutions 39 MVV-9 Information security and data protection 40 Material topic: Employee Concerns Specific disclosures GRI 403-1 2016 Worker participation, consultation 41 and communication on occupational health and safety GRI 403-2 2016 Occupational health and safety 46 – 47 GRI 404-2 2016 Knowledge management 43 ISAE 3000 (revised) MVV-10 Promoting women 44 – 45 ISAE 3000 (revised) Material topic: Social Commitment Specific disclosures GRI 201-1 2016 Direct economic value 49 generated and distributed GRI 413-1 2016 Local communities 51 No disclosures on scope MVV-11 Society 51 1 Audit of 2019 consolidated financial statements; : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, Pages 181-186 ISAE 3000 (revised); audited contents of combined non-financial declaration : www.mvv.de/GB2019.pdf, Pages 187-188 MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | GRI Content Index | 56 Progress Report for UN Global Compact MVV is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. By way of a progress report, in the following table we link our material sustainability topics to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Progress report for UN Global Compact Principle Topic Page Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Human rights policy 7 of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Compliance 6–7 in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Employee concerns – 41 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. workforce representation 4. Businesses should be committed to the elimination of all forms of forced Value chain 14 – 16 and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should be committed to the effective abolition of child labour. Value chain 14 – 16 6. Businesses should be committed to the elimination of discrimination Compliance 6 – 7, 42 in respect of employment and occupation. Corporate culture Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Material Topics 17 – 53 environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Material Topics 17 – 53 environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Material Topics 17 – 53 of environmentally-friendly technologies. Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Compliance 6–7 including extortion and bribery. MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | Progress Report for UN Global Compact | 57 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) In 2015, the United Nations created a basis for jointly tackling global challenges with its “Sustainable Development Goals”, the 17 targets set out in its “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. In 2019, we completed our analysis of the Sustainable Devel­opment Goals. With our business activities, we contribute in particular to the following three SDGs: SDG Chapter Content Page Sustainable and modern energy for System Change Supply Reliability 18 – 20 everyone – securing access to affordable, reliable and up-to-date energy for everyone. Sustainable cities and communities – Materiality Analysis Changed Infrastructures 13 shaping cities and communities to make and Smart Cities them inclusive, resilient and sustainable. Take immediate measures to combat Decarbonisation and Climate Protection 23 – 32 climate change and its implications. Energy Turnaround Renewable Energies Energy Efficiency MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) | 58 Imprint/Contact T GRI 102-53 Published by Typesetting and Graphics MVV Energie AG HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte Luisenring 49 GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg D-68159 Mannheim T +49 621 290 0 Photography F +49 621 290 23 24 Alexander Grüber, Ludwigshafen www.mvv.de kontakt@mvv.de This Sustainability Report was published on the internet on 25 February 2020. Editorial Responsibility MVV Energie AG All of MVV’s reports can be downloaded Investor Relations from our websites. T +49 621 290 37 08 F +49 621 290 30 75 www.mvv.de www.mvv.de/investors ir@mvv.de Contact Dr. Mathias Onischka Head of Sustainability Programme T +49 621 290 23 39 mathias.onischka@mvv.de MVV Sustainability Report 2019 | Further Information | Imprint/Contact | 59 MVV Energie AG Luisenring 49 D-68159 Mannheim
