The Best of for Your Well-Being Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE 01 EDITORIAL Contents EDITORIAL Because we ourselves are consumers, 02 CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE citizens, parents... 04 GOVERNANCE R 06 HIGHLIGHTS oquette’s story is a human and family Édouard Roquette Jean-Marc Gilson adventure. It began almost a century ago Chairman of the Board of Directors CEO of the Roquette group with two brothers, Dominique and Germain Roquette, who saw exceptional potential in the lands of northern France. This potential is that of nature, of the plant-based raw materials Through our know-how and concern for excellence, that we transform. we help our customers in the pharmaceutical industry 10 INNOVATING Since then, thousands of men and women, driven by this to save and preserve lives. unique vision, have committed themselves to imagining This responsibility drives us, motivates us, and directs and proposing solutions to better nourish and care for us. Because we ourselves are consumers, citizens, people. All over the world, talents from different origins, parents, we work daily to contribute to the well-being skills and backgrounds have come to reveal the best of of everyone, while taking care of our environment. This nature to contribute to your well-being. commitment makes the men and women of Roquette 16 SOURCING United by this common vision and inspired by our unique. This is what makes us proud to lead this business. diversity, we are constantly seeking to reinvent ourselves. This year, we therefore wanted to honor them and Every day, we work together to meet the expectations share with you their passion, enthusiasm and expertise The UN Global Compact of our customers and consumers. As a pioneer of new in this Activity and Sustainable Development Report. brings together businesses, plant proteins, we are developing with our partners a Thank you to all of the group’s employees, our partners organizations, UN agencies, labor new cuisine that meets the ever-increasing demand and our customers, who help Roquette grow every stakeholders and civil society for healthy, sustainable and enjoyable food. day. Happy reading! around ten universally recognized 20 BIOREFINING principles designed to build companies that are more stable and more inclusive. Since 2009, Roquette has been a member of the UN Global Compact. Every EXECUTIVE OFFICE year, our Sustainable Development 26 ACTING and Activity Report gives us the opportunity to describe our actions in support of these 10 principles, based on four topics: 38 SCORECARD Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-corruption. Jean-Marc Gilson Jérémy Burks Armand Chen Emmanuel De Geuser CEO Commercial Business Transformation Finance Like many other leading companies, we are aware of the societal stakes, and we strive to consistently integrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN) into our strategy and our Sustainable Development commitments. Roquette supports the SDGs. Nathalie Joannes Thierry Marcel Gianfranco Patrucco Marc Peeters Legal Research and Development Operations Human Resources 01 ROQUETTE IN ONE LOOK Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE How we create value for the long term WHO WE CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS Collaboration Market knowledge, High quality ingredients, Regulatory support WHAT WHAT HOW • 5,000+ customer WE RELY ON MAKES US UNIQUE WE CREATE VALUE • Commercial network in 100+ countries • Close collaboration to innovate in nutrition The Best of Nature A world leader in plant-based ingredients and health and a pioneer in new vegetal proteins SOURCING PLANT-BASED RAW MATERIALS • Global network of distributors and FARMERS OUR VISION • S ource sustainably Nature has the answer to provide people • Improve continuously our raw material quality SUPPLIERS PARTNERSHIPS with the food, nutrition and health • Strengthen relationship with our raw material • Long-term relationships and partnerships they need according to their lifestyle choices, suppliers • Innovation and capability development ONE ROQUETTE their age, where they live and what they do. EMPOWERED PEOPLE customer-oriented organization OUR VALUES BIOREFINING Authenticity, Excellence, Forward-looking, • Safe working conditions Well-being • Optimize our energy consumption • Positive and attractive work environment WORKFORCE • Preserve water • Leadership and people development Skilled and experienced • Further reduce other environmental impacts • 8,670 employees worldwide ENVIRONMENT • 45 nationalities WHAT WE DO ACTING • Reduced environmental impact (GHG emissions) Using plant-based resources, we collaborate with • Put health, safety and well-being at the heart • Water preservation OPERATIONS • Efficient resources consumption our customers and partners to imagine and other of our concerns Manufacturing ingredients to better feed and cure people. • Develop a sustainable development journey • 25 industrial sites PROFITS AND SHAREHOLDERS Each of our ingredients responds to unique inspired by our customers’ expectations • Best-in-class technologies and essential needs, and they enable healthier • Strengthen sustainability in our innovation processes • 3.7 billion € turnover (energy, water, supply chain) • Developing our activities with local communities lifestyles. • 10% of revenue per year reinvested in R&D and industrial capital INNOVATION CAPABILITIES • Return to shareholders • 300 employees dedicated to R&D INNOVATING • 86 years of innovation know-how, expertise •U  nderstand the needs of our customers and OUR ECOSYSTEM • Open innovation anticipate consumer expectations • Employment • Customer Technical Services Pharma Industries Cosmetics •D  evelop an approach sustainable development • Territorial projects with local communities • 40 patents/year inspired by our customers’ expectations • Dialogues with stakeholders and • S trengthen the sustainable development approach policymakers FAMILY CAPITAL in our innovation processes • Roquette Ventures • 250 family shareholders • Roquette Foundation for Health • 85 years of investments Animal Nutrition Food and Nutrition 02 03 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE 11 Members of the Board of Directors to customers, to engage women and men who enrich Roquette, to protect the environment and to create long-term value Caroline Catoire, Antoine Fady, Caroline Sophie Roquette, Édouard Roquette Sophie Roquette, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, in Edouard (President), theBOARD, THE Roquette, Jean-François Catoire, Christophe Roquette, Jean-François Rambicur Lise NOBRE, Hervé Roquette (Chairman), photo, from left to right: Rambicur (Vice (Vice Chairman), Catteau (Employee President), Hervé Catteau Lise Nobre,Representative), 5 Family Directors for the shareholders. The Board of Directors is also particularly attentive to the compliance system deployed (representing employees),RomaRomaRoquette, StéphaneBaseden, Roquette,Stéphane Baseden,Denis Denis Delloye. Delloye including the Chairman in all of the Roquette group’s entities, for cybersecurity and data protection issues and more broadly to all the key risks. 5 Independent To guarantee proper functioning and in addition to their annual self-assessment, the Board is audited every two years by GOVERNANCE Directors an independent external consultant. The result of this assessment and the areas of improvement to implement will be shared Thriving in a Changing Environment 1 Director representing in the 2020 General Assembly. At the 2020 meeting, an amendment of the statutes will be proposed to appoint a second Director While Preserving Our Roots, employees to represent employees. Which Are Our Strength T he continued implementation of the best practices of good governance is essential to support the transformation of our family group. Guided by a search for sustainable meaning, the Board of Directors and its committees structure explains, in addition to the presentation of the accounts and the activity of the group to 250 family shareholders, the essential features of the strategy, the development of its implementation, as well as the pursued objectives in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) issues. The extra financial information is also assessed and 4COMMITTEES Appointments and Compensation Committee Ethics and Sustainable Development Committee the governance of the group to give the ability to published each year. anticipate, invest and transform ourselves to be at the heart of innovation. The background of the new 2020-2024 strategic Audit Committee Strategy Committee plan must ensure the continuity of the company. During the General Assembly, the Board of Directors In particular, the objective is to provide value 04 05 HIGHLIGHTS Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE HIGHLIGHTS COLLABORATE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Collaboration with our customers is key IMPROVING TASTE A NEW GLUTEN-FREE, to our growth and AND TEXTURE, WITH SUGAR-FREE AND NON-GMO success in several areas. A SUSTAINABLE NUTRITION PHARMACEUTICAL EXCIPIENT Consumers desire more diversity and This year, Roquette launched a nutraceutical improvements in taste, texture and sustainable product PEARLITOL® SW-F mannitol with a nutrition in the meat alternatives they eat. To gluten-free claim to respond to consumer address consumer demands, Roquette announced demands. Roquette is now offering more choices during Food Ingredients Europe (FIE) 2019 the in our PEARLITOL® SD mannitol range. The launch of two new textured plant proteins, one stronger non-hygroscopic quality promotes active from peas and one from fava beans. Visitors stability and a pleasing cool taste appreciated at our booth at FIE could sample food such by consumers in oral disintegrating tablets in as plant-based fish products made with these different dosage forms. new ingredients, which expand our range of Thanks to a secure supply chain and manufacturing premium plant proteins for meat alternatives and process controls, our new PEARLITOL® SW-F help support our customers in search of food mannitol is sugar-free, gluten-free and non-GMO innovations, new cuisines, etc. for health-conscious consumers and those with dietary restrictions. CUSTOMER TECHNICAL “FEED YOUR FUTURE” SERVICES IN SINGAPORE WITH PEA PROTEIN We welcomed our customers and business partners to the newly opened Customer “Feed Your Future” was the theme at the 2019 International Food Technologists (IFT) trade Technical Services (CTS) Center for Food, as part of Roquette’s Asia Innovation Center We have a passion show in New Orleans, USA. The Roquette team served the latest innovations in Singapore, in April 2019. The new facility combines technology and expertise to develop solutions with a unique sensory experience in for food and in plant-based foods at our Cantina by Roquette booth. Julia Bosman, Vegetal Proteins dairy, baking, confectionery, savory and specialized nutrition market segments. Rod Quin, Head of a long history of pea Communications Manager–Americas, said, “The highlight of the show was the veggie tacos featuring our NUTRALYS® T70S pea protein. We Global Business Unit Food, said, “The CTS is, in fact, a stimulus of change, connection and action. protein innovation.” also had great success with our fiber-enriched chips and salsa, the margarita-flavored drink mix When we collaborate and keep the conversation going about better food and nutrition based on made from NUTRIOSE® soluble pea fiber and robust science, we can contribute to preventing the mango protein smoothie with NUTRALYS® the next generation of health issues. Our new S85 Plus.” JEAN-PHILIPPE AZOULAY leads our These examples show how we work as ONE CTS facility helps our team turn great ideas into Pea and New Proteins Business Line, a key must-have, nutritious products to meet consumer Roquette to share our passion and help our sector at the heart of Roquette’s global customers innovate, develop new cuisines and lead needs and expectations throughout Asia.” growth strategy. the way with healthy food choices for the world. 06 07 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE INNOVATE TO OFFER THE BEST OF NATURE Innovation is essential to offer the best of nature for our customers and consumers. CHINA TEAM OPENS ROQUETTE VENTURES A NEW INNOVATION CENTER INVESTS IN ADVANCED PROTEIN FOR CUSTOMERS TECHNOLOGIES We have also opened a new Innovation Center As part of its ambition to support pioneer in Shanghai, China, as our employees’ innovation innovations for food, nutrition and health markets, keeps moving full speed ahead. Roquette Ventures signed an agreement with The state-of-the-art facilities and Customer Advanced Protein Technologies (AP Technologies) Technical Services for food and nutrition will allow in South Korea. us to better tailor our products and address our AP Technologies is developing Human Milk customers’ innovation requirements such as sugar Oligosaccharides (HMOs), cognitive and immunereduction, fiber enrichment, protein enhancement, activating ingredients that only exist in human and texture and taste improvement. Bernard breast milk. The collaboration will help develop Pora, Head of China R&D, said the Innovation these new promising ingredients for use in food Center offers our customers two main things: “the and pharmaceuticals globally. opportunity to access our world-class capability; and the ability to quickly create and enhance LARGER R&D LABORATORY HOW WE LIVE WITH solutions for different market segments.” The IN LITHUANIA ongoing growth in China is exciting as we work INTEGRITY AND PROTECT O  ur global growth in innovation continued to meet the fast-growing demand of customized with the move of our R&D team in Panevežys, PRIVACY AND DATA requirements for food and nutrition. These investments are another step in confirming Lithuania, to a new analytical laboratory, three Roquette’s global leadership in the specialized times larger than their former facility. Our employees can work ethically and proteins and plant-based markets. This new state-of-the-art hub facility reinforces responsibly in any job position with the aid of the company’s presence in Northern Europe to best practices in our updated and re-released better address industrial, nutrition and health Code of Conduct to address real-life situations challenges. Thanks to a team of experts, the and questions. laboratory will guarantee highest-quality goods Additionally, our new Privacy & Data Protection and services for our clients, along with improved Guide of Good Conduct helps all employees and productivity and sustainability that respond to third parties acting for Roquette better understand their specific demands. Danas Tvarijonavicius, the privacy and data protection principles and Head of Lithuania R&D applauded the new regulations we need to follow. Together, we commit laboratory, which enables closer partnerships to living with integrity and protecting each other’s with our business partners and universities, and privacy and our data every day! creates opportunities for new innovations, thus By doing so, we embody our company value of creating a safe and ethical working environment excellence as we strengthen and maintain the trust for our employees. of our internal and external partners. 08 09 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE COMMITMENTS Understand customers’ needs and anticipate consumers’ expectations By developing pharma, nutrition, food and industrial innovative solutions that help improve Lucas Goh, our consumers’ health and well-being. Biopharma Scientist Sustainable development Develop a sustainable development journey inspired by our customers’ is an integral part expectations of our activity at the Singapore By offering them environmentally friendly, Innovation Center. innovative, sustainable and competitive We regularly coordinate brainstorming solutions. sessions to stimulate our commitment in favor of sustainable innovation. That is very important. I am convinced that working for sustainable Strengthen sustainability in our development is, above all, a state innovation process of mind to maintain on a daily By including Sustainable Development criteria basis. Indeed, minor changes may as a key element in our innovation projects. lead to major progress, making it possible for new products or new market segments to emerge. The idea is to broaden our viewpoints and put ourselves in the consumer’s shoes! It is the best way to optimally address consumer expectations.” Innovating SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS INNOVATING INDICATORS Sustainably 2019: 66% of projects meeting several “sustainable chemistry” criteria 2025 target: 70% 2019: 95% of solutions offered to our customers meeting the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN* 2025 target: 80% * The method of calculating this indicator will be reviewed from 2020 in order to increase the severity. 11 PART 1 INNOVATING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE Meeting our customers is essential to innovate and offer them solutions adapted to their needs and those of consumers. CUSTOMERS TASTE INNOVATION AT GALLERY IN CHINA More than 150 customers attended our second Roquette Customer Innovation Gallery in Shanghai, China. With a large variety of innovative food VISITORS DISCOVER OUR PLANT-BASED protein for nutrition and dairy alternatives, a solutions available for customers to feel, taste and INGREDIENTS AT FI EUROPE mobile ordering solution for customers in India, enjoy, the wonderful feast around innovation was a  At Food Ingredients Europe in Paris, our booth’s NUTRALYS® T70S textured pea protein as a meat success. The event’s theme “Travel to the heart of design was inviting like a home for visitors to learn substitute, and a customer-centric selling approach nature” gave customers a clear, reassuring message more about how our plant-based ingredients are a for Beauté by Roquette®. about our heritage, resilience and commitment part of daily life to help maintain a healthy lifestyle, One of the prizewinners, Inès Sabatier, Innovation to “offering the best of nature.” Armand Chen, whatever their needs at home and beyond. Besides Project Leader for NUTRALYS® T70S textured pea Country Coordinator – China , said, “Each one of our booth’s high-tech, digital interactive features, protein, highlighted why nature is an important us cherishes the cooperation and innovation with TELLING OUR STORY WITH PEA AND NEW we offered a menu of new tasty, nutritious food partner for us: “As Roquette, it is in our DNA to our customers, because, through innovation, they, PLANT PROTEINS concepts. Visitors could try a meat alternative take care of nature, our customers and our end and us, achieve great success and differentiation  As we strengthen our position as a thought burger with tomato ketchup inspired by plants consumers. To me, the real reason why NUTRALYS® in the market.” leader in pea proteins and new plant proteins, with NUTRALYS® textured plant protein and clean T70S is the best solution, it’s because our little, tiny we participated in the Plant-based Foods Summit label Roquette FC 20 functional starch, a pound pea made us, and makes us, learn a lot. Now we VISITORS “SENSE THE DIFFERENCE” AT FOOD in Lille, France, with expert presentations by Bruno cake rich in NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber and reduced have a concrete solution to talk about with our TECH SUMMIT & EXPO 2019 Géhin, Global New Protein Projects Leader, and in sugar, and a dairy-free ice cream containing customers. Now we can use our learnings from  Roquette and one of our distributors hosted a Christophe Rupp-Dahlem, Head of Global Public NUTRALYS® pea protein. During the event, we also T70S to improve our future developments.” booth at the Food Tech Summit & Expo 2019 in Affairs. During this event, we organized for the announced the expansion of our plant proteins Mexico City in late September. Attendees could first time a customer event in our offices at La with textured proteins, one from fava beans and “sense the difference” in sampling our prototypes Madeleine. Our Innovation Tour offered 35 visitors one from peas. Our teams continue to work every Employees Showcase On-the-job Creativity of reduced sugar chocolate thanks to NUTRIOSE® an introduction to Roquette via the Innovation day with our customers to create healthy options DURING INNOVATION WEEK for the food that consumers want and need! organized by Roquette FM 10 maize dextrin soluble fiber, SweetPearl® XTAB Lounge. Our Food Marketing and Customer 160 maltitol sugar-free mints and veggie tacos with Technical Services teams shared our latest plantNUTRALYS® T70S pea protein, which were a big based discoveries with visitors and showed them FIVE WINNERS TAKE THE PRIZE Employees success and served with maize tortillas and hot how our products fit in with current food trends. AT OUR FIRST CUSTOMER INNOVATION participated worldwide sauces. Visitors commented on the “delicious Roquette was also a Gold Partner at the Future AWARDS CEREMONY Mexican flavor” and “great texture,” and they Food-Tech Summit in London, where Jean-Philippe We are proud of our employees who use outstrongly accepted our proposals featured at our Azoulay, Head of Peas and New Proteins Business of-the-box thinking to improve our customers’ booth. The Food Tech Summit reaches beyond Line, participated in the roundtable discussion: Meeting places journey with Roquette. Our first Customer Mexico to Central America, the Caribbean and “Taste, Texture & Nutrition: Ushering in the Next Innovation Awards ceremony took place in January Colombia, with approximately 16,000 visitors and Generation of Alternative Proteins.” The summit’s 2019 where 10 finalists made presentations with 350 suppliers of raw materials for various uses. theme was to bring together leaders, innovators support from their teams. The jury selected a Our participation at the event helped reinforce and investors to map out the future of food, and Top 10 winner for five different categories, resulting in our collaboration and mutual goals with our it was only natural for Roquette to attend and Innovation Projects awards for the Industry platform for its quick distributor as we shared our nutritious offer for the share what healthy food options we can offer win project charter, NUTRALYS® S85 Plus plant food market. people now and in the future. 12 13 PART 1 INNOVATING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE introduced Roquette with an overview of this Global Business Unit (GBU). Dr. Peng Tao, Senior Scientist for Pharma GBU, then explained how KLEPTOSE® Biopharma offers an innovative protein stabilization solution as an alternative to polysorbates formulations. The Chinese webinar proved a good way to reach our audience as customer has also expressed excitement about we address growing demand for biologic drugs. introducing more Beauté by Roquette® solutions Following the webinar, several prospects requested into other projects in the future. product samples and/or to be contacted by a Roquette Beauté’s brand launched in April 2018 salesperson from Roquette. Today, we are innovating to meet the needs COLD BREW COFFEE WITH HEALTH BENEFITS during in-cosmetics Global in Amsterdam along with our first two innovative plant-based solutions for the cosmetics market. The momentum of our customers and are using FOR CONSUMERS Plant proteins are a booming market segment, and consumers are looking for protein in almost every continued in 2019 with the release of Beauté by Roquette® ST 720, a new 100% plant-based film former from pea starch. Clinically proven, it acts digital tools to explore even more possibilities. category. They want great tasting products that also offer health benefits. Coffee beverages inspired as an effective protective skin barrier against atmospheric pollutants. More than a market one of our latest innovations. Our Customer trend, sustainable beauty is all about skin health Technical Services team collaborated with our and nutrition, and we keep on listening to our Marketing, Sales, and Marketing Communications customers and what consumers need with more ROQUETTE LAUNCHES PHARMACEUTICAL Along with our goal to improve patients’ wellteams to develop a delicious, nutritious cold brew natural-based products that are high performing PRODUCT KLEPTOSE® HPB-LB PARENTERAL being, our new KLEPTOSE® grade meets global coffee formulation that includes our NUTRALYS® and pleasant to use. GRADE TO HELP PATIENTS WITH GLOBAL compliance with the highest purity standards pea protein and NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber. Cameron ACCESS TO MEDICINE and Good Manufacturing Practices to help more Pombert, Application Technician Food, said, “The Roquette has pioneered the development of pharmaceutical products reach global markets. process of creating the cold brew coffee started beta-cyclodextrin as a solution for administering with talking to the customers, having them define Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) to patients. ROQUETTE LAUNCHES WECHAT ACCOUNT AND what they wanted in a cold brew coffee.” Now Cyclodextrins help solubilize and stabilize APIs to DELIVERS BIOPHARMA WEBINAR IN CHINA with a created product, thanks to internal and ROQUETTE EARNS make it easier for patients to absorb the medicine. To be closer to our customers and more accessible external partnerships, we can help customers GOLD RATING FOR SUSTAINABILITY As a leader of supplying cyclodextrins in the on social media, we set up a Roquette WeChat customize our cold brew coffee and flavoring 65100 pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets, account in China. This allows WeChat users for their specific needs. we launched KLEPTOSE® HPB-LB parenteral worldwide to have convenient and instant access grade for our customers to expand into the to the latest news and information from Roquette ROQUETTE BEAUTÉ: OUR SOLUTIONS Chinese market: a new grade of hydroxypropyl by following our official WeChat username. The AND SUCCESSES IN COSMETICS β-cyclodextrin (HPBCD) excipient for use in WeChat account shares more about our company,  Our cosmetics team saw their hard work become parenteral applications which meets the strict our values and commitments, and innovative reality in the first customer product on the market China Pharmacopeia compliance requirements. solutions for customers. using our Beauté by Roquette® DS 146, a blend We also have an approved China DMF on this In November, the Biopharma team delivered a of three plant-based materials. We have received product, which is necessary for our customers webinar—launched and promoted solely via great feedback from customers who evaluated With such a score, Roquette who want to supply their drugs to the Chinese WeChat—on KLEPTOSE® Biopharma in the our new ingredient, and the words became action ranks in the top 6% of the 55,000 companies population. In other words, our solutions help local language for the China market. In the hourwith a company in South Korea. Our customer participating in the EcoVadis Corporate Social efficiently deliver drugs usually intravenously long, first-of-its-kind webinar within Roquette, worked with us to develop a new skin cream Reponsibility (CSR) assessment. or by injection to patients all over the world. Roy Ma, Area Market Manager for China, made available to consumers in June 2019. The 14 15 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE COMMITMENTS Source sustainably By encouraging local supply and optimizing means of transportation to combine economic Fabienne Pointier profitability and low environmental footprint. Senior Agronomist Improve continuously Act today, using our raw materials’ quality past experience and By clearly specifying our needs, strictly open-mindedness to project into the selecting our suppliers and reinforcing quality future: this is how I conceive my job. control chain from fields to biorefineries. This forward-looking in various fields allows us to meet customer expectations by following procurement requirements Strengthen relationship with for our plant-based raw materials. To respond to environmental, economic our raw material suppliers and agronomic issues, we develop specific By building partnerships with breeders crop itineraries and work in partnership and farmers to select and use most suitable with the agricultural cooperatives and agricultural resources. directly with the farmers. The day-to-day efforts of farmers provides us access to a best-in-class raw material; these efforts are recognizable in a lasting and cost-effective way. Our family, our loved ones and we consume these plant-based raw materials: Sourcing their quality is very important! ” Sustainably SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS SOURCING INDICATOR 2019: 24,1% of “sustainable” raw materials* 2025 target: 20% * The target for this indicator has been revised from 2020 in order to increase the severity. 17 PART 2 SOURCING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE We encourage local supply and optimize We clarify our needs and transportation for economic profitability strictly select our supplies while and a low environmental footprint. reinforcing quality control. MORE SUSTAINABLE AND CERTIFIED WHEAT IN LITHUANIA Today, we want healthy, more sustainable food. and Carbon Certification (ISCC) commits us to As a consumer, but also as an employee, we continue our efforts and ensures the quality of our understand the importance of eating better and products, from the field to their consumption. We consuming local products. This is why, at our have established a relationship of proximity and Panevežys site in Lithuania, we purchased 50,000 trust with farmers around common commitments: tons of certified sustainable wheat from local quality, traceability, control and preservation of the farmers in 2019. For better quality wheat and environment. We will strengthen this commitment better product traceability, we collaborate directly in 2020, with the aim of doubling our purchase with local farmers. The International Sustainability of sustainable wheat in Lithuania. We build partnerships with breeders ROQUETTE BECOMES MEMBER and farmers to select and use the most OF THE SAI PLATFORM To reinforce our sourcing commitment, we applied for membership with the SAI suitable agricultural resources. Platform (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform), the primary global food and beverage value chain initiative to promote sustainable agriculture. We are proud to start COLLABORATION TO SERVE THE ENVIRONMENT working with SAI Platform members. We continue advancing towards excellence. This success results from rigorous control of  “As Roquette has fixed an ambitious objective In Vic-sur-Aisne (France), almost 100% of the peas the good practices from the fields until the to reach 20% of our raw material supply we use are already compliant with the pea chain arrival to our site. We can meet our customers’ certified or rated as sustainable by 2025, we specifications that Roquette has developed to requirements for plant-based proteins because of are very interested to improve our knowledge meet very high requirements in terms of quality, selecting varieties with our suppliers, monitoring about responsible sourcing through the SAI traceability and durability of finished products. the agricultural technical route with the limited Platform,” said Massimilano Benso, Head And already nearly 60% of peas are sustainable, use of plant health products, and optimizing of Global Supply Chain. “Roquette looks a percentage that keeps growing. The Roquette logistics. Beyond offering high quality ingredients, forward to sharing experience with such a French sustainable pea chain was created more this collaboration allows us to develop a close professional network and further developing than two years ago and is based on a relationship relationship with cooperatives and farmers, while our sustainable approach.” of trust with cooperatives and their farmers. limiting our environmental impacts. 18 19 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE COMMITMENTS Optimize our energy consumption By installing energy-efficient solutions Amitabh Tiriar, and using relevant renewable energies. Head of India Manufacturing Preserve water Well-being is an essential By optimizing our processes to minimize value to me. consumptions and by installing efficient You must first feel well yourself in treatment technologies. order to help others and give them the best you have to offer. In India, we are proud to contribute to the well-being of others. We have enabled a number of Further reduce other schools to access drinking water. Together, environmental impacts thanks to the volunteer involvement of so many employees, we have been able By implementing the most relevant solutions to help more than 15,000 schoolchildren. based on local specificities. Water is vital to us. It must be protected and made accessible to as many people as possible. The children that we are helping are our neighbors, in some cases the sons and daughters of our colleagues. They are the citizens of tomorrow’s India, those who will help conserve water and reduce our environmental impact! ” Biorefining SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS BIOREFINING INDICATORS Sustainably 2019: 829,504 CO2 tons avoided annually (teq CO2 avoided) 2025 target: 1,000,000 2019: 0.99 ratio for the energy efficiency improvement 2025 target: 0.90 21 PART 3 BIOREFINING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE Improving our energy consumption allows us to offer more environmentally friendly ingredients. PERFORMANCE FOR ROQUETTE INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE A project focused on improving, optimizing and standardizing our production processes has recently been launched in Benifaió (Spain). A new tool will help the operators, managers and technical teams to react more quickly and to optimize consumption of resources in the site: an Optimization Algorithm for Energy Management will ensure that the energy needs of the site are met while we reduce the cost of producing it. WINNERS OF OPERATIONS AWARDS 2019 A multidisciplinary, well-prepared team, created Our global Operations teams achieved positive an effective working environment that led to the changes in 2019, and their initiatives and successful implementation of this project, which innovations received recognition at the annual OPTIMIZING ENERGY AND REDUCING will use trends and KPIs to better follow the Operations Awards ceremony. Almost 800 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT performance of our systems. This project is also Roquette employees were involved with the 107 Roquette strives to minimize our environmental an opportunity to reduce our environmental submitted projects. Congratulations to the winners impact daily at work. Our site in Beinheim, France, impacts. who shared their experiences in the following is committed to this responsible and innovative categories: HSE and Sustainability (Lestrem), Total environmental approach, through ambitious Quality and Customer Centric (Vic-sur-Aisne), projects like geothermal power and biomass. Competitiveness and Cost Reduction (Benifaió), Using geothermal power and wood energy from Operational Excellence (Vic-sur-Aisne), People and plants provides an energy supply that is 75% Leadership (India), and Technology and Innovation renewable on-site. Additionally, the site has (Lianyungang). There were also 12 special prizes by decided to use artificial intelligence to help control the jury symbolized by a hummingbird to show its methanation process to be more efficient with that every action counts no matter how small the natural treatment of organic waste and thus it might seem. Our teams in Lithuania, France, produce renewable energy (biogas). To support the USA, Spain, India and China received these European sites 1 our growth in the plant proteins business while special prizes for their contributions to improve minimizing our impact, Roquette also decided operations at their facilities. 2 of the Group are certified ISO 5000 1 to source 100% green electricity for our site in Vic-sur-Aisne (France). 3 22 23 PART 3 BIOREFINING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE We are committed to preserving our planet’s We help reduce our environmental resources, like water, and we work to provide impacts daily through joint actions sustainable solutions. around the environment and biodiversity. THE ZERO LIQUID DISCHARGE PROJECT Manager, also received a Leadership Award for IN INDIA their dedication and leadership in HSE&S. Water recycling helps reduce consumption of Amitabh said, “At Roquette, safety is a constant this precious resource in areas where it is rarer. In priority and is an essential condition to ensure Viramgam (India), we have established Zero Liquid our sustainability. It is a mind-set; it goes beyond Discharge Technology. This project uses advanced processes and manuals. Regular dialogues and WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY ACTIONS technologies like reverse osmosis systems to trainings help our employees understand that this culture is maintained because we care about Roquette employees from over 10 countries recycle effluents after treatment. This recycled their well-being. Fundamentally, these awards participated in World Environment Day globally water is used especially to produce steam and ROQUETTE SUPPORTS BIODIVERSITY WITH really belong to our employees.” in June. The groups at our sites focused on enables reducing more than 50% of fresh water CONSERVATION FOR MONARCH BUTTERFLIES different topics linked to biorefining, one of consumption at the site. AND SWALLOWS our four sustainable development pillars. We organized actions to educate the next generation: Roquette, as a member of the Corn Refiners SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT AWARDS IN INDIA Association (CRA), is proud to support CRA’s for example, students and employees’ children O ur Gokak and Viramgam sites in India were invited to our offices to learn about how work with the Keystone Policy Center’s Monarch received the Gold Award for Environment and to improve our energy usage. Reducing plastic Collaborative to improve the sustainability of Sustainability at the 17th Greentech Environment was another objective as we collected waste and monarch butterfly populations, which have Awards. Organized by the Greentech Foundation, replaced plastic coffee cups. declined over the last 20 years in the USA. Farmers the awards are presented to organizations that Nature is our number one partner, and it is and agribusinesses are among those working to demonstrate a high commitment to environment important to give back to the environment. help preserve the habitat and food sources for management through best practices and Employees took that concept seriously by planting monarch butterflies. evidenced by a positive impact to the business trees in India and Spain. Employees in Lithuania Another conservation effort Roquette helps and contributing to sustainability. cleaned the surrounding area and then planted support in France is protecting the swallow Additionally, our Viramgam and Gokak sites took flowers and trees in different parts of the work populations that have declined in Europe due home three awards at the 4th Annual Health, site. Besides the delight we receive from nature, to environmental factors and decreased nesting Safety and Environmental Awards given by planting more natural life helps sustain our lives sites. We can take care of their natural habitat, the OHSSAI Foundation, an independent nonwith the health benefits nature provides. keep nesting sites accessible and install artificial profit organization that promotes Health, Safety, World Environment Day is the second time that nests to strengthen their populations. Environment and Sustainability (HSE&S) in India. all Roquette employees acted on initiatives We help maintain our world’s biodiversity by raising Two of our employees Amitabh Tiriar, Head of globally during a time set aside to maintain our awareness and fostering a healthy environment India Manufacturing, and Raju Sekhar, Gokak Plant commitment to sustainable development. for the creatures who share this planet with us. 24 25 Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE COMMITMENTS Put health, safety and well-being at the heart of our concerns By continuing the implementation of worldclass HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) management systems and developing a culture in which people safety is a core value. Laura Colenthiez, Engineering Knowledge Management Leader Empower employees The birth of my daughter By promoting dialogue, fostering engagement and developing skills. in 2018 sensitized me to women in society. By advocating values of equality and by promoting a connection between Build on our diversity their members, women’s networks help advance the place of women, and By valuing our differences and promoting men, at all levels of the organization. the sharing of best practices in a multicultural I’m sure they’re contributing to the network. transformation of society. I appreciate the richness and the diversity from the Women@Roquette network; we have antennas in almost all of the group, and Develop our activities with member sites are extremely optimistic! local communities Women@Roquette allows us to catalyze By partnering with our local communities our energy, support our fulfillment, and contributing to their development through reveals our potential while advancing sustainable relationship. Roquette and the place of women. ” Acting SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS ACTING INDICATORS 2019: 1.61 Frequency rate of work accidents with stoppage (TF1) Sustainably 2025 target : 0.5 2019: 2.90 Frequency rate of work with and without stoppage (TF2) 2025 target: 1.5 2019: 75 local projects and actions supported* 2025 target: 20 * The target for this indicator has been revised from 2020 in order to increase the severity. 27 PART 4 ACTING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE The safety of our employees is our priority. We pay special attention to it at all times. HEALTH AND SAFETY IN ACTION WITH GEMBA WALK “Keep calm and go to Gemba” is the slogan of 158 employees who walk the Gemba (i.e., go to the ground and walk the workplace) at our site in Italy. The first group of 84 people started the Gemba Walk project four years ago in EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATE IN WORLD DAY Cassano, Italy. Now, the group includes FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK employees from several business On April 28, 2019, our employees joined in the safety contests. Brazil employees dedicated the functions to share their skills in walking Keep calm worldwide focus on workplace safety and day in engaging various safety dialogues beyond through the worksite to identify and health with numerous activities to reinforce our operations and launched the standard safety solve real-time issues that differ from commitment to safety first. Our sites in India had cross in their performance routines. The sites in standard situations in business activities safety commitment and awareness campaigns, France held several different games and activities and processes. The focus of the Gemba along with training and a safety painting workshop. Canada observed the National Day of Mourning to honor workers who have died or been injured to increase learning about risks awareness. Italy focused on our Golden Rules for safety, while Spain hosted relaxation sessions for health. and go to Gemba.” has also grown over time beyond safety to help address the environment, waste and maintenance issues, and quality. or ill related to the workplace, and to emphasize Safety is everywhere, at Roquette and beyond, Thanks to our employees for helping key prevention actions. Employees in China for example, in a very impactful partnership with each other work safer and better on practiced emergency response drills and had local schools in Lithuania. the job! 28 29 PART 4 ACTING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE At Roquette, we care for our employees and people in our communities, staying true to our value of well-being. NEW LEARNING STRATEGY PUTS LEARNING ROQUETTE AS A GREAT PLACE IN THE HANDS OF EMPLOYEES FOR EMPLOYEES TO WORK Our commitment to empower employees extends to promoting dialogue, fostering From Brazil to Canada to China, people engagement and developing skills. Our are learning what we already know, new learning strategy launched in January that Roquette is a great place to work. 2019 and continues to expand! Learning encompasses all possible ways to learn “Our team in Canada received two and develop, such as classroom or first-time awards, one from The face-to-face training, e-learning, reading, mentoring, peer coaching, etc. With the launch Career Directory as one of Canada’s of Roquette’s learning platform on Workday, best employers for recent college and employees now have broad access to their university graduates, and another award learning history and offerings. They can select as a Top Employer in Manitoba. This is courses from different topics to constantly a tremendous honor for Roquette and learn and share engaging learning contents, will certainly help us to attract the best maintain up-to-date skills and knowledge, talent in Manitoba and all of Canada develop and grow, and contribute to business for the new state-of-the-art pea strategy and performance. processing plant we are building.” Dominique Baumann, Global Project Director – Canada. ROQUETTE IN ASIA LAUNCHES A REWARDS Awards” as the highest level of contribution for AND RECOGNITION PROGRAM  Employees can now thank their colleagues with longer-term projects. Acknowledging someone’s contribution at work can also take the form of Our site in Brazil in “For the second year in a row, Roquette in China was officially recognized by the Itapevi received the style through the new Rewards and Recognition a simple thank-you card or over lunch with the program in Asia. To recognize an employee or Top Employers Institute as a 2020 Top individual or team. team, employees can submit an online nomination Employer in China for our sustained form that managers use to reward employees with different types of awards depending on the The Rewards and Recognition program helps ensure a consistent and transparent system of certification Great Place excellence in advancing employee value propositions. At Roquette, we firmly to Work in 2019. timely recognition, and it is an easy way for our believe that business is all about people nature of their contribution. Award categories teams to celebrate achievements and success range from “Spot Awards” for everyday excellence in the end. And we mean it!” with each other. to “Quarterly Rock Star Awards” for projects that Armand Chen, Country Coordinator support the business with “Annual Champion – China. 30 31 PART 4 ACTING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE Combining our talents and cultures contributes to creating a pleasant working @ environment at Roquette : all together, let’s make a difference! WOMEN@ROQUETTE NETWORK FOR WOMEN, BY EVERYONE Women@Roquette is a voluntary network open to all employees, not just women, to ensure that we have gender diversity in the company at all organizational levels. The network encourages everyone to flourish and reveal their full potential, and it is valuable in boosting the company’s performance and making us stronger as a team. Another mission of Women@Roquette is to help women grow in their careers, enhance and share their skills, and give them opportunities to build relationships and network effectively. Many employees at our various sites have participated LITHUANIAN TEAM RECOGNIZES in diversity discussions and volunteer activities WOMEN IN SCIENCE sponsored by Women@Roquette that help keep Our team in Lithuania launched a public photo the conversation going. exhibition to commemorate the United Nations’ International Day of Women and Girls in Science INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY that recognizes their role and addresses the CELEBRATION IN GREATER ASIA worldwide reality of women still making up a Several locations in Greater Asia celebrated minority of the global scientific community. International Women’s Day (IWD) 2019 with some The exhibition “(No) Simple Everyday Innovators” treats for everyone in the office to enjoy and recognized women and addressed stereotypes From left to right: Lucia Castillo, Jianbo Wang, Karine Baert a reminder of the importance of diversity and and myths surrounding science in everyday life, inclusion in the workplace. such as that the work is boring or not easily TOGETHER, WE FOSTER DIVERSITY “At Roquette, we consider diversity and inclusion understood. The photos displayed the work of AND INCLUSION AT ROQUETTE! their talents to generate creative thinking and to be vital to our business performance and women at Roquette Amilina who find solutions We are committed to build on our diversity, innovation, to foster well-being and mutual caring, employee engagement. Achieving a better through their daily jobs in science, technology, by valuing our differences and promoting the to become collectively a high performing team balance whether it’s gender, cultural, generational chemistry and engineering. sharing of best practices in a multicultural network. and to be proud of it. Inclusion is about treating or language starts with raising awareness against Edita Mažonien , R&D scientist, said, “The role Strengthening diversity and inclusion at Roquette people equally and respectfully. It starts with me, bias,” said Richard Harding, Head of Human of women in science is certainly no less than is a key lever for business growth and customer with you, with each and every one of us, every Resources in Greater Asia. that of men. Their thoughts and work make satisfaction, which contributes to creating a great day, with openness and tolerance!” The global 2019 IWD theme was “Balance for significant contributions to scientific progress place to work and to being strongly rooted in our Along with the video, Roquette proposed an Better,” based on the idea that “A balanced world and innovation.” local communities. e-learning course to share and learn about is a better world,” connecting with our Roquette For this occasion, the employees also came In a short video spotlight, some employees shared diversity and inclusion challenges, and to continue values of authenticity, excellence, forward-looking together to complete a puzzle that symbolized their personal words and convictions on diversity translating our ambition into concrete local and and well-being as we strive to promote sustainable the meaningful contributions of women and and inclusion. “We all have a role to play to shape global actions to foster positive behaviors and practices in our workplace and our business the unity, patience and teamwork that produces great teams, with diverse backgrounds, expressing create an inclusive workplace at Roquette. operations. innovative solutions in our daily work. 32 33 PART 4 ACTING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE We volunteer in several different ways to improve well-being in our communities. EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER AROUND THE WORLD Roquette sponsored the 14th annual Testathlon organized by DigestScience in Lille, France. Several employees participated in the walk/run/bicycle event to benefit research and raise awareness for digestive diseases. Employees at our site in Benifaió, Spain, celebrated International Volunteer Day on December 5, 2019, to thank and recognize volunteers for their dedication. They collaborated throughout the year to address sustainable development goals BRIGHTER SMILES FOR 3,100 CHILDREN IN INDIA related to poverty, inequality, education, health,  “In a developed economy like Singapore, it is E mployees in Geneva, Illinois, U.S.A. helped two Roquette in India is actively involved in bettering infrastructure, clean water and sanitation, and easy to forget that there are members of society underprivileged families through the United Way the community and held a two-day dental health protection of the planet. For example, their actions who may not have regular or healthy meals. Adopt-A-Family program by donating toys, clothes, camp for schoolchildren living in areas around our included collecting hygiene items for children and It was great to see colleagues from different household supplies, and more to the families. Gokak site. Adequate access to oral healthcare food for people in need. functions coming together to give back to the In Korea, our employees volunteered with Shalom is a persistent issue in rural India, and Mummella community,” said Lucas Goh, Biopharma Scientist House, a shelter for adults with disabilities, where Jyotsna, Medical Specialist, led the effort to raise FEEDING OTHERS WITH “PROJECT EAT BETTER” – Innovation Center. they have helped before. This time, our employees awareness about the importance of oral hygiene IN SINGAPORE donated household items and nutritious food to help prevent tooth decay and other dental GLOBAL GIVING TUESDAY with Roquette ingredients, as well as helping wash  The Singapore Food Bank’s program “Project Eat issues. The KLE Dental College in Belgaum helped blankets and clean the yards. Better” seeks to reduce food waste and end Employees at various Roquette sites showed the dental camp with 16 faculty members who Employees in La Madeleine, France, collected items food insecurity, and 28 Roquette employees kindness and generosity as we supported the global examined 3,100 children ranging from 5 to 16 years for three organizations, including games, toys volunteered with the program to improve wellGiving Tuesday event on December 3 to collect of age from five different schools. and books for children at hospitals, and hygiene being in the community. They collected surplus items for vulnerable people and communities. Mummella said, “From simple check-ups to scaling products distributed to adults and children. fruits and vegetables donated from sellers at Colleagues from Singapore supported the call and administering tooth fillings, the volunteers Thanks to our colleagues around the world, the the Pasir Panjang wholesale center, and then for donations of daily necessities to benefit from KLE and Roquette joined hands in ensuring spirit of Giving Tuesday was kept alive because redistributed the food to low income groups in the residents of Lions Home for the Elder. One the long-term impact of this Corporate Social small acts of kindness when multiplied can make need of healthy food. The food items were either contribution even came all the way from our Responsibility effort through the message that a world of difference to those in need. slightly damaged or unsold but still good to eat office in Vietnam. prevention is better than cure.” instead of thrown away. 34 35 PART 4 ACTING Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE The exhibition “Microbiota, after the Discreet Charm of the Intestine,” the City of Science and Industry museum, in Paris. Good Nutrition for Good Health with the Roquette Foundation Created in November 2017 under the aegis of the Fondation de France, the Roquette Foundation for Health’s mission is to support innovative or educational projects in the fields of food and nutrition. Believing in progress, sharing knowledge THE MICROBIOTA, and changing behavior OUR SECOND BRAIN guide the Foundation’s CHANGE BEHAVIORS Aware of the importance steps every day. “Health goes by the plate.” Many people know this, but changing eating habits is not easy. The of microbiota and related research, this year the SHARING KNOWLEDGE Roquette Foundation for Foundation also acts to facilitate behavioral change Spreading knowledge about food and nutrition by supporting several projects. In France, the Health supported the is essential for everyone’s well-being. BELIEVE IN PROGRESS Sport dans la Ville association introduces young exhibition “Microbiota”, In India, the Roquette Foundation supports two people to nutrition while offering sports activities after The Discreet Charm Food plays a key role in diseases of the digestive associations: Life Project 4 Youth’s “Lifeline” in the heart of their neighborhoods. In Vietnam, of the Intestine at the City system, which is why the Foundation supports program, by developing a mobile application, the Foundation supports the Thien An Home of Science and Industry several medical research projects. disseminates or shares good advice with the II association, which helps people from ethnic populations of Mumbai’s slums in matters of museum in Paris. Bacteria, The work of Professor Déchelotte and his team, minorities. This program’s objective is to help hygiene and food. In parallel, the Magic Bus viruses and other fungi through the Microbiome Foundation, focuses children and young people in the community by Association and its education program in Gokak are 99% contained in our on the role of the intestinal microbiota in the providing them with good food, an educational (India) aims to promote and raise awareness among microbiota. Its role appearance and maintenance of functional and health prevention program, thus giving them young people of the importance of good health is essential to good health. digestive disorders frequently observed in every chance to integrate into society. and the nutritional challenges related to it, while Taken from the book The anorexia or obesity, in order to facilitate therapeutic management and quality of life for leading them toward social and professional Discreet Charm of the patients. integration. Intestine, this exhibition Another example, the Pensine project, led by The Roquette Foundation also allows employees brought together more than Professor Hermann, will give rise to new dietary who wish to do so to invest in the projects it 380,000 visitors, who thus recommendations for children from birth, following supports by making their skills available and discovered the small people a study of mother-child couples, from conception thus strengthening the impact with the target of the intestine to take and up to four years of age of the child. populations. better care of them. 36 37 ROQUETTE IN NUMBER Activity and Sustainable Development Report 2019 ROQUETTE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Units 2019 2018 GRI FOSSIL ENERGY USED SCORECARD Electricity Natural gas RENEWABLE ENERGY USED GWh GWh 2,5 1 9 7,068 2,567 6,526 G4-EN3 G4-EN3 SOCIAL DATA 2019 2018 GRI Wood (100% MS) kt 207* 127.5 G4-EN3 Rice husk kt 122 127.6 G4-EN3 Workforce (Entire group / total permanent staff and fixed-term contract staff as of Dec. 31) ENERGY PRODUCED PER GEOGRAPHIC REGION Electricity GWh 1,420 1,468 G4-EN3 Biogas GWh 60 67 G4-EN3 Europe 5,078 5,018 G4-10 America 1,079 1,024 G4-10 PUMP WATER Asia 2,5 1 1 2,557 G4-10 Group 8,668 8,559 G4-1 1 Process water (rivers, aquifers, urban network) 106 m3 48.2 49.0 ** G4-EN8 Water returned 106 m3 22.6 35.7 G4-EN22 PROFESSIONAL EQUALITY COD discharged /kt of starch 2.26 2.32 G4-EN22 (Entire group-total permanent staff and fixed-term contract staff as of Dec. 31) AIR Male employees 6,764 6,763 G4-LA12 CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) teq CO2 805 790 G4-EN21 Including % of managers 16.5 % * G4-LA12 /kt of starch Female employees 1,904 1,836 G4-LA12 Including % of managers 16.5 % ** G4-LA12 Ratio of women/men 28.1 27.1 G4-LA12 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Units 2019 2018 2025 HIRES/RETIREMENTS (Entire group) BIOREFINING INDICATORS Hires 524 540 G4-LA1 Resignations 283 329 G4-LA1 Energy efficiency Ratio 0.99 0.98 0.9 Layoffs 111 73 G4-LA1 Specific water consumption Ratio 0.87 1.1 4 1 CO2 tons avoided annually teq CO2 avoided 829,504 813,912 1,000,000 Death 7 9 G4-LA1 Retirement 43 44 G4-LA1 SOURCING INDICATOR (common agreement, others sites, etc.) 68 134 G4-LA1 % of “sustainable” raw materials kt 20 10.2 20 TRAINING INNOVATING INDICATORS (Limited scope) % of projects meeting several % 66 61 70 Hours/employees 22.6 21.4 G4-LA9 “sustainable chemistry” criteria INTEGRATION OF WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES % of solutions offered to our customers meeting % 95 92 80 the Sustainable Development (France scope) Goals of the UN Workers with disabilities 213 186 G4-LA12 ACTING INDICATORS SAFETY *** Frequency rate of work accidents with stoppage (FR1) 1.61 1.49 0.5 Frenquency rate of work with and without stoppage (FR2) 2.9 2.72 1.5 Days lost 1,455 810 G4-LA6 Local projects and actions supported 75 55 20 Severity rate 0.09 0.06 G4-LA6 * 16.5% – 1,084/6,555 (based on total permanent staff, excluding temporary). ** 16.5% – 292/1,773 (based on total permanent staff, excluding temporary). *** In Spain, an accident on a low voltage electrical installation occurred in October 2019. One of our employees died from his injuries. * This calculation takes into account the biomass boiler used on our site in Panevežys (Lithuania). An investigation is underway in accordance with local regulations and our internal practices. ** Note that the 2018 data has been revised following the evolution of the group directive. Unused cooling water Understanding this event will allow us to determine the evolution of standards and practices associated with electrical risk. in the process is no longer counted in the group’s water consumption. 38 39 ABOUT ROQUETTE “OFFERING THE BEST OF NATURE” Roquette is a global leader in plant-based ingredients and a pioneer of new vegetal proteins. In collaboration with its customers and partners, the group addresses current and future societal challenges by unlocking the potential of nature to offer the best ingredients This report was prepared with the help for food, nutrition and health markets. Each of of many Roquette employees, these ingredients responds to unique and essential as well as other stakeholders outside the group. needs, and they enable healthier lifestyles. Thanks to a constant drive for innovation and a long-term vision, We thank each one of them for their valuable SCOPE collaboration and contribution the group is committed to improving the well-being of millions of people all over the world while taking Several scopes have been defined, based on the to the development of this edition. care of resources and territories. Roquette currently following indicators. operates in over 100 countries, has a turnover of around Social indicators: the group scope includes the legal 3.7 billion euros and employs 8,670 people worldwide. entity Roquette Frères and all its directly or indirectly controlled sites with a stake of more than 50% at December 31 of the year of reference. The limited scope includes the legal entity Roquette Frères and its industrial subsidiaries with a workforce of over REPORTING METHOD 50 employees, directly or indirectly controlled at more than 50% and counted as part of the Roquette To ensure the reliability of our information, protocols group for at least one full year on January first of the EDITORIAL COMMITTEE GRAPHIC DESIGN AND SUPPORT prepared by the various group departments are reference year. Séverine Lepers, Tiffany Martin, Margaux Ovlaque Agence Bergamote the basis of Roquette reporting. These documents and Baptiste Schollaert define the scope and provide, in a precise and easy Environmental indicators: (a) performance indicators ILLUSTRATIONS to understand way, the definitions of the indicators for centralized heat production facilities and avoided CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS Morgane Chambrion, Iris Hatzfeld chosen in this report and in the management reports. CO2 emissions performance are calculated for all of Carole Petitjean – carole.petitjean@roquette.com Indeed, as part of the transposition of the European the group’s industrial sites whose total annual energy Séverine Lepers – severine.lepers@roquette.com Margaux Ovlaque – margaux.ovlaque@roquette.com PHOTO CREDITS directive on extra-financial information (2014/95/ consumption is greater than 5,000 TOE (Tons of Oil Collaboraters Roquette, Éric LeBrun, Adobe Stock, EU) to French law, which modifies article 225 of the Equivalent), during the two years preceding 2018, and iStock Photo, iStock: Pogonici PUBLIC AFFAIRS French Commercial Code, extra-financial reporting whose capital has been held at more than 50% for Anders Liljegren – anders.liljegren@roquette.com is a requirement for the company. To this effect, at least 3 years; (b) the process water consumption the indicators and the information published in the performance indicators are calculated for all group management report are reviewed by one of our corn and wheat starch plants, with a unit capacity LEGAL INFORMATION independent external auditors, KPMG. Much of the rating of more than 400 commercial tons of clean To the best of our knowledge, all information contained in this document is accurate. However, all information published in the management report is grain per day and the capital of which is held for at indications, recommendations and suggestions are provided without any guarantees. Furthermore, none also listed in this report. Roquette was aslo inspired by least 3 years more than 50%; (c) all the other energy of the information provided should be considered as permission or incitation to infringe on any existing the ‘‘G4 Guidelines’’ of the Global Reporting Initiative and environment indicators come from all industrial patents. Any partial or total reproduction is prohibited, unless prior written authorization from the company ROQUETTE FRERES. © 2020 Roquette Frères. All rights reserved. ®: registered trademarks of Roquette Frères. (GRI), and our indicators are listed according to the GRI sites whose energy consumption is above 1,000 TOE This document is printed on FSC certified paper. classification (workforce indicators G4-10 and G4-11, per year and whose capital has been more than 50% for example). owned for at least 3 years. 40
