XII 2020 2020 – ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT CEO Letter Rome, 11/12/2020 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that INTEGRA AES s.r.l. reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Annual Communication on Progress, two years after joining UN Global Compact as a signatory, we describe our actions to constantly improve the integration of the Global Annual Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Luca Montesi Chief Executive Officer Our firm INTEGRA AES is an Italian consulting company offering services in the fields of civil engineering, electrical and mechanical systems, hydraulic and transport infrastructures, buildings architecture and urban planning. Our multidisciplinary team includes architects, building and civil engineers as well as electrical and mechanical experts with long experience in their field. Since our creation in 2007, our teams have successfully managed challenging international projects. INTEGRA AES, which is independent from any construction or industrial firm, provides services in different phases of the design process and during the construction phase. WHAT WE DO : Our firm WHERE WE WORK: INTEGRA AES operates in Europe, in the Middle East, in Central Asia and in North Africa. We are active in large international projects, working for leading international funding agencies and military organizations, including in post-conflict areas such as Iraq or Afghanistan. Our head office is in Italy and last year we opened a branch in Kabul, Afghanistan to increase our presence in the territory. We are currently engaged in different contracts and LTAs with UN agencies, such as WFP, UNICEF, UNOCHA, UNOPS, FAO. Example of project achieved in 2020: New WFP Country Office Building in the UNOCA compound, Kabul, Afghanistan . Certifications & Memberships CERTIFICATIONS: INTEGRA AES has adopted an integrated management system for quality, environment and safety. This choice is made to comply with both the requirements of occupational safety and environmental prevention regulations, to implement and improve the effectiveness of a management system and to increase customer satisfaction. Beside those quality standards, INTEGRA AES has adopted the extremely important one ISO 27001, regarding the cyber-security. Our firm is Certified for the following management systems:  Quality System ISO 9001:2015 click here to see certificate  Health & Safety System OHSAS 18001:2007 click here to see certificate  Environmental System ISO 14001:2015 click here to see certificate  Information Security System ISO/IEC 27001:2017 click here to see certificate Certifications & Memberships MEMBERSHIPS: INTEGRA AES is a member of the following associations:  FIDIC International Federation of Consulting Engineers is an international standards organization for the consulting engineering and construction and EFCA is the European branch. FIDIC believes that construction should be sustainable, and to this end, it is the policy of FIDIC that each party in the construction process should be committed to satisfying its obligations with respect to achieving Quality of Construction. FIDIC’s key role and that of its Member Associations around the world is to improve people’s quality of life through the promotion of quality, integrity and sustainability in the infrastructure industry and the projects and services it delivers on a global scale.  OICE Italian Architecture and Engineering Society (OICE), which embraces FIDIC's values and promotes exchange between specialists in the field, the sharing of energies and knowledge. This association is the Italian guarantor of the respect of the rights and ethics of this sector of activity. UN GLOBAL COMPACT OUR COMMITMENTS INTEGRA in order to pursue the Ten Principles of the UNGC, develops its own initiatives and actions by achieving the provided goals. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights INTEGRA AES SRL considers of leading importance the responsibility in the social sphere, paying close attention toward the populations with great difficulties. Our firm fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All guidelines to ensure that those principles are respected are duly enumerated in both our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy and in our Ethical Code of Conduct issued and available on our company’s website, which is mandatory for both our employees and consultants to sign. For example, one of the actions that promote social issues, a topic close to the heart of the company, is the support that every year INTEGRA AES SRL gives to social issues, committing itself to donate part of its profits to the ONLUS Save the Children, with the aim to guarantee especially rights, health and education to the most disadvantaged children, believing that they are essential part of the social growth. Human Rights INTEGRA AES, who promotes multiculturalism and diversity, is very proud to have reached a fair balance of women and men staff in 2020. Our company involves the local workforce as long as it compulsorily subscribes to the code of ethics. Our staff is also made of young employees, hired right after obtaining their degree. INTEGRA AES strives to give them the opportunity to learn from the senior staff and to be quickly involved in exciting international projects. Our company keeps working hours contained within eight working hours a day on five days a week (21,75 working days per month). Our year-end figures regarding staff gender and age are shown in the graphs below. Gender Age 22% 22% 50% 50% 56% F M < 30 years 31 ÷ 40 years > 41 years Labour INTEGRA AES’s Information Security Management Policy is certified in compliance with the ISO/IEC 27001: 2017 standard. With this certification, our firm has bolstered its security procedures to guarantee data security, in a context where the IT risks caused by violations of the security systems are continuously increasing. With a long-standing experience in sensitive infrastructures projects, INTEGRA AES has long ago started to consider data protection as a critical requirement in all its activities. Not only to protect the firm’s and the client’s data, but also in our approach when designing active security measures. RESOURCESTORAGE ® In the past year, INTEGRA AES has also raised the level of IT Security, with a new version of its owned web platform ResourceStorage®. ResourceStorage® is a warranty that employees, clients and any other stakeholders information is safely kept on our platform with the highest standards of cyber security through the encryption protocols (Thawte® certificate) combined with strong authentication procedures. It is also a tool that enables smart working and paperless working, avoiding unnecessary travel and allowing a considerable reduction in paper printing. This platform provides data management (classified and unclassified) features and INTEGRA AES will implement other Multi Project Manager (MPM) functionalities in future releases, such as proposal, procurement and project management, to improve its own processes and allow users to have a better view on their projects. Labour Our firm Quality System is certified in compliance with ISO 9001:2015 standard, in order to continuously and effectively improve its business processes, increase efficacy, efficiency and Client satisfaction. INTEGRA AES is constantly involved in assuring the quality of its projects and the level of performances, auditing objectives and results and implementing new procedures to reach continual improvement. The certificate is valid for the following services: – Project management and design of civil works and related facilities; – Work supervision; – Technical and administrative inspection; – H&S coordination during the planning and execution; – Checks on design of buildings for validation. INTEGRA AES’ H&S Policy is certified in compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 standard. It defines the procedures and prevention measures to be applied on the basis of potential risks, both in INTEGRA AES’ offices and building sites. Risk analysis is regularly reviewed by H&S Management, monitoring activities and updating its objectives in order to enhance the firm’s H&S approach. From the use of equipment to working at heights protocols, we have skilled staff to advise on H&S guidelines during design and to oversee if safe working practices have been adopted on site. Labour INTEGRA AES wants to stand out for its commitment to Social Responsibility, building her own commitment based on two of the CSR fundamental principles: the search for the improvement of people's working conditions and the respect for their dignity and freedom. The assessment of the staff to be hired is based on the correspondence of the candidates' profiles to the expectations and the business needs, while respecting equal opportunities for all stakeholders. The staff is employed with regular contract of employment; no form of irregular work is tolerated. Regarding international staff, INTEGRA AES wishes to expand the diversity of its directly employed staff in the future, in particular thanks to the Branch opened last year in Afghanistan. So far, our firm has been looking for the partnership with local consultants, sharing skills and knowledge, in order to expand its international cooperation. INTEGRA, to combat the proliferation of Sars-Cov19 in the workplace, has adopted measures of prevention and containment, facilitating smartworking through the use of ResourceStorage platform, safeguarding jobs and ensuring continuity of work and regular payments for employes. The company has adopted several H&S measures: Electronic thermoscanner on entry and exit, Distribution of personal protective equipment, Spacing between workstations, Ad hoc signage Cleaning, sanitizing and ventilation of work environments, Conference-call remotely via WEBEX platform to avoid crowding Continued information regarding Anti-Covid 19 protocols Environment INTEGRA as an Engineering and Consulting firm is aware that can have a huge impact on: Sustainable cities and Communities. Climate Action Affordable and clean energy Clean water and Sanitation Not only in our internal day-to-day activities, but above all when a client comes with the idea of a new project, our responsibility is to make sure that all the solutions that will be selected in the design of the building or the infrastructure are the most sustainable ones. We have implemented actions both at an internal and an external level: Internal: procedures implemented in the management of our office, employees, suppliers regarding our day to day activities External: as an architecture and engineering firm, we have implemented action and guidelines in order to spread our awareness to our customers, in the selection of the solutions in project design. To achieve this goal our teams are duly trained on: Environment-friendly building materials Low-energy consumption systems Renewables energy supply systems Our internal quality management system has identified a list of environmental – friendly materials with brand and country of origin, which is the reference for our architects and engineers when they design a new project. They endeavor to select local products in order to reduce the negative long distance transport effect Environment INTEGRA AES demonstrates its continuous effort to minimize pollution and waste, limit and optimize energy demand and continuously improve its Environmental Management System. The firm’s internal procedures, such as the assessment of environmental effects and the supervision of current legislation, are frequently updated to meet higher environmental standards. INTERNALLY Implementation of a new best practice regarding paper printing / ink consumption and communication to all staff to spread awareness. Achievement of our yearly paper printing reduction target Implementation of a yearly energy consumption target. The outcome will be measured at the end of the year. EXTERNALLY Our firm has completed recently a number of projects where the lowest emission solutions were adopted. As an example : − Design of UNOCHA Accommodation and Office buildings, implementation of solar collectors generation and both rainwater and wastewater management systems, − Design of ROVUMA LNG Temporary Offices and facilities, implementation of solar collectors for hot water and both water treatment, rainwater and wastewater management systems, − Design of FAO HQ Dining Facility Renovation, implementation of Building Management Systems for HVAC and lighting systems in order to reduce energy consumption. Environment Our team is able to provide our client with the most sustainable solutions and inform on alternative options available. This is important for us to make aware our clients, who may not have considered the environmental aspect in the first place. INTEGRA AES strives to offer several strategies to the customer to increase buildings performance and this takes into account the local facilities, services, constraints and local contractor expected capacities. All strategies offered to our clients are always supported by figures which are based on international guidelines, so that our client can decide based on reliable data, as shown in this example aside. Regarding energy efficiency, for example, based on the local irradiation, we may suggest a corresponding photovoltaic production system and a solar domestic hot water production. Regarding the energy consumption management, our team will design smart buildings with BMS including optimization functions such as occupancy dependent switching, room temperature limitations, nights cooling, etc… Regarding water saving, in particular in regions where the use of potable water is very restricted, for example our landscape and external areas design will include only biodiverse native plants, that require no irrigation. We may also design water tanks capturing rainwater and recycling grey water for building sewage conveyance and for irrigation. Anti-Corruption Our firm is committed to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The rules and guidelines to ensure that our personnel’s behavior is in line with our commitment are stated in our Ethical Code. For example, “INTEGRA AES SRL repudiates any behavior that can be interpreted as a promise or proposal of payments, goods or other utilities of various kinds in order to promote and foster self-interests and benefits. In carrying out the ordinary external relations of commercial and institutional nature, any homages, gifts or benefits offered by INTEGRA AES SRL are oriented exclusively to the choices of promotion of their own image and cannot, under any circumstances, be considered as exceeding normal commercial or courtesy practices.” INTEGRA for any type of collaboration, both at national and international level, carefully evaluates partners so that they too respect the values identified in our code of ethics. Our company mandatorily ask the employees and subconsultants to undersign our code of ethics, reflecting the canons of the UNGC. In the unlikely event that an employee should not respect those canons, he/she will be promptly put under investigation. INTEGRA AES has a ‘zero tolerance’ approach against corruption practices. CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL TEXT: ETHICAL CODE _ 2020 _ INTEGRA AES Measurement of Outcomes Rovuma LNG Project – Mozambique Rovuma Venture S.p.A. – Palma, Mozambique INTEGRA AES was involved in the preliminary design of the onshore facilities for Rovuma LNG Project. The role of natural gas is important in powering industrialization and energy transition. The prospects for natural gas have crucial role in achieving UN Sustainable Development Goals, energy transition to a low carbon future and industrialization of a country. Rovuma LNG partners have identified a series of community development initiatives in line with the national government’s priorities. During the production phase the project will provide Mozambique with up to 17,000 tons of LNG per year and will improve local communities’ access to energy. LNG partners are also pursuing initiatives aimed at supporting the local people, particularly with primary education programs in the city of Pemba. As well as extensive maintenance work in schools, and training initiatives specifically relating to oil and gas. Healthcare facilities and medical equipment and supplies were also provided particularly in the Cabo Delgado area. The Rovuma LNG project aims to create jobs locally through focused recruitment and skills training. The development plan aims to train, build and employ a local workforce and make gas available in support of Mozambique’s industrialization plans. Measurement of Outcomes Works Supervision In HV Main Substation – TERNA RETE ITALIA – Fano (PU), Italy Thanks to the LTA stipulated with TERNA RETE ITALIA (Italian high voltage network managing Company), INTEGRA AES has started the Works Supervision for the renewal of the auxiliary services, of the Protection, Command and Control System of the HV substation of Fano (PU). INTEGRA AES will provide, under this LTA, a team of experienced professionals to oversee the implementation of new projects and the maintenance of existing networks and stations. Therefore, we continue successfully the collaboration with Terna Rete Italia, European leader in the electricity sector and manager of a strategic asset for Italy and proudly sharing the same values of innovation and sustainability in the execution of our commitment. FAO HQ Dining Facility Renovation – FAO Headquarters – Rome, Italy INTEGRA AES is involved in the design of the renovation of FAO HQ dining facility with the proposal of systems, equipment and solutions which aim to reduce energy consumption and to provide a more sustainable canteen’s service to users and community. Accommodation and Office buildings UNOCHA Mogadishu, Somalia Temporary Offices and Facilities ROVUMA LNG – Palma, Mozambique INTEGRA AES's commitment to support UN agencies and developing countries continues. The robust experience in operational theatres especially in the MENA region has permitted INTEGRA AES to be engaged in the design of operational structures and facilities in Mogadishu (Somalia) and Palma (Mozambique), providing more sustainable systems adequate to the project contexts. Measurement of Outcomes Innovation and Smart Technologies INTEGRA AES has been implementing over the last years the BIM design platform to progressively overcome the traditional concept of 2D/3D computer-aided design, in use in recent decades. INTEGRA AES has also raised the level of IT security, with a new version of its ResourceStorage® web platform; promoting and facilitating smart-working against Covid-19. Sustained and inclusive economic growth INTEGRA AES attended the presentation of the OICE/Cer 2020 Report on International activities of Italian engineering and architecture companies, where there were over 250 participants, including foreign and Italian ambassadors. The Report highlights the growth in 2019 of International business of Italian engineering, architecture and technical-economic consulting companies, following a continuous and constant trend in recent years, and INTEGRA AES follows the trend, which indicates Asia and the MENA countries as reference markets for Italian companies. Partnership for the Goals By virtue of the LTAs signed with the WFP (World Food Program) and UNICEF, INTEGRA AES will now also provide its services to the FAO, These agreements are the result of the constant application of high professional and quality standards in favor of the United Nations agencies; also extended to our branch in Afghanistan opened last year and through which we can confirm our presence in that area CONTACT US: INTEGRA AES Via Gregorio XI, n.175 00166, Rome – ITALY Tel. +39 06 97279576 www.integra-aes.com info@integra-aes.com
