2018-2019 Communication on Progress Report 1 NRS Relief: At a Glance From 2018 to 2019, we supplied more than 4 million life-improving products and served 7.7 million people. 25K Contents: Refugee tents and Multipurpose shelters 250 Mobile storage About this Report units Sustainability Reporting: 2 million Tarpaulins and Plastic sheetings • Environment • Social 800K • Economic Thermal blankets SDGs & Us UNGC Principles – 1 million Practices & Policies Water containers and Jerry buckets Appendix • Environment 450K • Social Sleeping mats • Economic 3K Other core relief items NRS Relief FZE is a company developing and supplying core relief items to the humanitarian and aid sector. We strive to provide our partners with higher quality, value-engineered products that will impact on the lives of thousands of people displaced by war and/or natural disasters. Our efficiency, collaborative approach and technical expertise allow us to pioneer products that truly fit the needs of the end user. In our processes, as a stand-alone company and in conjoint with our manufacturing arm, we integrate the values of the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals into our day-to-day operations. As a member of the UNGC since 2012, I am glad to announce that this is our first attempt to identify and report on economic, social and environmental matters that my colleagues and I care about the most. We hope this report will inspire other parties involved in the humanitarian supply chain to report their efforts and stimulate dialogue about what it means to be a socially responsible supplier. This report serves as the foundation of our commitment to sustainability, and our resolve to report on the UN Global Compact principles in the years to come. Francesca Cocozza Director NRS Relief 2 About this Report At NRS Relief, we believe that being sustainable is good for business. We fully endorse the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) that aim to achieve a balanced development of economy, society and environment through business engagement and value creation. For us, this year’s report is a benchmark document as it marks the first time that we assess NRS Relief’s individual performance on the sustainability scale. So for the year 2018-2019, we have focused on our triple bottom line performance meaning this report will address our achievements in the environmental, social and economic realms of NRS Relief’s operations. REPORTING SCOPE We respond quickly and efficiently every time a disaster strikes, or a conflict flares up. This is a result of the close partnership we share with our manufacturing arm, H. Sheikh Noorud-Din & Sons, a reputable manufacturer of core relief items for aid and development sector. This supply chain relationship is characterized as a strategic collaboration to facilitate joint efforts in areas such as research, sustainability, and product development, making HSNDS, a key part of our journey towards becoming a sustainable supplier. The other significant entity contributing to our triple-bottom-line, is the Bilqees Sarwar Foundation (BSF). It is a family-founded charitable organization, running a heavily subsidized public health facility for underserved population in Lahore, Pakistan. This report consolidates data from NRS Relief, HSNDS and BSF, to reflect on how our operations impacted the people, the planet and our profit in the year 2018-2019. REPORTING METHODOLOGY This report combines the strength of three sustainability frameworks: GRI principles, UN Global Compact pillars and principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. In our reporting, we take inspiration from GRI principles. The Sustainable Development Goals remain the leading framework, while we also map our sustainability practices against the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. MATERIALITY MAPPING As a first step, we scanned the complete list of GRI materiality standards for relevance to our own operations. A total of 26 topics were deemed most material. Next, a materiality assessment was designed to identify which of these GRI standards (read: sustainability issues) are prioritized by our internal stakeholders. Two electronic surveys were sent out to our Business Development Managers overlooking key regions of the business, asking them to rank each sustainability issue on the basis of its relevance and its likelihood to impact decision-making at NRS Relief. This was labelled an ‘Interest and Impact Assessment’, as each topic was evaluated for boundaries by considering the level of interest to both our company and our stakeholders and the impact (both actual and potential) upon them. The responses from our team helped us outline a materiality map for NRS Relief, highlighting priority sustainability issues, to be reported on, and more importantly, to be reflected in future communications and strategy. We confined this year’s report to internal stakeholders as we navigate the process of creating our internal reporting protocol. Our objective for next year will be to enhance the scale of this exercise and engage external stakeholders. CROSS-REFERENCING The most material standards highlighted in the mapping exercise were cross-referenced against all seventeen SDGs and 169 targets, in accordance with the four pillars of UNGC. This activity aligns our sustainability efforts with the most significant frameworks, as well as indicating our commitment to the cause. Taking inspiration from the SDGs and the UNGC principles, we designed our own unique indicators/ disclosures for each standard. A graphical representation of the materiality assessment can be found on the following page 4 of this document. 3 MATERIALITY MAPPING Materiality Mapping can broadly be described as, ‘what matters’ in terms of sustainability to each organization’s operations. In other words, ‘who is important’ and ‘what is important’? The ‘who’ part is relevant to the stakeholders that the company initiates dialogue with about ‘what’ sustainability issues they think are the most important and likely to impact internal decision-making. The results are significant as materiality assessment reveals priority issues that speak directly to a company’s operations and must therefore be disclosed and reported on. Who is important? For NRS Relief, stakeholder engagement for materiality mapping serves as evidence that we take our commitment to sustainability seriously, and have included key stakeholders in determining the most important sustainability issues to our operations. Instead of working on it in silos. We designed our own unique procedure to reach out to our Business Development & Sales Team overlooking key regions of the business. This year’s materiality assessment was confined to our internal stakeholders as an initial process. Our objective for following years will be to enhance the scale of this exercise by including external stakeholders. Between December 2019 and January 2020, we sent out electronic surveys to our Business DevelopmentManagers, containing 26 material topics from GRI Standards. All respondents were required to rank each What is important? topic on a scale of 1-4 (1 being the highest and 4 being the lowest) in two areas: Relevance to our operations Likelihood of each issue impacting our internal decision-making The surveys achieved an 80% response rate. The responses were then mapped out on a materiality matrix reflecting priority sustainability issues that are directly relevant to us, allowing NRS Relief to report on our company-specific economic, environmental and social impacts. For us, the results stretch far beyond the production of a sustainability report – it inspires our long-term strategy, relationships, communications and even the design of shelter solutions and relief items with sustainability impacts in mind. The following issues emerged as the most material to NRS Relief, and the respective disclosures are prioritized in the rest of the report: Environment Social Recycling Local community engagement & impact Compliance with environmental laws Compliance with human rights laws Energy intensity Diversity & gender balance Injuries & work-related fatalities Emissions in the atmosphere Waste production and its disposal Economic Screening suppliers on environmental criteria Anti-corruption Water consumption & reusability Number of items produced Energy consumption and energy sources Percentage of procurement done from local suppliers Economic Environmental Social MATERIALITY MATRIX Recycling 100 Local community engagement and impact Anti-Corruption Compliance with environmental laws Diversity & Gender Balance Energy Intensity 90 80 No. of Items produced Sustainability Reporting SIGNIFICANCE 70 Waste production & its disposal Employee training and education Injuries rates and work-related fatalities Human Rights assessment and training Screening suppliers on environmental 60 criteria Percentage of procurement New employee hires & employee turnover done from local suppliers Water Consumption & reusability Energy Consumption & its sources 50 Parental leave 40 Percentage of recycled input materials Equal Remuneration for men & women Employee grievance mechanism 30 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption Freedom of association & collective bargaining 20 Child Labour and/or compulsory labour 10 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 IMPACT 4 5 Environmental performance 1. Environmental Sustainability at NRS Relief The world we live in faces an unprecedented displacement crisis with over 70.8 million people left without a home, owing to either conflict, persecution or natural disasters. In 2018 alone, 25 people were forced to flee, every minute. As a leading supplier of emergency shelter and core relief items, we anticipate that the demand for our products is most likely to grow in the future. However, we believe, that being a supplier in the humanitarian supply chain does not exempt us from the responsibility of putting the world on a sustainable path. Rather, sustainability for us, is a way to honour the purpose of the products we provide and the sector we operate in. Therefore, at NRS Relief, we strive to reduce our ecological footprint, every step of the way. We recognize that every step taken to embrace The following sections on our triple bottom-line sustainability must be systematic and tracked, performance elaborate on the specific most and its impact reported. The same is particularly material environmental, social and economic true for sustainability reporting. At NRS Relief, we issues to NRS Relief, our efforts and future goals, have designed our own framework to accurately in these areas. report on our sustainability efforts. A key component of this is the materiality mapping assessment undertaken to ensure that we report on issues that are most relevant to our operations and most likely to impact internal decision-making, as a result. Amongst all materiality topics, environmental issues emerged as the most material to our operations. 6 2000 34.8% trees planted in Lahore, off-setting flight emissions equivalent to 650 roundtrips from Dubai to Lahore. This campaign is in-line with the national initiative “Billion Tree Tsunami” that calls for 10 billion trees to be planted in Pakistan in the next five years of our total waste was recycled at our in-house recycling facility 2. Highlights Environmental We have set a target Performance to reduce our total electricity consumption 2018-2019 by 10% 52% under our Environment of water discharged from Management Program production is treated at our in-house biological treatment plant Recycling From the environmental sphere, recycling is deemed the most material issue. We are happy to report that 38.4% of our total waste was recycled to be utilized for packing and accessories. This amounts to approximately 110 tons of waste being recycled each year at our in-house recycling facility. Alternatively put, this is equivalent to off-setting carbon dioxide emissions from 109,995 pounds of coal burned in the atmosphere. Going forward, we aim to increase our recyclability rate at least up to 45% in the next manufacturing cycle. Carbon off-setting through Recycling off-setting CO2 110 tons of emissions equivalent to waste recycled 109,995 pounds of coal burnt 7 Energy Consumption, Energy Intensity and Emissions Energy consumption, energy intensity and emissions also featured at the top of our materiality matrix, necessitating relevant disclosures to be included in this year’s report. Our focus on reporting in this context, is again on our manufacturing arm in Lahore. This is where most of our activities take place and where our environmental impact is the most significant. Nonetheless, the Dubai office’s data is added to the “Electricity for grid” category. NRS INTERNATIONAL CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS 2018-2019 (TONS) HSNDS Headquarters NRS Relief (Relief) (Dubai) (Total) 7,234,893 165,420 7,400,313 132,726 132,726 Electricity from 1,860,050 1,860,050 grid Electricity (kWh) Diesel (liters) Natural gas (m2) 3,478 Diesel Energy used in kwh 347 18,768,436 Natural gas 3,807 Units of products Turnover in USD 4,597,599 49,186,664 Energy intensity Energy intensity per USD 4.08 0.38 Total 43,717 8 Environmental laws and standards NRS Relief is an ISO 14001:2015 certified company. Our manufacturing arm keeps a close check on our environmental impact to ensure that we comply with local and regional environmental laws through our Environmental Management System (EMS). We are happy to report that we were able to maintain emissions and effluent water from our manufacturing unit under the Punjab Environmental Quality Standards (PEQS) and National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). Recognizing our responsibility towards our home town, under our EMS objectives last year, we planted 2000 trees to replenish Lahore’s rapidly depleting tree cover. These trees off-set flight emissions equivalent to almost 650 roundtrips from Lahore to Dubai. Following our materiality assessment, this is the first time NRS Relief is reporting on water consumption and its reusability, as it is deemed one of the most material sustainable issues to WATER CONSUMPTION our operations. Our total water consumption amounted to 48 million gallons, 52% of this water was recycled & REUSABILITY and then re-used in the production process. This is equivalent to 25 million gallon of water being recycled and reused instead of being discharged, in this reporting period. Inspired by our customers, UN agencies and aid organizations, we are also engaging with our own suppliers on sustainability aspects. Female workforce varied Over the past few years, we have seen from 13% to 43% an increase in questionnaires, audits SUPPLIER and general inquiries regarding our social and environmental impact, and therefore decided to apply similar ENGAGEMENT methods, up the supply chain. This year, we requested CSR forms from most of our international suppliers Over 80% of our supplierrespondents hold ISO 9001 certification achieving a 33% response rate. Over 80% of our supplier-respondents hold ISO 9001 certification, while their female workforce varied from 13% to 43%. In addition, all respondents claimed to audit their own suppliers. All respondents claimed to audit their own suppliers 9 Sustainable Development Goals and UN Global Compact At NRS Relief, we have gone above and beyond in our reporting efforts to cross-reference each of our most material sustainability issue against the UNGC principles and pillars as well as the 169 targets of the Sustainable Development Goals. All our efforts in the environmental sphere lead to the direct implementation of principles under the Environment” pillar of the UN Global Compact framework; undertaking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Principle 7) while promoting greater environmental responsibility (Principle 8). These can then be tracked against global goal 12 and 7, and their corresponding targets. Sustainability Pyramid 1 Environment UNGC principles Principle 7: Precautionary approach are at the heart Principle 8: environmental responsibility of our sustainablility journey Target Target 12.6 Sustainability Reporting 12.5 Reduce, recycle and re-use SDGs guide us in Target 12.4 Target 12.2 Target 12.7 action enabling us to incorporate Chemicals & waste Efficient use of natural Sustainable management resources Procurement Energy efficiency sustainablility into our corporate stratagy & Water Energy Energy operations Recycling Waste consumption consumption intensity Emission 10 Social performance 1. Social Sustainability at NRS Relief The nature of our business is such that human costs and benefits of our operations cannot be neglected in our sustainability journey. In this report, we are sharing our company-specific disclosures categorized first under the theme of a) human rights issues such as local community engagement & impact and child and/or compulsory labour. The second theme encompasses our b) human resources such as injuries and work-related fatalities, diversity and equal opportunity, employee training and education. While social indicators ranked second compared to environmental issues in our overall materiality assessment, priority is given to each social issue based on its individual materiality score. Local community engagement and impact, injuries and work-related fatalities and diversity and equal opportunity were ranked the highest, and therefore merit detailed disclosure in this report. 11 Zero work-related fatalities or high-consequence injuries across all units of our operations 22,000 Shopping bags (TentTotes) to Carrefour UAE as a fundraising tool to provide education to 100,000 out-of-school children in the MENA region. 2: Highlights Social Performance 2018-2019 335 16,447 New hires across our operations patients served by Razia Begum Dialysis Center, a subsidiary of our charitable arm, Bilqees Sarwar Foundation Zero work-related fatalities and injuries At NRS Relief, we value and nurture the human capital that enables us to provide life-improving shelter solutions and core relief items to displaced people around the world. Therefore, we ensure a safe and dignified work environment for the entire workforce. We are happy to report zero fatalities and work-related injuries in this reporting period across all our operations. Our manufacturing arm has recorded 40 minor production-related injuries that were addressed internally with a simple bandage. Only one employee suffered a serious injury that resulted in an arm fracture and was taken to the hospital. Local Community Engagement & Impact Local Community Engagement & Impact was ranked the highest for its materiality to our operations, amongst all other social indicators. This reinforces our belief that a healthy well-resourced local community is vital to the sustainability of our business. We are happy to report that we hire heavily from our immediate surroundings and use local suppliers wherever possible. Our manufacturing arm employs thousands of people in Lahore, ensuring upward social mobility for a community of around 5000 people. However, to report on our community engagement and impact, we will focus on the activities of our charitable arm, Bilqees Sarwar Foundation. The foundation is a registered welfare organization, running a heavily subsidized public health facility for underserved population of Lahore, the community we call home. 12 Key achievements of Bilqees Sarwar Foundation To date, the foundation has The hospital offers an eye-care positively impacted the lives of facility treating up to 3100 eye around 300,000 people in patients per month.In addition, Pakistan through its operation. 1,379 optical surgeries were successfully conducted at the facility The hospital houses Punjab’s The total number of patients largest dialysis center, the treated at the Bilqees Sarwar Razia Begum Dialysis Center. Hospital in 2018-2019 amounts The Center has the capacity to to approximately 60, 000. conduct 100 heavily subsidized dialysis procedures. 13 2,801 Diagnostic center (scan, MRI, X-ray, Ultrasound) 16,447 Dialysis center 1,379 Optical surgries at the eye care centre 611 Eye centre OPD Total 58,407 Community Engagement in UAE We partnered with a UK-based NGO Empathy We also partnered with TheDubai College Action for our #PeaceDoves initiative to of Fashion Design (CFD) and IHC to host promote peace, address the refugee crisis, the “Bag of Hope” sustainable fashion show, upcycle production waste and empower on World Refugee Day to raise refugee women in a skills amplification project. awareness, promote sustainable supply chain and create socialimpact through the power of fashion. At our Dubai head office, we conduct local community engagements by forging partnerships with Not only are we signatories local and international Our CSR team travelled to to the Women Empowerment humanitarian actors Lahore to conduct a skills Principles (WEPs), we are also amplification “Peace Doves members of the Communications Bookmarks” Work shop later this year, taskforce for WEPs UAE local, with female employees of the stitching routinely providing valuable digital and trimming departments of marketing and communications support. our manufacturing arm, HSNDS. 14 Diversity ENGLAND: 1 NETHERLANDS: 1 & Gender Balance SWITZERLAND: 1 ITALY: 2 ALGERIA: 1 LEBANON:1 PAKISTAN: 9 NEPAL: 2 INDIA: 1 PHILLIPINES: 5 2 NIGERIA NRS Relief Senior management Management Administrative Male 1 8 5 16 2 : 1 41% 59% Female 2 3 8 11 Women in Gender Leadership Representation At NRS Relief, we have championed diversity and gender balance. Our staff hail from 11 different countries adding value to our work from diverse vantage points. Moreover, women comprise 41% of our employees, while the ratio of women in senior leadership positions is 2:1, double the industry average for female leadership in the humanitarian sector. *HSNDS data is not added in this section 15 Sustainable Development Goals and UN Global Compact We welcome the inclusion of international policies and frameworks of sustainability as a compass to guide us in strategy and action. Our efforts in the social realm are a manifestation of the principles 1, 2 and 6 of the United Nations Global Compact; proving that we support and uphold internationally proclaimed human rights (1), that we are not complicit in human rights abuses (2), and that we believe in the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation (6). These principles then tie up with Sustainable Development Goals 7,8 and 10, and their relevant targets. Framework alignment for our most material social sustainability issues, is represented in the sustainability pyramid below. Sustainability Pyramid 2 Human rights & Labour Principle 1: Protection of human rights Principle 2: No human rights UNGC principles abuses are at the heart Principle 6: No discrimination of our sustainablility journey Target 17.1 Target Multi-stakeholder 12.7 partnerships for Economic, social, political inclusustainable development sivity for all ethnicities and sexes Target Target Target 17.16 12.7 12.7 Equal Opportunity and SDGs guide us in action enabling us Public-private partnerships reduced inequalities for SustainableDevelopment Decent work for all of outcome to incorporate sustainablility into our Partnership for corporate Zero fatalities or community Gender high consequence stratagy & engagment balance Diversity injuries operations 16 Economic performance 1. Economic Sustainability at NRS Relief At NRS Relief, we follow a beneficiary-centered approach through continuous innovation and product diversification. We fulfill our client’s requests, while respecting the real needs of end-users and never compromising on our quality. This approach positively impacts our ability to thrive as leaders in the humanitarian supply chain and sustain the livelihood of our employees. We understand that humanitarian logistics is crucial to disaster response and have implemented the right strategies to ensure a stable and efficient global supply chain. No destination is too difficult for us. Our international network and multilingual professionals work hand-in-hand with our clients to ensure that the required goods are exactly where they need to be at the agreed time. We arrange reliable transportation by air, land and sea with our trusted carriers to facilitate our clients responding to emergency scenarios. Above all, we acknowledge that being recognized as a responsible supplier in the eyes of our many stakeholders is the ultimate pillar of financial stability. We therefore seek to improve our engagement with local suppliers and invest in our community wherever possible. With regard to economic sustainability, number of items produced and delivered, percentage of procurement done from local suppliers and anti-corruption, emerged as the most material to our operations. Therefore, the same indicators are disclosed below in detail. 17 7.7 MILLION 4 people received our life-improving products MILLION life-improving products to displaced people Highlights around the world Economic Performance 2018-2019 100% 30% of NRS Relief senior management, administration and factory workers hired from the local community by our manufacturing arm in Lahore procurement of raw materials is done locally including tent fabric and equipment spare parts Number of Items Produced and Delivered As the leading supplier of emergency shelter solutions and core relief items, NRS Relief saw another year of meaningful impact with over 4 million products produced and delivered to our beneficiaries. These products include: Refugee tents and Mobile Storage Units multi-purpose shelters 25,000 250 Tarpaulins and plastic Thermal blankets sheeting 2 Million 800,000 Water containers and jerry Sleeping mats buckets 1 Million 450,000 Overall, through our operations, we were able to touch the lives of 7.7 million people in this reporting year. 18 Anti-Corruption We aim to eliminate corruption in the humanitarian supply chain through our operations. Within our internal legislative framework, we have firm anti-corruption policies clearly laying out our business ethos against anti-corruption and malpractice in our company Code of Conduct to ensure employee and company compliance. These products include: Money laundering and due diligence checks Corruption and inappropriate practices Whistleblowing Compliance and respect for the law Percentage of local procurement We have a ratio of 70% raw material import to 30% local procurement. Locally procured materials include polycotton fabric for family tents, as well as machinery spare parts and tools for our manufacturing arm. Additionally, we partner with local logistics companies when transporting finished goods and materials to and from the port of Karachi. We also engage local partners when distributing our waste materials for reuse or recycling. As a market leader, we recognize that our purchasing decisions impact social, economic and environmental conditions across the supply chain. For NRS Relief, the trust of our stakeholders will be damaged, if we are unable to monitor and address our supply chain sustainability issues. This is why we seek to scale up local procurement in the following years, while ensuring the quality of our products is not compromised. We routinely engage with all our suppliers through due diligence checks and assessments. In addition, this reporting year we engaged with most of our international suppliers by sending out CSR forms assessing them on social criteria and achieving an overall 33% response rate. We discovered that over 80% of our supplier-respondents hold ISO 9001 certification, while their female workforce varied from 13% to 43%. In a dition, all respondents claimed to audit their own suppliers. 19 Sustainable Development Goals and UN Global Compact NRS Relief identifies with UNGC mission in remaining contemporary, hands-on and more importantly, relevant to its stakeholders. This is why we don’t shy away from the implementation of the UNGC pillars and principles in everyday operations. In the economic realm, our most material sustainability issues result in the implementation of principles 1, 2 and 10 of the UNGC framework; protection of internationally proclaimed human rights (1), ensuring that we are not complacent in human rights abuses (2), and eliminating corruption including extortion and bribery (10). These are then mapped out against Sustainable Development Goals 7, 8 and 10, and their relevant targets. Framework alignment for our most material social sustainability issues is represented in the diagram below. Sustainability Pyramid 3 Human rights & Labour Principle 1: Protection of human rights Principle 2: No human rights UNGC principles abuses are at the heart Principle 6: No corruption of our sustainablility journey Target 12.7 Target 8.2 Target 16.5 SDGs guide us in action enabling us Responsible Reduce bribery and procurement Decent work for all corruption to incorporate sustainablility into our corporate Sustainable Gender stratagy & Procurement balance Anti-Corruption operations 20 Our Commitment to the UNGC Principles and Sustainable Development Goals 21 2 3 4 5 6 7 No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health Quality Gender Clean Water Affordable and Our manufacturing Distributed food & well-being Education Equality and Sanitation Clean Energy arm employs parcels and Iftar thousands of meals in Lahore Bilqees Sarwar Our ‘Bags of At our We delivered Produce and people, ensuring during Ramadan Foundation (BSF), Hope’ were headquarters in 1 million Jerry supply clean, upward social provides picked up as a Dubai, buckets to affordable solar mobility for a treatment for up fundraising tool women occupy combat the energy solutions. community of to 60,000 aimed at 41% of key alarming We encourage around 5,000 patients per year. providing roles while incidence of the use of people BSF is a heavily education to Ms. Francesca drinking water renewable energy subsidized public more than 100,000 Cocozza, leads contamination at our premises health facility out-of-school this team of for our and supply solar that includes children in MENA experts at our beneficiaries energy systems the 32-bed Razia region. strategic hub. to our clients. Begum Dialysis NRS Relief is Centre serving also a signatory 16500 kidney to the Women patients and an Empowerment eye-care facility Principles in treating up to UAE and part 14,000 patients of the WEPs each year. Communications Taskforce providing digital media, communications and marketing support on a volunteering basis. From our experience, being part of this network has pushed us to strive for further equality in our business. Our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals We have aligned our business The PeaceDoves and TentTote are purchase extra materials to make operations with the 17 Sustainable two upcycling projects launched in them. Both upcycling projects Development Goals (SDGs), a set of 2018 that delivered on this agenda. represent an essential step globally agreed targets to end The PeaceDoves is a partnership towards a circular economy for poverty, protect the planet, and with UK-based NGO Empathy relief items, and manifest our ensure prosperity for all. We strive to Action. The toy doves are made from commitment to Agenda 2030 and advance the SDGs in all facets and leftover refugee blanket and the Sustainable Development capacities. tarpaulins, with a special touch from Goals. our manufacturing arm’s female To actively promote the SDGs in stitchers in Pakistan, who have our community, we took part in the stitched their personal signatures World’s Largest Lesson in 2019. Our into the doves. colleagues in Dubai recently volunteered to introduce six graders at a In line with similar principles, we local school to the Sustainable have also created the TentTote bags, Development Goals to inspire them made from tent material off-cuts to take action by understanding such as polycotton and mudflap the power of the SDGs. In addition, fabric. These bags are literally made through our CSR agenda, we aim to from the same batch of tents that highlight the importance of a are sheltering displaced people sustainable humanitarian supply around the world. Like the doves, chain while raising awareness for this project gives NRS Relief 100% refugees and displaced people control of its supply upstream the worldwide. chain, as there is no need to 22 8 9 10 11 12 16 17 Decent Work Industry, Reduced Sustainable Responsible Peace, Justice Partnership for & Economic Innovation and Inequalities Cities and Consumption and Strong the Goals Growth Infrastructure Prioritize Communities and Production Institutions At NRS Relief, diversity and we follow a We are a Under our inclusion in our Bilqees Sarwar We are working We are a longstanding SA-8000 certified Innovation in workforce. Foundation, hand-in-hand signatory of tradition of company. Our Action provides heavily with our Business for collaborating compliance Campaign, we subsidized manufacturing Peace (B4P). for impact. Our team ensures have previously healthcare to arm to integrate CSR initiatives short-term and pioneered the underserved SDG 12 targets; are a testament long-term significant population in Reduce, recycle 17 to that. More strategies are in additions like the Lahore (tree and reuse; recently, we have place to fire-retardant projects) . Sustainability joined hands improve policy tents and reporting and with a UK-based and practices tarpaulins in the Sustainable NGO Empathy around humanitarian procurement into Action and our occupational supply chain. The our production women stitchers health and most recent of processes. in Pakistan, to safety, these additions Currently, 21% of create gifts like discrimination, have been the our packaging the #PeaceDoves disciplinary self-standing comes from and #PeaceDovepractices, family with recycled Bookmarks to working hours, improved materials, we send a message compensation, features on seek to scale of peace, love and climate and up this rate to and resilience all management insulation, 25% by the next over the world. systems. stability and financial year. Similarly, our safety. In 2018 This year, we have “Bags of Hope” we launched also sent out CSR are the result of the LegendMedi forms to our collaboration in response to almost all our with Carrefour the outbreak of international and UNICEF, hemorrhagic suppliers, achievcurrently being fever in DRC – a ing a response used as a customized rate of 33% while fundraising tool multipurpose this report serves to educate more shelter that offer as a testament to than 100,000 separate, easy to our commitment out-of-school disinfect cabins to sustainability children in the for confirmed reporting. region. and suspected patients. 5 12 9 23 Putting the UNGC principles into policy and practice: Human Rights Labour Principle 1 Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom protection of internationally proclaimed human of association and the effective rights recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 2 Principle 4 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Policy: Our company Code of Conduct states our commitment to fundamental human rights Principle 5 concerning our employees, our beneficiaries, as well as those indirectly impacted by our The effective abolition of child labour operations. Part of our standard operation procedures is to verify that our contracting parties also uphold and share the same Principle 6 principles. In addition, our manufacturing arm follows a formal Human Rights policy The elimination of discrimination in comprising of the following six issue areas; respect of employment and occupation. Children and Young Workers, Freedom of Engagement, Equality of Opportunity, Policy: We are a SA 8000:2014 certified company. Compensation, Freedom of Association, Adherence to this international social Relationships with Indigenous Peoples. accountability standard, our internal code of conduct as well as regional, national and Practice: Our Legal and HR departments ensure international legal regulations, organically puts that our business adheres to the protection of us on the right path with regard to labour human rights. On a principal level, as a practices. supplier of premium quality fit-for-purpose emergency shelter, through our operations, we Practice: Our compliance team ensures we are compliant with ISO standard SA 8000:2014 in our uphold Article 25 of the United Nations everyday operations. Furthermore, we Declaration of Human Rights and the right to undergo rigorous client audits (e.g. UNHCR, an adequate standard of living, in the pretext ICRC etc) with respect to occupational health of disaster and conflict. and safety, labour practices and grievance mechanisms, community engagement, product safety and quality control standards. proclaimed human rights 24 Environment Anti-Corruption $ Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption in approach to environmental challenges all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 8 Policy: Our company Code of Conduct states our unequivocal tolerance for corruption across Undertake initiatives to promote greater all our operations as one of our core ethical environmental responsibility principles. Principle 9 Practice: Firm anti-corruption policies in our company Code of Conduct include: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Money laundering and due diligence checks Policy: NRS Relief is an ISO 14001 certified Corruption and inappropriate practices company. We also adhere to all national and Whistleblowing regional environmental quality standards in our operations. Our manufacturing arm Compliance and respect for the law HSNDS, strives to comply with Punjab Environment Quality Standards (PEQS) and These policies clearly lay out our business ethos National Environmental Quality Standards against anti-corruption and malpractice to (NEQS) relevant to emissions, energy ensure employee and company compliance. consumption, use of equipment and disposal All contracting parties including employees are of effluents. bound to sign this document as part of recruitment procedures. Practice: Under our Environment Management Program, our manufacturing arm has undertaken a tree plantation campaign this year. As part of this campaign, 2000 trees were planted in Lahore, off-setting flight emissions equivalent to approximately 650 roundtrips from Lahore to Dubai. In addition, 34.8% of waste from our production of refugee tents and core relief items was recycled at our in-house recycling facility. We aim to increase our recyclability rate to at least 45% in the next financial year. 25 Appendix 1 Environmental performance and specific disclosures Material Standard SDG & Targets UNGC Principle Indicators Reporting Recyling: Volume of 12.2: by 2030 achieve Environment percentage of 34.8 % of our total waste was recycled and re-used in recycled material used sustainable management recycled materials plastic packaging for tent accessories and efficient use of used for packaging natural resources and accessories 12.5: by 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse Energy Consumptions 12.2: by 2030 achieve Environment Electricity (kWh) + Electricity from grid: 7,400,313 (kWh) & its sources sustainable management Diesel (litres) + Diesel: 132,726 (litres) Natural Gas: 1,860,050 (m2) and efficient use of Natural Gas (m2) (The Dubai office data is added only to the natural resources “Electricity from grid” category. ) For us, reporting 7.3: double the global rate on our annual energy consumption is a first step of improvement in energy towards achieving energy efficiency. efficiency by 2030 Energy Intensity 12.2: by 2030 achieve Environment Energy Intensity: per Energy Intensity per product: 4.08 sustainable management product/per USD/per Energy Intensity per USD: 0.38 and efficient use of naturefugee tent supplied Energy Intensity per refugee tent: 0.75 ral resources 7.3: double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030 Emissions in the 7.2: increase substantially Environment CO2 Equivalent Electrcity from Grid: 3,478 atmosphere the share of renewable Emissions (tonns): Diesel: 347 energy in the global a) Electricity from Grid Natural Gas: 3,807 energy mix by 2030 b) Diesel For us, reporting on our annual energy emissions is 12.2: by 2030 achieve c) Natural Gas a first step towards achieving energy efficiency. sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources Water Consumption & 12.2: by 2030 achieve Environment Groundwater withdrawn Total water used in BS1: 48 million gallons sources sustainable management by source + percentage Percentage of total volume of water recycled and and efficient use of of total volume of water reused: 52.08% natural resources recycled and reused 12.4: by 2020 achieve environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle in accordance with agreed international frameworks and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 6.4: by 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity, and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity Waste production and its 12.5: by 2030, substantially Environment Total weight of waste Waste from our production is categorized as wooddisposal reduce waste (kg) and disposal en waste, plastic waste, iron waste, general waste generation through method and hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is incinerprevention, reduction, ated or sold to approved waste handlers and the recycling, and reuse rest is recycled for re-use. Total waste for 2018-2019 (kg): 1,065,062.49 Total waste recycled/re-used (kg): 37,1237 Net waste available for sale (kg): 69,3825 Environmental Reporting & 12.6: encourage compaEnvironment Compliance with NRS Relief is an ISO 14001 certified company. We also Compliance nies, especially large and regional environmental adhere to all national and regional environmental trans-national compastandards + ISO quality standards in our operations. Our manufacnies, to adopt sustainCertifications turing arm HSNDS, strives to comply with Punjab able practices and to Environment Quality Standards (PEQS) relevant to integrate sustainability emissions, energy consumption, use of equipment information into their and disposal of effluents reporting cycle 26 Screening suppliers on 12.7: promote public Environment NRS Relief Code Before entering a new business relationship, the environmental criteria procurement practices of Conduct to be supplier must sign the company Code of Conduct that are sustainable in signed by suppliers that clearly specifies our commitment to “Protection accordance with national of Environment”, as one of the company’s key policies and priorities business ethos. In addition, we routinely engage with our suppliers through due diligence assessments. Sustainability 12.6: encourage Environment Sustainability report We have been signitaries to the UN Global Compact Reporting companies, especially integrated in the since 2012. Since then, NRS International has been large and trans-national company’s annual submitting annual reports outling the company’s companies, to adopt report efforts towards sustainability. This is a benchmark sustainable practices document as this is the first time NRS Relief is and to integrate reporting on it’s tripple bottom line as an individual sustainability information entity, a supplier of shelter solutions and core relief into their reporting cycle items to the humanitarian sector. 27 Appendix 2 Economic Performance and specific disclosures Material Standard SDG & Targets UNGC Principle Indicators Reporting Economic Human Rights Number We supplied more than 4 million life-improving Performance: Direct & of items products: Indirect Impact supplied a) 25000 refugee tents and multi-purpose shelters b) 250 Mobile Storage Units c) 2 million tarpaulins and plastic sheetings d) 800,000 thermal blankets e) 1 million water containers and jerry buckets f) 450,000 sleeping mats 11.6: by 2030, Environment Number of cities of NRS Relief’s manufacturing arm, HSNDS, is based in reducethe adverse operation Lahore, Pakistan. Our international headquarters is per capita environmental based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. In Lahore, our impact of cities, manufacturing arm complies with regional and including by paying national environmental quality standards. In special attention to addition, we report on energy consumption at both air quality, municipal and units of our operations. other waste management 1.1: by 2030, eradicate Labour+Human Rights Jobs Created A total of 335 jobs were created across our extreme poverty for operations in Dubai and Lahore providing decent all people everywhere, employment and upward social mobility. currently measured as people living on less than $1.25 a day Anti-corruption assesment, 16.5: substantially reduce Anti-Corruption Anti-corruption policy Firm anti-corruption policies including: training, policies corruption and bribery a) Money Laundering and Due Diligence Checks & procedures in all its forms b) Corruption and inappropriate practices c) Whistleblowing d) Compliance and respect for the law, clearly lay out our business ethos against anti-corruption and malpractice in our company Code of Conduct to ensure employee and Company compliance. Procurement Practices 12.7: promote public Human Rights, Labour, Procurement from local We have a ratio of 70% raw material import to 30% procurement practices Environment, suppliers local procurement. Locally procured materials that are sustainable in Anti-corruption inlcude polycotton fabric for family tents as well as accordance with national machinery spare parts and tools for our policies and priorities manufacturing unit. Additionally, we partner with local logistics companies when transporting finished goods and materials to and from the port of Karachi. We also engage local partners when distributing our waste materials for reuse or recycling. Indirect Economic Impact Human Rights Extent of Impact In the past year, our products have created a meaningful impact on the lives of 7.7 million people living under challenging circumstances. 28 Appendix 3 Social Performance and specific disclosures Material Standard SDG & Targets UNGC Principle Indicators Reporting New employee hires & 8.5: by 2030 achieve Labour Total number of Total no. of employees: 1,359 employee turnover full and productive employees, number No. of new hires: 335 employment and decent of new hires, Employee turnover in HSNDS: 15.8% work for all women and turnover percentage Employee turnover in Dubai office: 4% men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value Parental leave 3.7: by 2030 ensure Labour & Human Rights relevant policies as Our Employee handbook clearly lays out the universal access to per local legislation Maternity Leave Policy (Article 14.8) that states all sexual and reproductive female employees are entitled to ordinary health care services, maternity leave of 45 days. In addition, an unpaid including for family leave of 100 days is also possible, upon the planning, information submission of a medical certificate confirming an and education, and the illness linked to childbirth or pregnancy. integration of As spouses of expectant mothers, male employees reproductive health into are allowed a paternity leave of 2 days (Article 14.9). national strategies and programmes Injuries rates and 8.8 protect labour rights Labour & Human Rights no. of work-related We are happy to report zero work-related fatalities work-related fatalities and promote safe and injuries that required a or high-consequence injuries. Our manufacturing secure working visit to a local treatment arm has recorded 40 minor production-related environments of all center) injuries that were adressed internally with a simple workers, including bandage. Only one employee suffered a serious migrant workers, injury that resulted in an arm fracture, the affected particularly women was taken to the hospital. migrants, and those in precarious employment Employee education and 4.4: By 2030, Labour Programs for skills Several members of our staff in Dubai have trainings substantially increase management and embraced the life-long learning principle and took the number of youth and lifelong learning that the opportunity to make the most of our Continuing adults who have relevant support the continued Education and Training (CET) Policy. Members of skills, including technical employability of employNRS team have enrolled in a diverse set of academic and vocational skills, for ees and assist them in and technical trainings; from postgraduate courses employment, decent jobs managing career ends. in Political Science for International Organizations and entrepreneurship and Institutions to Amazon AWS training and RPA (Robotic Process Automation) Awareness training by UI path, over the past year. Diversity & Gender Balance 8.5: by 2030 achieve full Labour Breakdown of Gender Balance: and productive employees according to Female representation in (HSNDS) head office: 5% employment and decent gender and ethnicity Female representation in factory units: 12% work for all women and Female representation in Dubai office: 41% men, including for young Diversity: Our Dubai office has championed people and persons with diversity with staff members from 11 different disabilities, and equal countries including Italy, Pakistan, Phillipines, pay for work of equal Algeria, Nigeria, Lebanon, Netherlands, Nepal value 10.3: ensure equal and India. opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including through eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and actions in this regard Freedom of association & 8.8: protect labour rights Labour As per national policies While the UAE labour law Chapter II – SectionII collective bargaining and promote safe and for NRS Relief head Article 20-26, prohibits organized unions, HSNDS secure working office and HSNDS employees in Pakistan are free to organize as trade environments of all unions and enjoy collective bargaining with senior workers, including management. migrant workers, particularly women migrants, and those in precarious employment Child Labour and/or 8.7: take immediate and Labour Relevant policies and One of our 16 ethical principles constituting the compulsory labour effective measures to practices company Code of Conduct is “Safeguarding secure the prohibition Fundamental Human Rights”. This principle clearly and elimination of the states our unequivocal zero tolerance policy worst forms of child regarding child labour. Part of our standard labour, eradicate forced operation procedures is to verify that our labour, and by 2025 end partnering Contracting Parties also uphold and child labour in all its share the same principles. forms including recruitment and use of child soldiers 29 Local community 17.16: enhance the global Human Rights Number of At our Dubai head office, we conduct local community engagement and impact partnership for susoperations that engagements by forging partnerships with local and tainable development implemented local international humanitarian actors: complemented by community 1. We partnered with a UK-based NGO Empathy Action multi-stakeholder partengagement/ for our #PeaceDoves initiative to promote peace, nerships that mobilize Partnerships address the refugee crisis, upcycle production waste and share knowledge, and empower women in a skills amplification project. expertise, technologies See: https://www.nrsrelief.com/news/peacedovesand financial resources made-from-refugee-blankets-fly-high-on-world-peaceto support the achieveday-to-spread-peace-messages/ ment of sustainable 2. We also partnered with The Dubai College of development goals in all Fashion Design (CFD) and IHC to host the “Bag of countries, particularly Hope” sustainable fashion show, on World Refugee developing countries Day to raise refugee awareness, promote sustainable supply chain and create social impact through the power of fashion. 3. Our CSR team travelled to Lahore to conduct a skills amplification “Peace Doves Bookmarks” Workshop later this year, with female employees of the stitching and trimming departments of our manufacturing arm, HSNDS. 4. Not only are we signiatories to the Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs), we are also members of the Communications taskforce for WEPs UAE local, routinely providing valuable digital marketing and communications support. 5. In Lahore, our charitable arm, Bilqees Sarwar Foundation, provided treatment for up to 60,000 patients last year. BSF is a heavily subsidized public health facility that includes the 32-bed Razia Begum Dialysis Centre that served 16,447 kidney patients in the previous year. Employee grievance 8.5: by 2030 achieve full Environment Sustainability report We have been signitaries to the UN Global Compact mechanism and productive integrated in the since 2012. Since then, NRS International has been employment and decent company’s annual submitting annual reports outling the company’s work for all women and report efforts towards sustainability. This is a benchmark men, including for young document as this is the first time NRS Relief is reportpeople and persons with ing on it’s tripple bottom line as an individual entity, disabilities, and equal a supplier of shelter solutions and core relief items to pay for work of equal the humanitarian sector. value 8.8: protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments of all workers, including migrant workers, particularly women migrants, and those in precarious employment
