2019 ANNUAL REPORT Access the online report Contents Interactive content Use the index as the navigation menu. From anywhere in the report, Message from the Center of Excellence (CoE) . . . 44 click the heading to return to the Board of Directors . . . . . . . . . . . 2 index. People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 Message from the Innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 In the GRI Summary navigate to the Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 content by clicking on the pages New Products Developed . . . . . . . . . 48 indicated in the “pages and/or links” 2019 Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 column. Reservas Votorantim . . . . . . . . 50 By clicking on an external link, the Portfolio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 indicated site will open automatically The Portfolio Companies . . . . 53 in your browser. The Investment Votorantim Cimentos . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Holding Company . . . . . . . . . . 12 banco BV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Votorantim DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Votorantim Energia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Votorantim’s Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Nexa Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Strategy and Management . . . . . . . . 15 Citrosuco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Attractiveness, Engagement, and CBA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 People and Acerbrag and Acerías Paz del Río . . . 66 Organization Development . . . . . . . 23 Remuneration and Benefits . . . . . . . 28 About This Report . . . . . . . . . . 68 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 GRI Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 Governance model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Consolidated financial Risk Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104 Social Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Assurance Report . . . . . . . . . 244 Economic and Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Corporate Information . . . . . 246 Investor Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 2019 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 1 Message from the Board of Directors 102-10 | 102-14 In 2019, the first year after our 100th and historically low interest rates renewed pillars, and guidelines for creating superior on transparent, ethical relations with all anniversary, we consolidated the portfolio hopes for a more promising economy. value, which harness best practices develstakeholders. Since 2014, our companies’ developments that occurred in 2018: the oped throughout more than a century of Boards of Directors have been established Fibria transaction was concluded and the Against this backdrop, Votorantim’s consoloperations. and their governance structures have since joint venture between Votorantim Energia idated results registered a stable net revecontinued to evolve and mature to better and the Canada Pension Plan Investment nue of R$30.9 billion; adjusted EBITDA of Our commitment to the environment is support strategy development. Board (CPPIB) implemented management R$5.1 billion, a decrease of 26% compared demonstrated by the way we influence changes at Companhia Energética de São with 2018, and net income of R$4.9 bilour portfolio companies to implement At the holding company, we remain focused Paulo (CESP) following the joint venture’s lion, an improvement of 113% on 2018, initiatives that ensure natural resources are on seeking new investment opportunities successful bid in a privatization auction in helped by the Fibria transaction. Despite used responsibly and that environmental with the potential to provide superior finanOctober 2018. the challenges and the uncertainties, our impacts are minimized. During the reportcial returns and shared value with society. portfolio companies invested R$3.2 billion. ing year, one of our portfolio companies In 2019 we enhanced our financial flexibility We are living a period of significant unThis investment which will contribute to exincorporated environmental indicators in and in 2020 will continue to explore new certainties. In 2019, the world had already pansion and modernizationprojects that will its borrowing facility. Votorantim Cimentos investment opportunities and balance our been facing unimaginable scenarios for a significantly improve operating efficiency issued US$290 million in debt through exposure across industries and geographies. few years: negative interest rates in nearly through time and product volumes growth. a sustainability-linked Committed Credit all developed countries, a fierce trade war In financial figures, gross debt declined by Facility (CCF). Regarding social matters, the We entered 2020 with increasing global between the United States and China, approximately R$5 billion and leverage—exVotorantim Institute has continued to play uncertainties, especially because of the uncertainties around Brexit, and political popressed as the ratio of net debt to adjusted an important role in supporting portfolio impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak in major larization in many countries. These factors EBITDA—was maintained at below 2.0x. companies in designing and implementing economies. Considered a rare event, the all contributed to an economic slowdown. In strategies that contribute to a better future consequences will certainly have an impact Brazil, the year was no less challenging. ConWe also delivered strong performance on for the next generations. Both Votorantim on global growth. In this context, Votorantim fidence levels were affected by the incoming environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and the portfolio companies have conis preparing for a year that could be more Federal administration’s new approach to issues, which have long been embedded in tinued to support the Partnership for the challenging than expected. relations with Congress, resulting in subdued our business and in Votorantim DNA. This Enhancement of Education (Parceria pela Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of document, which in 2019 received a chapter Valorização da Educação, PVE) in 101 cities, Brazil’s long-term growth hinges on the im1.1%. On the positive side, the approval of dedicated to social matters, describes Votoreaching 540,000 students. In governance, provement of the country’s level of educathe Pension Reform, below-target inflation, rantim’s values, principles, management we and our companies have worked to build tion and on structural reforms to provide the 2 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 3 legal certainty in the business environment a more inclusive, fair, and sustainable future Message from the Executive Board 102-10 | 102-14 that is needed to attract investment, both for Brazil. domestic and international. We at Votorantim ended 2019 with a sense for the 2018/2019 season. At Votorantim Eduardo Vassimon of pride for our achievements. We have Cimentos, our operations in North America On behalf of the Board, I reiterate VotoChairman of the Board of Directors made significant progress in the transfordelivered satisfactory performance in terms rantim’s commitment to continue building Votorantim S.A. mation of our portfolio, seeking to maintain of both sales volume and prices, while in our financial strength, the competitiveness the Brazilian market demand grew by 3.5%, of our businesses, as well as the entreprein what has been the first positive result Members of the Board of Directors neurial and innovative spirit that will allow since 2014. Votorantim Energia, through us to perpetuate Votorantim. its joint venture with CPPIB, supported a management transformation at CESP that Our results were impacted by the slowdown has helped to increase productivity. Banco of the global economy, which should record BV, which unveiled a new brand identity, an estimated growth of 2.9% in 2019—the advanced its digital transformation and revweakest since 2009. China’s economy, one enue diversification efforts, strengthening of the world’s growth engines in recent partnerships with fintechs and launching years, saw GDP growth of 6%, the lowest new products and services. The bank’s net Eduardo Vassimon José Roberto Ermírio Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes de Moraes since 2012. In Brazil, GDP growth underperincome was R$1.4 billion. formed early-year predictions. Despite historically low interest rates, the passing of the We maintained our companies’ capital strucPension Reform bill through Congress, and ture within the appropriate levels by reducing the enactment of the Economic Freedom the gross debt by approximately R$5 billion. Act—a law designed to reduce bureaucracy In the consolidated result, leverage, measured in the business environment—Brazil’s GDP by the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio, was presented a growth rate of 1.1%. below 2.0x in the year. The usual prudence with which we conduct our business has Luís Ermírio de Moraes Marcelo Medeiros Oscar Bernardes Pedro Wongtschowski This economic situation negatively impacted allowed the Standard & Poor’s rating agency zinc and aluminum prices, which fell by 13% to upgrade our rating (from BB+ to BBB-). and 15% respectively in the year, affecting Votorantim is one of nine Brazilian companies the results of Nexa and Companhia Braclassified as investment grade. sileira de Alumínio (CBA). The reduction in prices of frozen concentrate orange juice During the year, we further consolidated (FCOJ) also impacted Citrosuco’s results our achievements from 2018, especially the 4 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 5 Fibria transaction, which was concluded in infrastructure in Brazil and new initiatives characterizes our approach to acting as a innovative solutions for promoting a demJanuary, initiated a new cycle at CESP, now internationally. socially responsible business. Following ocratic culture in Brazilian cities. with Votorantim Energia executives on its our vote awareness campaign in 2018, we Board of Directors. A mindset for innovation is an important conducted in-depth studies on citizenship This is how we have continued to advance in strength of our companies. It is an integral and democracy in Brazil throughout 2019. building businesses that secure not only our We continue to support our invested compapart of our strategy of looking into the Building on these studies, we structured own longevity, but also a better future for nies in pursuing their business plans through future, developing new businesses, and a Citizenship Program with activities that the next generations. We remain proud of active participation in their governance bodies, keeping them up-to-date. This extends are now ongoing and will continue into our history, and confident and enthusiastic with a focus on driving competitiveness and beyond technology to include the broader 2020, with the aim of strengthening civic about our future. innovation to ensure they remain prepared transformations required in business models engagement. In October we launched a for the future in a constantly changing world. in order for us to be able to anticipate marcall for proposals for the Citizenship Lab João Miranda Our portfolio companies increased their inket needs. As part of this vision, during the (Lab Cidadania), in collaboration with our CEO vestments, especially Nexa, which advances year, we organized Votorantim.hub, an event portfolio companies and with the support Votorantim S.A. with a zinc and copper project in Aripuanã, attended by our companies, their customers of the Votorantim Institute, to develop Mato Grosso state, the largest mining projand suppliers in which we presented the ect in progress in Brazil, and for Votorantim results of our continuous innovation efforts. Members of the Executive Board Cimentos, which increased its investments in modernization and thermal substitution. We also deepened discussions around diCitrosuco recorded significant advances in versity and inclusion, two topics that we terms of investments, with the completion believe are essential to a high performance of the expansion project for NFC (not from environment. This belief led us to create concentrate) juice and the development of thematic groups, with the active particinew products. pation of employees, to raise awareness about the topics. Our reflection included, for At the same time, we continued to explore example, a workshop on unconscious bias João Miranda Glaisy Domingues João Schmidt investment opportunities in line with our with a massive attendance, demonstrating capital allocation strategy, especially in the engagement of our employees and the electric power and real estate. Votorantim’s relevance of the topics within our strategy. new investment thesis targets businesses with secular demand and stable cash flow The Votorantim way of behaving and opgeneration, leveraging our assets and comerating—which recognizes the importance petencies. In 2020, in addition to these, of our relations with employees, customers, Luiz Caruso Sergio Malacrida we intend to evaluate opportunities in suppliers, society, and other stakeholders— 6 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 7 2019 Highlights 102-10 Recognition of Votorantim’s reputation: survey showing rates above 70% in all audiences Leverage (net debt/ Elaboration of Launch of the Net income of adjusted EBITDA) Social DNA Citizenship Lab R$4.9 billion at 1.95x (Lab Cidadania) Legado das Águas won Real Estate Investments: three awards related to evolution of initiatives in the Vila environmental conservation Leopoldina neighborhood, in São Paulo and sustainability (ARCA, STATE, and Atlas Office Park) Portfolio management: Votorantim is once Internship Program Votorantim.hub: Fibria transaction again an investment with blind selection and innovation in the completed and first year grade company gender equality portfolio companies of CESP management by S&P 8 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 9 Portfolio 102-4 100% of Acerbrag and Ownership: 100% 50% 100% 64% 50% 100% 82% of Acerías Paz del Río Industry: Building materials Finance Electric power Metals and mining Orange juice Aluminum Long steel Operations in: 11 countries 2 countries 1 country 4 countries 7 countries 1 country 2 countries Units1: 305 69 58 13 45 12 3 Employees2: 11,953 4,022 463 6,026 5,019 4,839 2,179 1 Includes offices, plants, distribution centers, and other units 2 Includes company employees, interns, and apprentices 10 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 11 The Investment Votorantim DNA 103-2 | 103-3 Holding Company 102-15 Expressed in a document which summarizes the practices Votorantim has adopted in its businesses for over a century, the Votoran• Maintaining the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a guide to actions, scale of ambitions tim DNA governs the holding company and and vocation of Votorantim. the portfolio companies way of being and Votorantim S.A. (Votorantim) is a Brazilian 504 operating and administrative business how they operate and are managed. 102-16 Values family-owned company with long-term units. • Soundness investments. Its portfolio companies are • Ethics present in 19 countries on five continents, The holding company, as well as the portfolio Social DNA • Respect with operations across the building matecompanies, creates and develops social In 2019, Votorantim’s Board of Directors • Entrepreneurism rials, finance, electric power, metals and programs in partnership with the Votorantim approved the Social DNA, a document that • Unity mining, orange juice, aluminum, and long Institute. provides guidance to portfolio companies steel industries. Votorantim also has a Cenon building a social legacy and ensuring Beliefs ter of Excellence (CoE) which consolidates Reservas Votorantim manages certain entheir strategies and actions maximize val• Cultivating talent Shared Solutions, Real Estate Solutions, vironmental assets of the portfolio compaue creation for society, in line with the • Meritocracy and Information Technology centers (See nies, including Legado das Águas, the largest expectations of shareholders. The Social • Excellence page 44). 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-3 | 102-4 | 102-5 | 102-6 private Atlantic Forest reserve in Brazil. DNA includes: • Pragmatism • Open dialogue The holding company has a team of 77 proOn a consolidated basis, net revenue in 2019 • Finding solutions both within and out• Alliance fessionals working in Corporate Developwas stable at R$30.9 billion and adjusted side the boundaries of companies and • Sense of ownership ment; Finance and Investor Relations; Human EBITDA was R$5.1 billion, lower than the figbusiness models to embed social asand Organizational Development (Human ures of 2018, and net income was R$4.9 bilpects into the core business. Stewardship pillars Resources and Communications); Legal lion, impacted mainly by the Fibria tran• Financial stewardship and Tax Planning; Governance, Risks and saction. At year-end, consolidated gross • Connecting people, skills, goals, and • Value creation Compliance; and Real Estate Investments. debt was R$19.8 billion, a reduction of business partners in furtherance of • Operational excellence The CoE team has 787 professionals. around R$5 billion from 2018 (See page 40). sustainable development. • People and company 102-7 | 102-8 • Image and reputation Considering all of its companies, Voto• Building bridges with local communirantim has over 35,000 direct employees ties, creating democratic spaces for and 10,000 indirect employees working at discussion. 12 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 13 Votorantim’s Identity Strategy and Management 103-2 | 103-3 At the right time: The right time is the one Votorantim: investment holding company permanently capitalized and with a long-term investment horizon, Votorantim seeks to deliver superior financial returns with positive we do not miss. Everyday, we remember social and environmental impacts that decisions we make today will drive future results, and that we have to think fast The essence of the management mandate from the existing asset base, leveraging on and act in a structured, strategic and asserof Votorantim is the achievement of the existing competences and capabilities; (iii) tive manner. Our mindset is innovative—we objectives of investment of Votorantim’s operations in the adjacency of the busiare always looking ahead. But when we shareholders, acting according to Votorantim nesses, assessing opportunities and risks look to the future we have to be ready to DNA and respecting its financial and dividend associated with products and processes; challenge what happens now. We also have policies. As an investment holding company and (iv) assess new patterns of production to be prepared to respond to changes in permanently capitalized and with a longand consumption, as well as new business the different sectors and countries where term investment horizon, Votorantim seeks models from which derive new opportunities we operate. to deliver superior financial returns with and mitigate risks. positive social and environmental impacts. The right way: For us, there is only one way The business portfolio is exposed to global of doing it—the right one. Our corporate In this context, the investment thesis inand local dynamics of various industries, as DNA carries our unique way of behaving cludes major themes that apply both to well as natural business cycles for each asset. and operating. We treat our companies, existing businesses and to new investments: Within the strategy of portfolio, Votorantim employees, and society with respect, and (i) strengthening the core business, through seeks to add to this profile new businesses we act ethically. We have great expertise in investments in modernization, expansion, with secular demand and potential for value investments and the necessary knowledge and consolidation; (ii) extract more value creation – for example in the energy and real to always perform better and responsibly. Investment thesis With the right people: We have made a firm commitment: To invest in the best of CORE BEYOND BEYOND each one to achieve the best of everyone BUSINESS CORE BUSINESS because we believe in the strength of people and in what they are capable of delivering together. We are always moving forward, Strengthening Value unlocking: Adjacencies: New patterns of the core: extract more value businesses associated production and towards what is new. We positively influence modernization, from the existing with the demands of consumption; our people through inspired leaders. expansion, and asset base, leveraging companies; new business consolidation on existing opportunities and risks models competences and that follow products capabilities and processes 14 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 15 estate sectors. Another area of ​​interest is with shareholders. This DNA also includes a Real Estate Investments infrastructure, on the basis of confidence social dimension that establishes relevant in the development of the country and the guidelines on maximizing value creation for The Real Estate Investments business perdustrial warehouse that formerly housed ARCA: availability of opportunities for the private society in line with the SDGs—Votorantim formed strongly in 2019, with significant the Metalúrgica Atlas smelting factory, has arcaspaces.com @arcaspaces sector. Additionally, Votorantim continues to has, since 2011, been a signatory of the progress on the ongoing key projects and become a popular entertainment venue in seek opportunities to expand its exposure Global Compact, an initiative that promotes further expansion of the scope of operSão Paulo City. The 9,000 m2 facility, with a PIU: to developed markets, both directly and internationally accepted values across human ations. Created initially to manage and ceiling height of more than 15 meters, has piuleopoldina.com.br through its portfolio companies. rights, workplace relations, environment, and develop properties owned by Votorantim, hosted more than 30 fashion, food, innoSTATE: anti-corruption. This voluntary commitment the business has since expanded its scope to vation and technology, sporting, and music state.is Votorantim’s orientation in all investments also extends to the portfolio companies, and include actively prospecting for investment events organized by leading companies @state.is is based on one principle: patient capital, in 2019 Votorantim organized a workshop to opportunities, especially in the office and and brands, attracting more than 80,000 unnegotiable purpose. That means analyzing raise awareness about these commitments. logistics warehouse segments. In 2019 the visitors. Atlas Office Park: atlasofficepark.com.br carefully the opportunities for making inAt present, Votorantim Cimentos, Nexa, team was joined by industry professionals vestment decisions that are aligned with the and CBA are also signatories of the Global dedicated to developing Votorantim-owned The Vila Leopoldina – Villa Lobos Urban Votorantim DNA and the strategy agreed Compact. 102-12 properties as well as new investments. The Restructuring Project has received governgovernance has responded to these develment approval and submitted plans for the Objectives of the capital allocation strategy opments by creating an Advisory Board, project to the City Council. In the Legislative Patient capital, unnegotiable purpose with independent members, to support the branch, the project has been approved by business in its expanded format. two committees and discussed in public AT PORTFOLIO AT THE FOR meetings, and is now pending only a final COMPANIES PORTFOLIO LEVELS SHAREHOLDERS Ongoing projects in the Vila Leopoldina vote by the City Council. Following approval, Capital structure that Financial and Maximizing total district, in the Western region of São Paulo, a large, privately funded, public improveenables growth and strategic flexibility shareholder dividends act swiftly return (TSR) have been well received in the real estate ment program can begin, supporting the Preserving the Diversification: Perpetuating market and have supported an agenda ongoing transformation. capacity to invest • Sectors Votorantim that is revitalizing the surroundings of • Geographies Preserving the • Risk factors Votorantim’s properties in the region. In this 2019 was also significant for another project Votorantim DNA Meeting the district, three projects have been especially in the region: the Atlas Office Park, an Leveraging shareholders' innovation to significant: ARCA, the Urban Restructuring office tower development with more than investment transform their objectives Project (Projeto de Intervenção Urbana, PIU), 36,000 m² of rentable space. Votorantim business models and STATE. currently has a 50% stake in the asset, following the acquisition of a stake from one The ARCA, which was opened at the end of the partners. Demand increased substanof 2018 following a retrofit of an old intially during the year, resulting in occupancy 16 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 17 levels higher than 90%—establishing the area as a prime office option. The first phase of restoration works on a second warehouse building, which has a total area of 18,000 m2 and is adjacent to ARCA has been completed. The 6,500 m2 venue now houses STATE (background image), a new innovation, technology, and creative economy hub. Since the soft-opening event in October 2019, occupancy by large corporates and startup tenants has steadily grown. Work has begun on the second phase of the project, which will create an additional 11,000 m2 of office space. Significant progress was also made on projects in the metropolitan area of Sorocaba City, where Votorantim owns several large properties. The state and municipal approval stages have been completed and the first phase of the project, a housing subdivision development, is due to be launched in 2020. 18 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 19 People 103-2 | 103-3 under their leadership. In 2019, 45% of Meeting (Encontro Votorantim) was held new vacancies at the holding company twice during the year. At these meetings, LinkedIn: Votorantim’s Human and Organizational • Attractiveness, Engagement, and Comwere filled through referrals from managers’ the holding company leadership provided linkedin.com/company/ Development (DHO) department manages munication Caderninho. clarification on guidelines and celebrated votorantim/ Human Resources at the holding company, • People and Organization Development achievements. One of the meeting was Instagram: the Votorantim Institute, and Reservas • Remuneration and Benefits The Ambassadors program, which encourdedicated, for the first time, to addressing @somosvotorantim Votorantim, being structured on three pillars: ages employees at all levels of the organdiversity and inclusion matters, with disization to showcase the company and its cussions about unconscious bias and how differentiators at events such as trade neuroscience explains the way stereotypes shows and university classes and lectures, influence people’s decisions. The meeting also supports attracting talent and engaging was organized as a recommendation from Attractiveness, Engagement, and Communication with employees. 55% of employees now working groups created by the holding formally serve as ambassadors. company’s employees to discuss gender, The Internship Program, which was reformuwith 954 applicants for two job vacancies in race, sexual orientation, and people with lated in 2018, received 2,600 applications the Real Estate Investments and the CorAnother program, called Movimenta, which disabilities, in order to enhance the underfor nine vacancies with their start dates in porate Development departments, an equal provides opportunities for talent mobility standing of the subject and further improve 2020, 48% more than in the previous intake. number of male and female undergraduate across the portfolio companies, was reviprocesses and the workplace environment. Blind selection was again used, in which students from business administration, entalized to make the process more flexible, From these discussions different actions candidates were not required to specify their gineering, and related university programs simple, and aligned with industry best pracwere developed, including office renovations university training or the institution where were selected for the final workshop and case tice, helping employees to take the reins of and changes in selection processes. they studied, their gender or their ethnicity. resolution phase. In the Votorantim Finance their own careers. This year the initiative was The preferential selection criteria used were Tour—a way of engaging with students in also joined by banco BV. The 400 vacancies Regarding both internal and external comcandidate potential and cultural profile, in financial programs—20 leaders of financial announced on the platform in the second munication, activities linked to recognition, order to attract young professionals who market student leagues participated in a half of the year were internally viewed by dissemination, and dialogue continued, are aligned with the company’s values and valuation workshop. 5,500 employees. ensuring consistency of initiatives, such as principles. Votorantim’s commitment to the organization of Recognition Hour and promoting gender equality was present To ensure the company attracts new talents The talent attraction and selection processes celebratory activities, such as Children’s throughout each stage in the program— and supports a continuous process of proare also designed to advance diversity, based Day, Family Day, among others. Specifically group dynamics sessions had an equal motion from within, Votorantim rolled out on the belief that diversity creates value. for digital communication, VotoCast was number of men and women. the Caderninho project in 2019. Managers created as a Votorantim channel available on observe talents both within and outside With a focus on maintaining engagement podcast platforms, and there was a growth Votorantim Experience, a one-month holiday Votorantim to identify professionals with the and delivering on the commitment to proon Instagram and LinkedIn followers, by 44% internship program, used the same approach: potential to succeed employees currently viding clarity and direction, the Votorantim and 79%, respectively. 20 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 21 RepTrak® research results People and Organization Development Society Talents LinkedIn Opinion Financial Employees The integral development model is believed In 2019, in line with this strategy, there Community Leaders Market to be best for consistent development, were continuous efforts to broaden the level 73 .3 71 .6 79 .6 73 .4 80 .9 80 .9 as it connects all spheres and contexts to of autonomy of the managers in actions N=600 N=271 N=79 N=41 N=36 N=119 which employees are exposed. As such, related to the development of their teams, the organization and people development involving three fronts: strategy has been structured as shown in • Education, including professional training N = number of interviews the figure below. programs and events, such as extension, foreign language, and post-graduate >80 Excellent >70 Strong >60 Average >40 Week <39 Poor programs. I Z AT I R GAN O N • Development, comprising self-developO As a way of measuring and ensuring the Overall, Votorantim was assessed as having ment and career management activities, company’s reputation management, a survey a strong reputation, with a favorability rating including activities organized internally in collaboration with the Reputation Institute greater than 70% by all stakeholders, and by the DHO team and by employees’ was carried out, including interviews with with an especially strong rating of 80.9% in managers, such as: assessment tools some key stakeholders including employees, the financial market and among employees. designed to build self-awareness; career communities, media, young talents, among IND M discussions between managers and their others. More than 600 interviews providEspecially positive ratings were given for IV EA reports; Individual Development Program ed the basis for insights into stakeholder business, performance, governance, and ID U T (Programa de Desenvolvimento Individual, A perceptions across different aspects, such citizenship. Diversity and innovation were L PDI); and coaching and counseling. as businesses, innovation, the workplace, perceived as requiring further improvement. • Training, with short-duration initiagovernance, citizenship, leadership, and tives to improve technical skills, such performance. . as courses, certifications, seminars, INDIVIDUAL and conferences, as appropriate for the Encouraging individuals to identify and achieve their potential relevant function or role. CEO of the Year In an event held in 2019, The Votorantim Development System João Miranda received the RELATIONS title of CEO of the Year at the Continually promoting (Sistema de Desenvolvimento Votorantim organizational well-being 25th Bravo Business Awards, SDV) is a proven tool supporting the emorganized by the Americas ployee development strategy at the holding Society and the Council ORGANIZATION company. Career discussions and merit of the Americas Talent management, leadership and organizational culture committee meetings, which are held sepa22 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 23 performance. These discussions are also Votorantim Academy learning and development, had participants Visit: designed to encourage individuals to reflect In 2019, the Votorantim Academy continued from Citrosuco for the first time. All portfolio votorantim.com/academia on the extent to which their emotional and to serve as a hub supporting the develcompanies are now participating in the cognitive capabilities match up to the level opment of individuals and organizations, program, which has been held annually since INDIVIDUAL ORGANIZATION of complexity of their current role, identiconnecting people, and fostering discussion 2012. The four meetings were attended by (self-awareness (clarity and and development) direction) fying plans for development. about trends affecting the business environfive participants from the holding company ment and society. and the Votorantim Institute, 10 from the Professional Position In addition to individual development, off CoE and 68 from the portfolio companies. profile activities sites and meetings were also held to support The most outstanding event was Votorantim. relations team development, with some departments hub, held jointly by the holding company and Vototalks, which is an online platform featuraddressing issues related to leadership deits portfolio companies to rethink the future ing discussions among experts in their fields, Emotional intelligence Position velopment and evolution of the company’s of the business. The event is also a part of has all its content hosted on the Votorantim and Cognitive complexity culture, while others discussed corporate the 18.18 movement created in 2016, the Academy webpage available at Votorantim’s ability branding. aim of which was to increase connectivity website. The content is organized by the between people who could impact business, following themes accordingly with 18.18 subMotivation Organizational Moving forward into the people developchallenging them towards innovation. jects: new standards and emerging technolodrivers culture ment plan across the organization, the Exgies; high-performance culture; business (re) ecutive Board succession plan was validated This year, the Potenciar Program, and which design; transformation awareness; and global Organizational by the Board of Directors, and PDIs were recognizes and provides the talents at Votomindset. All content is available not only to Performance developed for the executives involved. rantim and portfolio companies with techniVotorantim and its companies’ employees, rately, have improved on the model which cal and behavioral training to accelerate their but also to the general public. was implemented the previous year. The The methods of measuring employee enwhole process uses self-awareness as a key gagement have been improved to better to facilitate understanding the concepts of reflect the company’s evolution. In 2020, potential (predicted future performance) a broader engagement and culture survey and achievements (assessment of past will be carried out to identify not only the performance) within the organization. level of satisfaction with the organizational environment and engagement, but also the During career discussions, leaders discuss level of alignment with the organizational their employees’ strengths and help them culture. achieve their professional goals, as well as addressing any areas for improvement that need to be prioritized to deliver future 24 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 25 Votorantim.hub To foster reflection on the future it wants and how it wants to build it, the Votorantim Academy, via its companies, organized the Votorantim.hub in 2019. This innovation event showcased the redesign of the businesses and the transformation journey that the portfolio companies are preparing to embark on over the coming years. During the two-day event, over 5,000 employees and guest stakeholders watched a series of virtual reality demonstrations and simulations, and attended 78 lectures—many taking place concurrently on six different stages—on a variety of subjects, such as the future of citizenship, employment, and housing; nonviolent communication; and the Votorantim DNA and its practices. Through social media outreach, the event impacted more than 800,000 people. In a postevent satisfaction survey, Votorantim. hub was given average ratings of 4.7 from internal stakeholders and 4.6 from external stakeholders, considering five the maximum score. 26 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 27 Remuneration and Benefits torical movements, providing a merit-based (GPTW) Institute, which annually publishes assessment for the relevant cycle. more than 40 thematic rankings and great In 2019, the holding company’s Remunerasurance claims, but also other data such as workplaces lists at national, regional, and tion and Benefits area was fully migrated to health, life and dental insurance processes. In 2019, Votorantim won the Health Exindustry levels. the CoE. This initiative has helped to improve Resolution indicators can be effectively cellence award from Great Place to Work operating and financial efficiency by expeditand dynamically navigated to intersect ing common activities such as negotiations data, supporting better management of of health insurance, life insurance, meal and employees’ health. food cards, and fitness center allowances. Benefits 402-1 The immediate benefit was the elimination of Adding to these initiatives was another edi• Health insurance • Medical care • Fruits intermediaries in purchasing health insurance tion of +Life Week (Semana+Vida), an event from providers, which has simplified the in which employees were provided with • Dental insurance • Virtual consultations, in• Massage cluding dependents contracting and management processes. medical exams, first-aid training, extended • Life insurance • Gym reimbursement massage sessions, anti-flu vaccines, healthy • Executive health checkIn addition to the structural changes, othnutrition guides, health questionnaires, and • Private pension through up • Supporting Program for er improvements were also implemented medical care. Fundação Senador José Employees (Programa de during the year by the area. An example Ermírio de Moraes (Fun• A program for pregnant Apoio ao Empregado, PAE) sejem) employees including psychological, is a telemedicine service now offered in To ensure that employee remuneration is financial, and family suppartnership with the Albert Einstein Hospicompetitive, Votorantim relies on annual • Christmas card • Room with breast-feedport tal, providing quick access to physicians at surveys conducted by specialized consulting ing structure • Partnership with Comthe hospital through virtual consultations firms, internal policies, and information from • Anti-flu vaccines merce Social Services for simple cases. A breast-feeding room committees that assess employee perfor(Serviço Social do Comérwas also set up at the holding company mance as part of a merit-based culture. On cio, SESC) units headquarters, where employees who are an annual basis, each department holds a mothers can express and store breast milk meeting that is attended by all its managers, while in the office. to discuss individual employee performance based on what and how they have perA Healthcare Business Intelligence (BI) formed throughout the year. Improvement platform was developed during the year aspects are also identified to leverage the to provide integrated support to areas of performance of each professional, linked Human Resources and medical management to the proposed challenges. Performance teams. The platform enables users to review reviews cover what each employee has not only information related to health indelivered, their level of salary and their his28 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 29 Corporate and Business Structure Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management 103-2 | 103-3 Hejoassu Votorantim S.A. Governance model 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-24 | 102-26 | 102-27 | 102-29 | 102-31 | Votorantim ensures its corporate goverCorporate governance at Votorantim comVotorantim banco BV Votorantim Nexa nance practices are continually improving prises three spheres: Cimentos Energia and evolving. This can be seen in the portfo• Ownership, represented by the Board lio transformation, the efforts to build a culof Hejoassu, the holding company that Acerbrag and ture of innovation, and the role that holding owns Votorantim. Citrosuco CBA Acerías Paz del Río company representatives have played on the • Family, represented by the Family Board. Boards of Directors and committees of the • Businesses, conducted and represented portfolio companies, with a focus on proby the Board of Directors and Executive viding strategic direction and fostering an Board of Votorantim and its portfolio Administrative Structure entrepreneurial governance. This alignment companies. of interests and close proximity with the exHejoassu ecutives of the companies provides greater The Boards of Directors of Votorantim and flexibility to capital structure decisions and Hejoassu, as well as the Family Board, are Family Board discipline in capital allocation. represented by executives serving threeyear mandates. The Hejoassu Board of While not all portfolio companies are pubDirectors and the Family Board act indeVotorantim S.A. licly traded, since 2014 they have all had a pendently of Votorantim. However, an agenrobust governance model in place, including da for formal meetings between all three Votorantim Board of Directors Reservas Boards of Directors and advisory commitboards assures their interaction. Resolutions Institute Votorantim tees. These governance bodies include both on strategy, management and investments Votorantim representatives and external at the portfolio companies are taken by the Executive Board and independent members. Votorantim Board of Directors and Executive Board of CEO also conducts periodic Boards of Directors each company. and committee assessments that support improvement in governance. CFO and Corporate Chief Chief Legal Investor Development Compliance and Tax Relations Officer Officer and of Planning Officer the Center of Officer Excellence 30 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 31 Board of Hejoassu: Recommends financial between the business and the family, prewhere they engaged in a range of expeBoard Members 102-22 | 102-23 aspirations, macro-vision and risk appetite serving its legacy. To develop responsible riences related to the topics under study. Eduardo Vassimon for Votorantim, as well as certain guidelines shareholders is an important goal, as well The objective is to foster the innovation Chairman for the development of the strategy. It is also as to develop leaders for future succesmindset connected to the family and the José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes responsible for maintaining the company’s sions. The Family Board was renewed business development aspirations. Deputy Chairman culture, DNA, and purposes, which are cruin 2019 and is now composed of seven Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes cial to the longevity of the family business. members, including five fifth generation Another initiative was the Social EngageBoard member The Board has 12 shareholders, three from and two fourth generation members. ment project, which sought to reframe Luís Ermírio de Moraes each of the four family holding companies, With their complementary competences, the family’s feeling of social responsibility Board member with fourth and fifth generation members members have been involved on the varaligned with the development aspirations Marcelo Medeiros deliberating together. The family, which is ious activities, such as the New Economy, of the next generations. One of the main Independent board member currently in its sixth generation, has 158 in which a group of family members has actions, was the Family Inspires Family, in Oscar Bernardes members, of whom 41 are shareholders. worked to gain an understanding of the which family members, engaged in social Independent board member new forms of work and entrepreneurship, organizations, scribes their experiences Pedro Wongtschowsk Family Board: With a formal statute, the role of startups, and the challenges and challenges related to philanthropy in Independent board member has the mission of keeping the family and benefits of innovation. The research an inspiring way. Executive Board: Includes the Chief Exunited and to improve the communications process included a field trip to China, ecutive Officer (CEO) and four statutory In its businesses structure, Votorantim has officers. It is responsible for managing the Family values two corporate governance bodies: the Board business according to the Board of Direcof Directors—which was appointed a new tors’ guidelines. chair in the year—and the Executive Board. INTEGRITY Being whole, ethical, honoring our history, and helping build the future with respect Board Members 102-22 | 102-23 Board of Directors: Composed of seven João Miranda GENEROSITY Being generous with oneself, the family, members, including a chairman, a deputy Chief Executive Officer and society chairman, two family shareholders, and Glaisy Peres Domingues COURAGE Being determined, always willing Chief Legal and Tax Planning Officer to learn and evolve, and three independent members. The Board believing everything is possible of Directors is responsible for defining the João Schmidt UNITY Honoring the history that unites us, strategic planning and orienting its execuCorporate Development Officer valuing our collective Power, and being at the forefront of our Legacy tion, in addition to making capital allocation Luiz Caruso decisions. Periodically, the Board reflects on Chief Compliance Officer and of the IMPACT Dedicated, achievement-focused work, driven by the power to Center of Excellence innovate and transform the performance of the Boards of Directors Sergio Malacrida of the portfolio companies, whose appointChief Financial and PASSION Having the freedom and motivation to find and ments are also their responsibility. Investor Relations Officer pursue one’s passions 32 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 33 Compliance 102-25 Risk Management 102-9 | 102-10 | 102-30 Ethics Line: Votorantim’s compliance practices include Data Protection Act was also evaluated. This As an investment holding company, Votoin risks and formed by individuals from 0800 89 11 729 tools designed to assure compliance with resulted in a series of action plans to ensure rantim annually sets its risk appetite conVotorantim and the invested companies votorantim.com/ laws and regulations, in addition to rethe deadline for compliance was met. sidering its aspirations and capabilities, as where they share experiences and best linhaetica inforcing ethical business conduct and well as the impacts from residual risks from practices. This practice confirms if the level transparency with stakeholders. These In 2019 Votorantim held the third edition its businesses. The portfolio companies are of appetite of each company is appropriate, practices include the Compliance Program, of Compliance Week, an event dedicated to responsible for identifying, quantifying, and taking into consideration their operating Anti-Corruption Program, Code of Conduct, discuss the rules and standards underpinaddressing strategic, reputational, envimarkets, positioning and expectations. and an Ethics Line to receive reports on any ning the Votorantim Compliance Program. ronmental, social, regulatory, and financial suspected unlawful acts or questions relatDuring the opening session of the event, risks. The relation between probability and Two aspects are considered when analyzing ing to the Code of Conduct. The Ethics Line guest speakers such as journalist Eliane Catrisk impact is determined in accordance risk appetite: the qualitative – which involves is also available to the portfolio companies in anhêde, lawyer Guilherme Nostre, judge of with the risk appetite standards established defining the various risk categories and multiple languages. Any confirmed reports the Federal Regional Court of the 4th Region Votorantim. assessing the willingness to incur a certain are forwarded to the Conduct Committee João Pedro Gerban Neto and philosopher risk in relation to the estimated return at each company for duly investigation and Luiz Felipe Pondé spoke about their views The influence and monitoring of risks by or impact – and the quantitative – which appropriate action. 102-17 Votorantim is performed within the frameconsiders the maximum risk Votorantim is on integrity and crisis management, among other topics. Compliance Week was also an work of our corporate governance, through willing to take within the scope of its global In 2019, Votorantim expanded its Comopportunity to reinforce the importance of discussions at the Boards of Directors and capacity, broken down into a classification of pliance Program and oversaw the process employees completing Compliance DeclaAudit Committees of the invested compatolerance levels, which triggers governance in its companies, through participation in rations, available on the Compliance Portal. nies, and through working groups specialized according to defined levels. governance bodies. This initiative is part These declarations cover, among other of a broader internal restructuring led by matters, conflicts of interest and kinship, Compliance and CoE and represents a series confidentiality, and relationship with govof initiatives, the objectives of which are to ernment officals. Employees declared their automate and incorporate innovation across conflict-of-interest status, which contribthe different areas known as Compliance utes to an automated conflict management 4.0. As part of this process, improvements process as well as continuous monitoring by were made to the Government Interaction the compliance area at Votorantim. Records system, allowing the registration of reports in a simplier way, including mobile access. Compliance with Brazil’s General 34 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 35 Social Investment 103-2 | 103-3 Local Democracy Index (LDI) In 2019, Votorantim sponsored a project to expertise on democracy, and through a Visit: In addition to influencing subsidiaries to velopment and implementation of strategies apply the LDI framework in São Paulo City. questionnaire answered by more than 2,000 sivis.org.br/idlsp embed social responsibility in their business that assist companies to expand their social LDI is a pioneering methodology, develpeople that live and vote in the city. The models, Votorantim itself invests in social legacy with specific vision for each business.. oped by Instituto Sivis in collaboration with deliverables from the LDI methodology causes focusing on civic engagement and international organizations, to measure the are a report on local democratic culture education. These projects are developed by The Votorantim Institute acts independently quality of democracy at a city level. and a starting point for developing public both the holding company and the portfolio and, in 2019, implemented 377 initiatives in policies and political education initiatives to companies in partnership with the Votorantim 135 municipalities in Brazil and abroad (Find Data was collected through a survey of strengthening civic engagement. Institute, an intelligence center and a hub of out more at institutovotorantim.org.br). Some 32 experts selected for their depth of innovations, projects, and good practices in of the most significant projects sponsored by the social field, which is responsible for the deVotorantim are described below. Partnership for the Enhancement of Education Citizenship Lab (Lab Cidadania) (Parceria pela Valorização da Educação, PVE) Visit: Developed in collaboration with portfolio With a mission of generating structural After the PVE was selected for scale-up in the program aims to enhance proficiency in institutovotorantim.org. companies, Citizenship Lab is one of the impact, improve municipal indicators for 2016, and to celebrate Votorantim’s 100 th 21 competencies, with most municipalities br/labcidadania initiatives within the Votorantim Citizenship democratic culture, and promote qualifianniversary in 2018, the company has cominvolved selecting learning as their main goal. Program that aims to identify effective and cation and strengthening of civic engagemitted to extend the initiative to 100 muIn 2019 the reach of mobilization efforts scalable methods of promoting a democratic ment, these organizations will each receive nicipalities over a four-year period. In 2019 was expanded through social media stratand engaged culture at the municipal level, R$200,000 for projects in 2020. Results the program was present in 101 locations, egies. Over 37,000 people joined municipal through interventions in five Brazilian cities will be evaluated using a methodology that helping to improve public education and Facebook groups and received news about in partnership with organizations chosen measures the level of democratic culture school management as part of the proprogress on the program and its initiatives in a selection process carried out in 2019. and political participation based on the gram’s mission of engaging public managers, via WhatsApp. The selected organizations are: Politiquê, Local Democracy Index (See page 37), families, employees and other segments of in Ararapina, Pernambuco state; Politize, in with primary data collected both before society in driving up education quality. A study comparing municipalities where Três Marias, Minas Gerais state; Associação and after the interventions. The results the PVE program is present with a control Instituto Terroá, in Matão, São Paulo state; from the interventions will also be used to Funding for PVE implementation in each group showed that in the early years of PriColab, in Miraí, Minas Gerais state; Instituto assess whether developing a local demomunicipality is provided equally by Votomary Education I, the program accelerates Cidade Democrática and Instituto Governo cratic culture improves the level of citizen rantim and its portfolio companies. With learning outcomes by 31%. This means that Aberto, in Votorantim, São Paulo state. engagement in municipal elections. total funding of R$14 million in the year, in 4 years, those municipalities achieved 36 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 37 learning outcomes they would normally take further by 52%: municipalities take just 4 Economic and Financial Performance 5.2 years to accomplish. In the later years years to achieve what they would normally 103-2 | 103-3 of Primary Education, learning is accelerated take 6 years to accomplish. VIA Solidária Created three years ago, Via Solidária is an donations from employees. With donations annual campaign that encourages Votorantim starting at R$10, and payable in installments and portfolio company employees to donate deducted from payroll, the campaign generInvestor Relations to programs supporting socially vulnerable ated a total of R$780,000 in donations in the children and adolescents. In 2019, 11 proyear, outperforming the 2018 campaign by In 2019, Standard&Poor’s upgraded Votosuch as the Investor Relations website, availVisit: grams—all supported with funding from port20%. This year’s donations benefited more rantim’s rating from BB+ to BBB-, with a able in Portuguese and English. Operating votorantim.com/ir folio companies—were approved to receive than 2,000 children and teenagers. positive outlook. Fitch had already assigned and financial results are reported through the holding company a BBBrating, with this channel, followed by conference calls a stable outlook. Taking both ratings into with investors and financial market analysts. Volunteering Challenge consideration, Votorantim is now considered Desafio Voluntário is held among employees employees, an increase of 27% compared to to be a company with an investment grade. In 2019 Votorantim held the 15th edition and third parties of Votorantim and its 2018, reaching 230 actions and over 13,000 Moody’s rating was upgraded from Ba2 to of Votorantim Day, in São Paulo, and the companies, promoting integration with the hours of voluntary activity. In this edition, the Ba1, with a positive outlook. 9th edition in New York, which, for the first community surrounding its units, contribholding company took second place in the time, was streamed online for those who uting to the development of non-profit Medium-sized Unit category by promoting In investor relations, Votorantim has mainwere unable to attend. The events are opinstitutions and public schools. With the a series of pedagogical activities at a school tained the principle of engaging closely with portunities to build closer relationships with theme Voluntary Protagonism and Citizen located in the Vila Leopoldina neighborhood, investors as well as creditors, and practicing investors and financial institutions through Participation, the 2019 edition had 3,800 in São Paulo. the same level of transparency that would discussions on macro-economic conditions, be expected of a listed company. Thus, the strategies, and consolidated and individual company has communications channels results of operations. Let’s talk ethics In 2019, two editions were organized jointly teers. In these initiatives, employee volunteers with CoE and one by the holding company, hold discussions with secondary education with the participation of 15 Votorantim volunstudents about ethics as a civic value. 38 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 39 Net revenue Adjusted EBITDA Net income Cash flow (R$ million) By segment (%) (R$ million) By segment (%) (R$ million) (R$ million) -26% Votorantim 113% Long steel Energia Votorantim Votorantim Long steel Votorantim 4,925 30,931 30,907 Energia 6 Cimentos 6,878 9 1 Cimentos 6,811 13 38 CBA 49 5,120 16 5,120 (825) 162 4,899 CBA 16 2,310 (1,639) (1,341) (189) 25 27 Nexa 390 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 (3,210) (3,200) Nexa Ad Ta Op er CA jus xe Inv s es tm at ing PEX ca Wo tedE en t s/ div sh flo w rk ing BI es tm ca TD Fin an en ts pit A cia l re su lt al/ot FX Di vid en ds her Fr ca sh effec ee ca sh t flow 2019 Results 102-7 Considering political and economic instability higher expenditure at Nexa with operational adjusted EBITDA, and equity investments, Early in the year, Votorantim received in Brazil and globally, Votorantim exercised efficiency programs. In addition, adjusted due to the higher comparative base of 2018, R$8.2 billion as proceeds from the Fibcustomary prudence in conducting business. EBITDA in 2018 was positively affected by which considered Fibria as recognized by the ria transaction. In 2019, Votorantim paid the dividends received of approximately equity method, together with the decrease a total of R$1.4 billion in dividends to Votorantim’s consolidated net revenue was R$800 million from Fibria. in Citrosuco’s results in 2019. shareholders, including R$600 million to R$30.9 billion, stable when compared to recompose unpaid dividends from 2017 2018, primarily reflecting higher average Votorantim’s net income was R$4.9 billion Operating cash flow was positive at R$390 and R$800 million in regular dividends prices and sales volume at Votorantim in the year, compared with net income of million, a decrease when compared to 2018 for 2019. As a result, free cash flow totaled Cimentos and the depreciation of the BraR$2.3 billion in 2018. driven by higher CAPEX, especially in VotoR$4.9 billion. zilian real against the U.S. dollar, which rantim Cimentos and Nexa. positively affected consolidated results for This variation is mainly explained by the foreign-based operations. These factors result of Fibria transaction combined with a were offset by a decline in London Metal reduction in interest and currency exposure, Exchange (LME) prices for metals in the year. due to the reduction in gross debt given the liability management initiatives at VotoranAdjusted EBITDA totaled R$5.1 billion, a tim and Votorantim Cimentos. These factors decrease of 26% compared with 2018, have been partially offset by lower operating reflecting lower metals prices combined with results, already explained by the drop in 40 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 41 Changes in Net debt Debt Debt by CAPEX Expansion gross debt (R$ billion) by type currency (R$ million) projects (R$ billion) (%) (%) (%) Net debt/ Adjusted EBITDA 17% (x times) Other Other CBA BNDES Euro Votorantim Bonds 3,200 24 .5 13 .2 Bank loans 51 8 3 Cimentos 2 11 .2 10 60 72% 15 0 .5 19 .8 10 .2 10 .4 10 .0 2,576 1 .0 Export 10 78% (5 .0) (1 .2) credit Real1 23 66 Dollar2 1.92x 1.79x 1.95x 83 Nexa 1.46x 1.56x Debentures 14 22% 28% Dec/18 s/a Dec/19 Dec/18 Mar/19 Jun/19Sep/19 Dec/19 ¹ 4131 bilateral loan considered as BRL 2018 2019 mo Int rtiza due to the cross-currency swap eres tio ns Int tpay ² Export Financing Facilities considered as erest p ntm e USD due to the cross-currency swap Non-expansion ay me nt 1 Valor reapresentado Expansion FX /oth ng er rrowi Bo Liquidity and indebtedness In order to improve liquidity, Votorantim and Capex Expansion investments at Votorantim CiConsolidated gross debt was R$19.8 billion Votorantim Cimentos have two revolving CAPEX totaled R$3.2 billion in the year, up mentos accounted for 15% of the total, at year-end 2019, down R$4.7 billion from credit facilities, totaling US$700 million. 24% on 2018. Expansion projects accountwith investments largely directed to an the previous year. The decrease is exThese facilities, which expire in 2023, along ed for 28% of investments. expansion of grinding capacity at Pecém, plained primarily by the prepayment of debt with cash, totals R$13.7billion. in the Northeast of Brazil. The project is amounting to R$5.2 billion by the holding Nexa, which accounted for 83% of expansion expected to be concluded in 2020 and will company and Votorantim Cimentos. In the Net debt totaled R$10 billion, a decrease investments, primarily to the development add 800,000 tons in capacity. first half of the year, Votorantim Cimentos of 25% compared with 2018, chiefly driven of the Aripuanã Project, an underground partially bought back bonds maturing in by the reduction in gross debt. Financial zinc polymetallic mine in Mato Grosso state, 2021, 2022, and 2041. Votorantim prepaid leverage, as measured by the ratio of net and to deepening the Vazante mine in the a bond maturing in 2019, of bilateral loans, debt to adjusted EBITDA, was 1.95x, an state of Minas Gerais, both in Brazil. type 4131 and debentures. increase of 0.03x from December 2018 and 0.16x from September 2019. Cash, cash equivalents and financial investments totaled R$10.7 billion, 51% of which are denominated in Brazilian currency. 42 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 43 People Center of To foster the ideal of innovation, severployees’ knowledge through collaboration Excellence (CoE) 103-2 | 103-3 al people-management practices were improved in 2019, such as FlexOffice, a remote working program; a new light and and mutual capacity-building experiences. A relevant step in the preparation of new leaders and in the development of the casual dress code, as well as the introcurrent leadership, of whom presently, the duction of alternative working hours to vast majority have been developed interThe CoE is composed of the Shared Soluexcellence, client intimacy and innovation. accommodate employees’ different needs. nally. Líder Mais—a leadership program, is in tions (CSC), Real Estate Solutions (CSI) and its third cycle and aims to develop leading Information Technology (CCTI) and was born To stay up to date and fit for a model in Another initiative is called In.Pulse. Created players, in addition to keeping them aligned in a challenging environment, with a calling which innovation became a fundamental by a multidisciplinary team, it encourages with the CoE’s business and strategy in to innovate, provoke and think differently. component, the CoE performed a cultural protagonism, so that each member asorder to engage its teams. In addition to building original and effective diagnosis that involved all employees. After sumes responsibility for their own journey solutions, it develops solutions integrated that, a target culture that aims and supports in their personal development, combined Diversity and inclusion were in the spotto the common demands of the portfolio expected growth was defined, focusing with the CoE’s objectives. light, based on the understanding that companies, always considering the needs on transforming learning into innovation, obtaining good results is expanded when of each one. It also provide services to without losing the essence of achieving Another initiative was Hi!. Created through one is open to different points of view some companies outside of Votorantim’s results through people. Thus, the CoE has a hackathon—a programming marathon and experiences. Therefore, in addition to portfolio. 102-6 a healthy and friendly environment in which that involved 48 hours of nonstop coding. expanding its range of knowledge on the relationships are valued, learning and openIt is a timely feedback on-line tool that topic through discussions with experts and The CoE has units in São Paulo and Curitiba, ness are strongly encouraged, with even allows exchange of feedback between all formal leadership training, the CoE created in Brazil, and Lima, in Peru, with a staff of more capabilities to innovate. employees in a confidential manner and a Diversity Committee with a mission to 787 employees, in order to generate value without hierarchical barriers, strengthening implement actions regarding the theme, through the unceasing pursuit of: operating the culture of openness and learning. Within including benchmarking with companies less than two months from implementation, recognized for their diversity practices and the solution has hosted approximately research to identify today’s scenario at the 5,000 feedback exchanges, proving itself CoE, generating important insights and to be a valuable engagement tool. indicators to inform an effective action plan that can drive progress on these issues. The Mentoring Program also advanced in training of new mentors, aiming to In talent attraction, 50 new interns were improve development and enhance emhired in Brazil and the first class of the In44 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 45 ternship Program in Lima, Peru, was trained itycs that aims to identify the possibility of is an efficient way to identify business partment, the CoE developed models that with 13 participants, on a journey of robust employee dismissals with 94% categorical opportunities and investment feasibility. automate market analysis by region and technical and behavioral development, as correctness. inform optimal product pricing. Algorithms well as periodic assessments. The Young Co-creation is the CoE’s way of creating and data analytics were also used to boost Talents program, which is dedicated to In addition to the benefits listed on page 29, innovation. Effectively deploying open sales at the Customer Relationship Center attracting newly graduated professionals, the CoE offers reimbursements for school innovation concept and developing a strong (CRC) through a solution that orients teams trained two classes in 2019—rather than supplies, pharmacy expenses and daycare entrepreneurial ecosystem that is connecton key factors such as the best approach, a single class as in previous years—due to allowance for men and women. ed to strategy will therefore remain a pritiming and frequency of calls for different increased project and product demand. ority in the coming cycle. Today, startups, audiences. Meanwhile, the Melhor Idade, Melhor EmCreated at the CoE in 2016, the Let’s Talk universities and accelerators are part of the prego program continued to seek out Ethics volunteering initiative organizes creative force that is materializing ideas to Another important contribution to value talents who are older than 55 or who have morning sessions in which employees hold be implemented in 2020. creation at the portfolio companies has retired, attracting 23 participants. discussions about ethics with secondary been digital advisory, in which analyses of education students—a way of streng­ The digital journey at the CoE in recent years strategic and tactical business challenges In order to support attraction and proacthening and encouraging civic engagement has been based on important achievements. are translated into a short and long-term tive recruitment, succession plan, direct as a value promoted by Votorantim. A total The continuous search for a increasingly digital roadmap that streamlines investinvestment in development and stimulate of 14 sessions were held in 2019, with automated and intelligent operation foments and the implementation of new changes in the management process, Flight the participation of 40 volunteers and cused on digitizing services—such as human standards to ensure that transformations Risk was developed, a tool for people analapproximately 440 students. resources benefits management; supplier in operating models are aligned with the background checks and master records company’s actual objectives. In 2019, this at the Master Data Center; and collection body of knowledge was used intensively at routines—in which robots and machine CBA across the value chain and at Nexa, learning algorithms have improved service with a particular focus on optimizing the levels and expanded the scope of client controllership department. Innovation 102-15 process chains. Transformation to create value: this is the that have catalyzed product development With data analytics solutions, the CoE has purpose driving innovation at the CoE. By and strengthened its efforts in the innoenhanced the decision-making capabilities implementing new standards, technologies vation ecosystem. of portfolio companies in different proand solutions across Finances, Accounting, cesses. An example of this is in aluminum Human Resources, Information Technology BOX UP is the CoE’s official channel for acproduction, in which algorithms predict and Property Management, the CoE has celerating innovative initiatives registered equipment faults and maximize productivity continued to explore new ways of operating by the employees themselves. The process in blast furnace. At the cement sales de46 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 47 New Products Developed Imageo The CoE has been specializing in using its tiation, such as specialized products in The objective of Imageo is to develop soluhigh resolution sources, such as satellites and extensive business knowledge and installed people management, including the Hi! app tions for the generation of information which laser scanners. technological capacity to idealize and build and Flight Risk, mentioned before. The goes beyond the processes of property new solutions with adherence to different two products have been tested internally regulation. By using current cartographic inThis methodology provides more agility and segments of the market. and are in evaluation phase for sale to new telligence, present in those same processes, security, supply of aggregate products and customers. the CoE has increased its service portfolio lower cost compared to the conventional At the moment, some products at different developing algorithms for the intelligent use topography process, making it possible to creation stages generate high expectations of the images captured by drones and other carry out analyses for various purposes. and demonstrate potential for differenHealthcare BI Loss Prevention By divergence data, this tool facilitates access analysis and monitoring, and evaluate the The solution works to assist top managethat apply business rules and parameters to information for different audiences: The impacts of data. The medical team can only ment in loss prevention and to improve the for automatic identification of loss sceHuman Resources’ team, for example,can, in access information to better monitor users’ control environment through strengthening narios. This product is a highlight regarding one place, check management information health. its compliance programs. Through intensive value generation: in the first six months regarding its beneficiaries, carrying out health use of technology, business operations of the year alone, 5.4 billion transactions are monitored in real time and unwanted were monitored, with 1.7 billion generating transactions are prevented from occurring. red flags that helped to avoid losses of Monitoring is carried out through algorithms approximately R$109 million. Master data intelligence and digital buyer This solution, based on artificial intelligence, This group of solutions has the benefit of automatically performs the evaluations of avoiding unnecessary growth of data bases Avaliei commercial proposals, conducts rounds of and rationalizing the use of material stocks. negotiations with suppliers and takes the A technology startup that is using data The product provides agility and reliability in best purchasing decision for materials (spot intelligence and the creative economy to the appraisal report process, creating value purchases) taking into consideration the transform the property appraisal market. for partners and clients. supply policies and the company’s strategy. 48 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 49 Reservas about how to deal with species and first aid network engaged in developing tourism in in case of snakebites. As part of these initiathe area. As part of the initiative, the mutives, 38 seminars were hosted by Reservas, nicipal governments of Juquiá and Miracatu Votorantim 103-2 | 103-3 which arranged the use of its operational base as a venue and made the necessary arrangements with municipal governments, created a tourism seal of approval, trained guides, structured sightseeing routes and, and in doing so, did justice to the title of Muschools and other institutions. nicipalities of Touristic Interest, expanding their potential for development. Visit: Focusing on the management of enviand environmental initiatives, and proAnother achievement during the year was legadodasaguas.com.br ronmental assets, Reservas Votorantim vides facilities and infrastructure within the Public Management Support program In 2019, the Legado das Águas became fully has taken on the wider role of generating the Legado for fieldwork and stakeholder (Apoio à Gestão Pública, AGP) – Tourism operational—with all production chains in revenue within the productive chain by visits. supported by the Votorantim Institute and operation. In terms of public use, ecotourmeans of land and waterway conservation implemented by Reservas in Vale do Ribeira, ism attracted approximately 3,000 visitors and community development. Partnerships have also been established in São Paulo. The purpose of the program during the period, who enjoyed hiking along with universities for research, such as a is to enhance the quality of the partner the reserve’s trails, cycling, kayaking, birdThe company manages Legado das Águas, collaboration with researchers at UNESP’s the largest private Atlantic Forest reserve Rio Claro campus, in São Paulo state. The in Brazil, with 31,000 hectares across the professionals at these universities have municipalities of Juquiá, Miracatu, and identified new fungus species in Legado Tapiraí, in São Paulo. A range of activities das Águas and are now evaluating their are connected to the area, such as a legal importance to the expansion of vegetation reserves initiative; public use for ecotourism cover. Another study is exploring the soil and environmental research; nursery for Atfertility. In total, 70 researchers from 40 lantic Florest species; land revitalization; and institutions have either visited or remain in a joint program with the state government. the area; some of them based overseas such Reservas Votorantim also collaborates with as International Conservation and the WWF. the Fundação Florestal on research and ecotourism initiatives in Jurupará Park, in A collaboration with Instituto Butantã, the municipalities of Ibiúna and Piedade, in established three years ago, is developing São Paulo. an inventory of amphibians and reptiles in the area. It is deployed in environmental Reservas supports portfolio companies— educational activities which include raising which are its sponsors—in internal social awareness of the neighboring populations 50 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 51 The Portfolio watching and visits to the orchidarium and Also on this front, tests were conducted that plant nursery. Environmental research has successfully reproduced 100 native species enabled the reserve to host monitored stuof Atlantic Forest orchids, for the first time dent excursions, and areas are also available for rent for photo and video shoots. ever, one of which had been declared extinct in the state of São Paulo 50 years earlier. The initiative is all the more relevant given Companies 103-2 | 103-3 Several landscaping and reforestation pro­ the fact that these orchids are targeted jects have also been conducted, one of for illegal extraction. The goal is to show which is Projeto Pomar, a project to revitalize that they can be reproduced using a simple the edges of the Pinheiros river in São Paulo, method. This work has already started in where the soil has already been prepared the Mono Community, in the municipality In 2019, the Fibria transaction was conDespite the uncertainties in the Brazilian and an initial 500 trees have been planted. of Miracatu, where residents have been cluded and management changes were and international macroeconomic environIn addition, more than 150,000 saplings encouraged to produce their own orchids implemented at CESP by the joint venture ment in 2019, Votorantim has remained have been sold to institutions engaged using these methods as a source of income. between Votorantim Energia and CPPIB, folfirm in its commitment to invest in the in reforestation, and an environmental lowing their successful bid in a privatization future, especially by supporting the portfolio education initiative has been implemented Jurupará Park—where areas open for public auction in October 2018. Both transactions companies in strategic projects. Examples in which plant embryos contained in seeds use are operated by the Legado das Águas are aligned with an ongoing transformation of this include the Aripuanã Project, an are delivered in tubes for people to plant as reserve—has also organized recreational of the Votorantim’s portfolio and capital underground multi-metal mine being detheir own, in an awareness raising activity activities such as cycling, trails and races, allocation strategy (See page 15) to support veloped by Nexa in the Brazilian state of ritual. The “guardians” can then follow their and is soon to complete a new rafting circuit. the investment objectives outlined by the Mato Grosso; the acquisition by Votorantim plant’s development throughout its lifecycle The goal is for the Park to become better shareholders. They also reveal the continuity Cimentos of United Materials LLC, a readythrough a traceability system that has been known as a site for tourism and environof the investment plan that the company mix concrete and aggregates supplier in implemented throughout the area, called mental education. has been pursuing for the last several years, the U.S. and the purchase by CBA of the “Green Code”. illustrated by the development of a platform Arconic Inc. operation in the Brazilian state for investments in renewable energy and a of Pernambuco, which will add to its range In biotechnology projects, extracts have partnership with the Canadian fund CPPIB. of flat-rolled products. been produced from native Atlantic Forest species and evaluated by potential buyers, with whom negotiations are currently underway. This experience may benefit business not only through commercialization of the product, but also through licensing intellectual property. 52 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 53 repaying approximately R$3 billion in loyalty program Juntos Somos Mais, votorantimcimentos.com debt and demonstrates the holding which became an investee of VotoranNet revenue: company’s continued confidence in tim Cimentos in 2018 and has since R$13 bn Votorantim Cimentos’ value creation continued to expand, with a current capacity, as well as providing greatpresence in more than 20 companies Votorantim Cimentos is a market and operating excellence, while also On a consolidated basis, net rever financial flexibility. The balanced and 65,000 stores, serving 250,000 Adjusted EBITDA: leader for building materials in Brazil, supporting the journey to drive enue was R$13 billion and adjusted capital structure, with a leverage—as participants. R$2.7 bn with a presence in 11 countries. innovation, transformation and value EBITDA was R$2.7 billion, advance of measured by the ratio of net debt The company has also continued The company, which is the highcreation within the company. 3% and 1%, respectively, compared to adjusted EBITDA—of 2.95x at to advance important initiatives within est-weighted asset in the portfolio, In Brazil, the year was marked by to the previous year. Geographic year-end 2019, helped the company the sustainability pillar, including inSocial investment1: entered 2019 under new leadership. a rebound in the cement market. The diversification helped to mitigate to regain its investment grade rating creased use of alternative fuels and R$18.4 mi After building a legacy at other 3.5% increase in sales volume comthe effects from Brazil’s economic from Standard&Poor’s and secure an raw materials (AFR), which not only incompanies from Votorantim’s portpared with the previous year put an slowdown in recent years. Abroad upgrade of its rating by Moody’s, with crease competitiveness, but also help Company funds: folio—first at Votorantim Celulose end to a four-year period of retraction. operations accounted for 60% of positive effects on borrowing costs. At to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. R$15.1 mi e Papel (VCP) and later at Fibria— While idle capacity remains high in the consolidated adjusted EBITDA, with the same time, the company retained Due to these initiatives and internal Marcelo Castelli has stepped up as industry, Votorantim Cimentos has North America showing the strongest its investment grade rating from Fitch capacity development, Votorantim Votorantim Institute: global CEO of Votorantim Cimentos seen a recovery in cement prices in performance. Ratings, assigned in 2011. Cimentos launched Verdera, a busiR$3.3 mi with a commitment to continuing to line with inflation, and has initiated a The capital injection from the As part of its investment strategy, ness unit offering companies waste 1 Value under the management advance business plans with a focus journey to rebuild margins focused shareholder to the amount of R$2 bilVotorantim Cimentos has allocated management and disposal services of Votorantim Institute on people, customers, sustainability on competitiveness. lion, in early 2019, was used towards capital to projects supporting diverusing co-processing technology. sification and expansion in markets in Votorantim Cimentos’ sound suswhich it has competitive advantage. tainability practices and long-term In 2019, the company completed the business strategy enabled the comacquisition of United Materials LLC, pany to replace a revolving credit faa United States-based supplier of cility with its first sustainability-linked ready-mix concrete, aggregates and committed credit facility (CCF), a building materials, and continued to US$290 million facility provided by a advance capacity expansion projects syndicate of seven banks, maturing improving living conditions for vulat the Pecém (CE) plant in Northin 2024. nerable families, positively impacting eastern Brazil and the San Luís plant The company’s management of cliaround 19,000 people. in Argentina, while also increasing mate-change impacts on the business investment in adjacent sectors, such was recognized in a report published in as expansions in agricultural inputs 2019 by the Carbon Disclosure Project and mortars. In order to reinforce its (CDP), an international organization competitive and leadership position in that manages a global environmental the market, the company will invest, information system. The report ranked in the coming years, R$2 billion in the the company as the best in the cement modernization of its factories, so as industry in Brazil, and among the top to be prepared for the recovery of the companies globally in the climate Brazilian economy and capture value category. in the regions in which it is present. Within its Social Transformation In terms of innovation, the compastrategy, around 1,500 Votorantim ny invested in initiatives to implement Cimentos employees participated in new technologies and new business 90 volunteering initiatives throughout models. One of the highlights is the Brazil with a focus on education and 54 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 55 experience. Improvement on this cession process at the bank. Gabriel bancobv.com.br front can be seen in a number of Ferreira, who joined BV eight years indicators. One is the recovery of 35% ago and has served in positions at the Net income: of short-term delinquent debt – 30 Corporate Strategy, Retail, Marketing R$1.4 bn days overdue – through the bank’s and Innovation Departments, stepped Banco BV—the new brand of Banefficiencies in internal processes. In suppliers of large wholesale clients. digital service channel, which indiup as CEO in September 2019. The Return on Equity (ROE): co Votorantim launched in late 2019— this context, BV is currently the fifth Another example is the introduction cates customer preference for contact transition was conducted in line with reported net income of R$1.4 billion in largest private bank in Brazil by total of fully digital lending for retail clients methods in which negotiations are BV’s strategic plan, in a seamless pro14% 2019, an increase of 29% compared assets, as ranked by the Brazilian through a partnership with the Just more flexible and less embarrassing. cess that demonstrated the maturity with the previous year reflecting the Central Bank, but has the highest platform. Finally, in partnership with These achievements have all been of the bank’s succession management positive effects on revenue from a Efficiency Index—the ratio of expenses private equity fund General Atlantic delivered amid a management sucprocesses. strong-performing retail business, to revenues—among its peers. (GA), BV invested R$400 million in wholesale business assets with higher The second front sets digital Neon Pagamentos, which has reaverage profitability, and cost reductransformation as a tool for revenue cently hit a milestone of two million tions that have improved efficiency as diversification, which requires the bank accounts opened. The funds from the a result of digital transformation and to choose which segments it will enter investment will be used to expand the delinquency management projects. through largely digital distribution. In company’s product offering, including The digital transformation under2019, BV worked with fintechs such new lending and investment products, way at BV has played a crucial role as Weel, the developer of a platform as well as for advertising campaigns, in this context by addressing three that integrates with cash management new technology, and new talent hiring. fronts. The first is related to driving and can antecipate receivables to The third front relates to customer 56 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 57 venergia.com.br with CPPIB owns a total of 21 winddecrease of 5% and 68% respectively. Votorantim Energia: farms. During the year, another seven The joint venture posted net revenue of these wind farms were certified of R$2 billion and adjusted EBITDA of to issue 482,000 carbon credits, the R$1.2 billion, including the results of equivalent of avoiding 482,000 metric CESP, Ventos do Piauí I and Ventos do Net revenue: In five years Votorantim Energia the last five years, the company’s efforts include include improvements tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) from Araripe III, an increase of 355% and R$4.2 bn has become one of the leading invescustomer base has grown from 93 in organizational intelligence and being released into the atmosphere. 221%, respectively, when compared tors in Brazil’s electric power sector, to 380 customers (not including in its ability to rapidly respond to Another highlight of the platform to 2018. with a presence in the generation and Votorantim’s companies), as a result technological developments. was CESP’s first year of management. The company has continued to Adjusted EBITDA: trading segments. In generation, a of new operating models that have In operation and maintenance 2019 was marked by a strategic explore opportunities to support the R$50 mi joint venture established with CPPIB been implemented, such as the use services, investments were allocated to transformation agenda focused on growth of its generation platform in 2018 has provided the company of agile methodology in developing safety, maintenance, monitoring, and operational efficiency and financial and to sustain its position as one of with a platform for investment in reprojects, solutions and new services. maximizing asset utilization. Examples and process optimization. Since the the leading companies in the sector, Social investment1: newable generation assets. In trading, These changes aim to accelerate the of internal initiatives in this area acquisition in late 2018 until Deincluding new projects to optimize and R$7.4 mi the company expanded its customer company’s innovation culture, optimize include the Connected Plants 2.0 cember 2019, the company’s share capture synergies among different base and now offers state-of-the-art internal processes, and create a conand Our Steps projects, which have price appreciated 118%. CESP holds generation sources. Company funds: consumer solutions. tinuous value stream for all customers. deployed technology in management a concession to operate three hyTo reinforce its position as a leadR$4.3 mi In 2019, the company ranked Over the next few years, Votoranprocesses to reduce machinery downdroelectric power plants in Brazil’s ing renewable power company and one Southeast, with a combined installed Votorantim Institute: again as the largest electricity trading tim Energia plans to expand its client time for maintenance and to improve of Brazil’s largest trading platforms, companies in Brazil, with a transacted base in the trading and services segasset reliability. capacity of 1.7 gigawatts. (Find out VE has redesigned its institutional R$3.1 mi volume of 2.2 average gigawatts. In ments. To achieve that, the company’s In generation, the joint venture more at cesp.com.br) brand identity, which was unveiled at 1 Value under the management Votorantim Energia’s consolidated the end of 2019. This new positionof Votorantim Institute results for 2019 include the trading ing represents the readiness of the and services segment and, by the company to respond to the challenges equity method, the joint venture with of the energy sector and to create, CPPIB. Votorantim Energia ended the together with its clients, strategies Joint Venture2: year with net revenue of R$4.2 billion and solutions that will power their and adjusted EBITDA of R$50 million, a businesses. Net revenue: R$2 bn Adjusted EBITDA: R$1 bn 2 50% Votorantim Energia and 50% CPPIB 58 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 59 cility, a type of facility that reduces more than 1,200 volunteers and nexaresources.com environmental impacts as well as benefited over 32,000 people. The Net revenue: operational risks. company also announced a strategic Nexa currently has 47 tailing cooperation alliance with the UnitUS$2.3 bn storage facilities, with 23 in Brazil ed Nations Development Program 2019 was a challenging year for the by extraordinary expenses of the Nexa the company’s capacity by 21%. The and 24 in Peru, which are controlled (UNDP), reaffirming its commitment to Adjusted EBITDA: entire commodities industry due to Way program. project has implemented best-practice and monitored in accordance with communities in its areas of influence the various political and economic deDespite these factors, financial safety standards, vanguard environguidelines established by the Internaand according to the Sustainable US$349 mi velopments that negatively impacted leverage, measured by debt ratio net/ mental practices, and operational tional Commission on Large Dams. In Development Goals (SDGs). base metal prices. For Nexa Resources, adjusted EBITDA of the last twelve stability, including the use of dry-stack 2019, siren systems were installed in Innovation was another aspect Social investment1: one of the five largest zinc producers months, ended the year at 2.26x, due waste piles and close to 100% water operations in Brazil, and training and that set the tone for the year. Regin the world, it was no different. Due to the lower adjusted EBITDA and the reutilization. mass evacuation drills were held with istration began for the third stage of R$57.2 mi to the drop in metal prices on the increase in net debt. In 2019 Nexa acquired Karmin, significant participation from local the Mining Lab Challenge, a program Company funds: London Metal Exchange (LME), the Development of the underground which indirectly holds the remaining communities. that supports entrepreneurs looking company recorded net revenue of polymetallic mine in Aripuanã, Mato 30% interest in the Aripuanã project, The company has been developing to develop technology projects for R$56.5 mi US$2.3 billion. The adjusted EBITDA Grosso state, has continued to progsecuring 100% ownership of the a project to transform its organithe mining and metals industry. Unlike Votorantim Institute: was US$349 million, reflecting the ress and the mine is expected to be project. Progress was also made on zational culture, called Nexa Way, the previous two editions, this year R$0.7 mi reduction in prices and the increase operational by 2021. The project deepening the Vazante Mine in Minas which aims to increase productivity the Mining Lab Challenge became an in operating costs in mines, partially has an estimated average production Gerais, which has completed the and competitiveness, focusing on ongoing program and was open for 1 Value under the management of Votorantim Institute offset by the lowest average cost of capacity of 120,000 metric tons of pumping station and the beginning innovation and improving process registrations throughout the year. smelters. This result was also impacted zinc equivalent per year, increasing of the dry-stack tailings storage faefficiency company-wide. Since the program was first launched, In governance, the Board of DiNexa has captured 599 projects across rectors welcomed new members that different areas, including the circular will add with their experience from economy, renewable energy, industrial working with global players both within automation, nanotechnology, effluent and outside the basic metals indusand water management, artificial try. Another important development intelligence, logistics, legal knowledge was the creation of a Sustainability management, mineral exploration, Committee to support the company employer branding and local and to adopt and monitor sustainable and social development. Until 2019, 31 safe business practices. companies have been selected to Progress was also made in engagedevelop transformation projects in ment with communities surrounding countries such as Canada, Israel, Chile, the company’s operations, through a the United States, Brazil, and Peru. volunteering program that mobilized 60 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 61 irrigation, and pest control. A prime life into wood chips that are used in citrosuco.com.br example of this is the deployment the company’s industrial boilers and of biological control against citrus the surplus sold on the market. In Net revenue: pests and diseases, such as the use of Tamarixia adiate wasps against citrus partnership with Votorantim Energia, Citrosuco has also invested in wind US$1.2 bn Citrosuco is one of the global declined primarily as a result of a resulting in the launch of new prodgreening, one of the biggest threats power capacity which should supply leaders in orange juice production. The growing sense of increasing global ucts, expanding markets and adding to citrus groves. 50% of the company’s industrial elecEBITDA: company processes 100% of orange components into natural ingredients supply as production recovered in Florida, Brazil’s primary competing value to customers. As a result of the development The company also follows a solid path towards agribusiness developtricity demand. In road transportation of orange juice, partnerships with loUS$148 mi that support a global trend of replacing geography. This affected the compaof products and applications, new ment sustainable and holds a promigistics companies have demonstrated nonrenewable with renewable raw ny’s results, with Citrosuco ending the solutions are already available at innent position in sharing good practices the feasibility of gas-fueled engines, Social investment1: materials, serving industries such as cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and 2018/2019 season with net revenue of US$1.2 billion, down 13% on the dustrial scale, like the orange smoothie and the orange emulsion essence throughout its production chain, which allows the company to have more than which could provide both cost savings and environmental benefits—including R$1.1 mi cleaning products. 2017/2018 season. EBITDA fell by based on 100% natural orange juice, half of all its production audited in a 15% reduction in both kilometer run Company funds: Due to declining demand for or50% to US$148 million in the period. used to highlight the freshness and sustainable agriculture. and CO2 emissions compared with a R$500,000 ange juice in Europe and the United Despite the adverse scenarios and naturalness of other juices and drinks. Within its efforts toward a transidiesel vehicle. States—the world’s largest consumer aware of the constant changes and Concurrently with its development tion to a low carbon economy, CitroThese actions, together with genVotorantim Institute: markets—Brazilian exports in the challenges of the global market, the of new products, Citrosuco has also suco has made important investments uine care for people and communities R$600,000 2018/2019 season declined by 20% company maintained its growth strateinvested in developing technologies in generating renewable energy, with where the company operates and the 1 Value under the management compared with the previous season. gy, investing more than US$140 million for the production process including impacts extending beyond its opersecurity of the food produced, support of Votorantim Institute International orange juice prices also in project development and innovation, scanning, telemetry, connectivity, ations. In a pioneering initiative, the the commitment that Citrosuco has to company has processed orange trees achieve 100% sustainable production that are felled at the end of their useful until 2030. 62 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 63 Constructive Disagreement, which CBA has two water impoundment cba.com.br support a range of worldviews. The dams, two tailings dams and two for company’s people-oriented initiatives industrial waste at its operations in Net revenue: earned it a position among the Top 150 Workplaces in Brazil, a ranking Alumínio, São Paulo state; Itamarati de Minas and Miraí, Minas Gerais state; R$5.3 bn The aluminum market was highly Despite the challenging conditions, and long-term strategy. This exercise published by Great Place to Work and Niquelândia, Goiás state. In 2019 challenging in 2019. An economic slowCBA continued to advance its cultural resulted in a map of opportunities to (GPTW) based on a global survey of the company organized scheduled Adjusted EBITDA: organizational practices. down and a global decline in consumption in the industrial and automotive sectors, transformation and to improve efficiency gains through a now-mature be prioritized. Some of the outcomes from the program can already be seen Meanwhile, CBA continued to focus emergency evacuation drills at its Alumínio and Minas Gerais operaR$862 mi combined with trade tensions between Competitiveness Management area, within the company, such as the use on the social and environmental astions, involving different municipal China and the U.S., affected aluminum which has helped to set the tone for of artificial intelligence, automation, pects of its operations. The company authorities and local communities. Social investment1: created a Sustainability Committee to All operations are compliant with the prices on the London Metal Exchange (LME), that came to present levels below the transformation journey at the company and contributed to mitigating analytics systems, virtual training and logistics solutions. embed sustainability considerations dam safety guidelines established R$6.3 mi 2018. These market dynamics coupled the impacts from declining LME prices CBA also continued to support in decision-making; as well as a Suswithin the Integrated Dam Safety Company funds: with a slow recovery in the Brazilian on the results in the period. Progress diversity by building a roadmap of tainability department responsible for Management System, adopted by strengthening relations with society CBA to ensure the physical integrity of R$4.9 mi market, affected CBA’s results. The also continued on the CBA 4.0 journey, initiatives that were implemented company reported a reduction of 13% which aims to make the company throughout the year, designed to and addressing, at a corporate level, their dams, as well as have Dam Safety Votorantim Institute: in sales volume (351,000 tons), net increasingly competitive by developing demonstrate the value of diversity issues such as tailings dams, safety, Plans (Plano de Segurança de Barragens, R$1.4 mi revenue of R$5.3 billion and adjusted an understanding of technological in achieving improvement across the environment and health. In what PSB) and Emergency Response Plans EBITDA of R$862 million, stable figures needs and trends applying that knowlthe elements of its organizational was an important milestone in this (Plano de Atendimento a Emergência, 1 Value under the management of Votorantim Institute when compared to 2018. edge in the company’s short, medium culture—especially Teamwork and area in the year, the company rePAE) in place. ceived international certification from In-line with its long-term strategy the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative for the Downstream Business, the (ASI), which sets global standards company announced the acquisition of for sustainability performance in the the Arconic Inc. operation in Itapissualuminum industry. With this certima, Pernambuco, northeastern state fication, CBA has become the first in Brazil, with a production capacity of aluminum producer in the Americas to 50,000 tons per year of aluminum foil warrant three mining operations and a and sheet. The new operation will add fully integrated industrial plant (from to CBA’s range of flat-rolled products bauxite to final product), including and improve the competitiveness of all its products, as well as its offices locally produced products against in São Paulo within the categories imports. The deal was concluded in Performance Standard and Chain of January 2020. Custody. About this report 64 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 65 measure the level of team satisfaction duction, which will entail discontinuing acerbrag.com with the workplace environment and nonstrategic operations such as the Net revenue: pazdelrio.com.co inform future people management production and marketing of fertilizers. initiatives. With 95% of employees The year also showed significant R$2.1 bn responding, indicators for Confident achievements in social management. and General Perception received overAcerías Paz del Río received the NaAdjusted EBITDA: Long Steel all scores of 61 and 64 (on a scale of cional Camacol award for Corporate R$456 mi zero to 100). Social Responsibility in the Community In Colombia, the operational instaEngagement category, in recognition Votorantim’s Long Steel operations bility of the blast furnace at Acerías of its Redes project to strengthen include Acerbrag, in Argentina, and Paz del Río resulted in a one-month agricultural supply chains in the muSocial investment1: Acerías Paz del Río, in Colombia, both shutdown that affected results even nicipality of Ubalá. Another highlight R$2 mi of which have an operating history of after restart. To prevent recurrence, was the Best Social Partner award 1 Value under the management more than 50 years in their respective the company approved an investment the company received in recognition of Votorantim Institute geographies. In 2019, the combined program for 2020 that will fund a of its supplier management practices. operations generated net revenue of broader operational program comThis recognition is a testament to R$2.1 billion , stable when compared prising a range of individual projects the company’s continued efforts to with the previous year, and adjusted across three fronts: cost reduction advance social programs throughout EBITDA of R$456 million, an increase through contract renegotiation and 2019. A total of 1,400 new benefiof 19% over 2018. other measures; accelerated investciaries were reached in the year, and In Argentina, the political and ments to stabilize operations, including initiatives attained a satisfaction rate economic environment remained equipment replacement with new of 90%. challenging as the extended crisis equipment; and a focus on steel procontinued to affect the country’s primary economic indicators, with annual inflation of 54% and significant weakening of the local currency. These factors, however, positively impacted on prices in Argentine pesos and, coupled with cost reductions, resulted in higher adjusted EBITDA in the year. In the operational environment, the crisis led to a reduction in production capacity in response to declining demand, especially in the second half of the year. Acerbrag made further headway on people management practices, with the validation of a succession plan for the Executive Board on the Board of Directors, and the introduction of Individual Development Plans (Plano de Desenvolvimento Individuais, PDIs). Also in 2019, the company conducted an organizational environment survey to 66 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 67 About this Report nance teams of the portfolio companies, In 2019, Votorantim worked with an external finance and sustainability specialists, advisor to conduct an assessment on demands scholar specialists, and local and interfrom financial services stakeholders in relation national market investors. to environmental, social and governance (ESG) 102-53 | 102-55 • Analysis of data and information collectissues. The assessment was based on methodComments, criticism or suggestions: report has been prepared in accordance with ed from the documents and interviews. ologies recommended by the leading providers relatoriovsa@votorantim.com the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Stanof sustainability indexes, ESG consulting firms dards, Core option, and guidelines issued by Given the diversity of the business portfolio, in Brazil and globally, and initiatives such as Throughout this report for 2019, Votoranthe International Integrated Reporting Council the topics were structured as follows: the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the tim aims to present to its stakeholders the (IIRC). It also references the applicable United a. Material for both Votorantim and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disevolution of the portfolio management, Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals portfolio companies, and closure (TCFD). By intersecting all of this with achievements and challenges in the year, (SDGs). The report has undergone limited b. Specific material for each business in the previously identified material topics and 102-54 | 102-56 as well as the consolidated economic and assurance by PwC. the portfolio. Votorantim and its invested companies’ way financial results audited by PwC. This report of operating, a list was developed of priorities, also briefly describes the operating, social Compared to the previous report published The materiality was approved by Votoranneeding to be addressed in the investment and environmental performance of the in March 2019, there have been no changes tim’s Executive Board, and identified topics strategy, in communications with stakeholders portfolio companies—Votorantim Cimento the report boundary or scope, or any provide the basis for this report’s content and in the reporting of company indicators in tos, banco BV, Votorantim Energia, Nexa, restatements of information from previous and GRI indicators reported on. the Annual Report. Citrosuco (relative to the season beginning 102-48 | 102-49 | 102-51 periods. July 2018 and ending June 2019), CBA, Acerbrag and Paz del Río. 102-45 | 102-50 The online and complete version of this Material for Votorantim and the portfolio companies | 102-52 document is available on a microsite, and ESTRATEGY AND RESULTS GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL includes the Consolidated Financial StateLong-term vision Ethics and Climate change Health and safety Published in its ninth consecutive edition, the ments and GRI Content Index. compliance Capital allocation Water resources Community Best corporate relations Financial governance practices performance Corporate risk management Materiality 102-4 | 102-15 | 102-21 | 102-32 | 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-46 | 102-47 Specifically material for the portfolio companies A materiality assessment is a process to exercise that involved three stages: Votorantim Cimentos Nexa Acerbrag e Acerías Paz Energy use Tailing dams del Río identify material topics which may substan• Analysis of internal documents of VotoEnergy use banco BV Citrosuco tially influence the evaluation and decisions rantim and the portfolio companies. Innovation and costumer Land use and pesticides Reservas Votorantim relations Biodiversity and of stakeholders. In 2018, an external advisor • Interviews with Votorantim executives, CBA deforestation Votorantim Energia Energy use and tailing dams firm revisited the material topics in an members of sustainability and goverNew investments 68 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 69 GRI Disclosures Economic disclosures Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI 201-1 Value added breakdown (R$/million) 2017 2018 2019 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenues Sales of products and services 31,362 35,493 35,271 General disclosures Other operating income (expense), net Estimated loss on doubtful accounts (553) 543 (15) 6,706 (17) Total Revenues 30,809 36,021 41,960 Inputs acquired from third parties Information on employees and other workers Cost of goods sold and services provided (17,573) (21,095) (21,084) GRI 102-8 Impairment of assets 23 52 (714) Gross value added 13,259 14,978 19,302 Depreciation, amortization and depletion (2,325) (2,455) (3,067) 2019 Net value added generated by the Company 10,934 12,523 16,235 Region Value added received through transfers Other Equity in the results of investees 1,219 1,938 919 Brazil countries Total Finance income and foreign exchange losses 2,277 5,204 1,748 Own employees Total value added received through transfers 3,496 7,142 2,667 Total value added to distribute 14,430 19,665 18,902 Monthly 19,994 6,605 26,599 Hourly 4,992 2,233 7,225 Distribution of value added Trainees 11 3 14 Personnel and payroll charges 4,016 4,700 4,500 Total 24,997 8,841 33,838 Direct compensation 2,469 2,951 2,787 Interns and apprentices Benefits 600 709 647 Interns and Summer Students 811 109 920 Social charges 947 1,040 1,066 Taxes and contributions 4,522 5,119 6,254 Apprentices 584 89 673 Federal 2,491 2,276 3,200 Total 1,395 198 1,593 State 2,604 2,220 2,332 Total – Direct employees 26,392 9,039 35,431 Municipal 13 15 17 Contractors Deferred taxes (586) 608 705 Third-party capital remuneration 5,082 7,623 3,223 Permanent Contractors 3,583 6,565 10,148 Finance costs and foreign exchange losses 4,766 7,244 2,884 Total 3,583 6,565 10,148 Rentals 316 379 339 Own capital remuneration 810 2,223 4,925 Total workforce 29,975 15,604 45,579 Dividends 499 1,265 Non-controlling interest 220 208 (245) Reinvested profits (offset losses) 239 1,003 5,207 Loss on discontinued operations (148) (253) (37) Value added distributed 14,430 19,665 18,902 NOTE: • 2019 data shows restated values in accordance with accounting models of the company 70 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 71 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 205-3 Environmental disclosures 2017 2018 2019 Total number of confirmed incidents of corruption Employees dismissed or disciplined 0 2 0 0 0 0 Energy consumption within the organization (GJ) GRI 302-1 Termination or non-renewal of contracts with business partners 0 0 0 2018 2019 Total energy consumption from non-renewable sources 117,926,384 123,214,876 Lawsuits brought on by unfair competition, trust and Total energy consumption from renewable sources 29,664,142 28,849,828 monopoly practices GRI 206-1 Total energy consumption at the company 183,185,779 182,625,386 NOTES: 2017 2018 2019 • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. Nexa 0 0 0 • The energy figures reported by Votorantim Cimentos cover all of the company’s operations, except for concrete, cement, mortar, aggregates (or other) operations in Citrosuco 0 0 0 countries other than Brazil. Votorantim Energia 0 0 0 • The total energy consumption reported by CBA in this report is preliminary. Final figures Votorantim Cimentos 35 36 45 will be available in their individual report. Long Steel 0 0 0 CBA 0 0 banco BV 0 0 Reservas Votorantim 0 0 Energy intensity (GJ/t) GRI 302-3 Votorantim S.A. 0 0 Company Main products 2017 2018 2019 Nexa Zinc equivalent 14.490 14.330 16.120 Cement 2.660 2.686 2.650 Aggregates 031 027 020 Votorantim Concrete 0.143 0.129 0.140 Cimentos Mortar 074 069 040 Limes and agricultural inputs 000 2.187 020 Clinker 3.350 3.533 Aluminum 4.192 3.810 Processed bauxite 072 001 072 Nickel carbonate 113.477 CBA Electrolytic nickel 57.380 Metalex (aluminium) 4.640 Molten aluminum 81.910 83.690 84.942 72 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 73 Company 2017 2018 2019 Habitats protected or restored 2018 GRI 304-3 Main products Bars 2.777 Areas where the success of Wires 0.260 protection/restoration measures was approved by independent Wire rod 1.306 external professionals, Mesh 0.301 or that comply with external Long steel Biome Total area (km²) standards/protocols Nail 018 Amazon 28.7 28.7 Steel (rolled) 1.340 Caatinga 4.7 4.7 Steel (bar) 2.860 58.0 77.617 Savanna (Cerrado) 521.8 521.8 Mineral (iron, limestone, carbon) 071 Atlantic Forest 734.2 184.1 Tropical wetland (Pantanal) 1.7 1.7 NOTES: • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco. Pampa 4.2 4.2 Other 0.1 0.1 • Data includes renewable and non-renewable energy sources and operations outside and Total 1,295.5 745.4 inside the organization. • Not applicable for Votorantim Energia, banco BV, Reservas Votorantim and Votorantim S.A. • The total energy consumption reported by CBA in this report is preliminary. Final figures Total area by company (km²) 2017 2018 2019 will be available in their individual report. Long steel 1,848.2 1,848.2 0.1 Citrosuco 175.3 134.8 175.3 Nexa 58.4 56.2 16.7 Reservas Votorantim 308.0 299.4 310 Water withdrawal by source GRI 303-1 CBA 351.6 331.5 624.0 Votorantim Cimentos 117.2 113.6 113.6 Votorantim Energia 57.8 57.0 55.9 Total water use by source 2017 2018 2019 Total 2,916.5 992.5 1,295.5 Surface water (rivers, lakes, wetlands, oceans) 222,401,322.0 60,680,105.1 68,160,068.1 Ground water 106,930,958.5 122,617,573.1 130,239,651.6 NOTES: • Protected or restored habitats are located in Brazil (in the states of BA, CE, DF, GO, MG, Rainwater collected directly and stored by the company 8,524,679.7 9,614,774.6 4,588,048.2 MT, MS, PE, PA, PI, PR, RJ, RO, RS, SC, SP and TO) and in Colombia (in the province of Waste water from another organization 0 4,620,554.0 0 Boyacá). Water utilities 827,914.0 828,710.2 926,865.2 • Not applicable for Votorantim S.A. Total 338,684,874.2 198,361,716.9 203,914,633.1 NOTES: • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. • The energy figures reported by Votorantim Cimentos cover all of the company’s operations, except for concrete, mortar, aggregates (or other) operations in countries other than Brazil. 74 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 75 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) GRI 305-1 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) GRI 305-2 Gases Gases Gases included included included Company Gases included in the calculation 2019 in the calin the calin the calLong steel CO2 CH4 178,233.1 Company culation 2017 culation 2018 culation 2019 Citrosuco CO2 CH4 N2O 30,663.0 CO2 CH4 N20 Nexa CO2 633,287.0 HFCs PFCs CO2 CH4 N20 Long steel CO2 CH4 N20 1,503,440 SF6 NF3 926,126.0 HFCs SF6 1,186,269.1 Votorantim Cimentos CO2 665,973.8 Citrosuco CO2 CH4 N20 431,964.0 CO2 CH4 N20 470,687.0 CO2 CH4 N20 528,522.6 CBA CO2 CH4 N20 HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 9,894.1 CO2 CH4 N20 Votorantim Energia CO2 28.5 Nexa CO2 CH4 N20 165,354.0 CF4 201,024.0 CO2 CH4 N20 251,460.3 Total 1,518,079.4 Votorantim NOTES: Cimentos CO2 CH4 N20 21,883,318.0 CO2 CH4 N20 22,568,591.7 CO2 CH4 N20 19,215,648.0 • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A., banco BV and Reservas Votorantim. CO2 CH4 N20 CO2 CH4 N20 CO2 CH4 N20 HFCs PFCs HFCs PFCs • The energy figures reported by Votorantim Cimentos cover all of the company’s operations, except for concrete, cement, mortar, aggregates (or other) operations in CBA PFCs 1,387,085.0 SF6 1,370,377.5 SF6 1,259,208.4 countries other than Brazil. Votorantim Energia 29,092.5 CO2 CH4 N2O 99,588.3 • The total greenhouse gas emissions reported by CBA in this report are preliminary. Final Total 25,371,161.0 25,565,898.6 22,540,696.6 figures will be available in their individual report. NOTE: • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A., banco BV and Reservas Votorantim. • Data reported by Votorantim Cimentos cover all of the company’s operations, except for concrete, cement, mortar, aggregates (or other) operations in countries other than Brazil. • The total greenhouse gas emissions reported by CBA in this report are preliminary. Final figures will be available in their individual report. 76 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 77 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) GRI 305-3 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (GEE) (tCO2eq/t) GRI 305-4 Company Gases included in the calculation 2019 Main Product 2017 2018 2019 Company Nexa CO2 132,997.2 Cement 0.633 0.622 0.591 Votorantim Cimentos CO2 CH4 N20 583,525.6 Aggregates 002 001 001 CBA CO2 CH4 N20 HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 24,970.3 Votorantim Cimentos Concrete 010 009 009 Votorantim Energia CO2 CH4 N20 230.4 Mortar 074 002 003 Reservas CO2 106.5 Limes 088 0.487 076 Total 741,829.9 Nexa Zinc equivalent 0.820 0.822 1.470 Steel (bar) 1.020 3.070 NOTES: Bars 0.696 0.870 • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim S.A., Long steel, banco BV and Reservas Votorantim. Long steel Wires 13.298 000 Wire rod 1.567 000 • The energy figures reported by Votorantim Cimentos cover all of the company’s Construction mesh 6.621 8.000 operations, except for concrete, cement, mortar, aggregates (or other) operations in countries other than Brazil. Ecotourism Services 039 Food and • The total greenhouse gas emissions reported by CBA in this report are preliminary. Final Accommodation figures will be available in their individual report. Reservas Services and space rent 002 Sapling and forest restoration 001 Aluminum 0.229 0.219 000 Processed bauxite 004 003 000 Nickel carbonate 6.515 000 Electrolytic nickel 1.688 000 CBA Molten aluminum 3.714 3.905 000 Primary products 000 000 4.210 Blast furnace Molten aluminium 000 000 2.555 NOTES: • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim Energia, banco BV and Votorantim S.A. • Data includes renewable and non-renewable energy sources and operations outside and inside the organization. • CBA adapted its categorization to the standards used by the global market, in order to ensure comparability. 78 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 79 Total water discharge (m³) GRI 306-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI 308-1 Total water discharge 2017 2018 2019 Total discharged volume 319,043,106.6 152,557,874.6 190,241,652.8 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 2017 2018 2019 NOTE Total number of new suppliers 10,244 8,286 5,527 • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. Total number of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria 1,544 379 823 Percentage of new suppliers screened 15.1% 4.6% 15% NOTE: Waste by type and disposal method (t) GRI 306-2 • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco and Votorantim Cimentos. Non-hazardous waste 2017 2018 2019 Composting 56,981.0 80,626.3 39,574.8 Reuse 989,736.0 113,417.0 47,859.0 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Recycling 852,786.0 65,482.8 229,087.0 actions taken GRI 308-2 Recovery, including energy recovery 4,272.0 3,830.4 5,400.3 Incineration (mass burn) 440 2,074.3 816.3 New suppliers that were screened using Landfill 257,663.0 50,440.5 161,987.0 environmental criteria 2017 2018 2019 Deep well injection 0 0 0 Total number of suppliers 99,284 27,641 23,312 On-site storage 161,995.0 52,273.4 52,738.0 Total number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 7,120 1,155 557 Other 1,852,468.0 1,623,509.2 1,442,440.6 Percentage of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 7.2% 4.2% 2.4% Total 4,176,341.0 1,991,653.9 1,979,902.9 NOTE: • Assessments informed by audits, contractual reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and grievance mechanisms. Hazardous waste 2017 2018 2019 • The data reported by Votorantim Cimentos include only operations in Brazil. Composting 0 • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco. Reuse 2,645.0 8,904.5 2,995.9 Recycling 19,373.0 2,265.4 3,436.0 Recovery, including energy recovery 15,170 9,437.6 360.8 Incineration (mass burn) 2,430 606.5 761.1 Landfill 12,762.0 7,920 6,347.6 Deep well injection 0 0 0 On-site storage 60,832.0 134.6 1,711.9 Other 13,365.0 2,717.6 15,917.2 Total 126,577.0 31,986.1 31,530.5 NOTES: • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. • banco BV reports only the amount of waste sent for recycling and generated on construction site. 80 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 81 Social disclosures Occupational health and safety indicators GRI 403-2 2017 Own employees Contractors New employee hires and employee turnover GRI 401-1 Occupational health and safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Hours/men worked 35,588,531 105,320,651 Gender Age Range Number of injuries 117 431 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Number of fatalities 3 0 6 10 2018 Men Women years old years old years old Number of lost days 2,517 5,775 New hires 4,303 1,520 2,977 2,437 409 Employees 27,849 6,139 6,535 22,085 5,368 Termination of employment 4,644 1,398 2,078 3,022 942 2018 Percentage of new hires 15.5% 24.8% 45.6% 11.0% 7.6% Own employees Contractors Turnover 16.7% 22.8% 31.8% 13.7% 17.5% Occupational health and safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Hours/men worked 18,974,315 63,193,343 Gender Age Range Number of injuries 32 74 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Number of fatalities 0 1 0 4 2019 Men Women years old years old years old Number of lost days 1,597 3,095 New hires 4,015 1,787 2,815 2,768 219 Employees 27,526 6,318 6,390 22,159 5,295 Termination of employment 4,505 1,569 1,998 3,237 839 2019 Percentage of new hires 14.6% 28.3% 44.1% 12.5% 4.1% Own employees Contractors Occupational health and Turnover 16.4% 24.8% 31.3% 14.6% 15.8% safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Hours/men worked 18,520,875 64,448,150 Number of injuries 68 112 Number of fatalities 1 0 1 0 Number of lost days 10,882 3,128 82 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 83 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI 404-1 Diversity of Employees in each category GRI 405-1 Employee category Gender 2017 2018 2019 Age Group % Gender % Women 9.2 0 0 30 to 50 Senior management Men 8.0 5.2 4.0 Position -30 years years +50 years Men Women Women 11.4 17.4 9.7 Senior management 0 50 50 90.7 9.3 Middle management Men 15.7 24.2 13.3 Middle management 1.4 80.9 17.8 80.7 19.3 Women 15.7 26.7 8.1 Coordinators/Advisers 10.6 78.6 10.9 70 30 Coordinator/Adviser Men 16.8 27.5 13.5 Technicians/Analysts/Supervisors 21.5 68.7 9.8 66.9 33.1 Women 25.4 21.6 6.7 Trainee 150 178.6 42.9 42.9 57.1 Technicians/Analysts/Supervisors Men 24.2 29.8 6.8 Operational 19.8 61.7 18.2 88.4 11.6 Women 0 0 0 Interns 97.7 2.3 0 45.1 54.9 Trainee Men 0 0 0 Apprentices 99.1 0.9 0 59.4 40.6 Women 9.2 17.6 0 Total 22.5 62.6 14.9 80 20 Operational Men 12.3 17.2 0 Women 0 45.2 0 Interns Men 0 83.6 0 Women 0 23.6 0 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria GRI 414-1 Apprentices Men 0 27.2 0 2017 2018 2019 Labor practices Total number of new suppliers 10,244 8,286 5,527 Diversity of governance bodies GRI 405-1 New suppliers screened using criteria relative to labor practices 2,601 434 2,342 Percentage of new suppliers screened 25.4% 5.2% 42.4% Company’s minority groups 2017 2018 2019 Impacts on society Employees over 50 years old 6,174 5,370 5,295 Total number of new suppliers 10,244 8,286 5,527 Women 7,710 7,092 6,318 New suppliers screened using criteria relative to impacts on society 1,097 198 814 Governance members gender 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of new suppliers screened 10.7% 2.4% 14.7% Men 134 89 104 Human rights Women 12 18 19 Total number of new suppliers 10,244 8,286 5,527 New suppliers screened using human rights criteria 1,261 1,567 1,974 Percentage of new suppliers screened 12.3% 18.9% 35.7% Governance members age 2017 2018 2019 NOTE: Under 30 years old 0 0 0 • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco. 30 and 50 years old 61 49 57 • The data reported by Votorantim Cimentos include only operations in Brazil. Over 50 years old 85 58 56 84 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 85 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 406-1 action taken GRI 414-2 Discrimination cases 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Harassment and abuse of power 53 51 44 Labor practices Other incidents (race, age and nationality) 12 6 4 Total number of suppliers 99,284 27,641 23,312 Other incidents (discrimination and retaliation) 118 89 108 Suppliers assessed for labor practices 6,646 5,204 12,028 Total number of discrimination cases 183 146 156 Percentage of suppliers assessed 6.7% 18.8% 51.6% Impacts on society Total number of suppliers 99,284 27,641 23,312 Incidents of discrimination 2017 2018 2019 Suppliers assessed for impacts on society 5,827 263 1,586 Complaints received by the Ombudsman 183 92 156 Percentage of suppliers assessed 5.9% 1.0% 6.8% Complaints with grounds 67 54 79 Human rights NOTE: Total number of suppliers 99,284 27,641 23,312 • Votorantim Cimentos figures are related to cases of discrimination recorded by the Ethics Suppliers assessed for human rights issues 19,535 13,026 10.443 Line in 2019. Percentage of suppliers submitted assessed 19.7% 47.1% 44.8% NOTES: • This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco. Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents • The data reported by Votorantim Cimentos include only operations in Brazil. of child labor GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have Operations with local community engagement, impact significant risk for incidents of child labor and/ or young workers exposed to hazardous work 2017 2018 2019 assessments and development programs GRI 413-1 Votorantim S.A., Votorantim Cimentos, banco BV, Votorantim Energia, CBA, Nexa, Citrosuco, Aços Longos e Reservas Votorantim 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 NOTE: Total operations 436 357 433 • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim Cimentos. Operations with community engagement 142 142 201 Percentage of operations with local community engagement 32.6% 39.8% 46.4% NOTE: • This indicator is not reported by banco BV. 86 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 87 Operations and suppliers with significant risk for Operations that have been subject to human rights incidentes of forced or compulsory labor GRI 409-1 reviews or impact assessments GRI 412-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have 2017 2018 2019 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2017 2018 2019 Total number of operations (Brazil and abroad) 413 383 404 Votorantim S.A., Votorantim Cimentos, banco BV, Votorantim Operations subject to reviews 73 65 64 Energia, CBA, Nexa, Citrosuco, Aços Longos e Reservas Votorantim 0 0 0 Percentage of operations subject to reviews 17.7% 17.0% 15.8% NOTE: • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim Cimentos. banco BV 2017 2018 2019 Total number of operations (Brazil and abroad) 3,434 1,390 1,420 banco BV 2018 2019 Operations subject to reviews 1,034 717 458 Number of operations with significant risk for incidents of forced Percentage of operations subject to reviews 30.1% 51.6% 32.3% or compulsory labor 297 168 NOTE: Number of suppliers with significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 141 23 • banco BV considered the number of clients that entered the flow in 2019 with socioenvironmental risk analysis in 2019. The bank reported the total number of clients NOTE: analyzed in 2019 by the socio-environmental risk area and had activities under sectors • banco BV considered the number of clients that entered the flow in 2019 with sociowith risks of engaging in forced labor. environmental risk analysis in 2019. The bank reported the total number of clients analyzed in 2019 by the socio-environmental risk area and had activities under sectors with risks of engaging in forced labor. 88 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 89 Global GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI 102: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Votorantim S.A. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services The Investment Holding Company, p. 12 102-3 Location of headquarters The Investment Holding Company, p. 12 102-4 Location of operations The Investment Holding Company, p. 12 Portfolio, p. 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form The Investment Holding Company, p. 12 102-6 Markets served The Investment Holding Company, p. 12; Center of Excellence (CoE), p. 44 102-7 Scale of the organization The Investment Holding Company, p. 12; 2019 Results, p. 40 Yes 102-8 Information on employees and other workers This indicator consolidates the data from the portfolio companies, which follow their own premises and has autonomy in the management of their data, preventing the reporting from some segregations. All employees reported are considered permanent. The Investment Holding Company, p. 12; General Disclosures, p. 244 102-9 Supply chain This report shows Votorantim S.A.’s management structure. Information on the supply chain of each portfolio company and its specificities are available in their own reports. Risk Management, p. 35 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Message from the Board of Directors, p. 2; Message from the Executive Board, p. 5; 2019 Highlights, p. 8 Yes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Risk Management, p. 35 Yes 102-12 External initiatives We have been, since 2011, signatories to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, which mobilizes businesses worldwide to adopt fundamental and globally accepted values on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Information on each investee’s external initiatives can be found on their own reports. 102-13 Membership of associations JOÃO MIRANDA: Member of Amcham’s Board of Directors ANA PAULA DE MEDEIROS CARRACEDO Chairman of Amcham’s Compliance and Risk Management Committee Member of the Brazilian Committee and coordinator of the Anti-Corruption Work Group, both from UN Global Compact’s Member of the Corporate Governance Congress Commission of the Corporate Governance Brazilian Institute (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa, IBGC) DAVID CANASSA Member of São Paulo Federation of Industries (Federação das Indústrias do Estado de São Paulo, Fiesp) Superior Council for the Environment (Conselho Superior de Meio Ambiente, COSEMA) MAURICIO MUSSI Member of Amcham’s Tax Efficiency Work Group Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the Board of Directors, p. 2; Message from the Executive Board, p. 5; 102-15 Main impacts, risks, and opportunities The Investment Holding Company, p. 12; Innovation, p. 46; Materiality, p. 68 90 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 91 Global GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI 102: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Votorantim DNA, p. 13 Yes 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance, p. 34 Yes Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance model, p. 30 102-19 Delegating authority Governance model, p. 30 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social Governance model, p. 30 topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Materiality, p. 68 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Board Members, p. 33 Yes 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board Members, p. 33 Yes 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Governance model, p. 30 102-25 Conflicts of interest Compliance, p. 34 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Governance model, p. 30 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Governance model, p. 30 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Governance model, p. 30 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk Management, p. 35 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Governance model, p. 30 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Materiality, p. 68 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality, p. 68 Yes 102-42 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage Materiality, p. 68 Yes 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality, p. 68 Yes 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Materiality, p. 68 Yes Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About this report, p. 68 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality, p. 68 102-47 List of material topics Materiality, p. 68 Yes 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in the list of material topics and topic boundaries About this report, p. 68 102-50 Reporting period About this report, p. 68 Yes 102-51 Date of most recent previous report About this report, p. 68 2018, publicado em março de 2019 Yes 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report, p. 68 Yes 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report, p. 68 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report, p. 68 Yes 102-55 GRI content index About this report, p. 68 102-56 External assurance The hiring of the independent auditing company responsible for ensuring the Annual Report is carried out in accordance with the limits established by Votorantim S.A.’s corporate governance. About this report, p. 68 Yes 92 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 93 Omission Part omitted Reason ExplaGlobal GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link nation Compact SDGs OECD Assurance Material topics GRI 200 Standards Economic Series Economic Performance GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Economic and Financial Performance, boundary p. 39 103-2 The management approach and its Economic and Financial Performance, components p. 39 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Economic and Financial Performance, p. 39 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Economic Disclosures, p. 71 Yes distributed Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Corporate Governance, Compliance and boundary Risk Management, p. 30 103-2 The management approach and its Corporate Governance, Compliance and components Risk Management, p. 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management, p. 30 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Economic Disclosures, p. 71 P. 10 VII. C ombating bribery, bribe Yes actions taken solicitation and extortion Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Corporate Governance, Compliance and boundary Risk Management, p. 30 103-2 The management approach and its Corporate Governance, Compliance and components Risk Management, p. 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management, p. 30 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Economic Disclosures, p. 71 16 X. Competition Yes 2016 behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices XI. Taxation GRI 300 Standards Environmental series Energy GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates the boundary consumption and energy intensity 103-2 The management approach and its of each invested company. For more components detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption Environmental Disclosures, p. 73 Citrosuco did not report data of 2019 in 7, 8, 12, Yes within the organization order to consolidate it with other investees’ 13, 14, 15 data. The information available is from January to December 2018. The portfolio companies have management autonomy and, therefore, Votorantim S.A. cannot affirm that the data will be available in the next reporting cycle. 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Disclosures, p. 73 P. 7, P.8, P.9 7, 8 VI. Environment 94 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 95 Omission Part omitted Reason ExplaGlobal GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link nation Compact SDGs OECD Assurance Material topics Water GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Reservas Votorantim, p. 50 boundary The indicator reported in the Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its GRI chapter consolidates the withdrawal components of water by each portfolio company by source. For more information, consult 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach their annual and sustainability reports. GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source The methodologies and standards 6 Yes for monitoring and calculating water consumption data follow the assumptions of each company of the portfolio and, therefore, may vary. Environmental Disclosures, p. 74 Biodiversity GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Reservas Votorantim, p. 50 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Reservas Votorantim, p. 50 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reservas Votorantim, p. 50 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Disclosures, p. 75 P.7, P.8, P.9 6, 13, 14, VI. Environment Yes 15 Emissions GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Reservas Votorantim, p. 50 boundary The indicator reported in the GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Disclosures consolidates the investees’s components GHG emissions by scope. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each company. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Disclosures, p. 76 Citrosuco did not report data of 2019 in 3, 12, 13, Yes order to consolidate it with other investees’ 14, 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Disclosures, p. 77 data. The information available is from 3, 12, 13, Yes January to December 2018. The portfolio 14, 15 companies have management autonomy and, 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Disclosures, p. 78 therefore, Votorantim S.A. cannot affirm that 3, 12, 13, Yes the data will be available in the next reporting 14, 15 cycle.” 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Disclosures, p. 79 P.7, P.8, P.9 13, 14, 15 VI. Environment Waste and effluents GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates the water boundary discharge and waste disposal of each 103-2 The management approach and its invested company. For more detailed components information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 306: Waste and effluents 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Environmental Disclosures, p. 80 3, 6, 12 Yes destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental Disclosures, p. 80 3, 6, 12 Yes 96 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 97 Omission Part omitted Reason ExplaGlobal GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link nation Compact SDGs OECD Assurance Material topics Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates data of suppliers boundary that were screened using environmental 103-2 The management approach and its criteria of each invested company. For components more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach each investee. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Environmental Disclosures, p. 81 Votorantim Cimentos did not report data P.7, P.8, P.9 Yes Assesment 2016 environmental criteria of 2019. The portfolio companies have management autonomy and, therefore, Votorantim S.A. cannot affirm that the data will be available in the next reporting cycle. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Environmental Disclosures, p. 81 P.7, P.8, P.9 VI. Environment Yes supply chain and actions taken GRI 400 Standards Série Social Employment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People, p. 20 boundary The report consolidates new employee 103-2 The management approach and its hires and turnover of each invested components company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach for each investee. GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee Social Disclosures, p. 82 P.3, P.6 8 V. Employment and industrial turnover relations Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates rates of injury, boundary occupational diseases, lst days, and 103-2 The management approach and its absenteeism and fatalities of each components invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach sustainability reports for each investee. GRI 403: Occupational health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Social Disclosures, p. 83 P.3, P.6 3 V. Employment and industrial Yes safety 2016 occupational diseases, lost days, and relations absenteeism, and number of work-related VI. Environment fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People, p. 20 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its People, p. 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People, p. 20 GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 verage hours of training per year per Social Disclosures, p. 84 P.3, P.6 4, 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial employee relations VI. Environment 98 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 99 Omission Part omitted Reason ExplaGlobal GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link nation Compact SDGs OECD Assurance Material topics GRI 400 Standards Social Series Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People, p. 20 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its People, p. 20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People, p. 20 GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Social Disclosures, p. 84 P.3, P.6 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial opportunity 2016 employees relations Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates incidents of boundary discrimination of each invested company. 103-2 The management approach and its For more detailed information, see the components annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Social Disclosures, p. 87 P.1, P.2, P.6 5, 16 IV. Human rights Yes corrective actions taken V. Employment and industrial relations Child labor GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates significant boundary risk for incidents of child labor of each 103-2 The management approach and its invested company. For more detailed components information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 408: Child labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Social Disclosures, p. 87 P.1, P.2, P.5 8, 16 IV. Human rights Yes risk for incidents of child labor V. Employment and industrial relations Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates significant risk boundary for incidents of forced or compulsory 103-2 The management approach and its labor of each invested company. For components more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach each investee. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Social Disclosures, p. 88 P.1, P.2, P.4 8 IV. Human rights Yes 2016 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor V. Employment and industrial relations Human rights assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates human rights boundary reviews of each invested company. For 103-2 The management approach and its more detailed information, see the components annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to Social Disclosures, p. 89 P.1, P.2 IV. Human rights Yes 2016 human rights reviews or impact assessments 100 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 101 Omission Part omitted Reason ExplaGlobal GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link nation Compact SDGs OECD Assurance Material topics Local communities GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Social Investment, p. 36 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Social Investment, p. 36 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Investment, p. 36 GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community Social Disclosures, p. 86 P.1, P.2, P.4 V. E mployment and industrial Yes engagement, impact assessments, and relations development programs VI. Environment Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The report consolidates data of suppliers boundary that were screened using social criteria 103-2 The management approach and its of each invested company. For more components detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Social Disclosures, p. 85 P.1, P.2, P.3 5, 8, 16 IV. Human rights Yes 2016 social criteria V. Employment and industrial relations VI. Environment VII. C ombating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion X. Competition 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Social Disclosures, p. 86 P.1, P.2, P.3 IV. Human rights Yes chain and actions taken V. E mployment and industrial relations VI. Environment VII. C ombating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion X. Competition Public policy GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance, p. 34 boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Compliance, p. 34 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Compliance, p. 34 GRI 415: Public policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions There were no political contributions in P. 10 VII. C ombating bribery, bribe the reporting period. solicitation and extortion 102 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 103 Consolidated financial statements Statements Consolidated balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 Consolidated statement of income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109 Consolidated statement of charges in equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 Consolidated statement of cash flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112 Consolidated statement of value added . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General Estimates and Liabilities Supplementary considerations assumptions Assets and equity Results information 1 General 4 Critical accounting 9 Cash and cash 21 Borrowing . . . . . . . . . 181 30 Net revenue from 34 Tax benefits . . . . . . . . 226 considerations . . . . . . 115 estimates and equivalents . . . . . . . . 150 22 Lease liabilities . . . . . 190 products sold and 35 Insurance . . . . . . . . . . 226 1.1 Main events that judgments . . . . . . . . . 132 10 Financial investments 151 services rendered . . . 219 23 Confirming payables . 191 36 Supplementary occurred during the year 5 Social and environmental 11 Trade receivables . . . 152 31 Expenses by nature . . 222 information – Business 24 Current and deferred of 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . 115 risk management . . . 132 32 Other operating segments . . . . . . . . . . 226 12 Inventory . . . . . . . . . . 153 income tax and social 2 Presentation of the 6 Financial risk contribution . . . . . . . 191 expenses, net . . . . . . 223 37 Subsequent events . . 242 13 Financial Instruments consolidated financial management . . . . . . . 133 33 Finance results, net . . 224 Suzano . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 25 Provision . . . . . . . . . . 195 statements . . . . . . . . 121 6.1 Financial risk factors . 133 14 Taxes recoverable . . . 155 26 Use of public assets . 205 2.1 Basis of preparation . 121 6.1.1 Derivatives 15 Related parties . . . . . 156 27 Deferred revenue 2.2 Consolidation . . . . . . 121 contracted . . . . . . . . . 138 16 Financial Instruments – obligation for 2.3 Restatement of 6.1.2 Fair value estimation . 142 performance . . . . . . . 206 firm commitment . . . 158 comparative figures . 123 6.1.3 Sensitivity analysis . . 144 17 Investments . . . . . . . . 160 28 Pension plan and 2.4 Foreign currency 7 Financial instruments post-employment translation . . . . . . . . . 128 18 Property, plant and by category . . . . . . . . 146 health care benefits . 208 equipment . . . . . . . . . 168 3 Changes in accounting 8 Credit quality of 29 Equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214 policies and 19 Intangible assets . . . . 174 financial assets . . . . . 148 disclosures . . . . . . . . . 129 20 Right of use assets . . 180 3.1 Transitions of accounting . . . . . . . . 129 3.1.1 IFRS 16 / CPC 06 – “Leases” . . . . . . . . . . . 129 3.1.2 IFRIC 23 / ICPC 22 – “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment” . . . . . 131 104 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 105 Consolidated balance sheet Note 2019 2018 As at December 31 Restated Liabilities and equity (Note 2.3) All amounts in millions of reais Current liabilities Borrowing 21 (a) 954 5.291 Lease liabilities 22 210 Note 2019 2018 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 69 166 Restated Confirming payables 23 1.415 1.312 Assets (Note 2.3) Trade payables 4.429 4.137 Current assets Salaries and payroll charges 836 845 Cash and cash equivalents 9 6.262 7.742 Taxes payable 424 490 Advances from clients 102 128 Financial investments 10 4.444 3.315 Dividends payable 15 120 482 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 62 216 Use of public assets 26 87 83 Trade receivables 11 2.196 2.546 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 81 19 Inventory 12 4.129 3.814 Deferred revenue performance obligations 27 32 242 Taxes recoverable 14 1.968 1.473 Deferred revenue silver streaming 106 124 Other liabilities 838 808 Dividends receivable 15 81 14 9.703 14.127 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 202 Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 2 108 Other assets 621 564 19.763 19.886 9.705 14.235 Assets classified as held-for-sale 4.527 Non-current liabilities Borrowing 21 (a) 18.801 19.160 19.763 24.413 Lease liabilities 22 631 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 383 78 Non-current assets Deferred income tax and social contribution 24 (b) 2.087 2.194 Long-term receivables Related parties 15 50 136 Provision 25 (a) 3.137 2.595 Financial investments 10 23 23 Use of public assets 26 1.151 1.106 Financial instruments Suzano 13 2.749 Pension plan and post-employment health care benefits 28 367 319 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 337 256 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 122 161 Derivative financial instruments put option 6.1.1 (b) 655 744 Deferred revenue performance obligations 27 29 Taxes recoverable 14 3.477 2.731 Deferred revenue silver streaming 621 650 Related parties 15 229 271 Other liabilities 761 924 Deferred income tax and social contribution 24 (b) 3.341 4.079 28.111 27.352 Judicial deposits 25 (b) 345 755 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 29 Total liabilities 37.816 41.587 Other assets 726 685 11.911 9.544 Equity Share capital 29 (a) 28.656 28.656 Revenue reserves 11.165 7.243 Investments 17 (c) 11.720 11.310 Carrying value adjustments 29 (c) 1.948 1.937 Property, plant and equipment 18 27.148 26.213 Total equity attributable to the owners of the Company 41.769 37.836 Intangible assets 19 13.283 13.492 Right-of-use assets 20 813 Non-controlling interests 29 (d) 5.138 5.623 Biological assets 85 74 Total equity 46.907 43.459 64.960 60.633 Total liabilities and equity 84.723 85.046 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Total assets 84.723 85.046 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 106 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 107 Consolidated statement of income Consolidated statement of Years ended December 31 comprehensive income All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais Note 2019 2018 Restated (Note 2.3) Note 2019 2018 Continuing operations Restated Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 30 30.907 30.931 Cost of products sold and services rendered 31 (25.812) (25.029) Profit for the year 4.925 2.310 Gross profit 5.095 5.902 Other components of comprehensive income to be subsequently Operating income (expenses) reclassified to profit or loss Selling 31 (873) (755) General and administrative 31 (2.496) (2.137) Attributable to the owners of the Company Other operating income (expenses), net 32 5.992 592 Foreign exchange variations 29 (c) 96 1.555 2.623 (2.300) Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes 29 (c) 92 (931) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 29 (c) (39) 158 Operating profit before equity results and finance results 7.718 3.602 Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets held by nonconsolidated investments 29 (c) 43 (74) Results from equity investments Realization of comprehensive results in the sale of the partipation in Equity in the results of investees 17 (c) 919 1.118 Fibria Celulose S.A. 29 (c) (15) Dividends received 820 Adjustment to the fair value of the shares held at Suzano S.A., net of Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 108 4 the tax 29 (c) (121) 1.027 1.942 Loss on capital contribution to Nexa Resources S.A 29 (c) (63) Realization of comprehensive income on the sale of interest in Nexa Finance results, net 33 Resources S.A. 29 (c) (108) Finance income 1.267 1.257 Loss on capital contribution to Acerías Paz del Rio 29 (c) (57) Finance costs (2.512) (2.529) Inflation adjustment for hyperinflationary economies 29 (c) 340 419 Result of derivative financial instruments (235) 208 Effect of deferred income tax liability on the capital gain of St. Mary's Foreign exchange losses, net (137) (976) assets 43 (1.617) (2.040) Share in other comprehensive income of investees 29 (c) (24) (1) Profit before income tax and social contribution 7.128 3.504 Attributable to non-controlling shareholders Foreign exchange variations attributable to non-controlling interests (50) 714 Income tax and social contribution 24 (a) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 3 (1) Current (1.461) (455) Share in other comprehensive income of investees 28 Deferred (705) (556) 125 1.882 Profit from continuing operations 4.962 2.493 Other components of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Discontinued operations Loss on discontinued operations (37) (183) Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the Attributable to the owners of the Company Company 4.925 2.310 Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of tax 29 (c) (133) 34 Attributable to non-controlling shareholders Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 5.170 2.102 Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of taxes (1) 2 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (245) 208 4.925 2.310 Other components of comprehensive income for the year (9) 1.918 Profit for the year Weighted average number of shares thousands (to the owners Comprehensive income (loss) from of the Company) 18.278.789 18.278.789 Continuing operations 4.953 4.411 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais 282,84 115,00 Discontinued operations (37) (183) 4.916 4.228 From continuing operations Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais 284,87 125,01 Comprehensive income attributable to Owners of the Company 5.181 3.305 From discontinued operations Non-controlling interests (265) 923 Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (2,02) (10,01) 4.916 4.228 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 108 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 109 Consolidated statement of charges in equity Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated Attributable to the owners of the Company Revenue reserves Retained Carrying Share Tax Profit (loss) value adNon-controlling Total Note capital incentives Legal retention earnings justments Total interests equity At January 1, 2018 28,656 10 684 5,875 734 35,959 4,856 40,815 Initial adoption of IFRS 9 (342) (342) (342) Initial application of FIPs, net of taxes Banco Votorantim S.A. (116) (116) (116) Inflation adjustment IAS 29 / CPC 42 419 419 419 Effect of deferred income tax liability on the capital gain of St. Mary's assets 94 43 137 137 At January 1, 2018, after the impacts of the adoption of the rules and restatements 28,656 10 684 5,875 (364) 1,196 36,057 4,856 40,913 Profit for the year 2,102 2,102 208 2,310 Other comprehensive income 741 741 715 1,456 Comprehensive income (loss) for the year 2,102 741 2,843 923 3,766 Dividends (789) (415) (1,204) (61) (1,265) Reversal of deliberate dividends 140 140 140 Share premium distribution NEXA (95) (95) Allocation of net income for the year 1,236 (1,236) Legal reserve 87 (87) Dividends Total contributions and distributions to shareholders 87 587 (1,738) (1,064) (156) (1,220) At December 31, 2018 (restated) 28,656 10 771 6,462 1,937 37,836 5,623 43,459 Profit (loss) for the year 5,170 5,170 (245) 4,925 Other comprehensive income 11 11 (20) (9) Comprehensive income (loss) for the year 5,170 11 5,181 (265) 4,916 Loss on capital increase at Karmin (188) (188) (188) Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. non-controlling interests aquisition (3) (3) Dividends 29 (b) (1,475) (1,475) (217) (1,692) Reversal of deliberate dividends 29 (b) 415 415 415 Allocation of net income for the year Legal reserve 261 (261) Profit retention 4,909 (4,909) Total contributions and distributions to shareholders 261 3,661 (5,170) (1,248) (220) (1,468) At December 31, 2019 28,656 10 1,032 10,123 1,948 41,769 5,138 46,907 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 110 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 111 Consolidated statement of cash flows Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais Note 2019 2018 Note 2019 2018 Restated Restated Cash flow from operating activities Salaries and social charges (9) (50) Profit before income tax and social contribution 7,128 3,504 Use of public assets (17) (13) Loss on discontinued operations (37) (183) Taxes payable (51) 31 Other obligations and other liabilities (502) 200 Adjustments to items that do not represent changes in cash Cash provided by operating activities 2,538 4,090 and cash equivalents Depreciation, amortization and depletion 31 3,067 2,455 Interest paid on borrowing and use of public assets (1,252) (1,461) Equity in the results of investees 17 (c) (919) (1,118) Income tax and social contribution paid (189) (614) Interest, indexation and foreign exchange variations 510 532 1,097 2,015 Provision (reversal) for the impairment of fixed, intangible assets and investments 18, 19 714 (53) Cash flow from investment activities Gain on sales of fixed and intangible assets, net 32 (8) (42) Proceeds from disposals of fixed and intangible assets 132 177 Fair value adjustment 21 (b) 22 (28) Sales of investments 8,181 419 Net loss (gain) on sales of investments 32 52 (126) Dividends received 546 1,085 Constitution of provision 98 120 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 18 (3,189) (2,567) Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 152 (162) Increase in biological assets (11) (9) Financial instruments firm commitment 16 195 132 Acquisitions of investments 17 (156) (125) Gain on transaction involving Fibria 32 (6,772) Increase in intangible assets 19 (59) (115) Net gain on financial instrument put option 6.1.1 (b) 89 (71) Income tax and social contribution paid (1,287) Gain on debt renegotiation 11 (c) 17 15 Net cash provided by (used in) investment activities 4,157 (1,135) Realization of comprehensive income on Voto IV settlement 29 (c) (108) Gain on fair value adjustment on VTRM operation (820) Cash flow from financing activities Credit of ICMS on the calculation bases of PIS and COFINS 32 (300) New borrowing 21 (b) 4,323 3,639 Change in fair value of biological assets 32 (747) (498) Repayment of borrowing 21 (b) (9,356) (5,532) 33 (69) Repayment of leasing contracts 22 (217) 3,453 3,288 Derivative financial instruments (7) (11) Decrease (increase) in assets Dividends paid (1,639) (850) Financial investments (695) 638 Nexa Resources S.A. share premium payment (95) Derivative financial instruments 136 (92) Net cash used in financing activities (6,896) (2,849) Trade accounts receivable 333 (168) Inventory (207) (293) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,642) (1,969) Taxes recoverable (494) (262) Related parties 42 (17) Effect of companies excluded from consolidation (109) Other accounts receivable and other assets 257 50 Effect of fluctuations in exchange rates 162 860 Increase (decrease) in liabilities Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of fiscal year 7,742 8,960 Trade payables 292 778 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6,262 7,742 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 112 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 113 Consolidated statement of value added Notes to the consolidated financial Years ended December 31 statements All amounts in millions of reais at December 31, 2019 All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated Note 2019 2018 Balance restated (Note 2.3) Revenue Sales of products and services 35,271 35,493 Estimated loss on doubtful accounts 11 (c) (17) (15) 1 General considerations GENERAL Other operating income, net 32 6,706 543 41,960 36,021 Inputs acquired from third parties Raw materials and other production inputs (21,014) (20,404) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (930) (604) Votorantim S.A. (the “Company”, the “parent 1.1 Main events that occurred Impairment of assets 32 (714) 52 company”, or “VSA”), is a long-term Brazilian during the year of 2019 Gross value added 19,302 15,065 holding company. With its headquarters in (a) Offer of tender and exchange Depreciation, amortization and depletion 18, 19 e 20 (3,067) (2,455) the city of São Paulo, Brazil, the Company’s offer of debt by Votorantim Net value added generated by the Company 16,235 12,610 Cements International S.A. CONSIDERATIONS purpose is to manage assets and companies, (“VCI”) Value added received through transfers as well as to invest in other companies in order Equity in the results of investees 17 (c) 919 1,938 Finance income and foreign exchange losses 1,748 5,204 to further its objectives. On January 10, 2019, the indirect subsidiary 2,667 7,142 VCI announced a tender offer of its Euro Total value added to distribute 18,902 19,752 The Company, through its subsidiaries and asbonds maturing in 2021 and 2022 and its US Distribution of value added sociates, operates in the following segments: Dollar bonds maturing in 2041. On February Personnel and payroll charges 31 (a) construction, metals and mining, aluminum, 14, 2019, the repurchase transaction was Direct remuneration 2,787 2,951 Social charges 1,066 1,040 electrical energy, long steel, agribusiness and settled, with the principal amount of R$ 269 Benefits 647 709 finance. (EUR 61 million) of the issuance maturing in 4,500 4,700 Taxes and contributions 2021, R$ 672 (EUR 152 million) maturing in Federal 3,200 2,276 2022 and R$ 2.1 billion (USD 540 million) State 2,332 2,220 Municipal 17 15 maturing in 2041, with a total cash outlay of Deferred taxes 705 608 R$ 3.3 billion. 6,254 5,119 Third-party capital remuneration Finance costs and foreign exchange losses 2,884 7,244 Rentals 339 379 Concurrently with the tender offer, VCI an3,223 7,623 nounced an exchange offer of its US DollarOwn capital remuneration Non-controlling interests (245) 208 -denominated bonds maturing in 2041 for a Reinvested profits 5,207 1,090 Loss on discontinued operations (37) (253) 4,925 2,310 Value added distributed 18,902 19,752 (i) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 114 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 115 new issue of bonds from its direct subsidiary tained a direct interest of 5.5% in the capital VCSA recorded a sum that was linked to This was made in the amount of R$ 65 (BOB St. Mary’s Inc. (Canada), maturing in 2041 of Suzano, which is considered as a financial another lawsuit, whose final decision occurred 116 million), maturing in 2025 and with fixed and with annual coupon of 7.3%. However, instrument and is now valued at fair value in at the end of 2018, in the amount of R$ 346. interest of 4.75% per year. the transaction did not meet the minimum accordance with CPC 48/IFRS 9 – “Financial conditions stipulated in the offer and, was Instruments” (Note 13). During 2019, the indirect subsidiary VotoranOn April 23, 2019, Itacamba made its second not made. tim Cimentos N / NE SA (“VCNNE”) obtained debt issue in the Bolivian capital market, in (c) CESP – Companhia Energética the final judgment recognition of two of its the amount of R$ 241 (BOB 419 million), (b) Conclusion of the menger of the de São Paulo (“CESP”) – Results actions related to a claim for ICMS exclusion with maturity in 2029 and fixed interest of operations and shareholding of the offer to employees on the PIS and COFINS calculation basis, of 5.55% per year. bases of Suzano Papel e In January 2019, as expected, the indirect as credits were recorded in its assets in the Celulose S.A. (“Suzano”) and Fibria Celulose S.A. (“Fibria”) subsidiary VTRM Energia Participações S.A. amount of R$ 312 (Note 14), R$ 195 of the The funds raised in the operations described (“VTRM”) acquired through a privatization aucprincipal (Note 32) and R$ 117 of monetary above were used to partially settle, in advance, On January 14, 2019, Suzano Papel e Celution additional shares of CESP, representing restatement (Note 33) on the initial registrathe syndicated loan in the amount of R$ 306 lose S.A. (“Suzano”) and Fibria (together with the remaining shares of the offer to employetion date. (BOB 534 million) with maturity in 2025 and Suzano, the “Companies”) jointly made public es, with a total investment of R$ 210. After fixed interest of 6.00% per year. the details of their corporate reorganization, the results of the offer to employees, VTRM During 2019, there was recognition of the final informing their shareholders and the market will hold a 40.0% stake in CESP, equivalent to judgment in a lawsuit by Companhia Brasileira On May 31, 2019, Itacamba entered into a in general that, on this date, the corporate 93.52% of the voting common shares. de Alumínio (“CBA”), related to the exclusion loan agreement with Banco BISA in the total reorganization, which was the subject of of ICMS from the PIS and COFINS calculation amount of R$ 140 (BOB 244 million), maturing the voting commitment and assumption of (d) ICMS on the basis for the base, with the asset being recorded in the in 2027 and with fixed interest of 5.55% p.a. obligations entered into on March 15, 2018, calculation of Social Integration amount of R$ 473 (Note 14), of wich R$ 256 The funds raised in the operations described Programs (“PIS”) and was completed, with the effective combination was the principal (Note 32) and R$ 217 the above were intended to prepay syndicated loan Contribution to Social Security of the operations and shareholding bases of Financing (“COFINS”) monetary restatement (Note 33). agreements in the total amount of R$ 151 Suzano and Fibria, pursuant to the protocol (BOB 262 million), with fixed interest of 6.00% and justification executed on July 26, 2018 During 2019, there was recognition of the res (e) Debt issuance by the indirect per year and maturity in 2025. and approved by the shareholders of the judicata decision in a lawsuit of the subsidiary subsidiary Itacamba Cementos S.A. (“Itacamba”) Companies at meetings held on September Votorantim Cimentos SA (“VCSA”), The lawsuit (f) CESP – Public Tender Offer 13, 2018. concerned the exclusion of ICMS from the PIS On April 4, 2019, in line with the consolida(“Tender Offer”) and COFINS calculation base, because it was ted financial liability management strategy On May 24, 2019, as a result of the acquisition At the date of the transaction, VSA recorded recorded in its credit assets in the amount aimed at lengthening VCSA’s debt profile and of control of CESP by the indirect investor the gain resulting from the transaction, in of R$ 401 (Note 14), R$ 296 of which was reducing the average cost of debt, the indiVTRM, a tender offer was held at B3, pursuant the amount of R$ 6,772, in “other operating principal (Note 32) and R$ 105 of accumulated rect subsidiary Itacamba carried out its first to which, in accordance with the terms and income (expenses), net” (Note 32). VSA mainmonetary restatement (Note 33). In addition, issuance of debt in the Bolivian capital market. conditions VTRM acquired 1 (one) ON share, 116 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 117 at the price of R$ 11.28, and 31 (thirty-one) amount of R$ 132 (EUR 30 million) maturing (j) Bond repurchase offer The operation has a swap contract (derivative class B preferred shares (“PNB”), at the price in 2021, and with fixed cost of 2.30% per year. In April 2019, the subsidiary CBA announced financial instrument) that allows both the of R$ 14.32. a tender offer on its bonds maturing in 2024. exchange of LIBOR floating rate exposure (h) Deliberation and receipt of The settlement of R$ 1,007 million (USD to CDI floating rate exposure and real dollar VTRM now holds, directly and indirectly, dividends from the Company by 256 million) occurred on May 10, 2019. currency exchange, resulting in a final cost of the investee Suzano 102,091,755 ON shares, representing appro107.00% p.a. CDI. This swap was contracted ximately 93.52% of the total ON shares On April 18, 2019, the investee Suzano an(k) Prepayments of VSA with the same financial institution as the loan and 28,928,300 PNB shares, representing nounced to its shareholders the payment of debentures (USD debt + BRL swap as % of CDI). approximately 13.72% of the total PNB shares. dividends approved at the Annual General On July 31, 2019, the Company redeemed Meeting, in the total amount of R$ 600, after early the fourth issue of debentures maturing Votorantim Cimentos used the proceeds (g) Conclusion of sale of operations the payment to the Company, proportional to on July 27, 2024. The total amount of amorfrom this funding to prepay two higher-cost, in India its interest, of the amount of R$ 33, in April tized principal totaled R$ 550. shorter-term bilateral loans totaling R$ 334, On April 16, 2019, the sale of a 75% total 30, 2019, based on the shareholding position in line with its liability strategy. Of the total stake was concluded, of which 73.4% was as at the date of that Meeting, and with an (l) Contracting of Revolving Credit amortized amount, R$ 141 is related to a loan bought by Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inveramount per share equivalent to R$ 0.44. Facility by VCI, VCEAA and from the subsidiary VCNNE and R$ 193 (EUR St Marys siones, SL (“VCEAA”) and 1.6% by VCSA, in 42.5 million) refers to a loan from subsidiary the indirect investor Shree Digvijay Cement (i) Export financing On August 1, 2019, to replace the revolving VCEAA. Company Ltda., a publicly traded company in In April and May 2019, the subsidiary CBA credit facility contracted in October 2015 in the India, for the average price of INR 15.55 per entered into loan agreements (Export Credit amount of USD 230 million maturing in October (n) Recognition of impairment loss share. On April 30, 2019, the amount of R$ 89 Notes – “NCEs”) to finance its exports in the 2020, the subsidiaries VCI, VCEAA and St. Marys The subsidiary Nexa, performing an assess(EUR 20 million) was received, related to the total amount of R$ 1,085 million, with final together with their subsidiaries, entered into a ment of the impairment indicators and the settlement of the agreed installments in the maturity in April and May 2027, respectively. new revolving credit facility with a bank syndicate recoverable amount test in accordance with sale transaction. The operations have pegged swap contracts for USD 290 million, maturing in August 2024. its anual financial standards, identified the (derivative financial instrument), which are following impairment indicators for the year The sale of the business of the subsidiary intended to exchange the exposure to the (m) Borrowing pursuant to Law ended 2019: (i) the prices of LME’s short-term VCSA and its subsidiaries in India is in line with floating rate CDI in reais to a fixed rate in US 4,131 / 1962 by the indirect averages fell compared to the previous year, subsidiary VCNNE management’s objective of exiting non-prioDollars, resulting in a weighted average cost of (ii) the useful life of some of its operations rity markets and focusing on regions where 5.00% per year. These swaps were contracted On September 11, 2019, the indirectly conwas reduced as a result of new exploratory they have the greatest potential to compete together with the financing and from the same trolled subsidiary VCNNE entered into a loan operations research; (iii) the carrying amount and expand the Company’s current business. financial institution. agreement under Law 4,131/1962 in the of the controlled assets was above the conWith the proceeds of this operation, on May amount of R$ 305 (USD 75 millions) maturing trolled market value. 8, 2019, the subsidiary VCEAA prepaid all of a on September 13, 2024, the latter being bilateral loan signed on June 27, 2016, in the released after September 13 of 2019. 118 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 119 The subsidiary’s management considered eliminate the accounting mismatch that would 2 Presentation of the consolidated financial that the combination of these indicators arise if the amortized cost were used. statements could indicate a material impact that would not be recoverable from its cash-generating (q) Remeasurement of ARO (Asset units (“CGUs”). Therefore, an estimate of the Retirement Obligation) 2.1 Basis of preparation requires management to exercise judgment entire recoverable value of the CGUs was (a) Consolidated financial in the process of applying the Company’s made. A combination of impairment indicators In December 2019, the subsidiary CBA updastatements accounting practices. The areas involving a calculates the recoverable value of their CGUs ted its environmental obligations to demobilize The financial statements have been prepahigher degree of judgment or complexity that are determining factors in recognizing a assets, in the amount of R$ 4 for the aluminum red in accordance with accounting practices or areas where assumptions and estimates loss of R$ 564 (USD 142 million). units and R$ 167 for the nickel units. The adopted in Brazil effective up to December 31, are significant to the consolidated financial subsidiary provisioned impairment for the 2019, including the pronouncements issued statements are disclosed in Note 4. (o) Revolving credit line units that are at a standstill in its operations, by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements On October 25, 2019, the subsidiary Nexa Itamarati de Minas, São Miguel Paulista and Committee (“CPC”), as well as according to (b) Approval to the financial entered into a revolving credit line agreement Niquelândia, in the amount of R$ 171. The the International Financial Reporting Stanstatements with a group of banks in the amount of USD subsidiary VCSA updated its environmental dards (“IFRS”) issued by the International The Board of Directors approved the consoli300 million, with a 5-year term and a cost of obligations to demobilize assets in the amount Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and their dated financial statements for issue on March LIBOR 3M + 1.0% per year in fundraising. This of R$ 87. interpretations (“IFRIC”), and show all relevant 3, 2020. agreement allows Nexa to use resources at any information pertinent to interim financial time to meet your cash flow needs. (r) Allocation of CESP’s purchase statements, which is consistent with that used price by the management in carrying out its duties. 2.2 Consolidation (p) Export credit note In December 2019, the purchase price allo(a) Subsidiaries On October 23, 2019, to meet its short-term cation of CESP by the indirect subsidiary The Company voluntarily discloses its consoSubsidiaries are fully consolidated from the cash needs of the indirect subsidiary Nexa BraVTRM was completed. Consequently, the lidated statement of value added, according date on which control is transferred to the sil, the subsidiary Nexa entered into an Export balances of Investment, Shareholders’ Equity to the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, Company. Credit Note contract in the principal amount and Equity equivalence, underwent changes applicable to public companies and presented of R$ 366 (USD 90 million) and LIBOR cost 3M in the amounts previously presented in the as an integral part of these financial stateTransactions, balances and unrealized gains on + 1.5% per year, maturing in 5 years. At the financial statements of December 31, 2018, ments. In accordance with international practransactions between Group companies are elisame time, the subsidiary contracted a swap as detailed in note 2.3. tice, this statement is presented as additional minated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated, to exchange the interest rate for the CDI rate information, without prejudice to the set of unless the transaction provides evidence of + 1.30% per year, as well as the currency of financial statements. impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting payments for the debt service from the dollar policies of acquired subsidiaries have been to the real. The subsidiary will account for the The financial statements require the use of changed where necessary to ensure consistency export credit note in the fair value option to certain critical accounting estimates. It also with the policies adopted by the Company. 120 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 121 The consolidated financial statements were (d) Associates and joint 2.3 Restatement of comparative figures prepared separately from the individual fiarrangements nancial statements, issued on March 5, 2020. Joint operations are accounted for in the 2018 financial statements in order to represent the ReclassiIAS 29 fication of adjust(b) Transactions whit nonCompany’s contractual rights and obligations. Reclassiwithdrawn ment and Surplus Allocation fication of ARO risk Aceríexchange value of of CESP controlling interests Therefore, the assets, liabilities, revenues As prior the Odessa reclassifias Paz del variation St. Mary's purchase Balance Assets presented Fund (i) cation (ii) Rio (iii) (iv) assets (v) price (vi) restated The Company treats transactions with nonand expenses related to its interests in joint Current assets -controlling interests as transactions with operations are individually accounted for in its Cash and cash equivalents 7,667 75 7,742 equity owners of the Company. For purchases financial statements. Financial from non-controlling interests, the difference investments 3,390 (75) 3,315 between any consideration paid and the proInvestments in associates and joint ventures Non-current assets Investments 10,882 124 304 11,310 portion acquired of the carrying value of net are accounted for using the equity method Property, plant assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. and are initially recognized at cost. and equipment 26,180 33 26,213 Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling Intangible assets 13,341 (33) 184 13,492 interests are also recorded directly in equity, The Company’s investments in associates and in “profit retention reserves”. joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impair2018 Reclassi(c) Loss of control of subsidiaries ment loss. fication of withIAS 29 When the Company ceases to have control, any Reclassidrawn adjustfication risk ment and Surplus Allocation retained interest in the entity is re-measured Dilution gains and losses on investments in of the ARO Acerías exchange value of of CESP Liabilities and As prior Odessa reclassifiPaz del variation St. Mary's purchase Balance to its fair value, with the change in carrying associates and joint ventures are recognized equity presented Fund (i) cation (ii) Rio (iii) (iv) assets (v) price (vi) restated amount recognized in profit and loss. The in the statement of income. Current liabilities amounts previously recognized in carrying value Confirming payables 1,187 125 1,312 adjustments are reclassified to profit and loss. Trade payables 4,262 (125) 4,137 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax and social contribution 2,199 47 (52) 2,194 Equity Revenue reserves 7,088 (295) 94 356 7,243 Carrying value adjustments 1,475 419 43 1,937 122 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 123 the classification of the application effects Accordingly, the subsidiary recognized the (i) Reclassification of the Odessa The investment in Avellaneda presents gooof IAS 29 / CPC 42 – Accounting in hypetax in question and corrected the goodwill for Fund dwill for expected future profitability, in the rinflationary economy in relation to the last expected future profitability retrospectively. The subsidiary CBA classified the Odessa Fund amount of 544 million Argentine Pesos, for financial statements of December 31, 2018 for cash and cash equivalents, according to which the subsidiary did not consider when and concluded that such effects should be (vi) Allocation of CESP purchase the characteristic of the financial product and calculating the hyperinflationary economy presented as “Equity valuation adjusttment”. price adherence to the current standard. adjustment according to IAS 29 / CPC 42, nor As a result of this understanding, the amouAccording to CPC 15 (R1) – “Business comdid it consider the conversion of the original nts were restated from “Retained earnings” bination”, in the event of an advantageous (ii) ARO reclassification (Asset amount of the goodwill from pesos to reais. to “Adjustment to equity valuation”, in the purchase, the acquirer must recognize the Retirement Obligation) Considering that this is a non-monetary asset Statement of changes in equity and in the resulting gain, in the income statement for the The Company classified the ARO from intangible in a hyperinflationary currency, related to related explanatory notes. year, on the acquisition date. Before recognito fixed assets, according to the asset’s characthe expectation of future profitability on an zing the gain arising from a bargain purchase, teristics and adherence to the current standard. equity investment, to which the group applied (v) Assets surplus value St. Mary’s the acquirer must promote a review to make the assumptions of IAS 29; it is appropriate The subsidiary VCSA reviewed the balances sure that all assets acquired, and liabilities (iii) Reclassification of withdrawn that, for consistency, it is updated with the related to the business combination originaassumed have been correctly identified and risk Acerías Paz del Rio corresponding investment, to the expected ting the first control investments in entities recognize them during the review. The acquirer The comparative period of the balance sheet future profitability is aligned with the future in North America. As a result of this review, must also review the procedures used to of the figures for suppliers and withdrawn risk cash flows to be generated by the business, it was identified that, when the Purchase measure the amounts to be recognized on the was altered by reclassification in the indirect with respect to the impacts of inflation. Price Allocation (“PPA”) results were recorded, acquisition date. subsidiary Acerías Paz del Rio S.A. Accordingly, the Company carried out the amounts of surplus value were allocated to the correction of goodwill retrospectively, as assets acquired due to their measurement at In December 2019, the purchase price alloca(iv) IAS 29 adjustments and foreign provided for in technical pronouncement IAS fair value, without deferred income tax being tion related to the purchase of CESP by VTRM exchange 8 / CPC 23 – Accounting policies, changes accounted for corresponding liability. The was completed. Therefore, the balance recorAs of July 1, 2018, the investee Cementos in estimates and correction of errors. As a recognition of deferred income tax liabilities ded in 2018, as an “Unallocated installment”, Avellaneda SA (“Avellaneda”), headquartered result of this process, the balance of goodwill is provided for in “IAS 12 / CPC 32 – Taxes on was weighted against the effects of asset in Argentina, had its economy officially conpresented in the “Investments” group was profit”, when the measurement of assets acgains and losses on assets and liabilities and sidered as hyperinflationary for accounting updated by the net amount of R $ 124, of quired at their fair value generates temporary generated a gain from a favorable purchase, repurposes and the application of IAS 29 / CPC which R $ 174 was due to the positive effect differences between the tax bases and the cognized on the acquisition date. Consequently, 42 – Accounting in hyperinflationary econoof inflation and R$ (50) was due to the pasaccounting balances. According to the stanthe equity and income balances have changed mics became required. With the application of sive exchange variation of the financial stadard, the deferred income tax liability resulting in the amounts previously presented in the the accounting standard, the subsidiary VCSA tements individual and consolidated accounts from the temporary difference should have financial statements of December 31, 2018. recorded the effect of the devaluation of the as of December 31, 2018. Additionally, the affected the goodwill due to expected future functional currency of its investee. Company and its subsidiary VCSA reevaluated profitability measured on the acquisition date. 124 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 125 2018 2018 Impacts of Impacts of reclassiReclassiAllocation reclassiReclassiAllocation fication fication of CESP fication fication of CESP As prior of Uszinc Acerbrag purchase Balance As prior of Uszinc Acerbrag purchase Balance presented (vii) (viii) price (vi) restated presented (vii) (viii) price (vi) restated Continuing operations Discontinued operations Net revenue from products sold and Profit (loss) for the discontinued services rendered 31,948 (1,017) 30,931 operations (218) 35 (183) Cost of products sold and services Profit for the attributable to the owners 1,954 35 2,310 rendered (25,909) 929 (49) (25,029) Gross profit (loss) 6,039 (88) (49) 5,902 Profit attributable to the owners of the Operating income (expenses) Company 1,746 356 2,102 Selling (775) 20 (755) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 208 208 General and administrative (2,173) 36 (2,137) Other operating income (expenses), net 550 (7) 49 592 Profit for the period 1,954 356 2,310 (2,398) 49 49 (2,300) Weighted average number of shares Operating profit (loss) before equity thousands (to the owners of the Company) 18,278,789 18,278,789 results and finance results 3,641 (39) 3,602 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais 95.52 115.00 Results from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 814 304 1,118 From continuing operations Dividends reveived 820 820 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand Realization of other comprehensive shares, in reais 107.45 125.01 income on disposal of investments 4 4 1,638 304 1,942 From discontinued operations Finance results, net Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (11.93) (10.01) Finance income 1,261 (4) 1,257 Finance costs (2,531) 2 (2,529) Income from derivative financial instruments 204 4 208 (vii) Impacts of reclassification of (viii) Acerbrag Reclassification Foreign exchange, net (977) 1 (976) Uszinc The comparative period of the income state(2,043) 3 (2,040) In accordance with IFRS 5 / CPC 31 – “Nonment for the year was altered by the correction Profit (loss) before income tax and social -current assets held for sale and discontinued in the allocation of fuel expenses of the contribution 3,236 (36) 304 3,504 operation”, the subsidiary FinCo GmbH reclassubsidiary Acerbrag. Income tax and social contribution sified the investment in USZinc, from contiCurrent (456) 1 (455) nuing operations to discontinued operations. Deferred (608) 52 (556) Profit (loss) on continuing operations 2,172 (35) 356 2,493 126 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 127 2.4 Foreign currency (ii) Income and expenses for each statement conversion Functional of income are translated at average exCompany Country currency Main activity (a) Functional and presentation change rates; Acerbrag S.A. Argentina Argentine Peso Steel currency of the financial (iii) All resulting exchange differences are St. Marys Cement Inc. St. Mary's Canada Canadian Dollar Cement statements Acerías Paz del Río S.A. Colombia Colombian Peso Steel recognized as a separate component of Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, The functional currency of the Company is the equity, in “Carrying value adjustments”. S.L. VCEAA Espain Euro Cement Brazilian Real (“R$”, “Real” or “reais”). Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. Peru US Dollar Zinc The amounts presented in the cash flow are Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. Peru US Dollar Mining (b) Transactions and balances extracted from the translated movements Nexa Resources S.A. Luxembourg US Dollar Holding Votorantim Cimentos International S.A. Foreign currency transactions are translated of the assets, liabilities and profit or loss, as VCI Luxembourg US Dollar Holding into reais using the exchange rates prevailing detailed above. Votorantim FinCO GmbH Luxembourg US Dollar Trading at the dates of the transactions or the dates of valuation when items are re-measured. FoOn consolidation, exchange differences arising reign exchange gains and losses resulting from from the translation of the net investment the settlement of such transactions and from in foreign operations, and of borrowings and the translation at year-end exchange rates of other foreign currency instruments designated 3 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures monetary assets and liabilities denominated as hedges of such investments, are recognized in foreign currencies are recognized in the in equity. When a foreign operation is partially statement of income, except when deferred disposed of or sold, exchange differences that 3.1 Changes in accounting interest expenses for the restatement of the in equity as net investment hedges. were recorded in equity are recognized in the standards lease liability. statement of income as part of the gain or 3.1.1 IFRS 16 / CPC 06 – (c) Subsidiaries with a different loss on sale. “Leases” This international standard changes the exisfunctional currency IFRS 16 establishes principles for the reting lease standards, including CPC 06 (IAS 17) The results and financial positions of all the Goodwill and fair value arising from the accognition, measurement, presentation and – “Leasing Operations” and ICPC 03 (IFRIC 4, Company entities (none of which has the quisition of an entity abroad are treated as disclosure for lease agreements. The stanSIC 15 and SIC 27) – “Complementary Aspects currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that assets and liabilities of the entity abroad and dard introduces a single model for leases of Leasing Operations”. have a functional currency different from the converted at the closing rate. accounting in the balance sheet, where the presentation currency are translated into the lessees are required to recognize a lease (a) Analysis scope and assets presentation currency as follows: Below are the functional currencies defined liability reflecting future payments, and the identification (i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet for the significant foreign subsidiaries: right to use the leased asset. The nature of the The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed all presented are translated at the closing rate expenses related to these leases was changed active lease agreements upon the date of the at the date of that balance sheet; from a linear operating lease expenses to a initial adoption of the standard, depreciation expense of the right-of-use and 128 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 129 when leases of machinery and equipment, nation of the non-cancellable term, the term 3.1.2 IFRIC 23 / ICPC 22 – (i) Impacts of adoption light and heavy vehicles, vessels, real estate covered by the option for extension, the terms “Uncertainty over Income The Company and its subsidiaries adhered to Tax Treatment” and land were identified. covered by the termination option and, mainly, the standard from the beginning of its validity management’s intention regarding the period Technical interpretation ICPC 22 clarifies how period on January 1, 2019. However, based As permitted by the standard, the scope of of permanence in each agreement contract. the recognition and measurement requireon management’s understanding, there is the analysis disregarded: (i) short-term leases ments set forth in CPC 32, which deals with an immaterial accounting impact due to the (less than 12 months); and (ii) contracts with (c) Discount rate taxes on profit, should be applied in cases uncertain positions related to income tax amounts lower than USD 5,000 (R$ 20,000). For initial adoption purposes, the Company where there is uncertainty regarding the due to the adoption of this new accounting and its subsidiaries adopted the average cost treatment of these taxes. pronouncement. When identifying the right-of-use assets within of active debt (outstandings) as at December the scope of the contracts identified, the 31, 2018 for all contracts classified in accorfollowing were also disregarded: (i) contracts dance with IFRS 16. For the new contracts, with variable payments; (ii) contracts in which renewals and additions will be identified at the leased asset was considered non-identithe incremental rate for each lease. The fiable; (iii) contracts under which the Company incremental rate should reflect the cost of is not entitled to obtain substantially all of the acquisition for the Company and its subsieconomic benefits arising from the use of the diaries of debt with characteristics similar to asset; and (iv) contracts in which the Company those determined under the lease agreement, and its subsidiaries do not have substantial conin terms of the term, value, guarantee and trol over the definition of the use of the assets. economic environment. The Company and the subsidiaries applied the future expectations It should be noted that the Company and its regarding the obligations on January 1, 2019 subsidiaries analyzed, but did not identify: (i) (ranging from 5% to 7.07%) for all leases. contracts that presented fixed and variable payments as part of the same negotiation; (d) Impacts of adoption (ii) contracts dealing with identifiable and The Company and its subsidiaries adopted non-identifiable assets in the same trade; or IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, in accordance (iii) service contracts in which assets had been with the simplified cumulative effect in which identified within the scope of the standard. assets and liabilities are recorded at the same time in the initial period without any effect on (b) Leasing term shareholders’ equity, with an impact amounThe Company and its subsidiaries analyzed the ting to R$ 666 related to right-of-use assets lease term of all contracts based on a combiand liabilities under lease agreements. 130 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 131 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgments fines and monetary penalties, and may reestimates of costs, the amounts expected to ESTIMATES AND quire technical measures or investments to be disbursed for the investigation, treatment ensure the compliance with the mandatory and cleaning of the potentially affected areas. Based on assumptions, the Company and its (i) Fair value of financial instruments and emissions levels. subsidiaries make estimates regarding the derivatives (Note 6.1.1); The Company and its subsidiaries believe they future. By definition, accounting estimates The Company and its subsidiaries carry out are in compliance with all of the applicable ASSUMPTIONS and judgments are continuously reviewed (ii) Trade receivable (Note 11); periodic studies to identify any potentially environmental standards in the countries in and are based on historical experience and affected areas and records, based on the best which they operate. other factors, including expectations of future (iii) Property, plant and equipment (Note 18); events, which are considered reasonable for the circumstances. Revisions to the estimates (iv) Intangible assets (Note 19); are recognized prospectively. (v) Current and deferred income and social 6 Financial risk management The accounting estimates will rarely be the contribution taxes (Note 24); same as the actual results. Estimates and assumptions that present a significant risk and (vi) Provision (Note 25); 6.1 Financial risk factors In order to mitigate the various effects of are likely to cause a material adjustment to The activities of the Company and its subeach market risk factor, the Company and its the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities (vii) Pension plan (Note 28). sidiaries expose them to a variety of financial subsidiaries follow a Market Risk Management for the next fiscal year are described in the risks, namely: (a) market risk (including currenPolicy, approved by the Finance Committee, respective notes below: cy, commodity price and interest rate risk), (b) with the objective of establishing governance credit risk and (c) liquidity risk. and the overall guidelines of the process of managing these risks, as well as the metrics A significant portion of the products sold by for their measurement and monitoring. the Company and its subsidiaries, such as 5 Social and environmental risk management aluminum, nickel and zinc are commodities, The financial risk management process aims with prices pegged to international indexes to protect the cash flow and its operational and denominated in US Dollars. Their costs, (revenues and costs) and financial (financial The Company, through its subsidiaries and discharge of materials into the environment, however, are mainly denominated in reais, and assets and liabilities) components against associates, operates in various segments which establish the removal and cleaning therefore, there is a mismatch of currencies adverse market events, such as fluctuations and consequently, these activities are subof the contaminated environment, or those between revenues and costs. Additionally, the in the prices of currencies, interest rates and ject to several Brazilian and international relating to environmental protection. The Company and its subsidiaries have debts linked commodity prices, and against adverse credit environmental laws, regulations, treaties and violations of the environmental regulations to different indexes and currencies, which may events. In addition, it aims to preserve liconventions, including those that regulate the in force expose the violator(s) to significant have an impact on their cash flow. quidity. 132 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 133 The following financial instruments may be (a) Market risk (ii) Hedge of net investments in Gains and losses accumulated in equity are taken out in order to mitigate and manage (i) Foreign exchange risk foreign operations included in the statement of income when the risk: conventional swaps, call options, put The Company and its subsidiaries have certain Accounting policy foreign operation is partially or fully disposed options, collars, currency futures contracts investments in foreign operations, the net asHedges of net investments in foreign operaof or sold. and Non-Deliverable Forward contracts. sets of which are exposed to foreign exchange tions are accounted for similarly to cash flow Strategies that include simultaneous purrisk. The foreign exchange exposure arising hedges. Hedged investments are presented in the chases and sales of options are authorized from the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ following table including the portion of the only when they do not result in a net short participation in foreign operations is mainly Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument debt of the Company and its subsidiaries position in volatility of the underlying asset. hedged by borrowing in the same currency as relating to the effective portion of the hedge Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio (“CBA”), The Company and its subsidiaries do not these investments, classified as net investis recognized in “Carrying value adjustments”. Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A., VCI and St carry out transactions involving financial ment hedges. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Marys Cement Inc., denominated in Euros and instruments for speculative purposes. portion is recognized immediately in income. US Dollars. Presented below are the accounting balances of assets and liabilities indexed to the foreign cur2019 rency at the closing date of the balance sheets: Investiment Debt Votoranitm S.A. 968 Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 1,616 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio 580 Balance VCNA US Inc. (i) 2,015 St. Marys Cement Inc. 2,015 Note 2019 restated 2018 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Votorantim Cimentos International Assets denominated in foreign currency Inversiones, S.L. 1,581 S.A. 1,581 Cash and cash equivalents 9 5,125 6,316 5,212 5,144 Financial investments 10 96 62 Trade receivables 1,178 1,329 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 234 472 Related parties 82 54 2018 6,715 8,233 Investiment Debt Liabilities denominated in foreign currency Votorantim S.A. 1,731 Borrowing (i) 15,172 20,668 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. 23 Lease liabilities 567 Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 3,437 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio 1,556 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 155 244 Trade payables 2,227 2,517 St. Marys Cement Inc. 1,937 Confirming payables 23 1,159 963 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Deferred revenue silver streaming 727 774 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. 1,646 Inversiones, S.L. 1,644 20,007 25,166 5,083 6,891 Net exposure (13,292) (16,933) (i) Does not consider borrowing costs. 134 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 135 The Company and its subsidiaries document purchases of inputs and flows of maturities of & Poor’s (“S&P”). The minimum rating required and evaluate the effectiveness of the investthe related hedges. Hedge transactions are for the counterparties is “A” (Brazilian scale) ment hedge operations on a monthly basis, as classified into the following categories: or “BBB-” (international scale), or equivalent. required under IFRS 9 – “Financial instruments: For financial assets where issuers do not meet recognition and measurement”. Fixed-price commercial transactions – hedge the minimum credit risk ratings, criteria protransactions that switch, from fixed to floating, posed by the Finance Committee are applied The foreign exchange gain on the converthe price contracted in commercial transacas an alternative. sion of debts, net of income tax and social tions with customers interested in purchasing contribution, recognized as equity valuation products at a fixed price; The credit quality of financial assets is disadjustments on December 31, 2019, was closed in Note 8. The ratings disclosed in this R$ 92 (December 31, 2018, loss of R$ 931) Hedges for “quotation periods” – hedges that Note always represent the most conservative (Note 29 (c)). set a price for the different “quotation periods” ratings of the agencies in question. between the purchases of certain inputs (iii) Cash flow and fair value (metal concentrate) and the sale of products The pre-settlement risk methodology is used interest rate risk arising from the processing of these inputs; to assess counterparty risk on derivatives The interest rate risk arises from the fluctutransactions, determining (via Monte Carlo ations of each of the main indexes of interHedges for “costs of inputs” – intended to simulations) the likelihood of a counterparty est rates from borrowing and from financial ensure protection against volatility in the not honoring the financial commitments investments, which have an impact on the prices/costs of its operating subsidiaries for defined by the contract. The use of this payments and receipts of the Company and its commodities such as oil and natural gas; methodology is described in the Votorantim subsidiaries. Borrowing at fixed rates exposes Financial Policy. the Company and its subsidiaries to fair value Hedges for “operating margin” – intended to interest rate risk. set the operating margin for a portion of the (c) Liquidity risk production of certain operating subsidiaries. The following table analyzes the financial (iv) Commodity price risk liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries, The Financial Policy of the Company’s oper(b) Credit risk by maturity, corresponding to the period reating subsidiaries establishes guidelines to Derivative financial instruments and financial maining from the balance sheet date up to the mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity investments create exposure to credit risk of contractual maturity date. The amounts disprices that have an impact on the cash flow of counterparties and issuers. The Company and closed in the table represent the undiscounted the Company’s operating subsidiaries. its subsidiaries adopt the policy of working contractual cash flows, these amounts may with issuers which have, at a minimum, been not be reconciled with the amounts disclosed The exposure to each commodity price conassessed by two of the following three rating in the balance sheet. siders the monthly projections of production, agencies: Fitch Ratings, Moody’s or Standard 136 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 137 From one From three From five From ten Up to one to three to five to ten years and Note year years years years above Total At December 31, 2019 Borrowing (i) 1,362 5,506 6,918 9,126 4,544 27,456 Lease liabilities 229 288 177 119 28 841 Derivative financial instruments 69 117 51 213 2 452 Confirming payables 23 1,415 1,415 Trade payables 4,429 4,429 Dividends payable 15 120 120 Related parties 15 50 50 Use of public assets 88 152 254 732 1,233 2,459 7,762 6,063 7,400 10,190 5,807 37,222 At December 31, 2018 Borrowing (i) 6,176 5,625 7,243 9,335 4,420 32,799 Derivative financial instruments 144 69 31 244 Confirming payables 23 1,312 1,312 Trade payables 4,137 4,137 Dividends payable 15 482 482 Related parties 15 12 124 136 Use of public assets 83 159 306 635 1,356 2,539 12,346 5,977 7,580 9,970 5,776 41,649 (i) Does not include the recorded fair value. of the metal businesses, the subsidiaries qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in 6.1.1 Derivatives contracted accounting. If this is the case, the method enter into commodity forward contracts (zinc, equity within “Carrying value adjustments”. Accounting policy depends on the nature of the item being aluminum and nickel) on sales of certain The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Initially, derivatives are recognized at fair hedged. The Company and its subsidiaries commodities combined with the sale of US portion is recognized as “Operating income value on the date of their contracting and adopt hedge accounting and designates Dollar forward contracts. These subsidiaries (expenses)”. The amounts recognized in equity are subsequently re-measured at their fair certain derivatives such as: adopt hedge accounting for the derivative are recorded in the statement of income (in value. The method for recognizing the reinstruments entered into for this purpose. the same line item affected by the transaction sulting gain or loss depends on whether or (i) Cash flow hedge originally hedged) upon realization of the not the derivative is designated as a hedge With a view to ensuring a fixed operating The effective portion of changes in the fair hedged exports and/or sales referenced to instrument in cases of adoption of hedge margin in reais for a portion of the production value of derivatives that are designated and London Metal Exchange (“LME”) prices. 138 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 139 (ii) Fair value hedges are designated and qualify as fair value hedges With the objective of maintaining the flow are recorded in “Operating income (expenses)”. of the metal businesses’ operating revenue pegged to LME prices, the subsidiaries enter (a) Effects of derivative financial into hedging transactions under which they instruments on the balance sheet and cash flow convert sales at fixed prices to floating prices in commercial transactions with customers inThe table below summarizes the derivative terested in purchasing products at a fixed price. financial instruments and the underlying Changes in the fair values of derivatives that hedged items: Details of the main derivative operations 2019 Principal Value 2018 Changes in fair value 2019 Fair value by maturity Net revenue from Cost of Other products products operating Other sold and sold and income Finance comservices services (expenresults, prehensive Gain (lon) Programs 2019 2018 As per unit Fair value Inventory rendered rendered ses), net net income Realized Fair value 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024+ Hedges for sale of zinc at a fixed price Zinc forward 15,252 10,566 ton (3) (1) (4) (4) (3) (1) (4) (4) Hedges for mismatches of quotation period Zinc forward 258,220 261,020 ton (2) 2 12 (20) (6) 5 (7) (3) (3) (2) 2 12 (20) (6) 5 (7) (3) (3) Operating margin hedging Aluminum forward 151,800 127,750 ton 157 (8) 13 181 (19) (17) (2) Collars 18 USD 3 3 3 USD forward 273 279 USD (47) 15 35 (39) 42 38 4 110 7 51 142 26 24 2 Foreign exchange risk Collars 653 1,057 BRL (6) 12 8 (2) (2) USD forward 514 USD (9) (87) (96) Turkish Lira forward 1 11 USD (4) (7) (11) (19) (82) (99) (2) (2) Interest rate risk LIBOR floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 315 373 USD 142 (6) 82 54 (24) (39) (74) 126 65 IPCA floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 227 BRL 7 1 6 4 1 1 CDI floating rate vs. USD rate swaps 747 BRL (67) (51) 9 (127) (3) 10 18 19 (171) IPCA floating rate vs. USD rate swaps 139 BRL (1) (2) (3) (1) (1) (1) 142 (67) (53) 92 (70) (24) (29) (56) 145 (106) Total value of the derivative instruments 228 2 19 (20) (7) (149) 3 128 (53) (9) (27) (56) 145 (106) 140 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 141 On December 31, 2019, the transactions Financial assets – considering the nature and Fair value measured based on 2019 involving derivative financial instruments, the terms, the amounts recorded approximate Valuation net of taxes, recognized in “Carrying value their realizable values. Prices quoted supported by in an active observable adjustments”, amounted to R$ 83 .Besides market prices Note (Level 1) (Level 2) Fair value this, there were hedge accounting operations, Financial liabilities – these instruments Assets net of taxes, which amounted to R$ 142 in are subject to the usual market interest Cash and cash equivalents 9 3,833 2,429 6,262 the unconsolidated subsidiaries, recognized rates. The market value was based on the Financial investments 10 1,392 3,075 4,467 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 399 399 in “Carrying value adjustments”. present value of the expected future cash Derivative financial instruments disbursements, at interest rates currently put option 6.1.1 655 655 (b) Derivative financial instruments available for the issue of debts with similar Financial instruments firm commitment 16 29 29 – Put-option maturities and terms. Financial instruments Suzano 13 2,749 2,749 During the year ended December 31, 2018, 5,225 9,336 14,561 the process by which Votorantim Siderurgia The Company discloses fair value measureLiabilities S.A. became a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal ments according to their level of the following Borrowing 21 13,014 8,068 21,082 Brasil S.A. (“AMB”) was concluded. Under fair value measurement hierarchy: Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 452 452 the agreement between the parties, VSA Confirming payables 23 1,415 1,415 became a minority stakeholder of 15% of Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active Financial instruments firm commitment 16 203 203 AMB’s combined long steel business which, markets for identical assets and liabilities. Deferred revenue silver streaming 727 727 in compliance with the applicable accounting 13,014 10,865 23,879 rules, was recognized as a financial instruLevel 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices inment, in accordance with CPC 48 – “Financial cluded within level 1 that are observable for the instruments”. The change in fair value of this asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) Fair value measured based on 2018 Balance restated operation in the year resulted in a net gain of or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Valuation R$ 89, recorded under “Net financial result”. Prices quoted supported by in an active observable Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that market prices Note (Level 1) (Level 2) Fair value are not based on observable market data (that Assets 6.1.2 Fair value estimation is, unobservable inputs). Cash and cash equivalents 9 4,279 3,463 7,742 The main financial assets and liabilities are Financial investments 10 1,794 1,544 3,338 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 472 472 described below, as well as their valuation As at December 31, 2019, the financial asFinancial instruments firm assumptions: sets and liabilities carried at fair value were commitment 16 202 202 classified as levels 1 and 2 in the fair value 6,073 5,681 11,754 measurement hierarchy. Liabilities Borrowing 21 16,413 8,072 24,485 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 244 244 Confirming payables 23 1,312 1,312 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 180 180 Deferred revenue silver streaming 774 774 16,413 10,582 26,995 142 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 143 6.1.3 Sensitivity analysis Lira, New Peruvian Sun, Argentine Peso and tion, in line with the Company’s governance. according to the base scenario defined by The main risk factors affecting the pricing of Bolivian interest rates, LIBOR, CDI, US Dollar The scenarios as at December 31, 2019 are management as at March 31, 2020; cash and cash equivalents, financial investcoupon, commodity prices and electricity described below: Scenario II – Considers a shock of + or – 25% ments, loans and financing and derivative purchase and sale contracts. The scenarios for in the market curves at December 31, 2019; financial instruments are exposure to the these factors are prepared using both market Scenario I – Considers a shock to the market fluctuation in the US Dollar, Euro, Turkish sources and specialized sources of informacurves and quotations at December 31, 2019, Scenario III – Considers a shock of + or – 50% in the market curves at December 31, 2019. Impacts on profit (loss) Impacts on comprehensive income Scenario I Scenarios II & III Scenario I Scenarios II & III Cash and cash equivalents and Derivative financial Borrowing financial Changes investments and related instruments/As from Results of Results of Risk factors (i) parties (i) per unit 2019 scenario I -25% -50% +25% +50% scenario I -25% -50% +25% +50% Foreign exchange rates USD USD 4,051 12,711 1,911 millions -2.0% 18 71 214 (50) (157) 199 2,494 4,988 (2,492) (4,986) EUR EUR 244 1,580 1 millions -2.4% (1) 32 338 677 (338) (677) PEN 148 -3.0% (4) (35) (70) 35 70 (2) (4) 2 4 BOB 22 460 -3.1% 14 110 219 (110) (219) TRY 60 75 -12.6% (8) (15) (30) 15 30 10 19 38 (19) (38) ARS 52 -9.7% (8) (13) (26) 13 26 4,577 14,826 1,912 5 21 114 (57) 247 2,946 5,892 (2,944) (5,890) Interest rates BRL CDI 5,461 3,307 4,068 BRL -16 bps 11 94 189 (93) (185) (4) (9) 3 5 USD USD LIBOR 1,442 1,216 millions 2 bps 1 (8) (16) 8 17 2 5 (2) (5) USD Dollar Coupon 1,007 millions -19 bps 5 19 39 (18) (36) (14) (55) (114) 51 98 5,461 4,749 6,291 17 105 212 (103) (204) (14) (57) (118) 52 98 Price of commodities Zinc 273,472 ton 4.7% (23) 125 249 (125) (249) 3 (18) (36) 18 36 Aluminum 151,800 ton -3.3% 34 263 525 (263) (525) 425,272 (23) 125 249 (125) (249) 37 245 489 (245) (489) Firm commitment electric energy Purchase and sale agreement fair value 173 BRL (3) (7) 3 7 173 (3) (7) 3 7 (i) The balances presented do not reconcile with the notes, as the analysis carried out included only the most significant currencies and rates. Interest rates only include the principal amount. 144 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 145 7 Financial instruments by category Restated Note 2019 2018 Assets Accounting policy (c) Financial instruments at At amortized cost The Company and its subsidiaries classify amortized cost Trade receivables 11 2,196 2,546 Related parties 15 229 271 their financial instruments depending on the Financial instruments maintained in a business 2,425 2,817 purpose for which the financial instruments model whose purpose is to obtain contractual Fair value through profit or loss were acquired. Management determines the cash flows and their contractual terms give rise Cash and cash equivalents 9 6,262 7,742 classification of financial instruments upon to cash flows that are exclusively the payment Financial investments 10 4,467 3,321 initial recognition, in the following categories: of principal and interest. The instruments in Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 287 this classification are measured at amortized Derivative financial instruments put option 6.1.1 655 744 Financial instruments firm commitment 16 29 202 (a) Financial instruments at fair cost. 11,413 12,296 value through profit or loss Fair value through other comprehensive income These are financial assets held for active and (d) Impairment of financial assets Financial investments 10 17 frequent trading. These assets are measured measured at cost Financial instruments Suzano 13 2,749 at their fair value, and the changes are recogThis is measured as the difference between Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 399 185 3,148 202 nized in the statement of income for the year. the book value of the assets and the present Liabilities value of the estimated future cash flows At amortized cost (b) Financial instruments at (excluding future credit losses that were not Borrowing 21 18,848 11,592 fair value through other incurred), discounted at the current interest Trade payables 4,429 4,137 comprehensive income rate of financial assets. The book value of the Related parties 15 50 136 Financial instruments that meet the criterion asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is Confirming payables 23 1,415 1,312 Use of public assets 26 1,238 1,189 of contractual terms, which give rise to cash recognized in the statement of income. 25,980 18,366 flows that are exclusively the payment of Fair value through profit or loss principal and interest and are maintained If, in a subsequent period, the impairment Borrowing 21 907 12,859 in a business model, the objective of which loss decreases and the impairment can be Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 69 170 is achieved both by obtaining contractual objectively related to an event occurring after Financial instruments firm commitment 16 203 180 cash flows and by sale of financial assets. recognition of the impairment (such as an 1,179 13,029 Fair value through other comprehensive income The instruments in this classification are improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 383 74 measured at fair value through other comreversal of the loss will be recognized in the 383 74 prehensive income. statement of the results 146 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 147 8 Credit quality of financial assets 2019 2018 Local Global Local Global rating rating Total rating rating Total 2019 2018 Local Global Local Global Derivative financial rating rating Total rating rating Total instruments Cash and cash equivalents AAA 377 377 242 242 AAA 1,563 1,563 1,404 39 1,443 AA 4 4 1 52 53 AA+ 4 4 AA7 7 5 5 AA 1 446 447 6 796 802 A+ 2 2 134 134 AA416 295 711 424 424 A 1 1 A+ 884 884 543 543 A9 9 A 994 994 1 1,783 1,784 Unrated (i) 37 37 A259 259 286 286 384 15 399 285 187 472 BBB+ 384 384 759 759 BBB 130 130 118 118 Financial instruments Suzano BBB102 102 369 369 AAA 2,749 2,749 BB 29 29 21 21 2,749 2,749 BB9 9 9,485 4,392 13,877 4,987 6,565 11,552 B76 76 64 64 B+ 9 9 55 55 B 27 27 CCC 16 16 The local and global ratings were obtained Unrated (i) 649 649 11 1,032 1,043 from ratings agencies (Standard & Poor’s, 1,980 4,282 6,262 1,426 6,316 7,742 Moody’s and Fitch Ratings). The Company considered the ratings of Standard & Poor’s Financial investments and Fitch Ratings for presentation purposes, AAA 3,840 3,840 3,024 3,024 AA+ 45 45 51 51 and the classification as established in the AA 74 2 76 166 166 Company’s Financial Policies. AA373 12 385 5 5 A+ 20 13 33 19 29 48 (i) Refers to values invested in offshore A 2 2 banks, which are not rated by any ratings BBB29 29 B30 30 agency. CCC 36 36 Unrated 20 3 23 11 1 12 4,372 95 4,467 3,276 62 3,338 148 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 149 9 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Financial investments ASSETS Accounting policy (a) Breakdown Accounting policy investments based on the original maturities, Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank Cash and cash equivalents in local currency Financial investments are held for the purpose considering the intended allocation of funds. deposits and other highly liquid short-term include deposits in current bank accounts and of servicing investments whose maturities are The investments in national currency comprise investments whose original maturities are government securities (overnight operations) long-term from the date of acquisition. government securities or financial institutions less than three months, which are readily or financial institutions, indexed to the interindexed to the interbank deposit rate. Foreign convertible into a known amount of cash and bank deposit rate. Cash equivalents in foreign (a) Breakdown currency-denominated investments consist which are subject to an insignificant risk of currency are mainly composed of financial Most financial investments have immediate limainly of fixed-income financial instruments change in value. instruments in local currency. quidity, however, they are classified as financial in local currency (time deposits). 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance Restated restated Local currency Fair value through profit or loss Cash and banks 9 28 Bank Deposit Certificates ( CDBs ) 2,248 1,321 Bank Deposit Certificates ( CDBs ) 567 3 Financial Treasury Bills ( LFTs ) 1,218 1,763 Repurchase agreements public securities 561 1,395 Repurchase agreements public securities 173 106 1,137 1,426 Repurchase agreements private securities 54 Foreign currency Investment fund quotas 669 15 Cash and banks 3,263 2,856 Financial investments in foreign currency 64 62 Time deposits 1,862 3,460 Financial bills private securities 3 5,125 6,316 4,375 3,321 6,262 7,742 Fair value through other comprehensive income Bank Deposit Certificates ( CDBs ) 60 17 60 17 Amortized cost Financial investments in foreign currency 32 32 4,467 3,338 Current 4,444 3,315 Non-current 23 23 4,467 3,338 150 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 151 11 Trade receivables (c) Changes in estimated loss for doubful accounts 2019 2018 Opening balance (174) (159) Accounting policy amortized cost using the effective interest Additions, net (56) (21) Trade receivables are amounts due from rate method, less provision for impairment of Receivables written off as uncollectible (i) 39 13 customers for merchandise sold or services trade receivables. Receivables from customers Effect of subsidiaries excluded from consolidation (7) performed in the ordinary course of the abroad are presented based on the exchange Closing balance (191) (174) Company’s business. rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. (i) The debits on the estimated loss account with doubtful accounts are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovery of funds. Trade receivables are recognized initially at (a) Breakdown fair value and subsequently measured at (d) Aging of trade receivables Note 2019 2018 2,019 2,018 Trade receivables Brazil 1,144 1,308 Current 1,864 2,184 Trade receivables foreign customers 1,230 1,398 Up to three months past due 282 295 Related parties 15 13 14 Three to six months past due 4 22 2,387 2,720 Over six months past due 237 219 2,387 2,720 Allowance for doubtful accounts (191) (174) (191) (174) 2,196 2,546 (b) Breakdown by currency 12 Inventory 2019 2018 Brazilian real 1,018 1,217 Accounting policy point-of-sale costs at the point of harvest, U.S. dollar 764 741 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost when they are transferred to inventories in Colombian peso 125 120 Euro 60 102 and net realizable value. Cost is determined non-current assets. Turkish lira 16 88 using the weighted average cost method. The Uruguayan peso 67 82 cost of finished goods and work in progress Net realizable value is the estimated selling Moroccan dirham 35 62 comprises raw materials, direct labor, other price in the ordinary course of business, less Argentine peso 60 61 direct costs and related production overheads. conclusion costs and selling expenses. Imports Others 51 73 Raw materials derived from biological assets in transit are stated at the accumulated cost 2,196 2,546 are measured at fair value, less estimated of each import. 152 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 153 The subsidiaries, at least once a year, carry The provision for inventory losses refers 14 Taxes recoverable out a physical inventory check. Inventory adsubstantially to obsolete and low turnover justments are recorded under “Cost of goods materials. sold and services rendered”. Accounting policy sheet of the entity the book values that will The recoverable taxes are held in assets mainly be object of future recovery. for the purpose of recognizing in the balance 2019 2018 Finished products 862 845 Semi-finished products 1.587 1.499 2019 2018 Raw materials 826 832 Corporate Income Tax ( IRPJ ) and Social Contribution on Net Income ( CSLL ) 1,826 1,751 Auxiliary materials and consumables 995 896 Social Contribution on Revenue ( COFINS ) (i) 1,963 1,057 Imports in transit 79 142 State Value-added Tax on Sales and Services ( ICMS ) 695 594 Other 173 82 Social Integration Program ( PIS ) (i) 400 230 Provision for inventory losses (393) (482) Value-added Tax ( VAT ) (foreign companies) 249 297 4.129 3.814 Withholding Income Tax ( IRRF ) 47 62 ICMS on property, plant and equipment 76 59 IRPJ/CSLL Plano verão 32 30 Excise Tax ( IPI ) 31 28 Social Security Credit (ii) 20 Other 106 96 13 Financial Instruments – Suzano 5,445 4,204 Current 1,968 1,473 Non-current 3,477 2,731 Closing 2018 5,445 4,204 Shares 75,180,059 75,180,059 (ii) The variation refers substantially to the PIS and COFINS credit recognized in the subsidiary CBA, VCSA and the indirect subsidiary VCNNE, in the amounts of R$ 1.186, as described in Note 1.1 (d). Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. (SUZB3) share (R$) (i) 39.00 36.57 (iii) The variation refers to out-of-date credit due to surveys on social security contributions recognized in the Financial instrument Suzano 2,932 2,749 subsidiary CBA. Fair value change (183) Income tax and social contribution 62 Adjustment to the fair value, net of tax (note 29 (c)) (121) (i) Uses the average share price quote for the last ninety days of the closing date. 154 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 155 15 Related parties Trade Dividends Non-current Liabilities receivables receivable assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accounting policy Hejoassu Administração S.A. 415 Related parties are individuals or legal entities Related companies and joint ventures that are related to the entity that reports the Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. 13 117 financial statements. Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 7 7 Others 5 19 50 19 12 39 415 136 Trade Dividends Non-current Non-controlling interests 120 67 Assets receivables receivable assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current 12 39 120 482 Related companies and joint Non-current 50 136 ventures 12 39 120 482 50 136 Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 2 3 9 Cementos Granadilla S.L. 1 1 3 Banco Votorantim S.A. 9 Financial profit (loss), Cementos Especiales De Las Profit and loss Sales (purchases), net net Islas, S.A. 2019 2018 2019 2018 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria (i) 1 159 216 Related companies and joint Citrosuco GmbH (i) 52 50 ventures Supermix Concreto S.A. 5 4 Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 36 VTRM Energia Participações S.A 65 5 Cementos Especiales De Las Others 5 5 7 18 2 Islas, S.A. 23 27 13 14 81 14 229 271 Cementos Granadilla S.L. 15 20 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 44 32 Current 13 14 81 14 Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. 6 43 Non-current 229 271 Midway Group, LLC 32 27 13 14 81 14 229 271 Supermix Concreto S.A. 201 204 Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 75 66 (i) Refers to accounts receivable related to assets in excess of the basic net assets invested in Citrosuco’s operation. The realization period is linked to the performance of each item under the contractual rules laid down in the Others 31 20 (5) (2) shareholder agreement and the closing memorandum signed between Fischer S.A. – Commerce, Industry and Agriculture and Votorantim. 427 475 (5) (2) Trade Dividends Non-current Liabilities receivables receivable assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Parent company 156 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 157 16 Financial instruments – firm commitment In addition, the other operations carried out as an expense in “Other operating expenses, by the subsidiaries in the Free Contracting net” (Note 32). Environment (“ACL”), which meet the definition The controlled company Votorantim Comerthat such observable market data exist, and of a financial instrument, were likewise recogThe values quoted above have the following cializadora de Energia Ltda. (“Votener”) cenpartly by the use of valuation techniques, nized at fair value. The realization of the fair composition: tralizes energy purchase and sale transactions which considers: value in the amount of R$ 53 was recognized to meet the demands of Votorantim companies. A portion of these transactions takes (i) prices established in the purchase and sale ACR ACL Total the form of contracts that have been entered operations; Votointo and continue to be carried out for the Votorantim Votorantim Cimenrantim purpose of receiving the energy for own use (ii) risk margin in the supply and (iii) projected CBA Energia Total tos CBA Energia Total 2019 2018 or delivering the energy of self-production, market price in the period of availability. WheRealization (105) (31) (136) (31) (17) (80) (128) (264) (199) in accordance with the productive demands never the fair value at initial recognition for Recognition 28 46 74 74 65 of the Company’s subsidiaries and, therefore, these contracts differs from the transaction Constitution (reversal) (5) (1) (6) (6) 2 meet the definition of a financial instrument. price, gain or loss, it is recognized in profit or (110) (32) (142) (31) 11 (34) (54) (196) (132) loss for the year. Another part of these transactions refers to purchases and sales of energy, not used in the The Company, through its indirect subsidiary The table below shows the composition of the productive process of Votorantim companies, Votener, operates in the Regulated Contracassets and liabilities: being transacted in the active market, and ting Environment (“ACR”) and participated therefore, it meets the definition of financial in the 13th electric power purchase auction ACL Total instruments, due to the fact of being liquion April 30, 2014, in which, through a firm Votorantim Votorantim dated in energy, and promptly convertible commitment, it made sales until December Cimentos CBA Energia Total 2019 2018 into cash. Such contracts are recorded as 2019. These transactions, on initial recogniAssets derivatives in accordance with IFRS 9 / CPC 48 tion, resulted in gains from the sale of surplus Current 202 Non-current 29 29 29 and are recognized in the Company’s balance energy to the Company, which was recognized 29 29 29 202 sheet at fair value on the date the derivative at fair value. The net difference of expenses Liabilities is entered into and is revalued to fair value at and revenues generated by the realization of Current (10) (17) (54) (81) (81) (19) the balance sheet date. the fair value, through the physical settlement Non-current (34) (77) (11) (122) (122) (161) of the sale and purchase agreements, was (44) (94) (65) (203) (203) (180) The fair value of these derivatives is estimarecognized as an expense in the amount of ted based, in part, on quotations of prices R$ 142 in “Other operating expenses, net” published in active markets, to the extent (Note 32). 158 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 159 17 Investments (a) Breakdown Percentage of total and Main Accounting policy The Company also recognizes its assets in Main consolidated companies voting capital Headquarters activity Investments in affiliates, subsidiaries and joint accordance with the venturer’s participation in 2019 2018 ventures are accounted for using the equity the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses Subsidiaries Acerbrag S.A. 100.00 100.00 Argentina Steel method of accounting as of the date they of the controlled entity on a proportional Votorantim FinCO GmbH 100.00 100.00 Austria Trading become their jointly controlled joint ventures. basis. This implies recognizing the venturer’s Calmit Mineração e Participação Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding share of the assets, liabilities, income and Acariuba Mineração e Participação Ltda. 100.00 Brasil Holding Affiliates are those entities in which the expenses of the joint ventures by adding such Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio 100.00 100.00 Brazil Aluminum Company, directly or indirectly, has significant amounts to its own assets, liabilities, revenues Interávia Transportes Ltda. 100.00 Brazil Transportation influence, but not control or joint control over and expenses by the straight-line method, Santa Cruz Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power Silcar Empreendimentos, Comércio e financial and operating policies. In order to be including such amounts in corresponding to Participações Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding classified as a jointly controlled entity, there the balance sheet and income statement of Votener Votorantim Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power must be a contractual agreement that allows the same nature. Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement the Company to share control of the entity and Votorantim Cimentos S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement gives the Company the right to the net assets (i) Impairment of investments Votorantim Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding of the jointly controlled entity, not the right For the calculation of the recoverable amounts Votorantim Finanças S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance to its specific assets and liabilities. of the investments, the Company and its Votorantim Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding subsidiaries use criteria similar to those used Votorantim Investimentos Latino-Americanos S.A. 100.00 Brazil Holding to test goodwill impairment. Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. 66.40 70.24 Brazil Zinc Votorantim Cement North America Inc. 100.00 100.00 Canada Holding Acerías Paz del Río S.A. 91.20 82.42 Colombia Steel Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. 100.00 100.00 Spain Holding St. Marys Cement Inc. 100.00 100.00 USA Cement St. Helen Holding II B.V. 100.00 100.00 Cayman Islands Holding Hailstone Ltd. 100.00 100.00 British Virgin Islands Holding Nexa Resources S.A. 64.25 64.25 Luxembourg Holding Votorantim Cimentos International S.A. 100.00 100.00 Luxembourg Holding Votorantim RE 100.00 100.00 Luxembourg Insurance Nexa Resources Atacocha S.A.A. 91.00 91.00 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A 80.06 80.23 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Cajarmarquilla S.A. 99.91 99.91 Peru Zinc Cementos Artigas S.A. 51.00 51.00 Uruguay Cement 160 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 161 Percentage Percentage of HeadMain of total and Main total capital quarters activity Main consolidated companies voting capital Headquarters activity Main non-consolidated companies 2019 2018 2019 2018 Joint operations Associates Baesa Energética Barra Grande S.A. 15.00 15.00 Brazil Electric power Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 49.00 49.00 Argentina Cement Campos Novos Energia S.A. 44.76 44.76 Brazil Electric power Alunorte Alumina do Norte S.A. 3.52 3.52 Brazil Mining Great Lakes Slag Inc. 50.00 50.00 Canada Cement IMIX Empreendimentos Imobiliários Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Mining Voto Votorantim Overseas Trading Operations Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 12.50 12.50 Brazil Mining IV Ltd. 50.00 Cayman Islands Trading Supermix Concreto S.A. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Concrete Cementos Especiales de las Islas S.A. 50.00 50.00 Spain Cement Exclusive investment funds Fundo de Investimento Pentágono VC Joint ventures Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Citrosuco GmbH 50.00 50.00 Austria Agribusiness Fundo de Investimento Pentágono CBA Banco Votorantim S.A. 50.00 50.00 Brazil Finance Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 50.00 50.00 Brazil Agribusiness Fundo de Investimento Pentágono VSA Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brasil Finance Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização S.A. 45.00 45.00 Brazil Services Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado 93.49 96.91 Brazil Finance VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 50.00 50.00 Brazil Electric power Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Fundo de Hutton Transport Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Canada Transportation investimento VC 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Midway Group, LLC. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Fundo de Superior Materials Holdings, LLC. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement investimento VM 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Rental RMC Leasing 50.00 50.00 USA equipment 162 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 163 (b) Information about the companies investees The following is a summary of selected financial information of the principal associates and joint ventures as at December 31, 2019: NonNonFinance Profit Total and Current current Current current Net reveOperation income (loss) for voting assets assets liabilities liabilities Equity nue results (costs) the year capital (%) Investments accounted for based on the equity method Associates Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 375 1,016 439 10 941 1,494 359 (4) 269 49% Alunorte Alumina do Norte S.A. 9,280 2,391 3,370 3,519 6,022 411 (386) 3 3% IMIX Empreendimentos Imobiliários Ltda. 13 7 19 6 6 1 6 25% Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 493 2,487 668 1,329 982 1,432 349 (167) 144 10% Supermix Concreto S.A. 205 275 162 86 230 1,239 (2) 2 2 25% Cementos Especiales de las Islas S.A. 104 114 25 8 185 30 50% Joint ventures Citrosuco GmbH 3,794 829 720 343 3,560 3,183 (104) 22 (105) 50% Banco Votorantim S.A. 48,215 48,316 58,025 27,750 10,756 8,169 12,125 1,594 50% Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 3,384 4,274 1,750 5,728 181 2,795 (159) (311) (461) 50% Jaguatirica empreendimento imobiliário SPE S.A. 207 7 1 1 211 11 6 5 50% Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização S.A. 61 9 44 27 49 (7) 2 (3) 45% VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 271 3,866 138 67 3,832 (37) 2 551 50% Hutton Transport Ltda. 35 61 14 2 75 12 25% Midway Group, LLC. 28 26 9 51 19 50% RMC Leasing LLC 5 15 31 50% Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 94 59 39 125 57 50% 164 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 165 (c) Changes in investees 2019 2018 Equity in the results Reapresentado Profit (loss) for of investees Investment the year patrimonial balance Opening balance for the year 11,310 13,372 Profit (loss) Equity in the results of investees 919 1,118 for the Foreign exchange variations (56) 208 Equity year 2019 2018 2019 2018 Addition 156 1,409 Disposals (68) (245) Investments accounted for based on the equity method Fair value of available for sale asset Banco Votorantim S.A. 44 Associates Dividends (613) (127) Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 941 269 132 81 578 502 Gain on fair value adjustment on deconsolidation 144 Alunorte Alumina do Norte Initial adoption of IFRS 9 (337) S.A. 3,519 3 (28) 107 107 Reclassification for assets classified as held for sale (4,305) IMIX Empreend. Imobiliários Other 28 73 Ltda. 19 6 2 1 5 3 Closing balance for the year 11,720 11,310 Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 982 144 14 2 98 90 Supermix Concreto S.A. 230 2 1 (4) 58 57 (i) The following investments consider the goodwill paid on the acquisition of investments and the surplus value, Cementos Especiales De Las which is amortized in the income statement of the parent company: Islas, S.A. 185 30 15 12 77 77 Outros (1) 81 162 Goodwill Added Value 2019 2018 2019 2018 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 194 194 112 139 Joint ventures Citrosuco GmbH 145 141 752 726 Citrosuco GmbH (i) 3,560 (105) (88) 156 2,643 2,613 Jaguatirica Empreendimento Imobiliário SPE S.A. 5 Banco Votorantim S.A. (ii) 10,756 1,594 797 530 5,383 5,063 VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 141 144 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria (i) 181 (461) (267) (171) 387 610 (i) On December 31, 2019 the investment included the adjustment to fair value amounting to R$ 495 (December Jaguatirica Empreendimento 31, 2018 – R$ 495). Imobiliário SPE S.A. (i) 211 5 2 111 67 Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização S.A. 27 (3) (1) (3) 12 5 VTRM Energia Participações S.A. (i) 3,832 551 271 328 2,058 1,844 Hutton Transport Ltda. 75 12 3 4 19 20 Midway Group, LLC. 51 19 9 6 26 23 RMC Leasing LLC 31 15 10 Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 125 57 29 24 62 57 Fibria Celulose S.A. 181 919 1,118 11,720 11,310 166 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 167 18 Property, plant and equipment levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (CGUs). Non-financial assets, except goodwill, which have been impaired, Accounting policy An asset’s carrying amount is written down are subsequently reviewed for the analysis (i) Property, plant and equipment immediately to its recoverable amount when of a possible reversal of impairment, at the Property, plant and equipment are stated at the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its balance sheet date. their historical cost of acquisition or construcestimated recoverable amount, in accordance tion, less accumulated depreciation. Historical with the criteria adopted by the Company in The recoverability of the assets that are cost also includes finance costs related to the order to determine the recoverable amount. used in the activities of the Company and its acquisition or construction of qualifying assets. subsidiaries is evaluated whenever events or Gains and losses on disposals are determined changes in circumstances indicate that the Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s by comparing the sales amount with the book value of an asset or group of assets may carrying amount or recognized as a separate carrying amount and are recognized within not be recoverable based on future cash flows. asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable “Other operating income (expenses), net” in If the carrying amount of these assets exceeds that future economic benefits associated with the statement of income. their recoverable value, the net amount is these costs will flow to the Company and they adjusted and their useful life is adjusted to can be measured reliably. The carrying amount (ii) Impairment of non-financial new levels. of the replaced items or parts is derecognized. assets Assets that are subject to depreciation and All other repairs and maintenance are charamortization are reviewed for impairment ged to the statement of income during the whenever events or changes in economic, financial period in which they are incurred. operating or technological circumstances may The cost of major refurbishments is included indicate impairment or loss of book value. in the carrying value of the asset when future An impairment loss is recognized when the economic benefits exceed the performance carrying amount of the asset or cash geneinitially expected for the existing asset. Rerating unit (“CGU”) exceeds its recoverable furbishment expenses are depreciated over amount, adjusting the carrying amount to the the remaining useful life of the related asset. recoverable amount. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other The recoverable amount is the greater of assets is calculated using the straight-line an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its method to reduce their cost to their residual value-in-use. For the purpose of impairment values over their estimated useful lives. assessment, assets are grouped at the lowest 168 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 169 (a) Breakdown and changes 2019 2018 Machinery, Land and Buildings and equipment and Furniture and Construction in Asset retirement Leasehold improvements construction facilities Vehicles fittings progress obligation improvements Other Total Total Opening balance for the year Cost 2,060 10,890 35,376 1,225 241 2,785 917 519 527 54,540 52,346 Accumulated depreciation (62) (4,624) (21,341) (1,000) (172) (484) (296) (348) (28,327) (26,123) Net opening balance for the year 1,998 6,266 14,035 225 69 2,785 433 223 179 26,213 26,223 Additions 8 5 47 6 3 3,115 3 2 3,189 2,567 Disposals (19) (17) (64) (2) (6) (2) (2) (3) (115) (103) Depreciation (5) (378) (1,658) (75) (17) (35) (25) (4) (2,197) (1,985) Foreign exchange variation 29 40 110 10 163 4 16 (49) 323 947 Effect of subsidiaries included in (excluded from) consolidation (3) 22 11 11 1 42 (1,286) Reversal for impairment (1) (57) (80) (171) (309) 29 Cash flow revaluation (i) 291 291 64 Revision of estimated cash flow (225) Exchange variation of countries with hyperinflationary economy 10 75 85 138 Transfers (ii) 26 351 1,550 165 8 (2,491) 17 (374) (156) Closing balance for the year 2,033 6,232 13,951 340 58 3,580 525 229 200 27,148 26,213 Cost 2,100 11,246 36,839 1,381 236 3,580 1,058 564 548 57,552 54,540 Accumulated depreciation (67) (5,014) (22,888) (1,041) (178) (533) (335) (348) (30,404) (28,327) Net closing balance for the year 2,033 6,232 13,951 340 58 3,580 525 229 200 27,148 26,213 Average annual depreciation rates % 1 4 9 20 11 5 9 (i) Refers, substantially, to item 1.1 (q) (i) The transfers are related to the reclassification from “Construction in progress” within “Property, plant and equipment”, “Goodwill”, “Software”, “Rights to use natural resources” and “Others” within “Intangible assets”. 170 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 171 (b) Construction in progress Votorantim Cimentos 2019 2018 Environment and security 25 67 The balance is composed mainly of expansion and optimization projects related to industry. Other 138 173 Em % 849 771 Segment 2019 2018 21 2 Nexa Resources 2,123 1,353 12 Votorantim Cimentos 849 771 CBA 2019 2018 CBA 448 492 Rondon Bauxite projects 118 114 Long steel 60 92 24 59 Furnace refurbishment 111 131 Votorantim Energia 23 25 Furnace rooms project 44 30 Other 77 52 Plastic transformation and foundry projects 27 3 3,580 2,785 Alumina factory project 24 48 Revitalization and adequacy of power plant 22 4 Automation system modernization 21 29 Projetos de Fundição 19 7 Projetos de Mineração 18 22 The main projects in progress by business segment are as follows: Projetos de Segurança, Saúde e Meio Ambiente 29 Other 44 75 Nexa Resources 2019 2018 448 492 Expansion and modernization projects 1,403 683 Sustaining 460 354 Long steel 2019 2018 Security, health and enviromental projects 213 223 Sustaining 53 80 Information technology 45 53 Security projects, health and environment projects Colombia 3 7 Other 2 40 Other 4 5 2,123 1,353 60 92 Votorantim Cimentos 2019 2018 Votorantim Energia 2019 2018 Sustaining 282 220 Corumba GO projects 20 19 Industrial modernization 115 161 Information technology 2 4 Cement grinding Pecém Brazil 76 39 Other 1 2 New production line in Sobral CE 72 34 23 25 New lines of co-processing 51 35 Hardware and software 33 15 Factory in Nobres MT 29 17 Geology and mining rights 28 10 19 Intangible assets These transactions are accounted for at the time when the operating permit is awarded, regardless of the disbursement schedule Accounting policy (ii) Rights over natural resources established in the contract. Upon inception, (i) Goodwill Costs for the acquisition of rights to explore this liability (obligation) and intangible asset Goodwill represents the excess of the cost and develop mineral properties and to explore (concession right) correspond to the total of an acquisition over the net fair value of wind resources are capitalized and amortized amount of the future obligations discounted assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. using the straight-line method over their to their present value. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is reuseful lives, or, when applicable, based on the corded as “assets” in the consolidated financial depletion of the mines in question. Once the The amortization of the intangible asset is statements. Goodwill is tested annually for mine or wind farm starts operating, these calculated on a straight-line basis over the impairment and carried at cost less accumucosts are amortized and considered a cost of period of the authorization to use the public lated impairment losses. Impairment losses on production. asset. The financial liability is updated by the goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on effective interest method and reduced by the the disposal of an entity include the carrying Depletion of mineral resources and wind farms payments contracted. amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. is calculated based on extraction and utilization, respectively, taking into consideration (v) Contractual customer Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose their estimated productive lives. relationships and noncompetition agreements of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are (iii) Computer software Contractual customer relationships and expected to benefit from the business comComputer software licenses and development non-competition agreements acquired in a bination in which the goodwill arose. costs directly attributable to software are business combination are recognized at fair recorded as intangible assets. These costs are value at the acquisition date. The contractual Annually, the Company and its subsidiaries amortized over the estimated useful life of the customer relations and non-competition review the net book value of goodwill, in order software (three to five years). agreements have a finite useful life and are to assess whether there was impairment. The carried at cost less accumulated amortization. recoverable amounts of CGUs were determi(iv) Use of public assets Amortization is calculated using the straightned according to the value in use, based on the This represents the amounts established in -line method over the estimated useful lives. discounted cash flow model. The recoverable the concession contracts regarding the rights amount is sensitive to the rate used in the to hydroelectric power generation (onerous discounted cash flow model, as well as the concession) under Use of Public Assets agreexpected future cash receipts and the growth ements. rate used for extrapolation purposes. 174 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 175 (a) Breakdown and changes 2019 2018 Contracts, Rights over Asset retirecustomer relaRights over natural rement obligaUse of public tionships and trademarks sources Goodwill tion assets agreements Software and patents Other Total Total Opening balance for the year Cost 9,827 5,797 337 540 268 526 208 918 18,421 16,510 Accumulated amortization (3,575) (135) (198) (199) (368) (56) (398) (4,929) (4,435) Net opening balance for the year 6,252 5,797 202 342 69 158 152 520 13,492 12,075 Additions 5 21 18 1 2 12 59 115 Disposals (7) (2) (9) (32) Amortization and depletion (510) (18) (19) (19) (58) (9) (633) (486) Foreign exchange variation 66 206 4 3 1 22 302 1,585 Reclassification from assets classified as held-for-sale (5) Effect of subsidiaries included in (excluded from) consolidation 12 12 (97) Reversal for impairment (i) (380) (25) (405) 24 184 Revision of estimated cash flow 91 91 (27) Transfers 255 73 (1) 47 374 156 Closing balance for the year 5,676 6,008 300 323 83 173 153 567 13,283 13,492 Cost 10,263 6,008 457 540 310 602 206 1,003 19,389 18,421 Accumulated amortization (4,587) (157) (217) (227) (429) (53) (436) (6,106) (4,929) Net closing balance for the year 5,676 6,008 300 323 83 173 153 567 13,283 13,492 Average annual amortization and depletion rates % 6 7 7 7 20 (i) Refers, substantially, to impairment in the subsidiary Nexa described in item 1.1 (n). (b) Goodwill on acquisitions the Company. The consideration transferred Accounting policy includes the fair value of assets or liabilities reThe Company and its subsidiaries recognize The Company and its subsidiaries use the sulting from a contingent consideration arranany non-controlling interest in the acquiree acquisition method to account for business gement, when applicable. Acquisition-related on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either combinations. The consideration transferred costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a proportionate share of the fair value of the acvalue of the assets transferred, the liabilities business combination are measured initially at quiree’s identifiable net assets. Non-controlling incurred and the equity interests issued by their fair values at the acquisition date. interests are determined on each acquisition. 176 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 177 2019 2018 2019 2018 Restated Restated Votorantim Cimentos CBA Brazil North America 1,499 1,391 Campos Novos Energia S.A. 32 32 United Materials LLC Metalex Ltda. 49 49 Europe, Ásia e África Rio Verdinho Energia S.A. 29 29 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. 1,294 1,268 Machadinho Energética S.A. 15 15 BAESA Energética Barra Grande S.A. 7 7 Comercializadora de Cenizas S.L. 5 4 132 132 Cementos Antequera S.A. 3 3 Latin America Holdings e others Cementos Artigas S.A. 11 12 Latin America Brazil Votorantim Andina S.A. 16 16 Brazil Cimento Vencemos do Amazonas Ltda. 64 92 Fazenda Bodoquena Ltda. 1 1 Engemix S.A. 76 76 Jaguatirica 5 CJ Mineração Ltda. 16 16 22 17 2,968 2,862 6,008 5,797 Nexa Resources (c) Impairment test for goodwill development. The discount rates used are Latin America Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for pre-tax and reflect specific risks related to the Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. 2,330 2,241 example goodwill, are not subject to amortioperating segment or the CGU being tested. Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 373 358 zation and are tested annually for impairment. Brazil These calculations use cash flow projections, beCampos Novos Energia S.A. 26 26 The Company and its subsidiaries evaluate at fore income tax and social contributions, based Pollarix S.A. 1 1 least annually the recoverability of the carrying on financial budgets approved by management 2,730 2,626 value of the operating segment of each CGU. for a five-year period. Cash flow that exceeds The process of estimating these values involves the five-year period is extrapolated using the Long steel the use of assumptions, judgments and estimaestimated growth rates. The growth rate does Latin America tes of future cash flows that represent the best not exceed the average long-term growth rate Acergroup S.A. 149 149 estimate of the Company and its subsidiaries. of the operating sector of each segment. Acerholding S.A. 6 9 Acerbrag S.A. 1 2 The Company’s management determined The calculations of the value-in-use were 156 160 the budgeted gross margin based on past based on the discounted cash flow model, and performance and its expectations of market are based on the assumptions below: 178 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 179 21 Borrowing LIABILITIES Discount rate Votorantim Cimentos 5,86% to 14,93% CBA 5,57% to 10,15% Accounting policy Nexa Resources 6,38% to 7,10% Borrowings are initially recognized at fair Long steel (i) 8,63% to 16,85% AND EQUITY Holding and other 6,31% to 8,94% value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently carried at amortized cost. Any (i) The fair value calculations were based on the discounted cash flow model, and are based on the premise that growth rates take into account independent information about projections, such as LME quotes (mainly zinc and difference between the proceeds (net of trancopper) . saction costs) and the total amount payable is recognized in the statement of income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. 20 Right of use assets Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, construction or production of a (a) Breakdown and changes qualifying asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended 2019 use or sale are capitalized as part of the cost Property, buildings of that asset when it is probable that future and Machinery, Land and commercial equipment IT Vehicles economic benefits associated with the item Note improvements rooms and facilities equipment and vessels Total will flow to the Company and costs can be Initial adoption 91 177 83 24 291 666 Remeasurement of measured reliably. The other borrowing costs principal 4 21 177 4 149 355 are recognized as finance costs in the period Remeasurement of interest (19) (6) (25) in which they are incurred. New contracts (12) (46) (61) (17) (101) (237) Amortization 12 14 6 1 21 54 Closing balance for the 76 160 205 12 360 813 Cost 88 206 266 29 461 1.050 Accumulated amortization (12) (46) (61) (17) (101) (237) Net closing balance for the 76 160 205 12 360 813 Average annual amortization rates % 12 18 35 62 33 180 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 181 (a) Breakdown and fair value Current Non-current Total Fair value Type Average annual charges 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Local currency Debenture 110.26% CDI / CDI + 3.80% / IPCA + 3.80% 424 91 2,287 2,718 2,711 2,809 2,678 2,749 Export credit notes (i) 112.70% CDI / CDI + 1.5% 8 1,078 1,086 1,081 TJLP + 2.36% / 1.86% fixed rate BRL / SELIC + BNDES 2.99% / IPCA + 5.04% 97 95 641 635 738 730 720 687 Development promotion agency 10.00% fixed rate BRL / TJLP + 0.65% 7 51 23 198 30 249 32 246 FINAME 4.60% fixed rate BRL 17 21 43 68 60 89 59 83 Other 29 11 29 11 58 22 59 20 582 269 4,101 3,630 4,683 3,899 4,629 3,785 Foreign currency Eurobonds USD 5.89% fixed rate USD 137 3,077 10,156 10,742 10,293 13,819 11,550 13,829 Eurobonds EUR 3.39% fixed rate EUR 26 978 1,576 1,541 1,602 2,519 1,682 2,584 Loans Law 4131/1962 (ii) LIBOR + 0.48% 2 594 905 864 907 1,458 907 1,481 Eurobonds BOB 5.38% fixed rate BOB 1 315 316 316 EURIBOR + 2.00% / LIBOR + 1.10% / 8.43% Syndicated loan/bilateral agreements fixed rate 22 225 358 1,399 380 1,624 394 1,626 Export prepayments LIBOR + 1.27% 799 765 799 765 823 799 Working capital IBR + 2.71% / 5.68% fixed rate COP 146 111 146 111 146 112 Development promotion agency LIBOR + 1.10% 31 30 171 195 202 225 210 236 Other 7 7 420 24 427 31 425 33 372 5,022 14,700 15,530 15,072 20,552 16,453 20,700 954 5,291 18,801 19,160 19,755 24,451 21,082 24,485 Current portion of long-term borrowing 562 4,854 Interest on borrowing 236 324 Short-term borrowing 156 113 954 5,291 (i) Loan agreements (NCE – Export Credit vative financial instrument), which aim to ghted average cost of 5.00% per year. The rates in LIBOR to CDI + spread. These Note) of the subsidiary CBA are intended switch floating rate exposure exchange in subsidiary Nexa also has NCE contracts, swaps were contracted together with to financing export-related operations Brazilian reais (CDI) to an exchange rate which have linked swap contracts, which the financing and with the same financial and are linked to swap contracts (deripre-fixed in US Dollars, resulting in a weiaim to exchange the exposure of floating institution. 182 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 183 (ii) (Loans relating to Law 4131/1962 are CDI – Interbank Deposit Certificate. (b) Changes subject to swaps that are indexed both to exchange rates (LIBOR and fixed rates for COP – Colombian Peso. 2019 2018 floating CDI rates) and to currencies (US Opening balance for the year 24,451 24,630 Dollars for reais) and resulted in a final EUR – European Union currency (Euro). New borrowing 4,323 3,639 weighted cost of 109.20% p.a. of the CDI. Interest 1,007 1,359 Borrowing of this type relates to compouEURIBOR –E  uro Interbank Offered Rate. Addition of borrowing fees, net of amortization 17 26 nd financial instruments, contracted as a Fair value adjustment 22 (28) single product with the financial institution FINAME – Government Agency for MachiEffect of subsidiaries excluded in consolidation (909) Foreign exchange variation 507 2,771 (debt in US Dollars + swap a percentage of nery and Equipment Financing. Payments interest (1,217) (1,423) the CDI in reais). The terms and conditions Payments principal (9,356) (5,532) of the loan and derivative instruments are IBR – Interbank Rate (Colombia). Gain on debt renegotiation (69) configured as a compound operation, so Others 1 (13) that the resulting cost is a debt adjusted INR – Indian Rupee Closing balance for the year 19,755 24,451 by the CDI in reais. The difference in measurement between the two instruments IPCA – Extended Consumer Price Index. (loan at amortized cost x derivative at fair (c) New borrowing and value), creates an accounting mismatch LIBOR – London Interbank Offered Rate. amortizations in the statement of income. To eliminate Through the funding and prepayment of this accounting mismatch, some of the SELIC – Special System for Clearance certain debts, the Company seeks to extend borrowing contracts made from August and Custody. the average maturities, as well as to balance 2015, were designated as at fair value, the exposure to different currencies for loans and the effect of this designation is the TJLP – Long-term interest rate set by and financing against cash generation in these measurement of debt at fair value through the National Monetary Councurrencies. profit or loss, according to Note 33. cil. Until December 2017, the TJLP is the BNDES basic cost The main amortization in the year was as Key: of financing. As of January follows: 2018, the Long Term Rate BNDES – National Bank for Economic (TLP) became the main finanand Social Development. cial cost of BNDES financing. BRL – Brazilian currency (Real). USD –U  S Dollar. 184 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 185 New borrowing Date Company Type Currency Principal Principal BRL Maturity Cost Custo Apr-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans BOB (244) (140) 2027 5.68% Fixed rate 5.68% Pré Apr-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Debt in the local market BOB (116) (65) 2025 4.75% Fixed rate 4.75% Pré Apr-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Syndicated / Bilateral Loans USD (21) (82) 2020 LIBOR 03M + 1.10% LIBOR 03M + 1.10% Apr-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Debt in the local market BOB (419) (241) 2029 5.55% Fixed rate 5.55% Pré Apr-19 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio Export Credit Note BRL (787) (787) 2027 5.03% Fixed rate 5.03% Pré May-19 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio Export Credit Note BRL (198) (198) 2027 4.92% Fixed rate 4.92% Pré May-19 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio Export Credit Note BRL (100) (100) 2027 4.90% Fixed rate 4.90% Pré Sep-19 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio BNDES BRL (90) (90) 2034 4.15% Fixed rate 4.15% Pré Sep-19 Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. Borrowing Law 4131 MTM USD (75) (305) 2024 107% CDI 107% CDI Oct-19 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Export Credit Note BRL (90) (374) 2024 CDI + 1.30% CDI + 1.30% Dec-19 Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. Certificate of Real Estate Receivables BRL (179) (179) 2029 IPCA + 3.80% IPCA + 3.80% Dec-19 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Certificate of Real Estate Receivables BRL (348) (348) 2029 IPCA + 3.80% IPCA + 3.80% (i) The Export Credit Note and BNDES modalities have a fixed rate in US Dollars as described in item (a). Amortizations Date Company Type Currency Principal Principal BRL Maturity Cost Observação Feb-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Eurobonds EUR (61) (256) 2021 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Feb-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Eurobonds EUR (151) (640) 2022 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Feb-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Eurobonds USD (540) (2,014) 2041 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Feb-19 Votorantim S.A. Law 4131 USD (50) (185) 2020 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Feb-19 Votorantim S.A. Law 4131 USD (100) (377) 2021 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Apr-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans BOB (268) (154) 2025 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Apr-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans BOB (201) (116) 2025 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Apr-19 Votorantim S.A. Law 4131 USD (73) (282) 2021 Prepayment Pré-pagamento May-19 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio Eurobonds USD (256) (1,007) 2024 Prepayment Pré-pagamento May-19 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans EUR (30) (132) 2021 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Jun-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans BOB (133) (75) 2025 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Jun-19 Itacamba Cementos S.A. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans BOB (129) (73) 2025 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Jul-19 Votorantim S.A. Debenture BRL (550) (550) 2024 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Nov-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Syndicated / Bilateral Loans USD (75) (313) 2024 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Nov-19 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. Syndicated / Bilateral Loans TRY (120) (88) 2023 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Nov-19 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. BNDES BRL (52) (52) 2028 Prepayment Pré-pagamento Dec-19 Votorantim Cimentos Internacional Syndicated / Bilateral Loans USD (30) (123) 2024 Prepayment Pré-pagamento 186 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 187 (d) Maturity Current Non-current Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 30 Local currency 5,359 Foreign currency 25 Foreign currency Fixed rate 251 4,729 12,262 13,160 12,513 17,889 20 3,847 24% LIBOR 36 230 2,438 2,331 2,474 2,561 2,978 EURIBOR 11 39 50 15 2,225 Other 85 52 85 52 10 1,497 1,769 76% 372 5,022 14,700 15,530 15,072 20,552 5 601 900 578 954 5,291 18,801 19,160 19,755 24,451 0 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 + (f) Collateral (h) Covenants/financial ratios (e) Breakdown by currency As at December 31, 2019, R$ 5,859 (DecemCertain borrowing items are subject to comber 31, 2018 R$ 10.389) of the balance of pliance with certain financial ratios (“coveCurrent Non-current Total borrowing of the Company and its subsidiaries nants”). Where applicable, such obligations 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 was collateralized under promissory notes are standardized for all loan and financing USD 174 3,707 12,597 13,083 12,771 16,790 and sureties and R$ 895 of property, plant agreements. Real 582 269 4,101 3,630 4,683 3,899 Euro 25 1,098 1,576 1,879 1,601 2,977 and equipment items (December 31, 2018: Bolivian 2 64 459 406 461 470 R$ 792) was collateralized by liens on the The Company and its subsidiaries were in Turkish lire 34 39 42 148 76 187 financed assets. compliance with all of these covenants, as Colombian peso 132 111 132 111 applicable. Other 5 3 26 14 31 17 954 5,291 18,801 19,160 19,755 24,451 (f) Breakdown by index Current Non-current Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Local currency CDI 431 91 2,848 2,718 3,279 2,809 TJLP 73 79 238 314 311 393 TLP 30 32 312 289 342 321 Fixed rate 28 53 74 209 102 262 SELIC 20 14 114 100 134 114 IPCA 515 515 582 269 4,101 3,630 4,683 3,899 188 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 189 22 Lease liabilities 23 Confirming payables (a) Changes to lease obligations – IFRS16 The Company and subsidiaries have entered this operation, suppliers transfer the right to 2019 into agreements with financial institutions, receive their accounts receivable related to Initial adoption IFRS 16 666 aiming to anticipate receivables from suppliers sales of goods to financial institutions. New contracts 355 in domestic and foreign markets. As part of Amortization (217) Fair value adjustment 13 Foreign exchange variation 24 Operations Confirming payables 2019 2018 Closing balance for the year 841 Restated (Note 2.3) Current 210 Domestic market 256 349 Non-current 631 Foreign market 1,159 963 841 1,415 1,312 (b) Maturity profile 250 210 189 24 Current and deferred income tax and social 200 159 contribution 150 134 110 100 Accounting policy The current and deferred income tax and social 50 39 The income tax and social contribution excontribution is calculated on the basis of the 0 pense for the period comprises current and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025+ deferred taxes. Taxes on profit are recognized the balance sheet date in the countries where in the statement of income, except to the the entities operate and generate taxable extent that they relate to items recognized income. Management periodically evaluates directly in equity. In such cases, the taxes are positions taken by the Company in incoalso recognized in comprehensive income or me tax returns with respect to situations in directly in equity. which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provision where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 190 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 191 The current income tax and social contribution differences will have an impact on the current 2019 2018 are presented net, separated by taxpaying and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Restated entity, in liabilities when there are amouperiod in which the determination is made. Profit before income tax and social contribution 7,128 3,504 nts payable, or in assets when the amounts Standard rates 34% 34% prepaid exceed the total amount due on the (a) Reconciliation of income Income tax and social contribution at standard rates (2,424) (1,191) reporting date. tax and social contribution Adjustments for the calculation of income tax and social contribution at expenses effective rates Equity 312 380 Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the The current amounts are calculated based on Tax effect of the corporate reorganization VCSA 82 (431) extent it is probable that future taxable profit the current rates levied on taxable income, Realization of comprehensive income on disposals of investments 37 1 will be available against which the temporary adjusted upwards or downwards by the resDividends received 15 (53) Tax on mining operations (29) (52) differences and/or tax losses can be utilized. pective additions and exclusions. Differential rate of foreign companies (37) 559 Tax loss carryforward and non-deferred tax base (216) (60) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities The income tax and social contribution amouOther exclusions (additions), net 94 (164) are presented net in the balance sheet when nts presented in the statements of income for Income tax and social contribution calculated (2,166) (1,011) there is a legal right and the intention to offset the year ended December 31 are reconciled to Current (1,461) (455) them upon the calculation of current taxes, their Brazilian standard rates as follows Deferred (705) (556) Income tax and social contribution expenses (2,166) (1,011) generally related to the same legal entity and Effective rate % 30% 29% the same taxation authority. Thus, deferred tax assets and liabilities in different entities or in different countries are presented separately, (b) Breakdown of deferred tax balances and not net. 2019 2018 Restated The Company and its subsidiaries are subject Tax credits on tax losses 2,371 2,669 to income taxes in all countries in which it Tax credits on temporary differences operates. The provision for income tax is Estimation for losses on investments, fixed and intangible assets 1,011 857 calculated individually by the entity based on Tax, civil and labor provision 597 574 tax rates and rules effective at the entity’s Tax benefit on goodwill 504 503 Deferred of losses on derivative instruments 343 (77) location. The Company and its subsidiaries Foreign exchange 278 761 also recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax Asset retirement obligation 187 182 audit issues based on estimates of whether Use of public assets 149 154 additional taxes will be due. Where the final PPR Provision for profit sharing 129 113 tax outcome of these matters is different from Environmental liabilities 109 128 the amounts that were initially recorded, such Estimation for inventory losses 93 78 192 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 193 (d) Realization of deferred income tax and social contribution on tax losses 2019 2018 Restated 2019 Percentage Settlement credits for estimated loss 74 62 In 2020 78 3% Provision for energy charges 54 49 In 2021 364 15% Financial instruments firm commitment 50 (8) In 2022 60 3% Provision for social security obligations 48 41 In 2023 140 6% Estimated asset disposals 3 2 After 2024 1,729 73% Other tax credits 168 197 2,371 100% Tax debits on temporary differences Adjustment of useful lives of PP&E (depreciation) (1,981) (2,192) Market value Milpo (1,162) (1,233) Adjust the fair value in the Suzano transaction (549) Goodwill amortization (299) (405) Capitalized interest (206) (141) Goodwill (182) (435) Market value assets (179) 123 25 Provision Gain in fair value in VTRM´s operation (48) (50) Market value adjustment (34) (35) Asset retirement obligation (9) (10) Accounting policy (i) Provision for tax, civil, labor, Other tax debits (265) (22) The Company and its subsidiaries are a party environmental and other legal Net 1,254 1,885 claims to tax, civil, labor and other legal claims in Net deferred tax assets related to the same legal entity 3,341 4,079 progress at different Court levels. Provision The provision for tax, civil, labor, environmental Net deferred tax liabilities related to the same legal entity (2,087) (2,194) against potentially unfavorable outcomes and other legal claims is recognized when: (i) of litigation in progress is established and the Company has a present legal or construc(c) Effects of deferred income tax and social contribution on the profit for the updated based on management evaluation, tive obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it year and comprehensive income as supported by external legal counsel, and is probable that an outflow of resources will requires a high level of judgment regarding be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) 2019 2018 the matters involved. the amount can be reliably estimated. Losses classified as possible are not recognized for Opening balance for the year 1,885 2,114 Deferred income tax and social contribution on hedge accounting 49 396 The judicial deposits are monetarily restaaccounting purposes, and are disclosed in Effects on the results of the semester discontinued operations 51 112 ted and when they have a corresponding the notes. Contingencies with probability of Effects of foreign exchange variations in other comprehensive income (29) (196) provision they are presented net in “Proviloss classified as remote are not provisioned Effects on the results for the year continuing operations (705) (556) sion”. Judicial deposits that do not have a nor disclosed, except when the Company Others 3 15 corresponding provision are presented in and its subsidiaries consider their disclosure Closing balance for the year 1,254 1,885 non-current assets. justified. The classification of losses between 194 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 195 possible, probable and remote is based on Expenditures relating to mine retirement are (a) Breakdown and changes the management’s assessment, based on the recorded as asset retirement obligations. opinion of its legal advisors. The asset retirement cost, equivalent to the 2019 2018 present value of the obligation (liability), is caAsset Legal claims retirement obligation Tax Labor Civil Other Provision is measured at the present value of pitalized as part of the carrying amount of the Opening balance for the expenditures expected to be required to asset, which is depreciated over its useful life. the 1,334 853 84 283 41 2,595 2,587 settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that Additions 33 93 245 41 9 421 314 Reversals (41) (36) (46) (14) (137) (434) reflects current market assessments of the The Company and its subsidiaries recognize a Judicial deposits, net time value of money and the risks specific to liability based on the fair value for the demoof write-offs (3) 26 8 31 80 the obligation. The increase in the provision bilization of assets in the period in which they Settlement in cash (61) (18) (19) (20) (4) (122) (156) due to time elapsing is recognized as interest occur, against the corresponding intangible Settlements with escrow deposits (137) (26) (163) (14) expense. Provision does not include future asset. The Company and its subsidiaries conEffect of subsidiaries operating losses. sider the accounting estimates related to the included in (excluded from) consolidation (26) recovery of degraded areas and the costs of Present value (ii) Asset retirement obligations closing a mine as a critical accounting practice adjustment 78 78 67 The calculation of asset retirement obligations because it involves expressive amounts of Monetary restatement 1 (7) 13 12 (2) 17 82 involves judgment about certain assumptions. provisions and these are estimates that involve Foreign exchange In environmental terms, they refer to the several assumptions such as interest rates, variation 32 1 33 98 future obligation to restore the ecological inflation, useful life of the assets considering Revision of estimated cash flow conditions similar to those existing before the current stage of exhaustion, the costs (i) 384 384 (3) the beginning of the project or activity, or to involved and the projected depletion dates Closing balance for the 1,801 878 176 252 30 3,137 2,595 carry out compensatory measures, agreed of each mine. These estimates are reviewed (i) Amount refers, substantially, to item 1.1 (q). upon with the applicable bodies, as a result annually by the Company and its subsidiaries. of the impossibility of returning the areas to the pre-existing condition. These obligations (iii) Obligation for environmental arise from the beginning of the environliabilities mental degradation of the area occupied by The environmental liability must be recognized the operation or from formal commitments when there is an obligation on the part of the made to the environmental body, under which Company and its subsidiaries that incurred an the degradation must be compensated. The environmental cost not yet paid, provided that dismantling and removal of an asset from an it meets the recognition criteria as an obligaoperation occurs when it is permanently retition. Therefore, this type of liability is defined red, through the interruption of its activities, as being a present obligation of the Company or by its sale or disposal. and its subsidiaries that arose from past events. 196 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 197 (b) Provision for tax, civil, labor, other contingencies and outstanding judicial deposits Nature 2019 2018 Tax assessment notice IRPJ/CSLL 1,686 1,884 2019 2018 IRPJ/CSLL – Profits abroad 1,096 1,052 Remaining Remaining ICMS – Credit 818 818 Judicial Net judicial Judicial Net judicial Disallowances of PIS/COFINS credits 713 680 deposits Provision amount deposits (i) deposits Provision amount deposits (i) Compensation for exploration for mineral resources ( CFEM ) 499 608 Tax (129) 1,007 878 182 (126) 979 853 545 Disallowance of IRPJ/CSLL negative balance 485 493 Labor (110) 286 176 46 (214) 298 84 80 Tax assessment notice – ICMS 308 315 Civil (21) 273 252 108 (28) 311 283 124 Offset of tax loss – 30% limit (merger) 299 286 Other (1) 31 30 9 (1) 42 41 6 ICMS on electricity charges 222 204 (261) 1,597 1,336 345 (369) 1,630 1,261 755 IRPJ/CSLL – Transfer costs 206 198 (i) The variation was, substantially, from the collection of judicial deposits related to the ICMS process in the PIS and Error in fiscal classification Importation 181 172 COFINS calculation basis.. Collection of ICMS due to divergences regarding the destination of the property 108 104 IRPJ/CSLL – Deduction of expenses 77 74 (c) Litigation with likelihood of loss litigations representing a risk of possible loss, Other lawsuits 4,973 4,274 considered possible for which no constituted provision has been 11,671 11,162 The Company and its subsidiaries are party to made, as detailed below. (i) Tax assessment notice – “IRPJ / formalization of the Court Decision. As at CSLL” December 31, 2018, the restated amount 2019 2018 In December 2016, the subsidiary VCSA was of the contingency was R$ 580, of which Tax (c.1) 11,671 11,162 assessed by the Brazilian Federal Revenue R$ 53 was assessed as probable loss and was Civil (c.2) 7,900 7,430 Office in the historical amount of R$ 470 properly accrued, and the remaining R$ 219 Environmental 612 516 Labor and social security 276 374 demanding the collection of IRPJ and CSLL was assessed as possible loss. 20,459 19,482 relating to the period of 2011, due to the alleged undue deduction of operating exIn December 2017, the VCSA received a tax penses and costs. In January 2018, the VCSA assessment notice from the Brazilian Federal (c.1) Comments on contingent tax the table below we present an analysis of the became aware of the Lower Court decision Revenue Office in the amount of R$ 1,295 for and public rights liabilities with relevance of these lawsuits: from the Federal Revenue’s Judgment Office, alleged non-payment or underpayment of IRPJ likelihood of loss considered which judged the appeal partially with grounds, and CSLL relating to the period from 2012 to possible reducing the lawsuit by approximately R$ 114. 2013, due to: (i) capital gain allegedly obtained The contingent liabilities relating to tax lawIn December 2018, the Appeal of the Adminisdue to a barter made by the VCSA; and (ii) amorsuits in progress with a likelihood of loss trative Board of Tax Appeals was dismissed and tization of goodwill supposedly incorrect. In considered possible, for which no provision has the Voluntary Appeal was partially accepted October 2018, the VCSA took cognizance of the been recorded, are commented on below. In for the VCSA, at this moment we await the decision of the lower court, which ruled that the 198 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 199 VCSA´s challenge was unfavorable. In December (iv) PIS / COFINS credit statement R$ 485 as of December 31, 2019. Currently, likelihood of loss of the process is considered 2018, the Appeal of the Administrative Board Substantially comprised by the subsidiary the cases await an administrative decision possible. of Tax Appeals was dismissed and the Voluntary CBA, which has Decisional Orders and tax due to the presentation of a challenge by the Appeal was partially accepted for the VCSA, at assessments relating to the PIS and COFINS Company and its Subsidiaries. (ix) IRPJ/CSLL – Transfer Price this moment we await the formalization of the credits, referring to the items applied in the Between 2007 and 2010, four tax assessCourt Decision. At December 31, 2019, the production process, which, in the opinion of In the opinion of Management and in the ments were filed against its subsidiary CAI, restated amount of the contingency assessed the Brazilian Federal Revenue Office, would opinion of its independent legal advisors, it aiming at the collection of IRPJ and CSLL, as possible loss was R$ 1,467. not generate the right to credit of the said appears that there was a misconception on and the adjustment in the basis of tax losses contributions. The amount restated as of the part of RFB when assessing the amounts and the negative basis of CSLL, due to the (ii) Profits abroad – “IRPJ/CSLL” December 31, 2019 was R$ 690. Currently, presented by the Company and its subsidialosses made in the adjustments made by the The Company and its subsidiaries have asall the processes await administrative decision. ries, which is why the likelihood of loss in the Company in this transfer pricing calculations sessments drawn up by the Brazilian Federal lawsuits is considered possible. in 2003 and 2004. In October 2018, one of Revenue Office, for alleged nonpayment of In the opinion of Management and in the the cases was closed in a favorable manner to IRPJ and CSLL, on profits earned abroad by opinion of its independent legal advisors, in (vii) Tax assessment notice – ICMS the CAI, with the amount of R$ 206 remaining its subsidiaries or affiliates, in the periods of light of precedents and case law, the likelihood In the fourth quarter of 2016, the subsidiary under administrative discussion, restated up 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013 and 2014. of loss of the process is considered possible. CAI received a tax assessment notice whose to December 31, 2019. The active processes value up to December 31, 2019 amounts await judgment of appeals by the AdministraThe balance substantially composed by the (v) Financial Compensation for R$ 128. The process currently awaits jutive Council of Tax Appeals. Company, amounted R$ 1,096 at December the Exploration of Mineral dgment of the special appeal filed by the Resources – CFEM 31, 2019 (R$ 1,052 as at December 31, company before the Tax and Taxes Court of (x) Tax classification mismatch – 2018). All cases are awaiting judgment at the The subsidiaries Nexa BR, CBA and VCSA had São Paulo Paulo. Import administrative level. several assessments drawn up by the National In March 2017, the subsidiary CBA was asDepartment of Mineral Production – “DNPM” (viii) ICMS on electricity charges sessed on account of a supposed error in (iii) ICMS credit for alleged failure to pay or lower collection of The subsidiary CBA has judicial and administhe tax classification on the importation of Between 2011 and 2013, eight notices of CFEM from 1991 to 2015. As of December 31, trative discussions regarding the incidence inputs, resulting in the tax requirement (IPI, infringement and fines were filed against the 2019, the amount of possible loss amounted of ICMS on the sector charges levied on the PIS, COFINS E II), whose value in December Company’s subsidiary Citrovita Agro Industrial to R$ 499. electricity tariff. As of December 31, 2019, the 2019 amounts to R$ 181. Ltda. (“CAI”), mainly aimed at the collection of amount in controversy of these discussions ICMS credited, as highlighted in invoices for (vi) IRPJ/CSLL negative balance amounts to R$ 222. Because the undisputed legal counsel wrongly the transfer of other subsidiaries, with the credit understood the complaint, the subsidiary CBA specific purpose of non taxable export. The VSA and its subsidiaries CBA received deciIn the opinion of Management and in the filed a challenge that was favorably judged in tax assessment notices totaled R$ 818 as at sions regarding the gloss of negative balance opinion of its independent legal advisors, the the first administrative instance. Currently, December 31, 2019. of IRPJ credits, totaling the updated amount of assessment is unfounded, which is why the the case awaits judgment by the CARF of the 200 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 201 voluntary appeal filed by the Attorney General the Regional Judgment Office (DRJ), and the defendants pay the following penalties expert evidence. At the moment a decision is of the National Treasury. judgment on the Voluntary Appeal filed is according to Article 23 Section 1 and Article awaited on the motions to clarify against such currently awaiting. 24 of Law 8,884/1994: (i) in addition to order. The likelihood of loss in this matter is In the opinion of Management and in the the payment mentioned in item (1) above, considered possible, and the VCSA has not opinion of its independent legal advisors, the (c.2) Comments on contingent civil a fine ranging from 1% to 30% of annual recorded any provision for this claim. As at likelihood of loss of said process is considered liabilities with likelihood of loss gross revenues relating to the fiscal year December 31, 2019, the restated balance of considered possible possible. immediately preceding the year in which the the contingency was R$ 4,176. alleged violation occurred, but not less than Nature 2019 2018 (xi) Collection of ICMS due to Public civil suit – Violation the monetary advantage acquired; and (ii) (ii) Administrative Proceedings by divergences regarding the of the economic order 4,176 4,023 a prohibition, for a period not shorter than SDE, currently CADE (Brazilian destination of the item Administrative antitrust agency) five years, from obtaining financing from investigations carried The subsidiary CBA was assessed for alleged out by the Secretariat of governmental financial institutions or from In 2006 the SDE initiated administrative proEconomic Law 2,105 2,052 failure to pay ICMS, due to the credit claims participating in bidding processes conducted ceedings against the largest Brazilian cement Other lawsuits 1,619 1,355 arising from the acquisition of assets due to 7,900 7,430 by the federal, state or municipal governments companies, including VCSA, alleging that the divergences regarding the allocation of assets and their entities. In view of the total number large cement companies would have breached in the amount of R$ 108. of the claims in item (1) above in the amount Brazilian antitrust laws, such as in terms of (i) Civil class action – Cartel of R$ 5,600 and because of the claims alleging price fixing and the formation of a cartel. After In the opinion of Management and in the The Office of the Public Prosecutor of the joint liability, VCSA estimated that, based on the finding of facts, the CADE court judged the opinion of its independent legal advisors, the State of Rio Grande do Norte filed a civil class its market share, its share of the liability would lawsuit, issuing the final terms of the judgment criteria adopted in relation to the destination action against the subsidiary VCSA, together be approximately R$ 2,400. However, there on July 29, 2015, applying several penalties of the assets are in accordance with the perwith eight other defendants, including several can be no assurance that this apportionment to the companies. tinent legislation and the probability of loss of of Brazil’s largest cement manufacturers, would prevail and that VCSA will not be held the process is considered possible. alleging the formation of a cartel, demanding liable for a different proportion, which may The penalties imposed on VCSA include the that: (1) the defendants make an indemnity be larger, or for the total number of these payment of a fine of approximately R$ 1,566 (xii) IRPJ/CSLL – Expense Deduction payment, jointly, amounting to R$ 5,600, in claims. Additionally, there can be no assurance and an obligation for VCSA to sell: (1) all In December 2016, the subsidiary CAI was favor of the civil class action, due to pain and that VCSA will not be required to pay other its interests in other cement and concrete assessed by the RFB for the collection of suffering and property collective damage; amounts as compensation for damages caused companies in Brazil; (2) 20% of its installed IRPJ and CSLL, due to the gloss of exclusions (2) the defendants make a payment of 10% to consumers as mentioned in item (2) above capacity of concrete services in Brazil, in from the calculation base of said taxes in the of the total amount paid by the customers and/or the fine mentioned in item (3) above. relevant markets in which VCSA has more than 2011 calendar year. The amounts required by for the acquisition of cement or concrete one concrete plant; and (3) a specific cement the tax assessment notice total R$ 77. In the under the brands owned by the defendants, In the last quarter of 2018, an order was issued asset that, in CADE’s opinion, was directly last quarter of 2018, a partial cancellation during the period from 2002 to 2006, due rejecting the arguments presented by the related to the alleged illegal act of which VCSA of the tax assessment notice was filed by to individual consumer damages; (3) that defendants and determining the production of is accused. Other non-monetary penalties 202 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 203 were also imposed on VCSA, including: (1) the accepted. The parties indicated technical 26 Use of public assets obligation to publish CADE’s decision in one assistants and made questions. The expert is of the five biggest Brazilian newspapers; (2) requested to inform if he accepts the charge a prohibition against contracting with official and presents an estimate of the fees. The Accounting policy the electrical energy industry. Most of these financial institutions for credit lines with finanVCSA classified the likelihood of loss on this The amount is originally recognized as a contracts provide for annual payments from cing conditions subsidized by public programs lawsuit as possible. financial liability (obligation) and as an intanthe commencement of operations and are or resources provided by these institutions; gible asset (right to use a public asset) which adjusted by the General Market Price Index and (3) a recommendation to the Federal During 2017, some construction companies corresponds to the amount of the total annual for the Use of Public Assets. Revenue that they restrict or limit certain and concrete producers filed lawsuits for charges over the period of the agreement other benefits and tax incentives. indemnity claims against Votorantim Cimentos discounted to present value (present value of The contracts have an average duration of 35 and other companies which were convicted the future payment cash flows). years, and the amounts to be paid annually In November 2015, VCSA filed an annulment by CADE, due to the alleged formation of a are as follows: action to cancel the decision issued at the cartel in the cement and concrete markets, The subsidiaries own or participate in comadministrative level or, at least, to reduce in summary claiming that the cartel caused panies that hold concession contracts in the applied penalties. The injunction was economic and non-economic losses. In Jagranted on November 24, 2015, suspennuary 2018, the first sentence dismissing ding the effects of the decision issued by the merit of the indemnity claims was issued. CADE at the administrative level, preventing In December 2019, there were already 26 CADE from demanding the fulfillment of the decisions dismissing the merit in the lower obligations and/or executing the penalties court. Moreover, ten of these lawsuits already until a judgment of the merits. CADE was recognized that eventual damages arising summoned and filed its defense, while VCSA from the facts identified in the administrative presented its reply in November 2016. Reproceeding of CADE had already expired, of cently, an economic expert evidence has been which seven were final decisions. 204 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 205 2019 2018 Intangible Intangible Concession Concession Payment Ownership assets Ownership assets Plants/Companies Investor start date end date start date interest (Note 18) Liabilities interest (Note 18) Liabilities Salto Pilão Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio nov-01 dec-36 jan-10 60% 173 538 60% 184 518 Salto do Rio Verdinho Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio aug-02 sep-37 oct-10 100% 7 22 100% 7 21 Itupararanga Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio nov-03 dec-23 jan-04 100% 2 100% 2 Piraju Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio dec-98 jan-34 feb-03 100% 1 6 100% 1 6 Ourinhos Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio jul-00 aug-35 sep-05 100% 1 5 100% 1 5 Baesa Energética Barra Grande Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio jun-01 may-36 jun-07 15% 12 45 15% 13 45 Capim Branco I e Capim Branco II Pollarix S.A. aug-01 sep-36 oct-07 13% 2 12 13% 3 11 Picada Pollarix S.A. may-01 jun-36 jul-06 100% 17 76 100% 17 69 Enercan Campos Novos Energia S.A CBA Energia Participações S.A. apr-00 may-35 jun-06 24% 2 7 24% 2 7 Enercan Campos Novos Energia S.A Pollarix S.A. apr-00 may-35 jun-06 21% 2 6 21% 2 6 Pedra do Cavalo Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. mar-02 apr-37 apr-06 100% 106 519 100% 112 499 323 1,238 342 1,189 Current 87 83 Non-current 323 1,151 342 1,106 323 1,238 342 1,189 27 Deferred revenue obligation for performance physical delivery of energy. This transaction right of return and/or co-obligation of the corresponded to R$ 1,252, and has no right subsidiary, in the total amount of R$ 368. By of return and/or type of co-obligation of assigning the receivables, Votener received Accounting policy energy to the client and consequent financial the Company on the receivables. Due to the the total amount R$ 251, and interest to Deferred revenue, arising from the anticipatransfer to the financial institution. assignment of receivables, Votener received beappropriated from the operation will be tion of receivables from financial institutions, a total amount of R$ 905, and the interest to recognized pro rata to the result during the represents an obligation for the subsidiaries to In December 2014, the subsidiary indirect be appropriated from the transaction will be term of the agreement. physically deliver the electric energy already Votener ceded to a financial institution the recognized pro rata to the result during the sold to customers and consequently to pass receivables due until December 2019 as a term of the agreement. The updated value of these operations at on to the financial institution the amount reresult of certain contracts for the Sale of December 31, 2019 was R$ 32 (December ceived from the sale of energy. The obligation Electric Energy in the Regulated Environment In May 2015, Votener carried out a second 31, 2018, R$ 271). is performed monthly, after the transfer of (“CCEAR”), which are being carried out with the credit assignment operation, without any 206 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 207 28 Pension plan and post-employment health 2019 2018 care benefits Rights recorded in the balance sheet with: Pension plan benefits 40 25 Accounting policity Past-service costs are recognized immediaAssets recorded in the balance sheet 40 25 The Company, through its subsidiaries abroad tely in the statement of income, unless the (VCNA, VCEAA, Artigas and APDR) and in Brazil changes to the pension plan are conditional Obligations recorded in the balance sheet with: Pension plan benefits 172 155 (VCNNE), participates in pension plans manaon the employees remaining in service for a Post-employment healthcare benefits 195 164 ged by a private pension entity, which provide specified period of time (the vesting period). Liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 367 319 post-employment benefits to employees. In this case, past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Expenses recognized in the statement of income with: The liability recognized in the balance sheet in Pension plan benefits 18 19 Post-employment healthcare benefits 13 12 respect of defined benefit pension plans is the For defined contribution plans, the Company 31 31 present value of the defined benefit obligation pays contributions to the pension plan adRemeasurement with: at the balance sheet date minus the fair value ministrators on a compulsory, contractual or Pension plan benefits gross amount 35 (39) of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation voluntary basis. The Company no longer has Deferred income tax and social contribution (10) 5 is calculated annually by independent actuapayment obligations once the contributions Pension plan benefits net amount 25 (34) ries using the projected unit credit method. are paid. Contributions are recognized as The present value of the defined benefit employee benefit expense when due. Prepaid obligation is determined by discounting the contributions are recognized as an asset to the (a) Defined contribution pension contributions that represent up to 1.5% of estimated future cash outflows using market extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the plan their monthly remuneration. For employees interest rates that are denominated in the future payments is available. The Company and its Brazilian subsidiaries whose remuneration exceeds the threshold, currency in which the benefits will be paid, sponsor private pension plans available to all the Company matches the contributions of and that have terms to maturity approximating The Company’s subsidiaries have a defined employees administered by Fundação Senaemployees that represent up to 6% of their the terms of the related pension obligation. contribution plan for employees. Certain subdor José Ermírio de Moraes (“FUNSEJEM”), a monthly remuneration. Voluntary contribuIn countries where there is no active market sidiaries, however, have a defined benefit plan. private, not for profit, pension fund. Under tions can also be made to FUNSEJEM. Once related to such obligations, market rates for the terms of the regulations of the fund, the the plan contributions are made, no additional government securities are used. The table below shows where the balances and contributions of the employees to FUNSEJEM contributions are required. activities related to post-employment benefit are matched by the sponsors in accordance Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes are allocated in the consolidated financial with the level of remuneration of the em(b) Defined benefit pension plan in actuarial assumptions are recognized within statements. ployee. For employees whose remuneration The Company has subsidiaries with defined “Carrying value adjustments” in the period in is lower than the threshold established by pension plans in North America, South Ameriwhich they arise. the regulations, the Company matches the ca and Europe, which follow similar regulatory 208 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 209 standards. The defined benefit pension plans best expectations of management regarding The changes in the defined benefit obligation also offer health care and life insurance, among the return on plan assets, salary adjustments, and the fair value of the plan assets during the other benefits. The cost of the retirement costs and mortality trends, and the age of year were as follows: benefits and the other benefits of the plan retirement of employees. granted to employees are determined by the projected benefit method on a pro rata basis The amounts recognized in the balance sheet Impact of considering the length of service and the are determined as follows: Present value the minimum of funded Fair value requirement and unfunded of plan of the funds/ obligations assets Total asset celing Total Total Opening balance 1,100 (815) 285 9 294 317 2019 2018 Current service cost 8 8 8 9 Present value of funded obligations 1,175 1,031 Finance cost (income) 57 (33) 24 24 25 Fair value of plan assets (951) (814) Past service cost and curtailments (3) (3) 1 (2) (2) Deficit of funded plans 224 217 62 (33) 29 1 30 32 Present value of non-funded obligations 88 68 Re-measurements: Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 312 285 Return on assets, excluding the amount Impact of the minimum funding requirement/assets ceiling 15 9 included as finance income (78) (78) (78) 29 Assets and liabilities in the balance sheet 327 294 Losses (gains) arising from changes in demographic assumptions (8) (8) (8) Losses (gains) arising from changes in financial assumptions 126 126 126 (69) Losses arising from experience (14) (14) (14) (6) Changes in the asset ceiling, excluding the amount included as finance cost 6 6 7 104 (78) 26 6 32 (39) Foreign exchange gains (losses) 73 (57) 16 16 30 Contributions: Employer (10) (10) (10) (6) Payments of the plans: Payment of benefits (56) 21 (35) (35) (36) Assumed/(acquired) in a business combination (4) Closing balance 1,283 (972) 311 16 327 294 210 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 211 The defined benefit obligation and the plan assets, by country, are as follows: Percentual 2019 2018 North North Brazil Europe America Colombia Total Brazil Europe America Uruguay Colombia Total Present value of the obligation 44 14 825 292 1,175 43 29 697 263 1,032 Fair value of plan assets (61) (739) (151) (951) (53) (619) (142) (814) (17) 14 86 141 224 (10) 29 78 121 218 Present value of non-financial obligations 52 33 3 88 31 32 5 68 Impact of the minimum requirement of the funds/asset ceiling 15 15 8 8 (2) 66 119 144 327 (2) 60 110 5 121 294 The actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2019 2018 North North Brazil Europe America Colombia Total Brazil Europe America Uruguay Colombia Total Discount rate 6.54% 8.47% 3.00% 6.30% 6.08% 10.51% 6.12% 3.84% 10.92% 7.50% 7.78% Inflation rate 3.50% 3.90% 2.00% 3.50% 3.23% 5.37% 1.33% 2.00% 3.50% 3.05% Future salary increases 2.94% 7.57% 2.50% 3.50% 4.13% 4.88% 7.00% 2.50% 6.92% 3.50% 4.96% Increases in future pension plans 3.50% 3.50% 5.37% 5.37% (c) Post-employment benefits The obligations relating to these plans are (pension and health care) included in the movement of the defined The Company operates post-employment hebenefit obligations previously presented. alth care plans through indirect subsidiaries in North America, VCNA, and in Europe, VCEAA. The accounting method, assumptions and frequency of evaluations are similar to those used for the defined benefit pension plans. Most of these plans are not funded. 212 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 213 29 Equity (c) Effective portion with exchange differences of hedge of the Company’s net investments in a foreign operation. Accounting policy be used to offset losses and increase capital. (i) Share capital When the Company presents a loss in the year, (d) Actuarial losses (gains) and measures Share capital is represented exclusively by there will be no legal reserve. with retirement benefits. common shares classified as equity. The retained earnings reserve refers to the (a) Share capital (ii) Dividends retention of the remaining balance of retained On December 31, 2019 and December 31, This is recognized as a liability in the Company’s earnings in order to meet the business growth 2018, the fully subscribed and paid-up capital financial statements at year-end based on the plan established in the Company’s investment of the Company was R$ 28,656, consisting of Company’s bylaws. Any amount that exceeds plan. 18,278,789 thousand common shares. the minimum required, 25% of the profit for the year, is only recognized on the date it is (v) Government grants (b) Dividends approved by the stockholders at a General The tax incentive reserve is credited with tax In the second quarter of 2019, the Ordinary Meeting. When a Company presents a loss in incentive benefits, which are recognized in the and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting the year, there is no dividend. income statement for the year and allocated resolved to cancel the mandatory minimum to retained earnings for this reserve. These dividends of 2018, in the amount of R$ 415. (iii) Earnings per share incentives are not included in the calculation Earnings per share are calculated by dividing of the mandatory minimum dividend. During the first half of 2019, the Company the profit attributable to the controlling storesolved to pay its parent company Hejoassu ckholders by the weighted average number of (vi) Equity valuation adjustments Administração S.A. the amount of R$ 1,475 common shares during the year. The weighted The equity valuation adjustments include: corresponding to dividends related to part of average number of shares is calculated based the balance of the “Profit reserves” account on the periods in which the shares were (a) Effective portion of the cumulative accumulated up to December 31, 2018. outstanding. net change in fair value of hedge instruments used in hedge of cash flow until the recogni(iv) Statutory reserve tion of the cash flows that were hedged. The statutory reserve is constituted by the appropriation of 5% of the net income for (b) Cumulative translation adjustments the fiscal year or remaining balance, limited with the exchange differences arising from to 20% of the capital stock. Its purpose is to the translation of the financial statements of ensure the integrity of social capital. It can only foreign operations. 214 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 215 (c) Carrying value adjustments Attributable to the owners of the Company Fair value of availaHedge ble-for-sale Currency accounting Hedge financial translation for net accounting assets of Remeasuof investeinvestments for the openon-conSuzano rement of Other comes located abroad, net rations of solidated shares fair retirement prehensive abroad of taxes subsidiaries investments value benefits income Total At January 1, 2018 4,990 (4,175) (118) 266 (81) (148) 734 Currency translation of investees located abroad 1,555 1,555 Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes (931) (931) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 158 158 Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments (74) (74) Remeasurement of retirement benefits 34 34 Inflation adjustment for hyperinflationary economies 419 419 43 43 (1) (1) At December 31, 2018 (restated) 6,545 (5,106) 40 192 (47) 313 1,937 Currency translation of investees located abroad 96 96 Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes 92 92 Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries (39) (39) Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments 43 43 (15) (15) Adjustment to the fair value of the shares held at Suzano S.A., net of the tax (121) (121) Adjust the fair value of the shares held at Suzano, net of the tax (108) (108) Realization of comprehensive results on Voto liquidation Votorantim Overseas Trading Operations IV Ltd. (103) 22 (16) (7) 104 Reclassification of components of comprehensive income (63) (63) Realization of comprehensive results in the sale of partipation at Fibria 340 340 Remeasurement of retirement benefits (133) (133) (57) (57) (24) (24) At December 31, 2019 6,415 (4,992) (15) 235 (121) (187) 613 1,948 216 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 217 30 Net revenue from products sold and services RESULTADO RESULTS (d) Non-controlling interests 2019 2018 rendered Nexa Resources S.A. (i) 3,158 3,431 Nexa CJM 826 885 Accounting policy (ii) Sale of surplus energy Nexa Perú 446 564 Cementos Artigas S.A. 203 212 Revenue represents the fair value of the The Company’s energy sales contracts are Yacuces, S.L. 124 139 consideration received or receivable from carried out in the free and regulated enItacamba Cemento S.A. 100 99 the sale of goods in the ordinary course of vironments of Brazilian commercialization, Acerías Paz Del Rio S.A. 63 22 business of the subsidiaries. Revenue is shown being fully registered with CCEE, the agent Other 218 271 net of value added tax, rebates and discounts responsible for accounting and settlement of 5,138 5,623 after elimination of sales among consolidated the entire national integrated system (SIN). (i) The variation refers to the issuance of new shares and sale of interest by VSA. companies. The accounting measurement of the volume of The subsidiaries recognizes revenue when: energy to be billed results from the processing (i) the amount of revenue can be measured of the physical measurement, adjusted to reliably; (ii) it’s probable that future economic the apportionment of losses reported by the benefits will flow to the entity; and (iii) specific CCEE. criteria have been met for each of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ activities. Energy sales operations, which meet the definition of a financial instrument, are recognized Revenue will not be reliably measured if all terms in the financial statements at fair value. of sale are not resolved. The subsidiaries bases its estimates on historical results, taking into account the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specificities of each agreement. Revenue recognition is based on the following principles: (i) Sales of products and service Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, after eliminating sales within the consolidated companies. 218 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 219 (a) Reconciliation of revenues 2018 2019 Restated 2018 2019 Restated Morocco 487 447 Uruguay 353 390 Gross revenue Japan 282 344 Sales of products domestic market 15,478 15,901 Bolívia 351 304 Sales of products foreign market 16,189 16,012 Belgium 101 257 Supply of electrical energy 3,180 3,314 Tunisia 253 232 Services provided 600 521 Taiwan 132 231 35,447 35,748 Chile 322 202 Taxes on sales, services and other deductions (4,540) (4,817) Austria 157 147 Net revenue 30,907 30,931 Singapore 392 139 Germany 90 76 Equador 51 64 (b) Information on geographical Italia 73 50 areas in which the Company India 3 29 operates Other countries 1,024 945 The geographical areas are determined based 30,907 30,931 on the location of the customers. The net revenue of the subsidiaries classified by currency (ii) Revenue by currency and destination, is as follows: 2018 2019 Restated (i) Revenue by destination Real 14,696 15,028 US Dollar 10,478 10,082 Canadian dollar 1,224 1,127 2018 Colombian Peso 1,043 1,066 2019 Restated Argentinian Peso 1,088 1,062 Brazil 15,049 15,268 Euro 698 729 United States 3,664 2,961 Turkish Lira 275 488 Peru 2,350 2,459 Dirham 487 447 Argentina 1,346 1,421 Dinar 257 232 Colombia 1,196 1,260 Other currencies 661 670 Canada 1,224 1,137 30,907 30,931 Spain 605 676 Turkey 414 663 Luxembourg 571 631 Switzerland 417 598 220 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 221 31 Expenses by nature 2019 2018 Salaries and bonuses 2,787 2,951 Payroll charges 1,066 1,040 2019 2018 Benefits 647 709 4,500 4,700 Cost of products sold General and services and admirendered Selling nistrative Total Total Raw materials, inputs and consumables 15,010 23 12 15,045 15,460 Employee benefit expenses (a(ii)) 2,995 394 1,111 4,500 4,700 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 2,901 42 124 3,067 2,455 Transportation expenses 2,034 36 7 2,077 1,817 32 Other operating expenses, net Outsourced services 1,481 92 839 2,412 2,024 Other expenses 1,391 286 403 2,080 1,465 25,812 873 2,496 29,181 27,921 Note 2019 2018 Gain on Fibria's trasaction 1.1 (b) 6,772 (a) Employee benefit expenses Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes Tax recovery (i) 817 498 (i) Health care (post-retirement) in actuarial assumptions are fully recognized Gain in fair value in VTRM´s operation 18 e 19 (714) 53 The liability related to the health care plan within “Carrying value adjustments” in the Net income from sale of investiment US ZINC (467) (575) for retired employees is stated at the present period in which they arise. Tax benefits (270) (18) value of the obligation, less the market value Gain on sale of fixed assets 16 (196) (132) of the plan assets, adjusted by actuarial (ii) Employee profit sharing Gain on scrap sales 144 110 Royalties on natural resources 56 57 gains and losses and past-service costs, in a Provision is recorded to recognize the expenIncome from rentals and leasing (56) (46) manner similar to the accounting methodology ses related to employee profit sharing. This Financial instrument firm commitment 54 48 used for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is calculated based on qualitative Expenses on not activatable projects (53) post-retirement health care obligation is and quantitative targets established by maProvision, net 8 42 calculated annually by independent actuaries. nagement and recorded in the statement of Reversal for impairment of investments, fixed and intangible assets 7 75 The present value of the post-retirement income as “Employee benefits”. Other income, net 300 health care obligation is determined based on Outras receitas (despesas) líquidas 126 an estimate of the future cash outflow. Gain on hedge (110) 54 5,992 592 (i) Refers mainly to PIS and COFINS credits recognized in the subsidiaries CBA, VCSA and the indirect subsidiary VCNNE, in the amount of R$ 747 according to Note 1.1 (d). 222 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 223 33 Finance results, net 2019 2018 Finance costs Accounting policy functional currency and the foreign currency Interest on borrowing (1,178) (1,394) (i) Financial income (expenses) on the transaction date on the amount in Capitalization of borrowing costs 49 43 These comprise interest rates on loans and foreign currency. Award paid in bond buyback (tender offer) (172) Monetary restatement of provision (219) (194) financial investments, monetary and exchange Fair value of borrowing and financing (127) (155) variation on assets and liabilities, linked to At the end of each reporting period, monetary Borrowing fees (140) (102) loans with a swap instrument, as a result items in foreign currency must be converted Interest and monetary restatement use of public assets (ii) (101) (108) of the exchange variation net of gains and using the closing exchange rate. Interest on anticipation of receivables (101) (101) losses on derivative financial instruments Adjustment to present value CPC 12 (101) (96) (swap contracts) and various discounts that Foreign exchange variations arising from the PIS/COFINS on financial results (60) (46) Income tax on remittances of interest abroad (45) (111) are recognized in the income for the year on settlement of monetary items or the transInterest on silver streaming (26) (27) the accrual basis. lation of monetary items at rates different Other finance costs (291) (238) from those for which they were converted (2,512) (2,529) (ii) Foreign exchange variations at the initial measurement during the period Results of derivative financial instruments A foreign currency transaction shall be initially or in previous financial statements shall be Revenue 139 370 recognized in the functional currency by recognized in the statement of income in the Expenses (374) (162) (235) 208 applying the spot exchange rate between the year in which they arise. Foreign exchange variation, net (137) (976) Finance results, net (1,617) (2,040) 2019 2018 (i) Refers substantially to the PIS and COFINS credit recognized in the subsidiaries VCSA, CBA and VCNNE, in the amounts of R$ 439 according to Note 1.1 (d). Finance income Interest on financial assets (i) 568 476 Income from financial investments 434 389 Gain on debt renegotiation 120 103 Reversal of monetary restatement of provision 59 42 Fair value of borrowing 45 64 Discounts obtained 20 35 Gain on debt renegotiation 69 Other finance income 21 79 1,267 1,257 224 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 225 34 Tax benefits supplementary information. This supple(a) Capital management SUPPLEMENTARY mentary information is not intended to be The financial leverage ratios are calculated in accordance with, and is not required by, according to the information of the industrial VCSA and its subsidiaries have tax incentives matrix of the states. These fiscal incentives the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, segments, considering the accumulated rewithin certain state and federal industrial are approved by the states in the form of or by IFRS. sults for 12 months, as loan covenants, and development programs. The state programs percentage financing of up to 75%, presumed are summarized as follow: are aimed at attracting industrial investments credit with a percentage of up to 95% and INFORMATION seeking regional decentralization, promoting deferral of the payment of taxes or partial Industrial segments employment and income generation, besides reductions of the amount due for imports of complementing and diversifying the industrial assets and inputs. Adjusted EBITDA Note 2019 2018 Restated Net income for the semester 4,925 2,309 Plus (less): 35 Insurance Continuing operations Equity in the results of investees (1,022) (1,938) Net financial results 1,624 2,048 Income and social contribution taxes 2,168 1,013 The Company and its subsidiaries maintain civil coverage, conditions and limits, considered by Depreciation, amortization and depletion 3,067 2,455 Discontinued operations liability policies for executives and directors, Management to be adequate to the inherent Net financial results 38 6 in addition to insurance coverage for equity risks of the operation. Income and social contribution taxes (3) (99) risks and loss of profits. Such policies have Depreciation, amortization and depletion 55 EBITDA before other additions and exceptional items 10,797 5,849 Plus: Dividends received 65 942 36 Supplementary information – Business Extraordinary items EBITDA discontinued operations 2 10 segments Non-recurring items discontinued operations 211 Gain on sale of investments, net (6,719) (130) Reversal for impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 723 (24) In order to provide more detailed information transactions between companies in the same Gain by adjustment to fair value in deconsolidation of VTRM (302) the Company has elected to present finansegment, before: (i) eliminations between Other 252 322 cial information organized into two business business segments; (ii) eliminations of investAdjusted annualized EBITDA (A) 5,120 6,878 Net debt segments. ments held by the holding companies. AddiBorrowing 21 19,755 24,451 tionally, the eliminations and reclassifications Lease liabilities 22 841 The following information refers to the breamong the companies are presented so that Cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and derivative financial instruments (10,614) (11,236) akdown of VSA by business segments and the net results reconcile with the consolidated Net debt (B) 9,982 13,215 considers the eliminations of balances and financial information of VSA according to the Gearing ratio (B/A) 1.95 1.92 226 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 227 (b) Balance sheet – business segments 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoAssets Cimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations lidated Current Cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and derivative financial instruments 3,011 3,070 649 104 102 3,770 10,706 62 10,768 Trade receivables 675 714 404 185 449 92 (323) 2,196 2,196 Inventory 1,668 1,190 928 342 1 4,129 4,129 Taxes recoverable 359 382 640 71 8 423 1,883 85 1,968 Dividends receivable 9 6 69 178 (181) 81 81 Financial instruments firm commitment Other assets 248 204 41 45 50 58 (25) 621 621 5,970 5,560 2,668 747 678 4,522 (529) 19,616 147 19,763 Non-current assets Long-term receivables Financial investments and derivative financial instruments 205 60 95 360 360 Financial instruments Suzano 2,749 2,749 2,749 Derivative financial instruments put option 655 655 655 Taxes recoverable 1,906 430 738 22 381 3,477 3,477 Related parties 24 19 28 266 (108) 229 229 Deferred income tax and social contribution 381 1,079 841 168 14 592 239 3,314 27 3,341 Judicial deposits 183 29 115 2 16 345 345 Financial instruments firm commitment 29 29 29 Other assets 444 112 18 60 68 24 726 726 3,143 1,729 1,835 252 43 4,727 155 11,884 27 11,911 Investments 1,007 204 2,464 34,391 (26,340) 11,726 5,378 (5,384) 11,720 Property, plant and equipment 12,877 7,845 4,721 1,107 35 563 27,148 27,148 Intangible assets 6,458 7,055 492 33 550 211 (1,516) 13,283 13,283 Right-of-use assets 537 119 16 111 10 20 813 813 Biological assets 1 5 79 85 85 24,022 16,748 7,269 1,508 3,102 39,991 (27,701) 64,939 5,405 (5,384) 64,960 Total assets 29,992 22,308 9,937 2,255 3,780 44,513 (28,230) 84,555 5,552 (5,384) 84,723 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 228 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 229 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, conLiabilities and equity Cimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations solidated Current liabilities Borrowing 540 134 126 133 21 954 954 Lease liabilities 101 66 9 18 3 13 210 210 Derivative financial instruments 15 33 21 69 69 Confirming payable 552 334 335 194 1,415 1,415 Trade payables 2,045 1,669 407 194 396 16 (298) 4,429 4,429 Salaries and payroll charges 356 233 123 39 20 65 836 836 Taxes payable 235 39 42 90 10 8 424 424 Advances from customers 25 10 20 39 1 7 102 102 Dividends payable 156 27 14 77 39 (193) 120 120 Use of public assets 35 7 45 87 87 Related parties Financial instruments firm commitment 10 17 54 81 81 Deferred revenue performance obligation 32 32 32 Deferred revenue silver streaming 106 106 106 Other 393 187 50 24 184 838 838 4,463 2,845 1,209 731 593 353 (491) 9,703 9,703 Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 2 2 2 4,465 2,845 1,209 731 593 353 (491) 9,705 9,705 Non-current liabilities Borrowing 9,840 5,947 2,030 984 18,801 18,801 Lease liabilities 445 72 7 93 6 8 631 631 Derivative financial instruments 110 55 218 383 383 Deferred income tax and social contribution 568 1,083 18 43 207 1,919 168 2,087 Related parties 122 4 30 1 21 (128) 50 50 Provision 1,183 1,002 684 103 1 164 3,137 3,137 Use of public assets 483 87 580 1 1,151 1,151 Pension plan 227 140 367 367 Financial instruments firm commitment 45 77 122 122 Deferred revenue performance obligation Deferred revenue silver streaming 621 621 621 Other 230 263 43 93 10 120 759 2 761 13,253 9,134 3,669 447 61 1,505 (128) 27,941 168 2 28,111 Total liabilities 17,718 11,979 4,878 1,178 654 1,858 (619) 37,646 168 2 37,816 230 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 231 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, conLiabilities and equity Cimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations solidated Equity Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 11,629 8,526 4,874 805 3,126 42,655 (29,852) 41,763 5,384 (5,378) 41,769 Non-controlling interests 645 1,803 185 272 2,241 5,146 (8) 5,138 Total equity 12,274 10,329 5,059 1,077 3,126 42,655 (27,611) 46,909 5,384 (5,386) 46,907 Total liabilities and equity 29,992 22,308 9,937 2,255 3,780 44,513 (28,230) 84,555 5,552 (5,384) 84,723 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). (c) Statement of income – business segments 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoCimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations lidated Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 13,027 9,200 5,264 2,133 4,229 75 (3,021) (**) 30,907 30,907 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,689) (7,669) (4,606) (1,715) (4,103) (51) 3,021 (**) (25,812) (25,812) Gross profit 2,338 1,531 658 418 126 24 5,095 5,095 Operating income (expenses) Selling (714) (99) (36) (21) (3) (873) (873) General and administrative (914) (803) (214) (155) (94) (302) (2,482) (14) (2,496) Other operating income (expenses), net 686 (1,073) (178) 110 (56) 6,503 5,992 5,992 (942) (1,975) (428) (66) (150) 6,198 2,637 (14) 2,623 232 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 233 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoCimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations lidated Profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,396 (444) 230 352 (24) 6,222 7,732 (14) 7,718 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 189 (3) 14 356 933 (575) (**) 914 797 (792) 919 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 108 108 108 297 (3) 14 356 933 (575) 1,022 797 (792) 1,027 Finance results, net Finance income 547 122 313 25 99 283 (127) (**) 1,262 7 1,269 Finance costs (1,240) (487) (447) (145) (116) (206) 127 (**) (2,514) (2,514) Results of derivative financial instruments (77) 12 (68) (102) (235) (235) Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (42) (49) (46) (52) 52 (137) (137) (812) (402) (248) (172) (17) 27 (1,624) 7 (1,617) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 881 (849) (4) 180 315 7,182 (575) 7,130 790 (792) 7,128 Income tax and social contribution Current (290) (171) (42) (87) (14) (857) (1,461) (1,461) Deferred (5) 411 11 14 25 (1,163) (**) (707) 2 (705) Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations 586 (609) (35) 107 326 5,162 (575) 4,962 792 (792) 4,962 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (37) (37) (37) Profit (loss) for the year attributable to the owners 549 (609) (35) 107 326 5,162 (575) 4,925 792 (792) 4,925 Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company 479 (486) (64) 55 326 5,108 (248) (**) 5,170 792 (792) 5,170 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 70 (123) 29 52 (273) (**) (245) (245) Profit (loss) for the year 549 (609) (35) 107 326 5,108 (521) 4,925 792 (792) 4,925 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). (**) Relates substantially to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. 234 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 235 2018 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steels Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoCimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations lidated Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 12,610 9,066 5,417 2,112 4,456 47 (2,777) (**) 30,931 30,931 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,224) (6,904) (4,468) (1,893) (4,283) (34) 2,777 (**) (25,029) (25,029) Gross profit 2,386 2,162 949 219 173 13 5,902 5,902 Operating income (expenses) Selling (613) (69) (36) (25) (12) (755) (755) General and administrative (810) (553) (197) (133) (94) (337) (2,124) (13) (2,137) Other operating income (expenses), net 596 (345) (35) 231 345 (89) (111) (**) 592 592 (827) (967) (268) 73 251 (438) (111) (2,287) (13) (2,300) Operating Profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,559 1,195 681 292 424 (425) (111) 3,615 (13) 3,602 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 120 (27) 343 1,323 (645) (**) 1,114 530 (526) 1,118 820 820 820 Realização de resultados abrangentes na alienação de investimentos 4 4 4 124 (27) 343 2,143 (645) 1,938 530 (526) 1,942 Finance results, net Finance income 647 233 152 11 108 230 (132) (**) 1,249 8 1,257 Finance costs (1,250) (417) (395) (152) (154) (293) 132 (**) (2,529) (2,529) Results of derivative financial instruments 34 (9) 8 175 208 208 Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (319) (538) (283) (33) (217) 414 (**) (976) (976) (888) (731) (526) (166) (46) (105) 414 (2,048) 8 (2,040) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 795 464 128 126 721 1,613 (342) 3,505 525 (526) 3,504 Income tax and social contribution Current (127) (251) (26) (70) (23) 42 (455) (455) Deferred (600) 107 (48) 87 (116) 63 (51) (**) (558) 2 (556) Profit (loss) for the from continuing operations 68 320 54 143 582 1,718 (393) 2,492 527 (526) 2,493 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (58) (125) (183) (183) Profit (loss) for the year attributable to the owners 10 320 54 143 582 1,593 (393) 2,309 527 (526) 2,310 Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company (46) 274 43 97 582 1,645 (493) (**) 2,102 526 (526) 2,102 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 56 46 11 46 48 (**) 207 1 208 Profit (loss) for the year 10 320 54 143 582 1,645 (445) 2,309 527 (526) 2,310 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). (**) Relates substantially to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. 236 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 237 (d) EBITDA ajustado –Adjusted EBITDA – business segments 2019 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steel Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoCimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças lidated Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 13,027 9,200 5,264 2,133 4,229 75 (3,021) (**) 30,907 30,907 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,689) (7,669) (4,606) (1,715) (4,103) (51) 3,021 (**) (25,812) (25,812) Gross profit 2,338 1,531 658 418 126 24 5,095 5,095 Operating income (expenses) Selling (714) (99) (36) (21) (3) (873) (873) General and administrative (914) (803) (214) (155) (94) (302) (2,482) (14) (2,496) Other operating income (expenses), net 686 (1,073) (178) 110 (56) 6,503 5,992 5,992 (942) (1,975) (428) (66) (150) 6,198 2,637 (14) 2,623 Profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,396 (444) 230 352 (24) 6,222 7,732 (14) 7,718 Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 1,222 1,245 463 104 5 28 3,067 3,067 EBITDA 2,618 801 693 456 (19) 6,250 10,799 (14) 10,785 Plus: Dividends received 65 69 (69) 65 540 605 Exceptional items Gain on sale of investments, net (6,719) (6,719) (6,719) Reversal for impairment fixed assets 14 564 145 723 723 Other (39) 24 267 252 252 Adjusted EBITDA 2,658 1,365 862 456 50 (202) (69) 5,120 526 5,646 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). (**) Relates substantially to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. 238 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 239 2018 Total, Votorantim Nexa ReLong steel Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, consoCimentos sources CBA (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças lidated Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 12,610 9,066 5,417 2,112 4,456 47 (2,777) (**) 30,931 30,931 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,224) (6,904) (4,468) (1,893) (4,283) (34) 2,777 (**) (25,029) (25,029) Gross profit 2,386 2,162 949 219 173 13 5,902 5,902 Operating income (expenses) Selling (613) (69) (36) (25) (12) (755) (755) General and administrative (810) (553) (197) (133) (94) (337) (2,124) (13) (2,137) Other operating income (expenses), net 596 (345) (35) 231 345 (89) (111) 592 592 (827) (967) (268) 73 251 (438) (111) (2,287) (13) (2,300) Profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,559 1,195 681 292 424 (425) (111) 3,615 (13) 3,602 Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 1,038 974 303 91 27 22 2,455 2,455 EBITDA 2,597 2,169 984 383 451 (403) (111) 6,070 (13) 6,057 Plus: Dividends received 46 8 896 (8) 942 143 1,085 Exceptional items Gain on sale of investments, net 4 (1) (111) (133) 111 (130) (130) Reversal for impairment fixed assets (8) 12 (41) 13 (24) (24) Fair value of biological assets Gain by adjustment to fair value of VTRM´s operation (302) (302) (302) Other (15) 337 322 322 Adjusted EBITDA 2,624 2,180 832 383 157 710 (8) 6,878 130 7,008 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). (**) Relates substantially to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. 240 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 241 37 Subsequent events (d) Distribution of dividends by the subsidiary Nexa On February 13, 2020, the Board of Directors (a) Acquisition of a of its structure distributed between 3 Piauí of the subsidiary Nexa approved, subject manufacturing unit municipalities (Curral Novo, Paulistana and to ratification by the shareholders of the In August 2019, the subsidiary CBA announced Betânia do Piauí) and the Ventos do Piauí III subsidiary Nexa, in accordance with the laws the signing of the share purchase and sale complex will have wind turbines installed in of Luxembourg, distribution of dividends agreement with the purpose of fully acquiring Curral Novo (Piauí), Araripina and Ouricuri to the shareholders of the subsidiary Nexa, the shares of Arconic Industria e Comércio de (Pernambuco). Together, the new complexes registered on March 16, 2020, approximately Metais Ltda, a unit located in Pernambuco, in will have an installed generation capacity of USD 50 million to be paid on March 30, 2020. the Northeast of Brazil, which will complement 411.6 MW and will make the indirect subsidiary the CBA’s laminated product line. The effective VTRM responsible for approximately 1.0 GW (e) Export financing control of the operations was transferred of installed generation capacity in that region. In February 2020, the subsidiary CBA signed to CBA in February 2020. The price paid for a loan agreement (NCE – Export Credit Note) the acquisition totaled R$ 225 and a gain by (c) Amendment to the loan aimed at financing its exports in the amount of an advantageous purchase of R$ 139 in the agreement pursuant to Law No. R $ 250 with maturity on February 14, 2029. It 4,131 / 1962 by VCSA application of the acquisition method provided is noteworthy that the loan is characterized as for in CPC15 for the accounting record of the On January 30, 2020, the subsidiary VCSA “Green Financing” based on the guidelines of operation. renegotiated the contractual terms of the the Green Loan Principles. The operation has a loan under Law No. 4,131 / 1962, contracted swap contract (derivative financial instrument (b) Option to purchase in March 2018, in the total amount of USD – hedge accounting), which aims to exchange Piauí II and III 100 million. The Company extended the final exposure to the floating rate CDI in reais for a In January 2020, the indirect subsidiary VTRM maturity from 2023 to 2025 and renegotiated fixed rate in US dollars, resulting in a final cost exercised its option to purchase Piauí II and III, the cost of the swap (derivative financial of 4.25% per year. for the development of new wind farms in the instrument) from 112.00% to 107.00% of Northeast region of Brazil, with an investment the CDI. (f) Dividend resolution – VSA of approximately R$ 2,000. The construction On January 20, 2020, the Company resolved of the parks is scheduled to begin in 2021, The swap linked to the operation, contracted to its parent company Hejoassu Administração with start-up between 2022 and 2023. jointly with the same financial institution as the S.A., the amount of R$ 401 corresponding to loan, aims at both the exchange of exposure to dividends related to the portion of the balance Each of the complexes will consist of five the floating rate LIBOR to the floating rate CDI, of the “Profit Reserves” account, accumulated wind farms located in the region in Serra as well as the exchange of currency from dollar from previous years. The amount was paid in do Inácio. Ventos do Piauí II will have 100% to real (debt in dollar + swap to real in% CDI ). full by February 10, 2020. 242 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 243 Independent auditor’s (a) Planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality and the voled in the 2019 Annual Report. We believe that the evidence the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate these believe that the information included in the 2019 Annual Report of Votorantim S.A. has limited assurance ume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems used to we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality, and accuracy of the data are subject to individual not been compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). report on sustainability information in the 2019 Annual Report prepare the information in assumptions and judgments. (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) the 2019 Annual Report; Scope and limitations Furthermore, we did not carry São Paulo, March 26, 2020 (b) Understanding the calcuThe procedures applied in a out any work on the data relation methodology and limited assurance engageported for prior periods, nor PricewaterhouseCoopers the procedures adopted ment are substantially less future projections and goals. Contadores Públicos Ltda. To the Board of Directors and Independent auditor’s requirements, and other reentity involved in the preparesponsibilities for the compilation of indetailed than those applied CRC 2SP023.173/O-4 Stockholders sponsibilities, including in ration of the sustainability indicators through interviews in a reasonable assurance The preparation and presenVotorantim S.A. Our responsibility is to express relation to the Brazilian Stanformation, as well as applying with the managers responengagement, the objective tation of the sustainability Maurício Colombari São Paulo SP a conclusion on the infordard on Quality Control (NBC analytical procedures to obtain sible for the preparation of of which is the issuance of an indicators were performed Contador mation included in the 2019 PA 01) and, therefore, the evidence that enables the the information; opinion on the sustainability pursuant to the criteria of CRC 1SP195838/O-3 Introduction Annual Report based on our maintenance of a comprehenissue of a limited assurance (c) Applying analytical proinformation in the 2019 Anthe GRI Standards and, thereVotorantim S.A. “Votorantim” limited assurance engagement sive quality control system, conclusion on the information cedures to quantitative nual Report. Consequently, fore, do not aim to provide or “Company” engaged us to carried out in accordance with including formal compliance taken as a whole. A limited information and making we were not able to obtain assurance with regard to present our limited assurance the Technical Communicapolicies and procedures for assurance engagement also inquiries regarding the reasonable assurance that the compliance with social, report on the compilation of tion CTO 01, “Issuance of an ethical requirements, profesrequires the performance of qualitative information we might become aware of all economic, environmental, or sustainability information in Assurance Report related sional standards and legal and additional procedures when and its correlation with the significant matters that might engineering laws and regulathe Votorantim 2019 Annual to Sustainability and Social regulatory requirements. the independent auditor beindicators disclosed in the be identified in an assurance tions. However, the aforemenReport for the year ended Responsibility”, issued by the comes aware of matters that information in the 2019 engagement, the objective tioned standards establish the December 31, 2019. Federal Accounting Council These standards also require lead the auditor to believe Annual Report; of which is the issue of an presentation and disclosure of (CFC), based on the Brazilian the work to be planned and that the information taken as (d) Comparing the financial opinion. Had we performed possible cases of non-comManagement’s standard NBC TO 3000, “Asperformed to obtain limited a whole might present signifresponsibilities indicators with the finanan engagement with the obpliance with such regulations surance Engagements Other assurance that the informaicant misstatements. cial statements and/or jective of issuing an opinion, when sanctions or significant Management of Votorantim is than Audit and Review”, also tion included in the 2019 accounting records. we might have identified other fines are applied. Our limited responsible for the preparation issued by the CFC, which is Annual Report, taken as a The procedures selected are whole, is free from material based on our understanding of matters and possible misassurance report should be and fair presentation of the inequivalent to the international The limited assurance enstatements in the information read and understood in this formation in the 2019 Annual standard ISAE 3000, “Assurmisstatement. the procedures applied in the gagement also included the related to sustainability in the context, which is inherent Report, presented in accorance engagements other than compilation and presentation application of procedures to 2019 Annual Report. Thereto the criteria selected (GRI dance with the Global Reportaudits or reviews of historical A limited assurance engageof the information in the 2019 assess compliance with the fore, we do not express an Standards). ing Initiative (GRI Standards) financial information”, issued ment conducted in accordance Annual Report, other engageguidelines and criteria of the opinion on this information. and for such internal controls by the International Auditing with the Brazilian standard ment circumstances and our as it determines necessary to and Assurance Standards NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 analysis of the areas in which Global Reporting Initiative Conclusion (GRI Standards) applied in the Non-financial data are subject Based on these procedures, prepare of information free Board (IAASB). Those stanmainly consists of making insignificant misstatements compilation of the information to more inherent limitations no matter has come to our from material misstatement, dards require that we comply quiries of management and might exist. The following related to sustainability includthan financial data, due to attention that causes us to whether due to fraud or error. with ethical and independence other professionals of the procedures were adopted: 244 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report Votorantim 2019 Annual Report 245 CORPORATE INFORMATION CREDITS Votorantim S.A. General Coordinators Rua Amauri, 255 – 13th floor São Paulo (SP) – Brazil Finance and Investor Relations Zip code: 01448-000 Department Phone: + 55 11 3704-3300 Caroline Afonso Débora Vargas Leal Oliveira Mariana Mayumi Oyakawa CoE Sergio Malacrida Rua Olimpíadas, 205 – 9th floor São Paulo (SP) – Brazil Zip code: 04546-004 Technical Adviser Phone: + 55 11 3475-3045 Resultante Consultoria Rua José Cesar de Oliveira, 111 – 8th floor São Paulo (SP) – Brazil Writing, Editing and Proofreading KMZ Conteúdo Zip code: 02675-031 Rodovia Curitiba/Rio Branco do Sul, 1,303 Graphic Design Curitiba (PR) – Brazil Pierre Design Editorial Zip code: 82130-570 Phone: + 55 41 3388-5150 Microsite Zebra Deluxe Jirón Vittore Scarpazza Carpaccio, 250 – int. 305 External Assurance Lima – Peru PwC Phone number: + 51 715-7600 Images Votorantim´s image library www.votorantim.com Illustrations Félix Reiners Translation (English) LatAm Translations Printing Stilgraf Copies Portuguese 359; English 100 Typeface Votorantim Sans March 2020 246 Votorantim 2019 Annual Report www.votorantim.com
