About this report Overview Since 2011, KB Financial Group has been publishing its annual sustainability reports at the group level, based on KB Kookmin Bank's 2009 and 2010 sustainability reports. In 2019, KB Financial Group reestablished its ESG strategy system and focus areas. This report aims to communicate ESG activities, performances, and outlook with stakeholders. Reporting Period This report contains our sustainability activities and performances from January 1 through December 31, 2019. Quantitative performance data from the last three years (2017~2019) was provided to show year-on-year trend. We are also reporting key sustainability activities and performance made in the first half of 2020. Reporting Scope The report presents the sustainability activities of KB Financial Group (holding company and 12 subsidiaries) and covers the head office and all branches. Preparation and Assurance Standards We prepared this report in accordance with the Core Option of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. Detailed guidelines are presented on page 100. To ensure the reliability and quality of reporting contents, external verification by third-party was conducted. The results can be found in the Third Party's Assurance Statement on page 105. Contact ESG Strategy Department (82-2-2073-7822) About the cover We intended to present the ESG (environmental, social, and governance) value and impacts created by KB Financial Group through this report. The icons on the cover symbolizes ESG factors, i.e. environment, social responsibility and corporate governance. Contents Message from the CEO KB Financial Group Profile 2 4 2019 Performance Highlights 8 2019 Digital Transformation Highlights 10 E  SG Value & ESG Trend in Financial Business 14 Management 2030 ESG Strategy 16 KB’s UN SDGs Activities 18 Establishment of ESG Governance 20 ESG Risk Management 22 ESG Strategy Advancing Climate Change Strategy 28 & Progress Setting and Managing Carbon Emissions Target 29 [SPECIAL 01] Managing Financial Impacts from Climate Change 32 Managing Environmental Risks 36 Increasing Green Investments and Loans 37 Leading the Way in Green Finance Ecosystems 42 Internalizing Responsible Management for Society 44 Expanding Social Contribution 45 Promoting Shared Growth and Mutual Prosperity 51 [SPECIAL 02] Efforts for Protecting Customer Rights and Interests 54 Respecting Human Rights and Diversity 56 Expanding Financial Inclusion 64 Spreading the Culture of Transparent Governance 68 Enhancing Transparency in Governance 69 Strengthening the Stewardship Code 78 Expanding Investments in Excellent Governance 79 Building a Comprehensive Evaluation System 79 Performance Customers 82 Indices Community 83 Employees 87 Environment 90 Financials 92 Appendix Materiality Analysis 98 GRI Index 100 SASB Index 103 UN PRB Index 104 Third Party's Assurance Statement 105 Initiatives and Memberships 107 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Message from the CEO Dear stakeholders, On behalf of everyone at KB Financial Group, I would like to give my heart-felt gratitude to our clients and shareholders for their unwavering support. I am also incredibly grateful for our staff for their dedication and all the stakeholders who have accompanied us on our journey so far. The world today is facing overwhelming challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic and people’s lives are threatened by raging viruses and infectious diseases. At the same time, concerns over climate change are growing rapidly as it poses a bigger threat to humanity. Climate change, triggered by environmental pollution and destruction of ecosystem, not only causes frequent natural disasters such as heat wave, flood, and drought, but also increases the likelihood of outbreak of new infectious diseases. We need to put our heads and efforts together in order to overcome the environmental crisis and build a more sustainable society. 2 Message from the CEO Under our mission, “Financial Service Delivering Changes”, we are committed to integrating ESG aspects across all our business activities, preemptively responding to climate change risks and striving to fulfil our social responsibilities. We established solid foundation for integrating ESG in our business operations by declaring Guiding Principles on ESG this January and setting up board ESG Committee in March where the group’s ESG strategy was discussed and developed. In particular, this year, we became the first Korean financial holding company to have two female independent directors on board, further advancing gender equality and female empowerment. To achieve our ESG strategic goal, we are going to implement the followings. First, we are committed to “Green Leadership” by advancing our climate change strategy for environment. We will not only accelerate transition to low carbon economy by focusing on carbon emissions reduction and efficient energy consumption in our own operations, but also lead the green finance ecosystem by increasing investments and lending in renewable energy and green sectors. We will also continue to engage in global initiatives for environmental issues such as implementing the TCFD recommendations. Second, we will strive to deliver greater value to our society by fulfilling our social responsibilities as corporate citizen. We will strengthen our support for children and youth through our CSR activities living up to our status as a leading financial group, and foster startups and FinTech companies through investments and various support. Furthermore, we will help create a better world by supporting SMEs and small business owners and helping the underprivileged through inclusive finance. Third, we will catalyze promoting transparency in corporate governance to embed ESG management practices throughout the market. We will strive to improve stakeholder trust through transparent disclosure of ESG information and build strong and sound corporate governance culture. Our efforts for actively exercising the Stewardship Code will lead to increasing the value of investee companies and encouraging long-term and sustainable growth. In 2019, KB Financial Group made a concerted effort to create sustainable value by integrating ESG in our business practices despite unfavorable environments such as sluggish global economy and uncertainties in the financial market. We will continue to further enhance our responsibility and role as a leading financial institution in the ESG management and do our best to create social impact and future value going forward. In this 2019 sustainability report, we are pleased to share our ESG performances that we made throughout the year and the directions where we are headed. I thank you all for your trust in KB Financial Group and look forward to your continued interest and support. Jong Kyoo Yoon Chairman & CEO KB Financial Group Inc. 3 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report KB Financial Group Profile Despite unfavorable business environments at both home and abroad, KB Financial Group has been making ceaseless efforts to lead financial innovation and expand our business territory for securing sustainable growth engines. As a leading financial group with the largest domestic customer base and networks, we provide various financial services covering retail banking, corporate banking, investment banking, insurance, credit card, and asset management. We operate 1,532 domestic networks and 61 global networks in 13 countries including China, U.S., Japan, and Vietnam through our 12 subsidiaries. Each subsidiary is striving to provide the best finacial services in respective business area to deliver more positive environmental and social impacts, bring happiness to clients and help create a better world. KB Corporate Profile Company name KB Financial Group Head office 26, Gukjegeumyung-ro 8-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea CEO Jong Kyoo Yoon Establishment September 29, 2008 Total assets* KRW 518.5 trillion Net income in controlling interest* KRW 3.312 trillion Customers* 34.8 million Employees* 28,104 Credit ratings Moody’s (long-term) KB Financial Holdings: A1 KB Kookmin Bank: Aa3 KB Securities: A3 KB Kookmin Card: A2 S&P (long-term) KB Financial Holdings: A KB Kookmin Bank: A+ KB Securities: AFitch (long-term) KB Kookmin Bank: A KB Securities: A*As of December 31, 2019 4 KB Financial Group Profile KB Kookmin Bank Banking Striving to become customer-centered bank delivering the best value and leading digital innovation KB Securities Investment Offering the best financial solutions to customers by securing a competitive Banking business portfolio in all areas KB Asset Management Providing customers with quality investment funds in the fields of stock, bond, offshore property, real estate, infrastructure, PE, and hedge fund KB Real Estate Trust Providing specialized real estate trust services including real estate development, financing, asset management and REITs KB Investment Making equity investments in SMEs and startups and offering them comprehensive management support KB Insurance Insurance Delivering security and stability to people's lives and businesses with products and services that suit their needs KB Life Insurance Serving customers with easy-to-understand, value-added, and advanced insurance services KB Kookmin Card Credit Delivering the most reliable payment solutions and services beneficial to life based on customer-valued products, marketing strategies, and FinTech competence KB Capital Providing diverse products and services in household loans, corporate loans, facility leases, and auto financing KB Savings Bank Microfinance Building customer value and trust by increasing the value of the working class and SMEs KB Data Systems Others Offering comprehensive IT services including consulting, system developement and operation to help clients adapt to rapidly changing financial market KB Credit Information Striving to build a sound credit society through professionals and top-notch systems 5 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Global Network of KB Financial Group China 10 U.K. 1 •••••• • • •• Laos 1 • Japan 1 • • Myanmar 19 Hong Kong 2 •••••• •••••• • •••••• • • India 1 Vietnam 9 •• • •• •••• Cambodia 7 • •••••• • Indonesia 3 Singapore 1 ••• • New Zealand 1 • Expansion of Global Business and Portfolio KB Kookmin Bank acquired a 22% stake in its In February 2020, KB Kookmin Card opened the By acquiring an 85% stake in Indonesia's Indonesia-based Bukopin Bank in July 2018 Sensok Branch, the first branch of “KB Daehan Sunindo Parama Finance of Sun Motor Group, and changed its Hanoi office in Vietnam into a Specialized Bank PLC.” in Cambodia. In July 2020, KB Capital established and started business branch in February 2019. it also acquired an 80% stake in Indonesia-based on PT Sunindo Koomin Best Finance on In Cambodia, the bank acquired a 70% stake “PT Financia Multifinance” preparing a local June 2, 2020. in PRASAC Microfinance in April 2020 and installment financing business. In Thailand, an has expanded it business through localization. agreement on acquiring equity of “J Fintech” In Myanmar, the scale of KB Mictrofinance specializing in loans was concluded in April 2020. Myanmar's branch was further expanded. 6 KB Financial Group Profile (As of December 31, 2019) U.S. 5 • • ••• Global Networks total 61 • KB Kookmin Bank 38 • KB Securities 7 • KB Insurance 10 • KB Kookmin Card 2 • KB Asset Management 3 • KB Capital 1 Domestic Networks (As of December 31, 2019) 1 1,051 112 257 40 1 1,532 KB KB KB KB KB KB Total Financial Holdings Kookmin Bank Securities Insurance Kookmin Card Asset Management 29 12 3 8 1 1 16 KB KB KB KB KB KB KB Capital Life Insurance Real Estate Trust Savings Bank Investment Data Systems Credit Information ※ Head office is counted as one branch. 7 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2019 SPECIAL THEME 01 Performance Highlights KB Financial Group is committed to delivering a happier future to customers and making the world better and more convenient place to live through financial business. To this end, we are integrating ESG factors across all business areas to bring sustainable value and enhance customer trust. Through ESG-based management, we will solidify our status as the most trusted and valued financial group. KB DJSI GREEN WAY World 2030 ESG Management Included in the DJSI Made commitment to reduce World Index for four carbon emissions by 25% by 2030 consecutive years (compared with 2017) and attain KRW 50 trillion in ESG products, investments, and loans KRW 861 billion Dividend 34.8 million Number of customers as of the end of 2019 8 2019 Performance Highlights 790tCO eq 2 Society Reduction of carbon emissions (compared with 2017) 487,272 kWh Renewable energy consumption 11 trillion Total amount of green products, KRW investments, and loans CDP Gender Equality Sector Honors Included in Bloomberg Gender Equality Index Environment for two consecutive years and joined the WEPs Garnered Carbon Management (Women's Empowerment Principles) Sector Honors Award in the No.1 200 billion finance sector of CDP for three consecutive years KRW Ranked 1st in the NCSI (National Investment in social Customer Satisfaction Index) for 13 times contribution activities 260 thousand Beneficiaries of financial education Best Corporate Governance Governance Ranked 1st in financial business KRW 3.3 trillion for two consecutive years (Korea Corporate Governance Service) Net profit ESG 2 directors Committee Economy Korea’s first financial group to Established board-level appoint two female non-executive ESG Committee directors (as of March 2020) 9 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2019 Digital SPECIAL THEME 02 Transformation Highlights KB Financial Group focuses on customer-centered digital transformation such as the expansion of non-face-to-face channels and the advancement of digital platform service, thereby leading the digital finance ecosystem. We will continue to take initiative in customer and social service innovation. 755thousand hours Reduced 755 thousand working hours through RPA (Robotic Process Automation) (cumulative, as of the end of 2019), leading to business process improvement and efficient HR management 10,712participants 32.6 billion Number of participants in digital and IT competence enhancement trainings (as of the end of 2019). Cultivated future talents and fostered digital services KRW Invested KRW 32.6 billion in 76 “KB Starters” and supported 113 collaboration cases by operating the “KB Innovation HUB” to support promising startups 10 2019 Digital Transformation Highlights 2.07 million subscribers 930 thousand users Users of KB mobile certificate are Provided Liiv app service, specialized in increasing rapidly, enhancing customer frequently used financial services such convenience through improved integrity as remittance, payment, exchange, and Spread mobile platforms by of non-face-to-face transactions transport Liiv M customer needs Launched Liiv M, a convergence service of finance and telecommunication for the first time in the industry. 7.14 Subsidized KRW 700 million in phone bills to support tho se affected by the COVID-19 (around 8,800 customers). 6.53 Offered USIM chips to around 800 quarantined South 6.14 Korean evacuees from overseas ’17 ’18 ’19 7.14 million MAU of KB Star Banking, the largest in Korea Expand the scope of digital finance Strengthen core digital No.1 competence “KB Cha Cha Cha” became the largest used car trade platform in Korea with around 120 thousand units registered 11 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix ESG Value & Management KB Financial Group is closely monitoring ESG trends in the financial business and taking preemptive measures to address ESG issues. Moreover, we strive to embed the value of ESG within the group by considering environmental and social impacts from our business and by preemptively controlling risks. ESG Trend 2030 KB’s Establishment ESG Risk in Financial ESG UN SDGs of ESG Management Business Strategy Activities Governance 14 16 18 20 22 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ESG Trend There are active discussions on ESG issues across industries due to climate change and frequent natural disasters and ESG-related initiatives are gaining traction. Today, ESG is recognized as a key in Financial agenda for future growth as well as an essential factor for business operation. KB Financial Group intends to analyze the ESG trends and respond to rapidly changing environments. We identified Business increasing environmental and social risks, expansion of ESG-based investment, and tightening requirements on disclosure of governance as major ESG issues. As they could become both risk and opportunity factors, we are taking preemptive and group-wide measures to address them. ESG Trends in the Financial Business The global spread of COVID-19 in 2020 resulted in heavy casualties, causing the local economy to gradually slow down Increasing due to shrinking consumption. In particular, small and mediumenvironmental sized businesses and low-income families are suffering from and social job insecurity and are facing difficulty in securing funds. The risks COVID-19 pandemic has severe impact on economy and society beyond just health and medical issues. Global financial market is also facing wider volatility, which may threaten our businesses. As of the end of 2018, the National Pension Service’s (NPS) investment in ESG increased by 290% year-on-year to KRW 26.7 Expansion of trillion since the introduction of Stewardship Code by NPS. As NPS ESG-based and other institutional investors announced that they will increase Investment their investment in ESG and strengthen their ESG assessment of the companies being invested, the ESG investment market is gradually expanding. Based on the OECD survey, 40 out of 45 countries are responding to mandatory disclosure on corporate governance Tightening in accordance with the Comply or Explain approach. In Korea, requirements it is mandatory for large-sized listed companies with over KRW on disclosure of 2 trillion in total assets to disclose their corporate governance governance report. This disclosure will improve the transparency in corporate management and mid-to-long term corporate value. 14 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix What is ESG? ESG stands for Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance. They are non-financial factors impacting businsses. E S G How we are responding With the aim of preventing the spread of COVID-19 and minimizing stakeholder damage, KB Financial Group has built a rapid response system based on the “Group Emergency Management Committee” and is providing group-wide assistance for various stakeholders. Contributing to local Improving work environment Providing financial assistance communities for our employees ˙Providing emergency funding to ˙Delivering relief supplies (mask, hand ˙Introduced telecommuting small business owners and SMEs sanitizer, thermometer, food, etc.) arrangement ˙Deferring interest payment for small ˙Reducing rent for small business ˙Disperse the workforce at business owners and SMEs owners alternative workplaces We are integrating ESG aspects into our business operations by preemptively identifying environmental and social risks and managing them in a systemic way. Restricting financial services to Conducting ESG-based Conducting ESG risk assessment companies with ESG risks client due diligence ˙Restricting loans and investments to firms ˙Conducting customer due diligence ˙Conducting ESG-based risk with high environmental and social risks based on ESG criteria and enhanced assessment before executing loans ˙Prohibiting financing illegal and due diligence for higher risk clients and investments fraudulent activities We transparently disclose information on corporate governance through our annual sustainability reports and corporate governance reports. In recognition of our efforts, we have been selected as the best financial company in corporate governance for two consecutive years. Enhancing the implementation of Transparent information disclosure Establishing the culture of governance Stewardship Code ˙Transparent disclosure of ˙Selected as the best financial ˙Six subsidiaries adopting and performance through the annual company in corporate governance implementing Stewardship Code corporate governance reports, for two consecutive years by the ˙Actively executed shareholder sustainability reports, annual KCGS (Korea Corporate Governance rights and disclosed results reports, and business reports Service) (2018~2019) 15 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2030 ESG Strategy We established the “KB GREEN WAY 2030” as a strategic goal to integrate ESG factors into conducting our business and further build stakeholder trust. By focusing on ESG management, we aim to reduce carbon emissions by 25% and expand the scale of ESG-related products, investments, and loans to KRW 50 trillion by 2030. Financial Service Delivering Changes Mission Happier Life & Better World Strategic Goal Create sustainable value and enhance customer trust by promoting responsible management for environment and society and disseminating healthy corporate governance Reduce carbon emissions by 25% Achieve KRW 50 trillion in ESG products, investments, and loans Strategic Directions E S G Environment Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Advancing Climate Internalizing Responsible Spreading the Culture of Change Strategy Management for Society Transparent Governance Focus Areas ˙Setting and Managing Carbon ˙Expanding Social Contribution ˙Enhancing Transparency in Emissions Target ˙Promoting Shared Growth and Governance ˙Managing Environmental Risks Mutual Prosperity ˙Strengthening the Stewardship ˙Increasing Green Investments ˙Respecting Human Rights and Code and Loans Diversity ˙Expanding Investments in ˙Leading the Way in Green ˙Expanding Financial Inclusion Excellent Governance Finance Ecosystems ˙Building a Comprehensive Evaluation System 16 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix E nvironment: Advancing Climate Change Strategy Focus areas Goal Action plans Page Setting and Managing Reducing group's carbon ˙Continue to reduce carbon emissions through goal setup and monitoring 29-31 Carbon Emissions emissions by 25% by 2030 ˙Promote 3 key tasks of “Paperless,” “No Plastic,” and “Save Energy” through Target (compared with 2017) the Go Green Campaign Managing Establishing environmental and ˙Assess climate change risks and opportunities by developing and implementing a roadmap based 32-36 Environmental Risks social risk management principles on TCFD recommendations and enhance environmental ˙Strengthen disclosure of financial impacts management system ˙Establish an environmental management and performance system Increasing Green Securing green leadership ˙Achieve KRW 25 trillion in investments and loans in green sectors such as renewable energy and 37-41 Investments and by expanding eco-friendly green business Loans investments and loans ˙Take the lead in green finance including renewable energy deals(underwriting, fundraising, advisory, etc) and green bond issuance Leading the Way Building leadership through ˙Participate in global environmental initiatives to build an environmental and social risk 42-43 in Green Finance global initiative activities in the management process Ecosystems field of environment ˙Enhance cooperation and joint response with global environmental initiatives (Participate in UNEP FI’s Collective Commitment to Climate Action and UN PRB's working group activities) S ocial Responsibility: Internalizing Responsible Management for Society Focus areas Goal Action plans Page Expanding Social Promoting social contribution ˙Strengthen educational support to children and youth for equal learning opportunities 45-50 Contribution to create value for future ˙Strengthen social impacts through job creation, community support and environment generations preservation activities Promoting Shared Promoting shared growth through ˙Expand loans and supports to foster the competitiveness of SMEs and small business owners 51-53 Growth and Mutual the expansion of social value (temporary liquidity support against COVID-19 issue, and financial support for social enterprises Prosperity creation and green businesses) ˙Build an ecosystem for social enterprises and startups ˙Consult aspiring entrepreneurs and small business owners (phased management consulting linked with corporate loans) Respecting Human Respecting human rights and ˙Strengthen support for major stakeholders including clients, employees, suppliers and integrate 54-63 Rights and Diversity diversity of stakeholders them into corporate culture Expanding Financial Providing financially vulnerable ˙Provide financial products for low-credit and low-income people such as “KB New Hope Spore” 64-67 Inclusion classes with stable financial and “KB Sunshine Loan” services ˙Develop diverse financial products and services to generate greater social value G overnance: Spreading the Culture of Transparent Governance Corporate Focus areas Goal Action plans Page Enhancing Spreading the culture of healthy ˙Transparently disclose ESG information through sustainability report and other public disclosure 69-77 Transparency in governance means and enhance communication with stakeholders Governance ˙Contribute to enhancing transparency and soundness of corporate governance of local companies and encouraging them to adopt ESG into their business practices by sharing KB's best practices Strengthening the Increasing the value of investee ˙Pursue the development of investee companies, growth of customer assets, and increase of 78 Stewardship Code companies through active shareholder interest in the long term through active execution of the Stewardship Code execution of the Stewardship ˙Strive to enhance corporate governance and value of investee companies through various Code engagement including management meeting, IR, execution of voting rights and shareholder proposals Expanding Creating sustainable value ˙Develop funds and other relevant products investing in companies with excellent corporate 79 Investments in of companies with excellent governance to generate stable return and build positive reputation among clients Excellent Governance governance Building a Building a comprehensive ESG ˙Build a comprehensive ESG evaluation system to encourage investee companies to adopt ESG 79 Comprehensive management evaluation system into their business practices Evaluation System 17 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report KB’s UN SDGs Activities The UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are the international blueprint released at the UN General Assembly to address universal challenges facing mankind, protect the planet's environment and resolve socio-economic problems. They contain 17 goals and 169 detailed tasks in the fields of economy, society, and environment to be achieved by 2030. Our ESG strategy is aligned with the UN SDGs. Responsible execution of the ESG strategy will contribute to addressing the global challenges we face. We will communicate with stakeholders about our strategy, execution, and performances in a transparent manner. Activities and Performances by Major SDGs Strategic direction Focus area SDGs Advancing climate Setting and managing carbon ˙Affordable and clean energy change strategy for emissions target ˙Climate action environment Managing environmental risks ˙Affordable and clean energy ˙Climate action Increasing green investments ˙Affordable and clean energy and loans ˙Climate action Leading the way in green finance ˙Climate action ecosystems ˙Partnerships for the goals Internalizing Expanding social contribution ˙Good health and well-being responsible ˙Quality education management for a ˙Decent work and economic growth better society ˙Reduced inequalities Promoting shared growth and ˙Decent work and economic growth mutual prosperity Respecting human rights and ˙Gender equality diversity ˙Decent work and economic growth ˙Reduced inequalities Expanding financial inclusion ˙No poverty Spreading Enhancing transparency in ˙Responsible consumption and the culture of governance production transparent Strengthening Stewardship Code ˙Responsible consumption and governance production Expanding investments in ˙Responsible consumption and excellent governance production Building a comprehensive ˙Responsible consumption and evaluation system production 18 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Activities and Performances by Major SDGs It it crucial to set strategic targets aligned with the SDGs and implement them to achieve a sustainable future by 2030. To help achieve the global target, we will carry out activities focused on SDGs that are closely aligned with our ESG strategy. Major activities and performances (as of the end of 2019) Page ˙Reduced carbon emissions: 790tCO2eq (compared with 2017), consumption of renewable energy: 487,272kWh 29-31 ˙Opened the Gimpo Integrated IT Center, which uses solar power and fuel cell ˙Promoted the “Go Green Campaign” which includes three key tasks: Paperless, No Plastic, and Save Energy ˙Evaluated climate change risks and opportunities based on TCFD pilot project and recommendations, and disclose financial impacts of 32-36 climate change ˙Achieved approximately KRW 11 trillion for green products, investments, and loans 37-41 Green products: KRW 3.8 trillion Green investments: KRW 2.8 trillion Green loans: KRW 4.4 trillion ˙Joined UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking and Working Group of Collective Commitment of Climate Action, and run an internal 42-43 council to implement action plans of the initiatives ˙Provided support for those affected by COVID-19 45-50 ˙Beneficiaries of the 「Youth Mentor, KB!」: 18,220 ˙People who landed a job through the KB GoodJob Fair: 11,656 ˙University students who participated in the Raonatti: 547 ˙Provided free consulting services to the self-employed and prospective startups that are facing difficulties in business management 51-53 (1,674 cumulative cases) ˙Provided support to medium and small business owners and the underprivileged who are heavily impacted by COVID-19 (KB Kookmin Bank) ˙Included in Bloomberg GEI for two consecutive years (2019~2020) and became the first Korean financial company to join the WEPs 54-63 ˙Employees who returned to work after childcare leave: 2,507 ˙Employees who use the flex-time work system: 859 ˙Surveyed our employees and suppliers’ employees about human rights status ˙Provided KRW 2 trillion loan products such as KB New Hope Spore and KB Sunshine Loan for the financially vulnerable 64-67 ˙Provided KRW 4.2 trillion deposit products such as KB Kookmin Property Formation Savings ˙Selected as the best financial company in corporate governance by the KCGS for two consecutive years (2018~2019) 69-77 ˙Published annual sustainability reports based on GRI, SASB, and TCFD ˙Exercised voting rights for 158 companies (KB Asset Management) 78 ˙Achieved 16.63% in average rate of return from the KB Shareholder Value Focus Fund 79 ˙Promoted the advancement of evaluation indicators and systems to allow excellent companies in ESG to be given preferential treatment 79 19 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Establishment of ESG Governance Leading ESG Management As investors are increasingly interested in soundness of non-financial aspects, companies are expected to fulfill social responsibility and actively respond to climate change beyond just profit creation. Against such backdrop,, KB Financial Group has built a Group-wide decision-making system to accelerate ESG management. In March 2020, the ESG Committee was established under the BOD for the first time among domestic financial companies with the enactment of the ESG Committee regulation as well as amendment of the BOD regulation and internal policies on corporate governance. We have also reorganized working-level teams to carry out ESG strategies. Signing event for the ESG Guiding Principles Promoting Strategic ESG Management KB Financial Group strengthened working-level functions of ESG in January 2020 with the aim of conducting group-wide ESG management. The existing Social Contribution & Culture Department at KB Financial Holdings was reorganized as the ESG Strategy Department and is responsible for managing the Group’s ESG implementation by developing ESG strategy, operating the ESG Committee, responding to external ESG evaluation, and conducting initiative activities. ESG department of each subsidiary is in charge of ESG planning and implementation, support for internal and external ESG evaluation, management of carbon emissions, and implementation of ESG improvements based on the resolutions of the ESG Committee. Especially, KB Kookmin Bank launched the “ESG Steering Committee” in 2020 to ensure speedy and consistent implementation of ESG-related resolutions made at the Committee. The ESG Steering Committee, in which Yin Hur, the CEO of KB Kookmin Bank, and six representatives of the Group participate, is convened once a month to promote ESG management in a swift and sustainable manner. Two subcommittees under the Committee take charge of reducing carbon emissions, activating investments in ESG projects, and building risk management system. Organization for ESG Implementation Report on ESG issues Report on ESG issues KB Financial BOD Subsidiaries Holdings ESG Committee ESG Strategy ESG Deliberation and Department Department Closely cooperating on feedback of ESG issues implementing ESG action plans 20 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix ESG Committee Members 1 5 6 2 3 4 7 8 9 1. Kouwhan Jeong 2. Kyung Ho Kim 3. Myung Hee Choi 4. Seon Joo Kwon 5. Gyutaeg Oh 6. Yin Hur 7. Jong Kyoo Yoon 8. Suk Ho Sonu 9. Stuart B. Solomon Establishment of the ESG Committee The ESG Committee was established with the purpose of overseeing pending ESG management issues which had been pursued by each subsidiary, strengthening ESG execution at the Group level, and effectively responding to ESG issues such as climate change and governance. To address ESG issues in an integrated manner, the ESG Committee consists of all members of the BOD who demonstrate expertise in each field. Gyutaeg Oh, a non-executive director, was appointed as the Chairman of the ESG Committee. The major role of the ESG Committee is to establish the ESG strategy and policies of the Group and make decisions on ESG tasks of subsidiaries. The Committee, as the supreme decision-making body, also monitors the implementation of major ESG tasks of the Group, performances in ESG-related products, investments, and loans, and reduction of carbon emissions. The ESG Committee is convened twice a year to manage ESG factors within the Group’s management system in an integrated way. Service term of the Committee Chairman and members is one year. 21 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ESG Risk Management Strengthening Integrated Risk Management KB Financial Group is working to minimize the negative environmental and social impacts that are generated through our business activities, whether direct or indirect. We are also strengthening control over non-financial risks as well as traditional financial risks to establish a companywide integrated risk management system. With the aim of ensuring a systematic environmental and social risk management, KB Financial Group has buttressed its monitoring and management of ESG issues and established the direction and process for environmental and social risk management to better manage such risks. Major Risk Types Financial Risks ESG-related Risks Risks that may be caused by financial issues such Risks that may be caused by ESG factors such as credit risks, market risks, interest rate risks, and as climate change, environmental impacts, and liquidity risks social issues Environmental & Social Risk Management Direction for Environmental & Social Risk Management KB Financial Group works to ensure preemptive detection and systematic management of the environmental and social risks involved in its business activities. We restrict our investments and loans by identifying industries with high ESG risks. We may refuse or suspend specific transactions for customers found as high-risk through our mandatory Know Your Customer process incorporating ESG risks. In addition, we analyze and include ESG risks in our assessment process prior to the execution of our investments and loans, in order to minimize the environmental and social risks for customers. Preemptive Control of Major Environmental and Social Risks Enhance Conduct Restrict financial Support financial engagement ESG-based client services against services through on ESG risks due diligence companies with ESG risk assessment ESG risks 22 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Enhance Engagement on ESG Risks We are actively engaging with our stakeholders including clients on ESG related risks and opportunities to help them understand and integrate ESG factors into their business activities. We are publicly disclosing ESG risks we are facing and our countermeasures and KB Research Institute shares its ESG research reports to make sure that clients raise their awareness of the risks and opportunities related to ESG issues. Furthermore, KB Financial Group actively exercises voting rights based on evaluation of investee companies' non-financial factors and KB Kookmin Bank's credit reviewers incorporate nonfinancial elements in the evaluation process of investments and loans to make sure that our clients can make decisions based on ESG. ESG Engagement and Promotion Activity Content Performance ESG Engagement Share research reports on ESG issues through Five reports were issued in terms of KB Research Institute's website sustainability management Disclosure of ESG risks and countermeasures Disclosure through website, annual report, and sustainability report ESG Promotion Active execution of voting rights based on Execution of voting rights on 158 investee evaluation of investee companies' noncompanies (KB Asset Management) financial factors Decline of credit ratings, withdrawal or rejection of loan based on non-financial factors evaluation in the process of loan and investment application Customer Due Diligence Based on ESG Risks CDD (Customer Due Customer due diligence is Know Your Client process collecting client information to prevent transaction Diligence), EDD (Enhanced and services provided by KB from causing environmental and social risks. KB Financial Group performs Due Diligence) customer due diligence (CDD) by determining the environmental or social risks that affect all parties Refer to Know Your Client process to verify customers in financial transactions including customers and their representatives, and conducts enhanced due and their transaction diligence (EDD) if high environmental and social risks such as money laundering and terrorist financing purposes so as to prevent are suspected. If a customer refuses due diligence, KB Financial Group may turn down new transactions, financial services from being manipulated by money or suspend any existing business relationships. laundering, etc. 23 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Restricting Financial Services to Companies with High ESG Risks KB Financial Group preemptively identifies and manages industries with high risk of incurring environmental and social risks. KB Kookmin Bank restricts investments and loans for industries and companies with high environmental and social risks, prohibits financing businesses that go against public good or is used for criminal or illegal acts, and provides loans only for constructive and productive projects. Businesses to be Excluded from Investment and Loan ˙Manufacturing and lease of ˙Management and operation of ˙Illegal weapon distribution unhealthy game machines gambling facilities ˙Smuggling ˙Entertainment bar ˙Drug handling ˙Other illegal and fraudulent ˙Operation of dance hall ˙Pornography or prostitution activities Providing Financial Services through ESG Risk Assessment KB Financial Group preemptively identifies customer risks through our ESG-based evaluation in executing investments and loans. The ESG risk assessment covers five areas, i.e. leadership & corporate governance, social capital, human capital, business model & innovation, and environment. KB Kookmin Bank conducts credit assessment in investment and lending processes considering ESG risk factors. Through ESG Socially Responsible Investment ETF, KB Asset Management is investing in sectors which score high on social responsibility areas. In the future, we will upgrade ESG-related categories for customer evaluation and do our best to minimize the environmental and social risks that may occur while conducting financial activities. ESG Assessment Checklist Leadership and Business model Social capital Human capital Environment governance and innovation ˙Response to ˙Human rights and ˙Labor practices ˙Product design ˙Energy regulations and local community ˙Employee and lifecycle management laws ˙Customer welfare management ˙Air quality participation, ˙Competitive ˙Fair trade and ˙Effects on diversity, and activities product labeling on ecosystem hazard inclusiveness ˙Product quality and safety 24 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix In-focus Integrating ESG into Investing and Lending KB Kookmin Bank has established Principle and Code on Credit taking into account ESG risks involved in investment and lending processes including project finance and conducts credit evaluation for big corporations and companies requiring external audit. Principle and Code on Credit, which set out fundamental values for credit and lending business operations, serves as basis for the bank's credit and lending policies and practices. This is the basic guideline that credit officers must comply with. Furthermore, we consider the ESG-related information as part of the non-financial review items in the credit evaluation of major debtors and perform our decision making incorporating the assessment results. KB Kookmin Bank evaluates social responsibility management performance of the management of the debtors on a scale from A to E by identifying ESG factors such as the implementation of ethical management, use of green technology, and contribution to job creation. The Bank complies with its ESG framework in conducting large-scale project financing including active communication about the project's environmental and social impacts and managing relevant risks. Major PFs the Bank participated in 2019 were Hanwha Energy's Green Bond RP, solid refuse fuel recovery plant project in Gimchen, and solar power plant project in Yeongam. In financing such large-scale projects, we conduct assessment of their impact on environment and society with our internal experts as well as independent, third-party experts. In order to strengthen our environmental and social responsibility and advance monitoring scheme in conducting project financing, the Bank is developing internal processes and roadmap aligned with the updated version of the Equator Principles, i.e. EP4. We will become a signatory of the Equator Principles in 2021 and incorporate its framework into our project financing processes. Major Project Financing Cases Project Performance Impacts identified Environmental and social impacts Participation in Amount: USD 77 million There are little negative impacts Expecting positive impacts on Hanwha Energy Maturity: 3 years on environment and society as we environment and society by Green Bond RP engage in developing and disposing supplying renewable energy a variety of solar power projects Solid refuse KB’s mandate: KRW 87 billion There are low negative impacts Expecting positive impacts on fuel recovery Maturity: 15 years on environment and society as we sustainable growth through waste plant project in make it a rule to reduce waste and reduction and energy recovery as Gimcheon recover energy. waste is recycled as fuel Solar power KB’s mandate: KRW 303 billion Negative impacts are low as this Expecting positive impacts on plant project in KB’s covenant: KRW 73 billion project was anticipated to have less reducing fossil fuel consumption, Yeongam Maturity: 5 years & 9 months impacts on environment based on generating renewable energy, environmental impact evaluation. creating jobs, and developing tourism products 25 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Wind power and solar power generation facilities in Yeongam financed by KB’s eco-friendly investment ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix ESG Strategy & Progress Our ESG strategy focuses on embedding ESG value in whole business management activities by managing climate change risks, pursuing inclusive society, and enhancing transparency in corporate governance. Based on such ESG strategy, we will create positive impacts on society and drive sustainable growth. Internalizing Spreading Advancing Responsible the Culture of Climate Change Management Transparent Strategy for Society Governance 28 44 68 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report FO R ENVIRO N MENT Advancing Climate Change Strategy As stakeholders' interest in the environment increases, consideration of environmental risk is becoming more important in the financial sector. KBFG aims to strengthen its management of environmental risks by advancing climate change strategy and expanding green financial services. Setting and Leading the Way Managing Carbon in Green Finance Emissions Target KEY STRATEGIES Ecosystems Managing Increasing Green Environmental Risks Investments and Loans MAJOR PERFORMANCES Climate & Environment 790 tCO2eq KRW 11 trillion Initiatives Strengthen engagement Reduction of carbon Green products, and enhance emissions (compared investments, and loans TCFD aligned with 2017) disclosure ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Setting and Managing Carbon Emissions Target Setting the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target Current Carbon Emissions Reduction of carbon To help achieve transition toward a low-carbon society, we developed ESG strategy and set and manage emissions in 2019 (compared with 2017) internal carbon emissions target. We monitor carbon emissions data and trends (Scope 1 & 2) of all subsidiaries as well as other emissions (Scope 3) and disclose them. In particular, KB Kookmin Bank, as 790 tCO2eq participant of GHG and Energy Target Management System, submits its emissions data of the previous year in every March and set the following year's emissions target in discussion with Korea Energy Agency. Electricity accounts for approximately 80% of our total emissions, followed by heating for buildings and vehicles operation. In 2019, we reduced 790tCO2eq of carbon emissions compared with 2017. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct emissions from Emissions from energy Indirect emissions resources owned sources consumed from external sources or controlled by a in the process of not owned or ` company (oil, gas) business (electricity) controlled by a company Setting the Carbon Emission Reduction Target Carbon emissions As we approach existing emissions reduction target year, i.e. 2020, We set a new mid-to-long term reduction target by 2030 emissions reduction target aligned with our ESG strategy to reduce emissions by 25% by 2030 compared (compared with 2017) with 2017. 25% Carbon emissions of the Group 131,501 (tCO2eq) 131,015 130,711 98,625 112,322 111,994 111,731 19,179 19,021 Scope 2 18,980 Scope 1 2017 2018 2019 2030 target 29 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Efforts for Carbon Emission Reduction Increasing the Use of Renewable Energy Consumption of renewable KB Financial Group is increasing the use of renewable energy to reduce carbon emissions. Gimpo energy Integrated IT Center, which opened in July 2019, installed photovoltaic and fuel cell power generation (as of 2019) facilities to become green data center producing 107,788 kWh of electricity as of 2019, and achieved 487,272kWh additional energy saving by installing an energy saving air-conditioning system. Moreover, Hapjeong Office and Sacheon Training Center of KB Insurance produced 3,563 kWh and 375,921 kWh of electricity through renewable energy sources, respectively, for their own use in 2019. By installing solar power, fuel cell, and geothermal power generation facilities in the new KB Kookmin Bank Headquarter Office currently under construction, we will produce 2,143 MWh of electricity annually. Going forward, we will continue to increase the use of renewable energy by capitalizing on more renewable energy generation facilities in our own premises and related renewable energy rate systems. 1 2 1. Integrated IT Center in Gimpo 2. KB Insurance’s training center in Sacheon Efforts to Reduce Carbon Emissions To ensure effective response to climate change, we have been working continuously to reduce carbon emissions generated from business operations and ensure an efficient use of energy. The environmental management system (ISO 14001) has been applied to our six main buildings including the head office to monitor environmental data including carbon emissions and waste levels. In responding to the CDP, we annually report climate-related data. Moreover, all our subsidiaries have conducted diverse energysaving activities such as replacing the light bulbs with LEDs at head office and branches, installing rotating wind visors in air-conditioners and heaters, and by turning off all the lights during lunch breaks and at night. In 2019, KB Kookmin Bank introduced 10 electric vehicles for business use and installed recharging infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions. This project will be expanded to all subsidiaries. We also run the Energy Saving Day campaign every month and are actively collecting and managing environmental data. 30 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Go Green Campaign with Customers We have started Go Green Campaign in collaboration with all of our subsidiaries to reduce our impact on environment. Through the campaign, we are raising awareness of importance of environmental protection and encouraging customers and employees to participate and engage in order to deliver positive impact on our environment and society. The campaign is carried out under 3 major themes, i.e. Paperless, No Plastic, Save Energy. Go Green Untact (Un+tact) ˙Raise awareness about importance of ˙Expand needs for untact products and services environment protection ˙Evolve into a new normal due to social changes ˙Prerequisite to survival and core growth engines Digital Transformation & Effective Communication Paperless No Plastic Save Energy ˙Issue less paper bankbooks ˙Issue less plastic credit cards ˙Use renewable energy ˙Reduce DM service ˙Reduce use of plastic ˙Increase use of green ˙Reduce paper usage products vehicles ˙Recycle plastic products ˙Energy saving and efficiency Category Major tasks Practices Paperless Issue less paper bankbooks Expand customer participation through financial benefits* and offers** and provide more conveniences to paperless accounts * KB Kookmin Bank: Prime rate to paperless accounts when subscribing to green products (KB Clean Sky Saving, etc.) KB Securities, KB Savings Bank: More benefits to new non-face-to-face accounts ** Raise donations for environmental organizations and promote new green projects through donation-type offer system Reduce DM service Inform customers of digital transformation, adopt sustainable design, and diversify channels Reduce paper usage Promote the 2030 Zero Paper Campaign and improve the ways of working (report and meeting culture) No Plastic Issue less plastic credit card Promote mobile credit cards Reduce use of plastic Purchase green products, raise awareness of employees, and develop eco-friendly products financial products Recycle plastic products Install plastic recycling devices Save Use renewable energy Expand renewable energy facilities and use green rate payment system Energy Increase use of green vehicle Install EV station and operate green vehicles for business Energy saving and efficiency Strengthen efficiency in energy management, conduct energy-saving campaign, and adopt energy-efficiency products and facilities 31 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report SPECIAL 01 Managing Financial Impacts from Climate Change Background As the earth's average temperature has risen about 0.85℃ since categories transition risks that can occur due to transition toward 1891 when the Industrial Revolution was still under way, there a low-carbon economy and physical risks caused by abnormal have been increasingly frequent natural disasters such as heat weather such as sea level rise and recommended that we disclose wave, heavy snow, flood, drought, fine dust, and desertification, the four factors of governance, strategy, risk management, and which cause both huge economic losses and concerns about metrics & targets related to climate change. Understanding that climate change impacts on human life. In April 2015, G20 Leaders climate change can have negative impacts on financial business, KB requested the Financial Stability Board (FSB) to review climate Financial Group joined as a TCFD Supporter in October 2018. We change risks and countermeasures for financial stability. FSB evaluate and manage risks and opportunities from climate change released the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and transparently disclose related data and information. (TCFD) in 2017. The TCFD classified climate change risks into two Risks and Opportunities from Climate Change Climate change factors in businesses Opportunity Risk factors factors ˙Demand increase: Securing future growth ˙Deterioration of health and hygiene ˙Decline in labor productivity engines and creating new products and markets ˙Increase of power consumption ˙Decrease in demand ˙Encouraging innovation by proper regulations: ˙Damage of social infrastructure ˙Unstable power supply Increasing productivity by revamping inefficient ˙Reduction of natural resource supply ˙Failure in energy and resource procurement production methods ˙Changes in consumer preference ˙Suspension of work and weak productivity ˙Tightening of environmental regulations ˙Cost increase due to compliance with regulations ˙Increase in raw materials prices 32 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Governance Strategy TCFD Components Governance: Governance in terms of climate-related risks and opportunities Risk Management Strategy: Actual and potential on business, strategy, and financial plan from climate-related risks and opportunities Metrics & Risk Management: Process for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks Targets Metrics & Target: Metrics and reduction target for evaluating and controlling climate-related risks and opportunities Effort to Implement the TCFD Recommendations Governance Risk Management At KB Financial Group, the ESG Committee under the Board KB Financial Group is building a process to systematically manage manages and monitors climate change issues at the group level, climate change risks. In line with global initiatives such as UNEP in which all the Board members with expertise in each field FI Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) and Collective participate. The CEO's participation in the ESG Committee ensures Commitment to Climate Action (CCCA), we organized a council the group's direct management of climate change-related risks and consisting of working-level staff of KB Financial Holdings and opportunities. To ensure effective management of climate change KB Kookmin Bank, through which we are working to identify issues, we aligned climate change management performance to climate change risks and opportunities and analyze the climate our compensation and reward system. In particular, one of our change scenarios. Going forward, we will establish strategies CEO's qualitative KPIs incorporates ESG performance including and targets based on different climate change scenarios and management of climate change issues, and executive in charge monitor implementation status. KB Financial Group actively takes of ESG is evaluated and compensated based on performance in environmental and social risks into account when conducting management of climate change. business. We assess ESG factors including climate change risks in making investment decisions, and are developing Environment and Social Risk Framework (ESRM) to identify environmental and social Strategy risks in conducting business. Climate change presents risk and opportunity factors to both the production and demand aspects of most industries. In particular, financial businesses are required to take preemptive action to climate Metrics & Targets change risks in the mid-to-long term in order to manage investment To continuously manage our climate change response efforts, portfolio. KB Financial Group performs impact assessments on we are committed to reducing our carbon emissions in our own climate change-related businesses. The impacts can be different operations and strengthening green finance at the same time. We depending on business type, technological competitiveness, aim to cut our carbon emissions by 25% until 2030 compared with regulation scope and strength, and the level of climate change 2017 through diverse energy-saving activities and the utilization of response system and they may cause an increase in production cost, a renewable energy rate system. Furthermore, we plan on achieving weak productivity, and deterioration of competitiveness, resulting KRW 25 trillion in our green investments and loans by 2030 by in negative effects on corporate credit ratings. Meanwhile, climate significantly increasing our support for green businesses such as change can serve as an opportunity to strengthen the portfolio of renewable energy and green infrastructure. sustainable finance when it comes to improving competitiveness by developing new products and markets. 33 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Roadmap for TCFD Implementation Advancement stage 2 (2025) Advancement stage 1 ˙Analyze financial impacts based on (2021~2024) climate scenarios ˙Reflect climate risk in evaluation ˙Establish a mid-to-long term climate Preparation (2019~2020) and inspection ˙Monitor climate risk evaluation risk management plan ˙Review the business impact evaluation ˙Establish an exclusive organization for indicators from climate risk ˙Reflect TCFD factors in management ESG Committee operation ˙Analyze opportunities and impacts from evaluation climate change (TCFD Pilot) ˙Set goals for carbon emissions and ESG products, investments, and loans Current Implementation of TCFD Recommendations We recognize the importance of finance in responding to climate term roadmap for systematic execution of climate change response change, and in order to enhance response to climate change, KB according to TCFD recommendations. This roadmap contains short, Financial Group is working on improving governance, strategy, risk medium and long term action plans. We will continue to improve control, and indicators and targets. We established a mid-to-long and advance our climate change management system. Implementation of the TCFD Recommendations Category TCFD recommendations KB Financial Group’s implementation Governance a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and ∙ Launched the ESG Committee consisting of all member of the Board. opportunities. ∙ Monitored climate-related issues and sustainability management b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing ∙ CEO’s participation in the ESG Committee to evaluate and manage climate-related risks and opportunities. climate-related risks and opportunities Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization ∙ Analyzed climate-related impacts on business has identified over the short, medium, and long term. b) Describe the impact of climaterelated risks and opportunities on ∙ Impacts on customers’ credit risks due to production cost increase, the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. decline in productivity, and weakened competitiveness c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into ∙ Scenario analysis of climate-related impacts on overall industries consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C ∙ Identified exposure of heavy carbon emission businesses or lower scenario. ∙ Estimated the increase of expected loss and impacts on the BIS ratio ∙ Plan to advance loan portfolio based on scenario analysis Risk a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and ∙ Identified and evaluated climate-related risks at the council (consisting management assessing climate-related risks. of staff from ESG-related department of group and the bank) b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. ∙ Plan to build a process for systematic climate change risk management c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing ∙ Assessed ESG-related factors when deciding investments climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall ∙ Plan to establish and disclose ESRM risk management. Metrics and a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess ∙ Carbon emissions, green products, investments, and loans targets climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse ∙ Carbon emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. (Scope 1: 18,980, Scope 2: 111,731, Scope 3: 16,029) ∙ Green products, investments, and loans (KRW 11 trillion) c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate∙ Plan to reduce carbon emission by 25% by 2030 related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. (compared with 2017) 34 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Analysis of Impacts from Climate Change Risks Understanding Analyzing Identifying climate change impacts on climate-related impacts through portfolio by risk factors scenario analysis business sector Analyzing the Climate Change Impact on the Portfolio Specifically, we identified 6 carbon-intensive industries through We conducted climate change scenario analysis to identify our the analysis, and classified them into 3 categories considering exposures in carbon-intensive industries and potential risks regulatory, social and financial market trends. Power generation we are facing and explore mitigation measures. Our climate and energy sectors are classified as a sector requiring intensive change scenario was conducted on all industries including power management to whom urgent restriction or exclusion of credit generation, steel, petrochemical and we took differentiated is required, and other carbon-intensive industries are classified approach by scenario considering that climate change impact is as attention sector or observation sector. We are planning to different by industry. We assumed that expected loss increase from review internal portfolio strategies and targets based on carbon industry exposure due to decrease in asset value to be within the risk impacts, and currently discussing reduction of coal financing range of 0 to 60%. As a result of scenario analysis, we identified on power generation and energy sectors. We will take groupour exposure to carbon-intensive industries and estimated impact wide measures to address climate change issues and sharpen our on expected loss increase as well as capital adequacy ratio. We portfolio strategies through more sophisticated scenario analysis. are continuously managing scenario analysis simulation results. Carbon Risk Impacts of Carbon-intensive Industries Level of management Sector Carbon risk impacts Intensive management Power generation ∙ Need to expand renewable energy consumption for carbon emissions reduction & energy ∙ Expect the reduction of coal-fueled power generation to comply with the Paris Agreement Attention Steel ∙ The largest GHG-emitting business among manufacturing industry ∙ Need to control GHG by developing green products and expanding fine dust reduction facilities Petrochemical ∙ Wide business portfolio and 24-hour operation ∙ Need to control carbon risks by incorporating carbon credit in pricing and participating in the emission trading Observation Refinery ∙ Need to diversify business in response to oil consumption reduction and invest in carbon reduction facilities Cement ∙ Difficulties in improving carbon risk impacts as carbon accounts for 60% of total emissions due to nature of cement manufacturing ∙ Expect increasing burden on business due to change in free allocation of carbon allowance Waste treatment ∙ Need to sustain significant financial impacts for achieving carbon emissions reduction goal ∙ Low response capacity as the business is mainly operated by SMEs 35 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Managing Environmental Risks Implementing Environmental Management KB Financial Group is upgrading its environmental and social risk management system to strengthen its response to environmental risks, implementing its internal activities designed to cut carbon emissions as well as analyzing and disclosing the opportunities and impacts of climate change. To effectively respond to the diverse environmental risks that affect KB Financial Group, we have created an environmental management system and a performance evaluation system. Developing the Environmental Management System We strive to reduce impact on environment and carbon emissions that arise from our business activities and operations, and, at the same time, established environment management system which is certified by global environment management standards. We collect and manage the environmental data from all our subsidiaries to establish and manage our environmental management system. Subsidiary-level efforts to enhance environmental management were made, too. For example, KB Insurance and KB Kookmin Card respectively have established and are operating Guideline on Environmental Management. Our environmental management system aligns with global standards, i.e. ISO 14001, and KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, and KB Capital have acquired ISO 14001 certification. KB Kookmin Bank was the first financial institution that obtained ISO 14001 certification has been continuously keeping its system being certified through internal and external review process. KB Kookmin Card conducts an annual internal review for ISO14001 and 31 major companies in its supply chain are engaged in supply chain environmental management through their ISO 14001 certification. Establishing the Environmental Management Performance Evaluation System To minimize the environmental impact of its management activities, KB Financial Group has the environmental management performance evaluation system in place. KB Kookmin Bank evaluates environmental management performance such as developing customer-linked green financial products and services, conducting the green campaign, setting the carbon emission targets, and engaging in carbon footprint reduction efforts. KB Insurance and KB Kookmin Card have set their environmental goals of power consumption and fuel mileage for their service vehicles and monitor their environmental performance. Moreover, KB Life Insurance added environmental performance indicators such as green product development, increasing green investment, establishment of carbon emissions targets and their management process to the nonquantitative evaluation items for the CEO’s KPI in 2020. KB Life Insurance is also sophisticating its corporate client analysis and evaluation process in each field of environment, society, and governance through several means including launching a new checklist and aligning with corporate credit assessment system. 36 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Increasing Green Investments and Loans Sustainable Finance that Increases Environmental Value ESG products, investments, Green investment is increasing following national policies such as 2050 Long-term Low-Carbon and loans target in 2030 Development Strategy and Renewable Energy 3020 and changing social trends. With the development KRW 50 trillion of the ESG strategy in 2019, KB Financial Group established the ESG-based product classification system and a mid-to-long term goal for 2030, thus creating the basis for expanding investment in the ESG-related products. KB Financial Group will expand ESG products, investments, and loans to KRW 50 trillion by 2030 to deliver environmental and social impacts, and take environment into consideration in providing financial services to have positive influence on society. The total amount of our green investments and loans in 2019 was KRW 7.2 trillion, and the total including green products was KRW 11 trillion. Looking forward, we will reinforce our Green Leadership within the financial industry by developing a wide range of renewable energy investments, loans, and customer-participation green products. Green Products, Investments, and Loans (￦100m) 110,010 99,706 80,950 38,046 31,603 28,887 27,976 25,812 18,840 43,988 Green products 42,291 33,223 Green investments Green loans 2017 2018 2019 37 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Green Products In order to cope with increasing environmental problems such as fine dust and maritime pollution and the climate change impacts, KB Financial Group has been developing and providing various green products with the goal of creating positive environmental and social impacts. In March 2019, KB Kookmin Bank launched KB Clear Sky Savings Plan to help reduce find dust. The product offers preferential annual interest rate of up to 1.0%, provided that a subscriber fulfills four missions for a clear sky which can be easily put into action in our daily life (such as not issuing paper bank books, non face-to-face subscription, use of public transport, and solving quiz on fine dust by maturity). Also, the bank started donation challenge for the product in cooperation with Ministry of Environment and Korea Green Foundation where the bank donates certain amount for each account sold to create KB Kookmin Clear Sky Forest. The challenge fulfilled its goal when the savings plan reached over 100,000 accounts in just eleven weeks from its release, and in September 2019, KB Kookmin Bank donated KRW 100 million to the creation of an urban forest in Noeul Park in Seoul. Since the new product was released last year, the balance of the product reached KRW 498.7 billion as of December 2019, drawing many customers' participation in the prevention of environmental pollution and reduction of fine dust. Green Products (As of the end of 2019) Classification Major products Description Amount Sustainable Korea Investment Global EV&Battery Invest in stocks and ETFs related with EV and KRW 45.8 transportation Securities & Investment Trust (Stock) battery business at home and abroad billion Prevention of KB Clean Sky Savings Environment-friendly product that provides prime KRW 498.7 environmental rate to green activities and free insurance services billion pollution against public transportation and bicycle accidents Renewable KB Chile Solar Energy Special Private Fundraising for investing in solar power plants KRW 56.4 energy Asset Investment Trust in Chile billion Sustainable Samsung Global Water Securities & Invest in global water-related businesses such KRW 2.3 water resource Investment Trust 1 (Stock-Fund of as wastewater treatment infrastructure and billion management Fund) technologies KB Kookmin Clear Sky Forest created by the donation challenge program for new accounts of “KB Clear Sky Savings” 38 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Green Investment Because KB Financial Group focuses on environmental factors in determining its investments, we actively explore investment opportunities and continuously invest our green investments in private environmental projects, renewable energy, and green ships and automobiles. KB Kookmin Bank actively performs its role in providing financial consulting and arranging syndicated loans for various renewable energy projects involving solar power, wind power, and fuel cell. One outstanding project in case is the Solaseado Solar Power Generation and ESS (Energy Storage System) project in Haenam. The project involves the construction of the country's largest 98 MWh solar power plant and a 306 MWh ESS in Haenam. The total amount of the syndicated loan that involves the consultation and arrangement on the part of KB Kookmin Bank is KRW 326 billion. The bank is executing its senior syndicated loan designed to fund the project and is making investment through FI shares and junior loans based on KB Renewable Energy Fund 1. Green Investments (As of the end of 2019) Classification Major products Description Amount Renewable KB Muan Sunlight Power Plant Private Fundraising for constructing a sunlight power KRW 91.0 energy Special Asset Investment Trust plant in Muan billion KB Spain Solar Power Energy Private Fundraising for constructing a solar power KRW 89.8 Special Asset Investment Trust plant in Spain billion Hanwha Energy Green Bond (RP) Guarantee for issuing the foreign currency KRW 87.9 bond (Green Bond) aimed at raising funds for billion green projects Sustainable KB Korean Peninsular BTL Private Fundraising for investments in efficient water KRW 215.0 water resource Special Asset Investment Trust 1 resource projects billion and follow-up KB Homeland Love BTL Private Special Fundraising for investments in efficient water KRW 207.2 management Asset Investment Trust 1 resource projects billion Solar power generation facilities in Solaseado 39 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Green Loans KB Financial Group is increasing the funding necessary for the growth of green projects and green industry in step with the country's low-carbon green growth policy. We will increase our green financial support by developing and releasing a variety of green loans such as KB Green Growth Loan that provides preferential interest rates for green businesses and donates part of the proceeds to green growth-related associations. In particular, KB Financial Group is striving to provide funds for renewable energy projects in order to support the implementation of the South Korean government's target of expanding renewable energy. KB Kookmin Bank provides KB Solar Power Business Operator Loan to its customers who operate solar power business. This is a product that provides loans with preferential credit lines for solar power generators, who are supposed to repay with electricity sales (SMP) and the money collected from the sale of Renewable Energy Certificates (REC). As of the end of December 2019, KRW 95.9 billion was executed in loans. Green Loans (As of the end of 2019) Classification Major products Description Amount Renewable KB Solar Power Business Loans to solar power business operators and redemption KRW 95.9 energy Operator Loan made through sales of electricity and supply certificates billion Green building Green Remodeling Support loan interest when remodeling facilities for KRW 22.9 Agreement Loan energy efficiency improvement billion Energy Energy Use Rationalization Loans to energy use rationalization projects by borrowing KRW 319.7 efficiency Fund funds from the Korea Energy Agency billion Prevention of Environment Business Loans to pollution prevention facility projects by KRW 47.0 environmental Cultivation Fund/Environment borrowing funds from the Korea Environmental Industry billion pollution Improvement Fund and Technology Institute Others KB Green Growth Loan Financial supports for preserving environment and KRW 868.9 growing green businesses billion Green loans (Solar power plant facilities) 40 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix In-focus The Issuance of Sustainability Bonds In order to expand support for green and social projects, KB Financial Group developed and provided various sustainability bonds by establishing the sustainable finance management system. KB Kookmin Bank's sustainable finance management system not only complies with the Sustainability Bond Guideline developed by International Capital Market Association (ICMA), but has also obtained the qualification report from Sustainalytics, a world-renowned ESG finance consulting agency. KB Kookmin Bank first issued sustainability bonds of USD 300 million in October 2018 for the first time among local banks. The bank also became the first Asian bank that issued subordinated bonds worth USD 450 million in January 2019 and the first Korean bank that issued hybrid bonds worth USD 500 million in June 2019. These remarkable achievements drew great attention from the global SRI community. The senior sustainability bond worth USD 500 million, which was issued in April 2020 as Korea's first global public offering bond against the COVID-19, also gained big attention from overseas investors including ESG investors. KB Kookmin Bank solidified its position as green and socially responsible bank by continuously issuing sustainability bond including KRW-based senior and subordinated bonds. KB Capital launched Green Bond in November 2019. This fund will be used for auto financing of eco-friendly vehicles produced by global auto makers. Sustainable Bonds Issued by KB Kookmin Bank Classification Date of issuance Maturity Amount Remark Hybrid bond 2019.6.25 Perpetual bond USD 500 million First hybrid bond among local banks Senior sustainable 2018.10.16 3 years USD 300 million First senior bond among local banks bond 2019.9.18 1 year KRW 200 billion 2019.9.20 1 year 3 months KRW 200 billion 2020.4.6 1 year KRW 400 billion Social bond against COVID-19 2020.4.23 5 years USD 500 million Korea’s first global bond against COVID-19 Subordinated 2019.1.28 10 years USD 450 million First subordinated bond among local banks sustainable bond 2020.5.28 10 years KRW 450 billion Sustainable Bonds Issued by KB Capital Classification Date of issuance Maturity Amount Remark Senior green bond 2019.11.22 3 years KRW 70 billion Financial service for green vehicles 2019.11.22 5 years KRW 30 billion Financial service for green vehicles 41 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Leading the Way in Green Finance Ecosystems Partnerships with Global Environmental Initiatives KB Financial Group is an active participant in the environmental initiatives of the financial industry including becoming a signatory of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Responsible Banking and Collective Commitment to Climate Action as well as to responding to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We will strengthen our environmental leadership by proactively participating in the global initiatives in environmental and social areas and conducting the research and support activities aimed at providing the financial industry with insights and solutions to deal with environmental issues. Participating in the Global Initiatives to Respond to Environmental Risk KB Financial Group is participating in global environmental initiatives including TCFD, which recommends the corporate financial data disclosure related to climate change, and is striving to preemptively comply with the environmental standards as demanded by those initiatives. We joined TCFD as a Supporter in October 2018, and this year, we have presented in our sustainability report our efforts in response to climate change based on the TCFD recommendations. Looking forward to future climate change risks, KB Financial Group will also increase its investment in green products, strive to reduce GHG emissions generated during business operations by setting mid-to-long term carbon emission targets, and increase its participation in global initiatives such as Equator Principles and the Principles for Responsible Investment of UNEP FI. Councils for UNEP FI Working Group KB Financial Group joined the Principles for Responsible Banking of UNEP FI as a signatory in September 2019. We decided to participate in the Working Group for the Principles for Responsible Banking of UNEP FI and Collective Commitment to Climate Action to internalize the principles and the commitment and study methodologies to reduce the environmental impact by financial institutions. To carry out tasks and achieve targets mandated by the initiatives, we have been operating internal councils since May 2020. We cooperate with major global financial companies to establish the global guidelines for managing the environmental risk in the financial industry. Goals and Tasks of the Internal Council Classification Goals Tasks Principles for Analysis of impacts from product and investment ∙ D  efine and collect data for impact analysis Responsible activities on environmental and social sectors and ∙ Identify  positive and negative environmental Banking advancement of the UNEP FI Tool and social impacts by using impact (PRB) identification tool Collective Setup of goals by industry sector through ∙ Draw  up best practices of global financial Commitment to benchmarking of climate-related data and institutions and analysis of climate-related Climate Action advanced methodologies of global financial risks (CCCA) institutions 42 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix In-focus Strengthening ESG Capabilities by Participating in Global Initiatives As the financial industry are faced with increasing environmental and social risks related to climate change, privacy, etc, it is becoming ever more important to identify ESG issues and take preemptive countermeasures. KB Financial Group participates in various initiatives designed to ensure the responsible implementation of ESG and our ESG performances are assessed by external agencies. Global Initiative Milestone Aug. 2018 Oct. 2018 Nov. 2018 Sep. 2019 ∙ Became the PRB signatory ∙ Joined the CCCA ∙ Participated in the EU Joined the Joined the CDP Became the TCFD Became the PRB Taxonomy Working Group UNEP FI endorser endorser Joined the WEPs ESG Assessment and Initiative Activities Classification ESG Assessment and Initiative Major performances ESG DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability ∙ Included in DJSI World for the fourth consecutive year assessment Indices) CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) ∙ Leadership A∙ Selected as the Honors in the finance sector for three consecutive years Bloomberg GEI (Bloomberg ∙ The first Korean company included in the GEI for two Gender-Equality Index) consecutive years KCGS (Korea Corporate ∙ Selected as the best financial company in governance for two Governance Service) consecutive years (2018~2019) ∙ Integrated ESG rating: A+ (governance: A+, environment: A+, society: A) ESG initiative TCFD (Task Force on Climate∙ Analysis of climate-related impacts by industry activities related Financial Disclosures) ∙ Disclosure of the TCFD implementation (2020) UNEP FI (United Nations ∙ Became the PRB signatory Environment Programme ∙ Operate internal councils to support implementing tasks for the Finance Initiative) initiatives Participation in the PRB and CCCA Working Group EU Taxonomy Working Group ∙ Participating in developing the guidelines for EU Taxonomy WEPs (Women's Empowerment ∙ First to join WEPs among Korean financial companies Principles) 43 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report FO R SO CIE T Y Internalizing Responsible Management for Society The stakeholder structure surrounding financial industry has become increasingly complex, and their requirements are also becoming more diversified. KB Financial Group creates social value by preemptively identifying and satisfying stakeholders’ expectations. Expanding Social Expanding Contribution Financial Inclusion KEY STRATEGIES Promoting Shared Growth Respecting Human and Mutual Prosperity Rights and Diversity MAJOR PERFORMANCES KRW 200 billion No.1 KRW 6.3 trillion Ranked 1st in the Total amount of Investment in social NCSI banking sector financial inclusion contribution 13 times (loans & deposits) ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Expanding Social Contribution Approach to Social Contribution Under our mission of “Financial Service Delivering Changes,” KB Financial Group promotes social contribution policies in two directions of fostering future generations and creating social value. Particularly, we endeavor to provide children and youth with equal opportunities for learning and experience to help them realize their dreams and provide diverse supports for job creation, local communities, and environment. Social Contribution Focus Areas of KB Financial Group Basic direction Fostering future generations Creating greater social value Focus areas Support growth of children and youth Jobs for youth Community investment Environment Major projects ∙A ll Day Care for Children Project ∙ J ob Fair ∙ Alleviating the impact of the ∙ Environment ∙ Youth Education Program ∙ J ob Academy COVID-19 preservation ∙ Financial education ∙ Supporting consultation to small activities ∙S upport for multicultural families business owners* ∙ Global CSR activities UN SDGs * Details on consulting for small businesses are reported on page 51~52. Fostering Future Generations All Day Care for Children Support for elementary We strive to build a more sustainable society by fostering our future generation. Since its foundation in after-school care 2008, KB Financial Group has been making efforts to help children and youth grow as healthy members (As of end of 2019, cumulative) of our society. One of key projects of fostering future generations is All Day Care for Children Project 689 classrooms addressing lack of after-school child care classrooms in elementary schools and kindergartens. As part of the project, we signed a partnership agreement worth KRW 75 billion with the Ministry of Education in 2018 and have been supporting building and expanding after-school care classrooms in elementary Support for kindergarten care schools and state or public kindergartens nationwide to create safe and quality all-day care environment (As of end of 2019, cumulative) for children. As of the end of 2019, a total of 976 classrooms in 639 schools were created with the 287 classrooms support of KB Financial Group. We plan on expanding this project to approximately 2,500 classrooms by 2022, which will bring benefits to over 50,000 children. All Day Care for Children Project 45 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Youth Education Programs Beneficiaries of KB Financial Group supports the independence and self-improvement of youths with wide-ranging 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 educational programs designed to encourage the growth of future generations. 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 is (As of end of 2019) one of its flagship CSR programs that KB Kookmin Bank has been running since 2007. It supports youths 18,220 to help them boost confidence in studies and fulfill their dreams. It offers one-on-two Mentoring for youths from low-income or multicultural families who have had little access to educational opportunities, Study Mentoring that provides English lessons and scholarships, Career Mentoring that helps students with career decisions, and Digital Mentoring designed to foster creative talents. In 2019 alone, 18,220 students benefited from these mentoring programs. KB Securities and KB Insurance help children and youths from low-income families to focus on studies by improving their study rooms at home through Decent Home Project. KB Kookmin Card provides arts and sports education program to children with disabilities to help them stand on their feet. Support for Multicultural Families Participants in KB Rainbow To help members of multicultural families adjust to life in Korea, KB Financial Group helps them with Love Camp their Korean language learning and supports wide-ranging occupational training so that they can obtain (As of end of 2019, 5-year cumulative) job-related certificates and thereby become financially independent. KB Rainbow Love Camp and Class on Understanding Multicultural Community are KB's specialized programs bringing together children from 702 multicultural families and Korean families designed to promote their mutual understanding. In addition, we support and help young people defected from North Korea to settle in and become healthy members of society by providing school facilities and classes focused on building positive sense of identity. 1 2 1. Study Mentoring of 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 2. Digital mentoring of 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 3. KB Rainbow Love Camp 3 46 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Social Contribution Programs for Multicultural Community Program Details Subsidiary KB Rainbow Love Camp Theme-based experience program to help multicultural and lowGroup income children grow into healthy members of society 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 Class on Cultivation of global talents by providing youth with education on KB Kookmin Understanding Multicultural Community global cultures Bank Hopeful Voice Sharing Employees’ participation in recording children's books to facilitate KB Securities learning for multicultural children Saturday Hope School Psychological support program for immigrated youths from KB Insurance multicultural families KB Kookmin Card Yellow Mentoring Korean language program for children from multicultural families and KB Kookmin Korean Language Class North Korean defectors to help them settle in Card Support for multicultural families in Support for school uniform expenses for low-income and multicultural KB Savings Songpa middle and high school students Bank Supporting Future Generations through Financial Education Beneficiaries of financial Since 2012, KB Financial Group has been providing financial education for the financially vulnerable with the education goal of cultivating prudent financial habits, establishing itself as the flagship CSR project of the group. We (As of end of 2019, cumulative) continue to develop and provide various innovative programs in line with new trends in education presenting 1.45million a role model for financial education. We have various programs such as lectures by our financial education facilitators and holding financial education camps meeting needs of various beneficiaries. In 2019, we opened Liiv School, a learning and experience center dedicated to financial education, in Suncheon, Jeollanam-do. We also work with college students creating educational contents for SNS suiting the needs of young generations. The number of beneficiaries from our financial education reached over 261,000 in 2019 and 1.45 million on a cumulative basis. In-focus Creating Financial Education Contents for the Financially Vulnerable KB Financial Group creates diverse contents following the latest trends and shares them through our YouTube channel, so that the financially vulnerable could learn finance in an easy and fun manner. In November 2019, KB Kookmin Card produced content called Let's Learn Preventing Financial Frauds with Pengsoo and shared it through the official YouTube channel of KB Kookmin Card. KB Kookmin Card also collaborated with popular YouTube creators creating easy and fun financial educational contents about power of credit, prudent use of credit card and preventing financial frauds. In 2019, ten YouTube contents were created on such topics and were collectively viewed 250,000 times on YouTube as of June 2020. KB Kookmin Card plans to actively use YouTube channel to deliver financial education. 47 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Creating Greater Social Value Creating Jobs KB GoodJob Fair results The KB GoodJob program has contributed to creating quality jobs for over 10 years. Since 2011, KB Financial (As of end of 2019, cumulative) Group has provided wide-ranging job information through the KB GoodJob website as well as job consulting Hiring subsidies provided to to young job seekers. As of the end of 2019, more than 60,000 job information were offered through the 1,747 KB GoodJob website. In addition, the KB GoodJob Fair bringing job seekers and competent SMEs together is held every year as a venue for sharing job information and opportunities. A total of 317,100 persons visited companies the sixteen sessions of KB GoodJob Fair where 11,656 job seekers landed a job, making it South Korea's biggest job fair hosted by a private company. In particular, we provide subsidies to companies that hire job Employed through the job fair seekers during the fair period and retain them for a certain period with the purpose of encouraging hiring and ensuring job security. We also operate KB GoodJob Academy, an employment support program linked 11,656 with the job fair, and KB GodJob School, a six-month job training and job matching program for students of persons specialized high schools and meister high schools. 1 2 1. KB GoodJob Fair 2. KB GoodJob School Global CSR Activities Volunteer corps of Equipped with its 61 network channels in 13 countries, KB Financial Group engages in sharing to promote RaonAtti growth with the global community. RaonAtti is a volunteer group that delivers service as needed in the local (As of end of 2019, cumulative) communities of underdeveloped international countries. 547 college students were dispatched to Cambodia, 547participants Laos, and Myanmar from 2008 to 2019, spreading the value of sharing to global communities through cultural exchange and youth competence-boosting activities among others. KB Kookmin Bank provides free medical services for migrant workers who live in Korea and has been inviting Cambodian children with heart disease providing full support for surgery. The bank also operate a Korean Language institute in Yangon, Myanmar, to educate Korean language and cultivate local talents. Meanwhile, KB Securities is running the Rainbow Classroom project to create a learning environment for youths in underdeveloped countries. Through Lighting Children, a green energy sharing campaign, KB Insurance's employee voulnteers made and donated solar powered lanterns to countries suffering from energy poverty to improve the living environment for local children. More efforts for win-win growth with global communities involve KB Daehan Specialized Bank, an overseas branch of KB Kookmin Card in Cambodia, which signed a partnership agreement with a local social company called SmartCraft to use the upcycling products made by social enterprises as promotional goods for customers worth 10 thousand dollars. 48 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Alleviating the Impact of the COVID-19 In the first half of 2020, we have provided a wide range of supports for minimizing the damage on customers and local communities from COVID-19. First of all, we provided financial support, such as urgent working capital for small business owners who were suffering from a sharp decrease in sales and the deferment of insurance premium and credit card billing. We have provided various supports taking advantage of our Liiv M service, a budget phone plan combining mobile banking services, inlcuding reducing phone bills for customers in Daegu and Gyeongbuk region heavily affected by COVID-19, supporting students taking online classes by reducing phone bills and providing unlimited data USIM chips to quarantined Koreans evacuated from Wuhan. Supports for Recovery from the Impact of the COVID-19 Target Activities Customer ∙ Special rate for new loans and loan extension, deferment of premiums and credit card bills (individual, ∙ Reduce phone bills and provide unlimited data USIM chips through Liiv M service corporate) ∙ Rent reduction for stores located in buildings owned by KB across the nation Local ∙ Support for regions heavily affected by COVID-19 including Daegu and Gyeongbuk (daily necessities, community medicines, exemption of ATM fee, rent reduction, etc.) ∙ Provision of masks and hand sanitizers to local childcare centers and senior welfare centers ∙ Join Good Consumption Campaign, support small shops in neighborhood ∙ Campaigns for helping flower farms and cheering healthcare workers ∙ Cheering for quarantine officials ∙ Providing smart phone devices to low-income students for online class Employee ∙ Provision of the Onnuri Gift Certificate for the revitalization of local economies 1 2 1. Participation in the Good Consumption Campaign 2. Campaigns for helping flower farms and cheering healthcare workers (KB Securities) 3. Campaign for cheering quarantine officials (KB Insurance) 4. Supporting emergency relief supplies against COVID-19 3 4 (KB Kookmin Card) 49 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Creating Social Values by Tapping into Digital Finance In October 2019, KB Financial Group launched the ‘Liiv M,’ a budget phone plan combining mobile banking services using MVNO (Mobile VIrtual Network Operator) for the first time among financial institutions. Liiv M is expected to strengthening KB's digital banking capabilities and create added value through combination of banking and telecommunication services. Liiv M makes banking services even more convenient and its low-cost plan lets the financially vulnerable and disadvantaged social groups to have better access to banking and telecommunication services. We also supported unlimited data USIM chips for quarantined Korean people who evacuated from Wuhan and discount of cell phone bills for studnets taking online class. KB Financial Group will continue to create social value by utilizing our digital competence. 1 2 1. ‘Liiv M’ launching event 2. Subscribe page of ‘Liiv M’ Environmental Preservation KB Kookmin Bank runs wide-ranging green projects to preemptively respond to the environmental impacts on our society. To resolve air pollution problems, we created KB Kookmin Clear Sky Forest where yellow dust and find dust mostly originate from and are providing air purifiers to local children's centers to protect children who are vulnerable to fine dust. Also, we make educational books and conduct environmental education to raise youth awareness on importance of environmental preservation. We are taking a leading role in fulfilling corporate social responsibility and promote sustainability through our green projects. ‘KB Kookmin Clear Sky Forest’ in Mongolia 50 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Promoting Shared Growth and Mutual Prosperity Supporting Small Business Owners Financing for Innovation Innovative company KB Financial Group pursues shared growth and co-prosperity with startups, ventures, and SMEs by financing support fund innovation. “KB Council on Financing for Innovation,” which consists of 13 members including the CEO of (As of end of 2019, cumulative) the group and CEOs and executives of subsidiaries who are in charge of supporting innovative companies, KRW 820 billion serves as the group's control tower for financing innovation. The four major agendas of the Council are: enhancing credit support for innovative companies, increasing investments in innovative growth, supporting business entrepreneurship and job creation, and cultivating startups and innovating financial platforms. More specifically, we raised KRW 820 billion to support innovative enterprises (KB Securities' innovative enterprise fund worth KRW 391.6 billion, KB Investment’s venture fund worth KRW 387.3 billion, and the group’s social investment fund worth KRW 40 billion). KB Financial Group plans to support KRW 62.6 trillion in loans and invest KRW 3.6 trillion, the largest in the finance industry, in innovative enterprises by 2023, encouraging startups, ventures, and SMEs to develop growth engines and corporate competitiveness. Four Agendas for Financing for Innovation Classification Details ① Enhance loan support for innovative companies Technology financing, IP-secured loan, new products for innovative companies, etc. ② Expand investments in innovative growth Raising and investing venture funds, investments in innovative companies, social investment fund, etc. ③ Support for startup and job creation KB SOHO Consulting Center, KB GoodJob ④ Cultivation of startups and innovation of KB Innovation HUB Center, FUTURE9, establishment of policy fund finance-related platforms platforms, etc. In-focus “KB bridge,” a Policy Fund Platform Supporting the Self-Employed KB Financial Group is focusing on nurturing startups and innovating finance-linked platforms as one of its four agenda for financing innovation. As part of the project, KB Kookmin Bank launched the KB bridge app, a non-contact personalized platform for recommending policy funding services, in July 2019. The app matches needs of self-employed people to appropriate policy funds using machine learning technology and is available not only for the customers of KB Kookmin Bank but also any self-employed people. KB bridge is expected to make our SOHO consulting services available for more self-employed. 51 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Business Consulting for SMEs Consulting provided KB Financial Group provides diverse programs and services to contribute to boosting the business through the SOHO competitiveness of small businesses and self-employed people. KB Kookmin Bank opened KB SOHO Consulting Center of KB Kookmin Bank Consulting Center in September 2016 for the first time in the domestic banking industry and has provided (As of end of 2019) free-of-charge management consulting services for enhancing the competitiveness of self-employed persons and would-be entrepreneurs. We operate KB SOHO Consulting Center in 12 places across the nation 1,674 cases including KB SOHO Consulting Hub located in the head office in Yeouido, through which 1,674 consulting were provided in 2019 about how to start a business, analysis of trade area, financial and management advice as well as introducing relevant organziations. Moreover, we operate KB SOHO Mentoring School, a hands-on program designed to make the self-employed more competitive. This program is connected with KB SOHO Consulting Center to help trainees address difficulties even after the termination of the program. 1 2 1, 2. KB SOHO Consulting HUB 3, 4. KB SOHO Mentoring School 3 4 52 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Nurturing Startups and Social Enterprise Investment in promising KB Innovation HUB looks for tech startups with potential for innovation and desginate them as KB Starters startups by KB Innovation providing joint partnership and investment opportunities with our subsidiaries. To this end, we have established HUB Center a full chain of program nurturing startups from recruiting, partnership to investment, etc. We also have HUB (As of end of 2019, cumulative) Partners which help recruiting promising startups and provide professional consulting to them. As of the end KRW 32.6 billion of 2019, 76 startups were designated as KB Starters and a total of KRW 32.6 billion including the CVC Fund was invested in 113 cases through partnership with our subsidiaries, demonstrating remarkable performance among local FinTech Labs. Moreover, KB Financial Group creates a social finance ecosystem where social enterprises can be nurtured and stand on their own feet through “KB Social Investment Fund.” This fund aims to attract KRW 100 billion for five years, and, as of the end of 2019, KRW 40 billion was raised. KB Investment is also supporting innovative social ventures by raising “KB Social Impact Fund” worth KRW 15 billion. . Supports for Startups Classification Activities Subsidiary Nurturing social ∙ Nurturing social innovation startup professionals through KB Financial Campus S.I.N.G. (Social KB Kookmin innovation-centric Innovation startup New Guru) project Bank startups ∙ Providing one-on-one mentoring service considering business features of 15 startups Open innovation ∙ Selecting 10 startups with innovative technologies, services, and products in nine lifestyle areas KB Kookmin programs for innovation and collaborating with them for commercialization through FUTURE9 program Card ∙ Investing in FUTURE9 startups and innovative companies through Lifestyle Fund Creating social ∙ Implementing strategic investments in ICT and FinTech companies with advanced technology KB Capital values through ∙ Bringing efficiency and internalizing work skills through strategic collaboration with startups strategic partnership Supporting FinTech ∙ Promoting win-win growth with technologically capable FinTech startups KB Savings starups and its ∙ Supporting the creation of diversified business opportunities by enabling collaboration with Bank business expansion other subsidiaries Supporting Suppliers for Shared Growth We have established ethics policies and action programs designed to ensure fair trade with suppliers. Under integrity pact, conflicts of interest should be disclosed in advance of contracts and provision on integrity pact is incorporated into contracts for greater transparency. We also make no discrimination based on the size of suppliers when calling for bids and evaluating them, while transparently disclosing contract conditions for fair trade. Classification Activities Stipulating partnership with ∙ Stipulation of partnership in written contracts suppliers in written contracts ∙ Utilization of the expression “Buyer/Supplier” instead of “The One/The Other” in written contracts Employees’ pledge on compliance ∙ Submission of the pledge on compliance every year Checklist for compliance with laws ∙ Self-check on the execution of integrity through the checklist for compliance with laws 53 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report SPECIAL 02 Efforts for Protecting Customer Rights and Interests Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection Cybersecurity Governance holding company, KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance We are committed to protecting customer information as the and KB Kookmin Card all have separate CIO and CISO to ensure the financial institutions are going digital increasingly. As such, we complete independence of information security function. are taking preemptive measures against cybersecurity concerns including cyber threats. One of our board directors with experience Privacy Protection in cybersecurity and IT oversees cybersecurity strategy process, In the event of customer information leakage, we strive to prevent and executive management is responsible for overseeing overall losses and damages from further worsening by taking prompt cybersecurity within the company. The Board receives reports on countermeasures following our manual on privacy breach response. cybersecurity strategy including cybersecurity management system In the event that any leakage of customer information is identified and privacy protection policy as well as results of quarterly inspection at department or branch level, it is promptly reported to Information on provision and use of customer information among subsidiaries. In Security Department, and it organizes a response team to take particular, the CEO receives report on monthly security inspection necessary measures such as dealing with the incident and reporting it results and countermeasures and addresses information security to the regulatory authorities. Anyone who breaches privacy policy is issues at the group level. Group Information Security Department subject to disciplinary actions. KB Kookmin Bank operates Integrated is focusing on strengthening cybersecurity capabilities of the group Personal Information Security Management System to prevent by conducting group-wide cybersecurity projects and inspection on leakage and misuse of customer information. subsidiaries' security status. Also, our major subsidiaries including In-focus Operating the Integrated Personal Information Security Management System KB Kookmin Bank's Integrated Personal Information Security Management System is GRC (Governance, Risk Management, Compliance) and big data technology-driven security system. It enables systematic management of overall regulatory and information security risks and close monitoring of abuse or misuse of personal information. In particular, use of big data technology enables easy monitoring on status of handling and managing personal information as well as adequacy of each staff's processing. It also enables management of vendors handling personal information including contract, training, inspection status, etc. It also has function of managing personal information protection in overseas offices and branches. Moreover, we are monitoring employees' compliance of information security policy to raise their awareness. We monitor customer data used for secondary purposes, and there was no penalties or disciplinary actions taken as of 2019. We measure security breaches and IT infrastructure incidents and no fines or penalties were paid in 2019. 54 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Performances in Customer Satisfaction Ranked 1st in NCSI banking sector 13 times Ranked 1st in KS-SQI and KCSI debit card sector for five consecutive years Grand Prize in customer satisfaction sector of National Industry Awards Strengthening Customer Services Protection of the Rights and Interests of Consumers Customer Satisfaction To protect the rights of customers and offer better services, KB Financial Group upholds customer-centered management as KB Financial Group has relevant policies in place and run our utmost value and pay close attention to customer feedback communication channels with customers and related programs. through programs like VOC (Voice of Customer). KB Kookmin Our Code of Conduct stipulates that we should provide customers Bank collected 21,552 compliments and 6,494 suggestions with the best products and services and protect their rights and for improvement through the customer satisfaction survey at interests based on the fair-trade principle. KB Kookmin Bank, KB branches. The bank encourages continuous improvement in Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, KB Capital, and KB Life Insurance processes by providing customer feedbacks to branches on a disclose the rights of customers including consumer protection weekly basis through Customer Experience Management System. system, KB Consumer Protection Charter, KB Consumer Protection Furthermore, we implement Consumer Protection System Management Policy, pledge on ethical sales practice, and product Improvement that upgrades systems and processes by analyzing development guidelines through “Consumer Information Portal” consumer input or complaints about financial products and on their websites. Moreover, KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card, services. In 2019, we made 34 improvements to our systems. KB Insurance, KB Life Insurance, and KB Savings Bank operate Through these efforts, the 2019 customer satisfaction with our “Financial Consumer Protection Council” to manage diverse branches scored 95.62 points and our bank was the first bank consumer protection issues and prevent complaint. The Council to finish on top thirteen times in National Customer Satisfaction is also in charge of setting out direction for consumer protection Index (NCSI). KB Insurance strives to keep customer service at the policies and improving relevant systems and procedures. highest level by taking real-time customer satisfaction surveys of those customers who have experienced services related to accident scene response, claim for long-term insurance and auto Raising Employee Awareness of Consumer Protection insurance, call center, and customer center and reflecting them KB Financial Group engages in diverse activities to help employees in improving business processes and activities. KB Savings Bank raise awareness of the importance of consumer protection and conducts satisfaction surveys of those customers who have talked internalize it. For example, our employees make pledge on the to the call center to gauge their satisfaction levels and reflect financial consumer protection charter on the first business day them improving operation processes. of every year. We also designate the “Financial Consumers’ Day” to discuss and share consumer protection issues and train all employees about financial consumer protection. 55 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Human Rights Policy and Assessment Declaration of Human Rights KB Financial Group supports universal value of human rights embedded in “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights” and “UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.” In 2016, we developed and declared KB Financial Group Statement on Human Rights. Following our statement on Human Rights, we respect diversity of our employees throughout our human resources management process and comply with the labor standards recommended by the International Labor Organization(ILO) and ratified by the Korean Government. Moreover, we are prohibiting any discrimination against gender, age, race, disability, religion, political orientation and place of origin, and protect customer's privacy by collecting minimum personal information. We also consider human rights aspect in all decision-making process related to financial products and services. KB Financial Group Statement on Human Rights are applied to all stakeholders that KB can exert its influence on and all our subsidiaries comply with the statement. Human Rights Assessment KB Financial Group conducts a Group-wide assessment of human rights issues in order to identify potential human rights issues and take remediation actions. We conducted a human rights impact assessment with our entire operations, contractors and suppliers. Six potential human rights issues related to KB Financial Group were identified among 20 issues and topics from National Human Rights Commission of Korea's Guidelines for Human Rights Management. By conducting a human rights survey and interview with our stakeholders and internal analysis, we sorted out 7 actual human rights issues and risks and vulnerable groups. We came up with and implemented measures and tasks to mitigate the identified issues and risks with relevant departments. We will annually review identified human rights issues and concerns to develop and implement necessary mitigation measures. Human Rights Assessment Results Stakeholder Potential issues Main issues identified (vulnerable groups) Number of sites with mitigation plans Employees Prohibition of Support for training and development ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 4 discrimination in (career-interrupted female employees) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 4 (100%) employment Prohibition of forced labor Prevention of mandatory overtime work ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 4 (employees) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 4 (100%) Occupational safety Physical and mental health management ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 2 (employees) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 2 (100%) Suppliers Responsible supply chain Workplace stress management (emotional ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 4 management workers) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 4 (100%) Local Guarantee of Prevention of environmental risks around ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 1 communities environmental rights workplaces (local community) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 1 (100%) Customers Consumer rights Strengthening of customer privacy (financial ∙N  o. of sites with main issue identified: 1 protection consumer) ∙N  o. and % of sites with remediation plan implemented : 1 (100%) Ensuring financial accessibility (financially vulnerable customers) 56 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Human Rights Assessment Process Identification Assessment & Remediation Reporting Planning a human rights Implementing the Reporting human rights assessment assessment assessment results ∙ Selecting the targets ∙ Stakeholder survey (employees, ∙R  eporting human rights ∙ Setting the pool for the potential suppliers) assessment process issues* ∙ Identifying main issues of concerns ∙ Reporting the assessment results ∙ Reporting the results of Identifying the potential Implementing remediation remediation actions taken issues actions ∙ Evaluating impacts on KB ∙ Understanding causes by issue ∙ Identifying main issues and (interdepartmental collaboration) vulnerable groups that have ∙ Implementing remediation and great impact on human mitigation actions for sites and rights issues identified * Taking into account employees, children, local communities(indigenous people), migrant labor, third-party contracted labor, and female workers when forming a pool of the potential issues Remediation actions taken Details of remediations taken 1. Support for competence improvement of ∙ Invitation of employees who are on childcare leave to the Healing Academy and publication of a newsletter career-interrupted female employees once a month 2. Develop measures to improve women's rights ∙ J oined the WEPs (September 2019) 1. Setup of process for compliance with legal labor hours ∙ O  peration of the PC On/Off system, flexible working hour system (flex-time work) 2. P  resentation of guidelines for working culture innovation ∙ G  uidelines that all employees should follow (prevention of unnecessary stay in office and overtime work) 1. Employee healthcare programs and intensive care of ∙O  nline consultation and mental education (KB Hearim) health problems ∙O  peration of a healing program under eco-friendly environment (KB Healing Camp) 2. Mental healthcare of employees ∙P  sychological counseling and mental healthcare 1. Operation of the emotional worker protection ∙E  nhancement of response procedure to customers with behavior problems (privacy invasion and threats) systems ∙P  rograms provide psychological counseling to emotional labor ∙O  peration of the complaints handling council twice a month (sharing of complaints and countermeasures) ∙C  hange service representative upon employee request 1. Stricter environmental impact assessment in ∙S  tipulation of duties on compliance with environmental laws, regulations, and permission on project financing credit agreement when conducting project financing 1. Inspection of IT security and compliance with ∙ Inspection of IT security by external professionals once a year information protection ∙ Improvement of insufficiencies in IT security and information protection compliance 1. Expansion of ATMs for the disabled ∙O  peration of ATMs for the disabled (1,028 branches) 2. Operate branches exclusive for expat customers ∙O  peration of 8 branches and recruitment of native speakers to ensure the accessibility of migrant workers 3. Financial education for youth ∙O  ne-company & One-school financial education for cultivating future generations 57 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Enhancement of Safety & Health Support for Employees' Healthcare We provide medical check-up to all our employees every year as well as spouses at age 35 and above. We create a working environment ensuring staff's rest and wellness by having staff lounge and health clinic at the office. Furthermore, we have various programs promoting employees' physical and mental health such as psychological counseling, smoking cessation and blood sugar management program, sick leave and training, etc. Major activities Details Medical check-up Offering medical check-up services to all employees Mental health care program Identify work-related stress factors and provide psychological counseling service in partnership with counseling centers Physical health care program Smoking cessation, blood pressure, weight, blood sugar management programs and fitness centers Sick leave Allow sick leaves for illness Training on protecting customer service Training all employees about protecting customer service personnel personnel Group insurance Group insurance for employees Safe Working Environment We are taking various measures to protect our employees from natural disaster, safety accident, earthquake, fire, terrorist attack, and infectious diseases, etc. Our group implements Business Continuity Planning (BCP), regularly conducting mock drills and emergency evacuation. KB Kookmin Bank operates committees related to business site safety management and working-level councils. By performing BCP once a year, we evaluate and manage the risks involved in major business sites. We systematically manage the prioritized risk factors that may cause disasters to our human and financial resources by annually revising BCP based on the assessment results. As part of the internal monitoring program run by our safety experts, we work to create a safe working environment by performing quarterly security and fire safety inspections by department and making required improvements on drawbacks. In 2020, we are taking proactive response measures against COVID-19 such as organizing emergency response teams at all subsidiaries and regularly monitoring and reporting suspected cases. 58 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Creating a Healthy Workplace Culture Cooperative Labor-Management Relations KB Financial Group pursues a cooperative labor-management relationship and builds mutual trust through continuous communication. KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, KB Capital, KB Real Estate Trust, and KB Credit Information operate the labor-management council to handle health, safety, compensation, and labor condition issues. KB Kookmin Card actively works to increase negotiation efficiency and solve conflicts through the working-level labor-management joint workshop program. The company also launched a unique brand called “Labor-Management Harmony” to conduct academic trainings on labor and joint social contribution activities. In recognition of such efforts, KB Kookmin Card won the Presidential Prize and certification on excellent labor-management culture by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. KB Financial Holdings operates the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), in which all regular employees of subsidiaries excluding registered executives can participate. Currently, the ESOP has approximately 20,000 members from 12 susidiaries including KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance and KB Kookmin Card. Won the Presidential Prize at the Labor-Management Culture Awards (KB Kookmin Card) Employee Engagement We measure employee engagement level to create work environment promoting employee commitment and motivation using factors deemed highly correlated with employee engagement. At this year's survey, work-life balance, learning and innovation(competency development), employee welfare, organizational culture and overall satisfaction level were assessed using 7-point scale, and assessment results were then converted into 100 point scale. The assessment found that overall satisfaction level, work-life balance, and learning and innovation received highest scores from employees. KB Financial Group will continue to boost employee motivation and increase employee engagement by conducting employee engagement assessment annually and further expanding communication channels addressing grievances among others. 59 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employee Training and Development Programs Employee Training System KB Financial Group operates an employee training system focused on “spreading the value of One firm to lead self-driven changes,” “disseminating the KB learning culture for stronger engagement and self-esteem,” “enhancing training content based on the group’s HRD infrastructures,” and “cultivating core talents who will lead future finance.” The One firm Mind program based on KB’s value system is used for both general trainings (new recruits and inter-subsidiary employee exchange) of the group as well as training at subsidiary level. Our group also runs the CoP (Community of Professional) program to create a culture where employees who are interested in various fields including group synergy, future strategy, data analysis, global, brand, corporate culture, and talents cultivation can promote learning together. For online training, we established the W.I.T.H., a training system available through both PCs and mobile devices, integrating the group-based and subsidiaryspecific trainings. The “Coursera for KB,” an exclusive training platform for KB, was launched in collaboration with Coursera, the world’s largest MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) developer, contributing to expanding opportunities for employees’ competence development. For offline training, we built Daechi Training Center in addition to the existing Hapjeong Training Center opened in 2018 where anyone can join training programs, and do self as well as group study. Moreover, the One Day Class programs are provided at the training centers covering topics such as self-development, asset management, support for working mom, and family. Furthermore, KB Financial Group runs FMC, NMC, EMC, and FGC courses to sharpen the competence of leaders. In-focus Leadership Training Classification Details KB Financial Group ∙ FMC (Future Management Course) [Common courses] MBA lecture, business issue discussion, Biz insight lecture, etc. ∙ NMC (New Management Course) Leadership, special lecture by Group CEO, 4th Industrial Revolution, management strategy, media training, etc. ∙ EMC (Existing Management Course) Executive program in partnership wth universities ∙ FGC (Future Group CEO Course) Expert session in leadership and digital area, presentation KB Kookmin Bank ∙ L eadership courses for those who will be promoted and are promoted by each position KB Securities ∙ Training courses for newly appointed heads of departments and branches and those KB Insurance who are promoted by each position KB Kookmin Card ∙ Leadership training for heads of departments, branches, and teams and KB Kookmin Card Leadership Course (KLC) for each position 60 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Employee Job Competency Improvement Programs Employees who completed KB Financial Group is running digital literacy enhancement programs including special lectures on digitalization, the KB Ace Academy course coding, excel and digital video creation as well s digital training courses aimed at cultivating digital experts in the (As of end of 2019) fields of AI, block chain and data analysis. We also provide group-wide joint training programs in the fields of M&A, 3,592 corporate banking marketing, finance & accounting, HR, and capital market to help develop employee competence in core business areas. KB Kookmin Bank runs essential training courses by position and job certification systems (private banking, corporate banking, IB, international finance, trading, derivatives, and risk management) to foster basic job capabilities as bankers. In particular, the bank operates the KB ACE Academy aimed at cultivating talents in three fields of “enhancing fundamental competitiveness,” “innovating digital finance,” and “securing future growth engines and different levels of courses are provided. KB Securities runs training program on developing retail sales and job strategy capabilities. KB Insurance focuses on nurturing digital and data experts offering relevant programs including training for professional certificates and different levels of courses are provided. KB ACE Academy Courses Fundamental Competitiveness Digital Finance Future Growth Enhancement Innovation Engine Asset management, Digital finance, IB, capital market, corporate banking data analysis risk, global Cultivating Female Talents KB Financial Group operates various programs to develop female talents and cultivate their job expertise as well as leadership skills. KB Securities bolsters job expertise by providing a value-up course for female team managers at head office and requiring the female service team managers at branches to complete the Asset Management Academy. KB Insurance runs corporate college named Dream Campus designed to nurture female leaders and provides training programs aimed at upgrading female managers’ job skills such as long-term insurance and auto Listed on the Bloomberg GEI insurance specialist courses new manager course. KB Kookmin Bank, KB Insurance and KB Kookmin Card are for two consecutive years running Healing Academy for female employees on maternity leave to help them build relationships with other (2019~2020) colleagues, and KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities and KB Insurance regularly sends newsletters about company news to females employees on maternity leave to help them achieve work-life balance. We provide programs to develop exptetise in various fields such as nurturing corporate banking professionals for female employees in junior management position. Also, our talent development emphasizes employee's expertise and career development goals not discriminating them basd on gender. As of the end of 2019, at KB Kookmin Bank, women Became the first Korean financial company to join accounted for 34% of management positions, 48% of junior management positions, and 37% of management the WEPs positions in revenue-generating departments such as sales department. Also, women accounted for 12% of (2019) top management position. KB Financial Group was listed on the Bloomberg GEI for two consecutive years. In September 2019, we became the First Korean financial institution to join the WEPs. In the future, we will continue to take the lead in boosting female empowerment and spreading the culture of gender equality. 61 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employee Performance Evaluation KB Financial Group has various evaluation systems to improve employees' performance and bring greater efficiency into their competence development. When evaluating performance of individual employees, we adopt Management by Objectives to evaluate performance against target. As for competence evaluation, we have established a system evaluating core skills and competence required for each position through which we can understand which job skills are required to carry out a job in certain position and use them to manage employees' competence building. Also, we operate bottomup leadership evaluation where junior-level employees evaluates his/her managers' leadership and performance as well as peer evaluation where collaboration among colleauges is evaluation. Such multifaceted evaluation promotes fairness and objectivity of evaluaton. Classification Evaluation Personal evaluation Performance MBO (Management by Objectives) Competence Behavioral indicators by items for evaluating core business competence Bottom-up leadership Multifaceted evaluation for improving management competence and evaluation leadership Peer evaluation Multifaceted evaluation for improving collaboration and communication Lifetime Planning for Employees KB Financial Group has a systematic educational program that helps employees effectively design their post-retirement life. We run the Life Design program and Job Transfer School to our employees who are 50 or older. In 2019, we provided classroom training as well as online training, and extended the training to those in the 40s. We also provide the program for employees under wage peak system upon their request. KB Securities launched the job transfer consulting service to help those who applied for retirement at the end of 2018 get into their second career such as reemployment or business creation. Starting from 2020, the company provides the reemployment support services such as job introduction for workers 50 or older who are involuntarily leaving. KB Kookmin Card provides Kookmin Future Learning Credit Card for employees 45 or older, life design and career development program for employees entering wage peak system and soon-to-retire employees, and provision of one-on-one retirement consulting to support job transfer. KB Life Insurance provides employees over the age of 55 under wage peak system with programs to develop job capabilities, job information, and office space. 62 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Welfare for Employees Flexible Work Arrangements that Ensure Work-Life Balance Employees who used flexible KB Financial Group supports work-life balance for employees by providing various forms of working hours and working system allowing employees to choose the right one that suits their circumstances. KB Financial Holding, KB Securities, (As of end of 2019) KB Kookmin Card, KB Capital, KB Life Insurance, KB Real Estate Trust, and KB Data Systems implement flexible Flex-time work 859 work arrangements, including flex-time work, flexible working hour, substitue holiday and optional working hour. Substitute holiday Classification Details 97 Flex-time work Flexible working hour Employees can choose commuting time based on their jobs and childcare conditions. Departments that regularly need to work overtime due to nature of jobs can use flexible working Optional working hour hour system. 213 Substitute holiday Employees can use the substitute holiday system when they need to work on holidays. Optional working hour Employees can voluntarily decide working hours within one month. Telecommuting in Response to Emergency Situations Employees who used We had challenges in adopting telecommuting as network separation was mandatory for strict security required telecommuting for the industry. In early 2020, however, KB Financial Group allowed employees to work from home in response (As of June 2020) to the emergency crisis caused by COVID-19 and for the purpose of dispersing risks. To protect the health of its 5,375 employees, KB Kookmin Bank allows telecommuting to those vulnerable to COVID-19 such as pregnant women or patients with chronic illnesses. KB Kookmin Card provided personal laptops fullly equipped with network separation function and security solution to ensure protection of customer information when working from home. Work-Life Balance KB Financial Group has various programs that support childbirth and child rearing to ensure work-life balance. We provide 110 business days as maternity leave longer than the legally required 90 days. For employees who have children who are 9 years or younger or 3rd grade or below in elementary school, we allow two years of childcare leaves per child for male and female employee alike. An employee who becomes aware of her pregnancy may take maternity leave. Further care is provided for pregnant women or fetuses with shortened working time during one's pregnancy. We also have absence-of-leave programs for women such as infertility leave. We also have a program that supports childcare during early days in elementary school. Those employees whose children just entered elementary school may apply for work start at 10 a.m. for a month, so that they can give more attention to their school starting children. KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin Card provide education expenses for preschoolers, subsidies for children with disabilities, and tuition fees. They have also expanded the coverage of medical costs in order to encourage the birth of multiple children and support employees with infertility issues. KB Kookmin Bank, KB Insurance, and KB Kookmin Card operate on-site childcare centers so that employees can foucs on their work without worrying about child care. 63 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Expanding Financial Inclusion Providing Financial Products & Services Supporting Financially Vulnerable Social Groups KB Financial Group is providing financial support to ensure a better financial life to small businesses and the financially vulnerable. KB Kookmin Bank provides small loans without collateral or guarantee for the financially vulnerable through KB Miso Financial Foundation. KB Insurance provides financial products that help minimize impacts from natural disasters on small businesses and socially vulnerable groups. KB Capital is providing financial support for small businesses when they plan on acquiring facilities for their business operations. Financial Supports by Subsidiary Subsidiary Supports Details KB Kookmin Operation of KB Miso Providing small loans without collateral or guarantee to the financially Bank Microfinance Foundation vulnerable who are underserved by formal financial institutions due to low income or credit KB Insurance for small business Providing the Natural Disaster Group Accident Insurance (for safety of Insurance owners and vulnerable class local people) and storm and flood insurance (for small business owners) KB Capital Support for small businesses Offering financial support to small business clients for facility expansion Providing Access to Financial Services for Low Income Social Groups We strive to fulfill our social responsibility as a financial institution by providing inclusive financial products needed for the vulnerable social groups. The bank offers loans and deposits for the financially marginalized including low-income workers, people with disabilities, victims of natural disasters, single-parent families, and multicultural families. Furthermore, the bank refers its customers whose loan application is rejected to other subsidiaries with loan services so that they would not have to turn to private lending with high interest rates. Major Financial Products for the Vulnerable Groups (￦100m) 62,772 59,165 52,991 20,391 17,688 14,383 38,608 41,477 42,381 Loans Deposits 2017 2018 2019 64 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Inclusive Finance Loans (￦100m) (As of December 31, 2019) Product 2017 2018 2019 KB Miso Microfinance 1,394 1,560 1,700 KB New Hope Spore II 9,620 11,082 11,740 KB Happy Dream Loan II 4 5 9 KB Change Dream Loan 399 425 400 KB College Student and Youth Sunshine Loan 361 399 289 KB Stepping Stone Loan 2 5 KB Vita Loan 877 2,755 Assistance for People with Disabilities Loan 101 85 73 KB Sunshine Loan 1,586 2,079 2,101 KB Sunshine Loan 17 441 KB “Sah-it-dol” Middle Interest Rate Loan 796 889 659 KB “Sah-it-dol II” Loan 120 258 175 KB Safety Loan 29 44 Total 14,383 17,688 20,391 Inclusive Finance Deposits (￦100m) (As of December 31, 2019) Product 2017 2018 2019 KB National Pension Assurance Bank Account 225 295 396 KB Kookmin Hope Keeper Bank Account 60 70 79 KB Teachers Pension Lifetime Assurance Bank Account 15 17 22 KB Kookmin Happiness Installment Savings Plan 783 787 1,281 KB Love Sharing Installment Savings Plan 1,999 388 133 KB Patriotic War Veterans Keeper Assurance Bank Account 16 24 32 KB Kookmin Government Employee Pension Lifetime 16 25 38 Assurance Bank Account KB Junior Life Installment Savings Plan 6,807 6,367 2,673 KB Miso Dream Installment Savings Plan 13 9 4 KB Kookmin Property Formation Savings 26,750 31,236 35,033 KB Kookmin Fixed Rate Property Formation Savings 1,634 2,127 2,626 KB Good Nuri Installment Savings Plan 6 64 Total 38,608 41,477 42,381 65 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Support for Financial Accessibility Providing Access to Financial Services for the Financially Vulnerable KB Financial Group has created diverse channels so that the financially vulnerable may have easy access to financial services. In particular, KB Kookmin Bank operates KB Hope Finance Plaza and KB Hope Finance Clinic, making online and offline access to banking service easier for vulnerable groups. KB Hope Finance Plaza provides counseling service on microfinance and we run KB Hope Finance Clinic website as well to provide online counseling on microfinance for those who cannot visit banks due to lack of time and geographical distance. These services make it easier for customers to find out loan products available for them as well as information about pre-workout program, various microcredit products, Miso Microfinance, and microfinancing support from relevant agencies including Credit Counseling & Recovery Service. Improving Financial Accessibility for the Disabled To help customers with disabilities to have better access to financial services, we are improving our processes and service accessibilities. We developed service manuals for customers with disabilities and provide CS training on servicing them. We are also providing exclusive counseling and facilities for them to ensure better and convenient services. KB Kookmin Bank operates a 24/7 chat service, making it possible for the hearing-impaired to use the chat service at any time, and provides sign language counseling through video calls for the hearing-impaired. The service is operated with hotline greatly enhancing accessibility for the hearing-impaired. Improving Financial Accessibility for the Disabled Classification Activities Subsidiary Improve process Developing service manuals for the disabled and KB Securities, KB Insurance providing CS training Loan application process exclusive for the disabled KB Capital Improve service Exclusive counseling service for the disabled (video, KB Kookmin Bank, KB Insurance, convenience exclusive service representative, braille pamphlet, braille KB Kookmin Card, KB Life Insurance card, etc.) Installing facilities for better services for the disabled KB Kookmin Bank (exclusive ATMs and wheelchair-accessible counters) Improve accessibility Improving the accessibility to app for the disabled KB Securities, KB Kookmin Card, to services KB Savings Bank 66 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Promoting the Use of Mobile Banking to Socially Disadvantaged Groups We strive to improve the convenience of mobile banking services, so that the socially disadvantaged can have better access to financial services. For senior customers who experience difficulties in using mobile phone banking due to small text, we provide a function of enlarging font size. For expat customers, we provide mobile banking services in 9 languages. We have also improved the accessibility and convenience of international money transfers on mobile, which is frequently used by expat customers. Mobile Banking Services for Vulnerable Groups Target Major activities Subsidiary Senior ∙ Large font-based check and transfer service through “KB Golden Life Banking” KB Kookmin customers ∙ Providing diverse information for finance, culture, leisure, and health in online Bank banking platform ∙ Campaign to encourage senior customers aged 50 to 65 to use the large font service in “KB Star Banking” ∙ Providing large font service in stock, investment information, banking, and account KB Securities check menus ∙ Directly connecting to counselors or providing slow-speaking service when senior KB Kookmin customers use ARS Card ∙ Improving accessibility by adopting diverse functions such as font and screen KB Savings Bank enlargement, voice-based menu search, log-in, and easy remittance by upgrading KB Good Banking Expats ∙ Providing multilingual overseas remittance service through KB Star Banking and Liiv KB Kookmin ∙ Conducting online events for promoting the use of mobile services such as Liiv and Bank Liiv Talk Talk Digitally ∙ Developing KB Mobile Certificate to enable mobile banking services (simple KB Kookmin vulnerable certification through patterns and biometric recognition without the term of Bank class validity) ∙ Providing mobile certificate storage service in USIM to Liiv M subscribers to help them use financial services without reissuance of mobile certificate even when changing devices ∙ Launched “Withdrawal by Hand” service enabling customers to withdraw money through palm vein authentication General ∙ Promoting use of non-contact services (YouTube, TVs at branches, and LMS) KB Kookmin customers Bank 67 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report FO R GOVER NAN CE Spreading the Culture of Transparent Governance As disclosure of governance becomes mandatory and the Stewardship Code actively introduced, transparent disclosure of corporate management is becoming increasingly important. KB Financial Group makes a concerted effort to establish sound corporate governance and transparently discloses our management information, disseminating the culture of good corporate governance. Enhancing Transparency Building a in Governance Comprehensive KEY STRATEGIES Evaluation System Strengthening the Expanding Investments in Stewardship Code Excellent Governance MAJOR PERFORMANCE 2 Female ESG Best Corporate Directors Committee Governance Korea's first financial Established Ranked 1st among institution to appoint board-level financial institutions for 2 female non-executive ESG committee two consecutive directors years (KCGS) ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Enhancing Transparency in Governance Establishing Good Corporate Governance Board of Directors The Articles of Incorporation of KB Financial Holdings stipulates the number of directors be 30 or less and non-executive directors hold a majority with over five members. This helps the BOD fulfill its fundamental roles based on checks and balances. As of March 2020, the BOD consists of 9 directors (7 non-executive directors, 1 executive director, and 1 non-standing director). Jong Kyoo Yoon, the CEO of the Group, serves as the executive director on behalf of the management, and Yin Hur, the CEO of KB Kookmin Bank, serves as the non-standing director on behalf of subsidiaries. Appointment of Non-executive Directors We nominate non-executive directors based on three core principles: shareholder representativeness, expertise, and diversity and set various systems to ensure adherence to the principles. The Nonexecutive Director Candidate Nominating Committee is only composed of four non-executive directors. We also introduced a system where shareholders can propose non-executive candidates for the first time in the domestic financial industry. The composition of candidates for the non-executive directors (shareholders, outside professional institutions), evaluation by external advisors and shortlisting(members of Non-executive director Candidate Nominating Committee) are strictly separated and candidates are recommended through multi-faceted and objective procedures. The candidate group of the non-executive directors is formed upon recommendation from shareholders and external professional organization, and it is managed semiannually. Forming a Evaluating Drawing up a Process candidate pool candidates shortlist Conducted by Non-executive Director Shareholders and External advisory Candidate Nominating external professional groups Committee institutions Activities ˙Introduction of a system where ˙Narrowing the number ˙Drawing up a shortlist to be shareholders can propose of candidates through proposed to the shareholders’ non-executive candidates for objective and independent meeting through in-depth the first time in the domestic assessment by professional deliberation and voting financial industry advisory members ˙Recommending the shortlist ˙Recommendation from ˙Conducting reputation to the shareholders meeting shareholders and external check on candidates after screening qualifications professional organization, and it is managed semiannually. 69 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Expertise and Diversity of Board The BOD of KB Financial Group pursues professionalism and diversity to ensure sustainable growth, corporate value, and stakeholder interest. Non-executive directors satisfy the requirements on professionalism stipulated in the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, and we manage candidates in the fields of finance, management, accounting, law & regulation, risk management, consumer protection, HR, and IT separately. As of March 2020, the professionalism of non-executive directors can be broken down as: two in financial management, one in finance, one in accounting, one in law & regulation, and one in consumer protection. Six members out of seven have served in financial business. To ensure diversity in the composition of the Board, we take into consideration factors such as gender, age, race, ethnicity, nationality and country of origin in nominating candidates. As of March 2020, the BOD has two female non-executive directors for the first time among domestic financial institutions and one non-executive director of foreign nationality. Board Independence and Transparency At KB Financial Group, diverse systems have been prepared to help non-executive directors faithfully conduct their role of checking the management to ensure the independence of the Board. According to Articles BOD Members Classification Name Gender Nationality Date of appointment Expertise Major Career Term Non-executive Suk Ho Male Korea 2018.3.23 Finance Visiting Professor, 2021.3.19 directors Sonu College of Business Administration, Seoul National University Stuart B. Male U.S. 2017.3.24 Financial Chairman, 2021.3.19 Solomon management MetLife Myung Hee Female Korea 2018.3.23 Law & regulation Vice President, 2021.3.19 Choi Korea Internal Control Assessment Kouwhan Male Korea 2018.3.23 Consumer Principal Attorney, 2021.3.19 Jeong protection Nambujeil Law and Notary Office Kyung Ho Male Korea 2019.3.27 Accounting Member, 2021.3.26 Kim Korea Accounting Institute Seon Joo Female Korea 2020.3.20 Financial CEO, 2022.3.19 Kwon management IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Gyutaeg Male Korea 2020.3.20 Risk management Professor, Business Administration, 2022.3.19 Oh Chungang University Executive Jong Kyoo Male Korea 2014.11.21 Financial manageChairman & CEO, 2020.11.20 director Yoon ment, accounting KB Financial Group Non-standing Yin Hur Male Korea 2017.11.20 Financial CEO, 2020.11.20 director management KB Kookmin Bank 70 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix of Incorporation, non-executive directors hold a majority of the board and the Chairman of the Board is selected among non-executive directors. making sure that CEO shall not become Chairman of the Board. All subcommittees excluding the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee and the ESG Committee are composed of only non-executive directors to secure the independence of subcommittee operation. The autonomy and fairness are ensured by separating each process for appointing non-executive directors. Moreover, according to the Clause 3-4 of Article 8 of the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, non-executive directors cannot serve in a concurrent position as non-executive director, non-standing director, or non-standing auditors of other companies. It is prohibited from holding more than 2 concurrent positions as a director, an executive officer and an auditor of other companies other than KB Financial Holding. All our non-executive directors comply with this law. To ensure the independence of non-executive directors, their rights and duties are stipulated in the Board regulation and the Office of Board of Directors is responsible for supporting the independent handling of the Board's instructions. We have various measures to ensure independence of the board such as directors & officers liability insurance. The transparency and objectivity of our governance has been improved by disclosing the standard, process, and results of governance system on our website and incorporating them in our internal policy on governance. We will continue to enhance transparency of governance by further disclosing ESG information and collaborating with governance-related think tanks, evaluation agencies, and initiatives. (As of March 31, 2020) Role ∙ Chairman of the BOD ∙M ember of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ Member of the Non-executive Director Candidate ∙ Chairman of the CEO Nominating Committee Committee Nominating Committee ∙ Member of the ESG Committee ∙M ember of the Audit Committee Member ∙ Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Nominating Committee Committee ∙ Member of the Risk Management Committee ∙M ember of the Non-executive Director Candidate ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member ∙ Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Nominating Committee Nominating Committee ∙M ember of the ESG Committee ∙ Chairman of the Non-executive Director Candidate ∙M ember of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member Nominating Committee Committee Nominating Committee ∙ Member of the Audit Committee ∙M ember of the CEO Nominating Committee ∙ Member of the ESG Committee ∙ Chairman of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙M ember of the Non-executive Director Candidate ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member Committee Nominating Committee Nominating Committee ∙ Member of the Audit Committee ∙M ember of the CEO Nominating Committee ∙ Member of the ESG Committee ∙ Chairman of the Audit Committee ∙M ember of the Risk Management Committee ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member ∙ Member of the CEO Nominating Committee ∙M ember of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Nominating Committee Committee ∙ Member of the ESG Committee ∙ Chairman of the Risk Management Committee ∙M ember of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member ∙ Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Committee Nominating Committee ∙M ember of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating ∙ Member of the ESG Committee Committee ∙ Chairman of the ESG Committee ∙M ember of the Risk Management Committee ∙ Member of the Audit Committee Member ∙ Member of the Audit Committee ∙M ember of the CEO Nominating Committee Nominating Committee ∙ Chairman of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating ∙M ember of the ESG Committee Committee ∙ Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating ∙M ember of the ESG Committee Committee 71 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Board Sub-committees We run 8 sub-committees including Risk management Committee, Evaluation and Compensation Committee, Non-executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee, Audit Committee Member Candidate Nominating Committee (ad-hoc), Audit Committee, CEO Nominating Committee, Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee, and ESG Committee. Sub-committees are entrusted with authority to perform some functions of the Board set under laws and Articles of Incorporation, and carry out monitoring and advice on important issues. All subcommittees excluding the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee and ESG Committee are composed of only non-executive directors with expertise in related fields. Board Organizational Structure 2019년 1월 1일 현재 Risk Management Committee Evaluation and Compensation Committee Non-executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee Board of Directors Office of Board of Directors Audit Committee Member Nominating Committee Audit Committee Group Management CEO Nominating Committee CEO Executive Committee Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee Holding Company ESG Committee Management Committee Subcommittee Members (○ Chairman, ● Member) Subcommittee Function Risk Management Committee Building and determining policies and systems related to risk management Evaluation and Compensation Committee Building and determining policies and systems related to evaluation and compensation Non-executive Director Candidate Nominating Managing and nominating non-executive directors Committee Audit Committee Member Nominating Committee Nominating the Audit Committee member Audit Committee General management of audit works CEO Nominating Committee Establishing a plan for CEO succession and execution of succession procedures Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee Establishing a plan for CEO succession in subsidiaries and execution of succession procedures ESG Committee Establishment of the Group’s ESG strategy and policies 72 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Board Operation Average attendance rate of The Board holds regular and ad-hoc meetings convened by the Board Chairman. Regular meetings are held on directors in 2019 a quarterly basis, while ad-hoc meetings take place when the chairman acknowledges that it is needed or when 96.7% any director or subcommittee requests. In 2019, a total of 14 Board meetings were held. Meeting materials are delivered to directors seven days before the meeting for prior review. The average attendance rate of directors was 96.7% in 2019. As a listed company on the New York Stock Exchange, we require directors to comply with a minimum attendance rate of 75% as specified in the guidelines of Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS). To ensure that Board can properly checks the management, the meeting where only non-executive directors attend is held and advices by employees or external professionals are available when necessary. We also provide them with educations needed for performing their duties, including corporate governance and economic and financial market trends, thereby supporting their rational decision-making. Evaluation on Directors and Non-executive Directors The Board is evaluated across four areas: Board composition and efficiency, roles and functions of the Board, Board responsibilities, and protection of shareholders’ rights and investor relations. Internal evaluation and peer evaluations are conducted for non-executive directors with commitment, expertise, leadership and contributions as key indicators. The evaluation results are reported to the Board to ensure efficient operation of the Board and to general shareholder's meeting every year. Also, the results of evaluations of non-executive directors are disclosed in Annual Report on Governance to use as reference for conducting board activities and are used in determining re-appointment of the directors at Non-executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee. KCGS An independent non-profit organization established to The Best Company in Governance in the Financial Sector improve corporate governance An independent assessment of board performance is carried out annually by the Korea Corporate Governance of Korean companies by promoting best practices Service (KCGS). In recognition of our continuous efforts for sound and transparent governance, we received A+ and evaluating corporate rating in corporate governance evaluation and was selected as the best financial company for two consecutive governance of listed companies in Korea years for the first time in the financial industry by the KCGS in 2019. (As of March 31, 2020) Suk Ho Sonu Stuart B. Solomon Myung Hee Choi Kouwhan Jeong Kyung Ho Kim Seon Joo Kwon Gyutaeg Oh Jong Kyoo Yoon Yin Hur (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Non-executive) (Executive) (Non-standing) ● ● ○ ● ● ● ○ ● ● ● ○ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ○ ● ○ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ○ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ○ ● ● 73 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Leading Ethical Management Charter of Ethics We are striving to creat an ethical business environment. KB Financial Group’s Charter of Ehics was established and declared in January 2010 as the highest ethics guideline that should be upheld and followed by all employees. Based on the Charter, we have also developed Code of Conduct, Code of Practice and Supplier Code of Conduct. Catrgory Code of Conduct Code of Practice Supplier Code of Conduct Significance Group's universal ethical norm that A set of ethical standards reflecting Ethical guideline for suppliers guides value judgement and behavior business-specific characteristics of to abide by voluntarily of all employees each subsidiary, upon which each company can seek solutions for ethical conflicts that may arise from their business activities. Composition ∙ Corruption, bribery, discrimination ∙ Conflicts of interest ∙ Respect for basic legal labor and confidentialiy of information ∙ Investment (including securities) rights ∙ Conflicts of interest and antitrust/ ∙ Compliance with fair trade ∙ Safety and health anti-competitive practices ∙ Management of critical information ∙ Environmental protection ∙ Money-laundering and insider ∙ Acceptance of gift and ∙ Compliance with market trading entertainment competition order and co∙ Environment, health and safety ∙ Rules for external activities prosperity with suppliers ∙ Whistleblowing ∙ Anti-money laundering ∙ Ethics for suppliers Improving Ethical Management We have expanded ethical management activities to help employees conduct business in ethical manner following Charher of Ethics. All employees sign Pledge of Ethics making commitment to abide by Code of Conduct and prevent unethical behavior. Subsidiaries provide their employees with face-to-face or online trainings on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and the code of conduct. Monitoring results of the compliance with laws are reported to the management and the BOD. Subsidiary Ethical Management Activities KB Financial ∙ Develope the compliance support system at the Group level in November 2019 Holdings ∙ Collect ethics violation cases and best ethics practices in the financial industry and use them for employee training KB Kookmin Bank ∙ Operate the “financial accident prevention training week” program for employees and posting the results on the intranet for continuous management ∙ Run the “self-check on compliance with laws” through the initial boot-up screens every week KB Insurance ∙ Manager-level CA (Compliance Advisor) is in charge of compliance duty ∙ Created an animated training course based on audit cases KB Kookmin Card ∙ Conduct compliance trainings and self-assessment for all employees every month ∙ Designate every Monday as the “Ethics Day” to raise employees’ awareness of ethics 74 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Internal Control System We have diverse compliance programs such as preliminary review of compliance in important tasks, activities to prevent suspicious transactions, reinforcement of management and monitoring of each department's Compliance Checklist , etc. Complaince managers of KB Financial Holding report any violations of laws identified to Compliance Department, and Compliance Officer of each subsidiary is in charge of reporting regular compliance activities and any violations of laws detected. We have reported the results of yearly inspections on each subsidiary’s internal control to the Board of Directors since 2016 pursuant to the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial companies. Furthermore, we hold internal Control Committee, Compliance Council, and Legal Affairs Council meetings on a regular basis to readily share and address the Group’s compliance and legal affairs issues. Whistleblowing System In order to promote efficient internal control and prevent financial accidents in advance, we operate the whistleblowing system for employees. Reporting channels include exclusive phones, e-mail, website, mobile web, hot-line to directly contact Group's Compliance Officer through his personal contact number, Viber and telegram, Voice of employees, and anonymous bulletin board to protect whistleblower’s confidentiality. Anti-money Laundering Comprehensive evaluation KB Financial Group establihsed Risk Based Approach (RBA) anti-money laundering system following FATF on financial companies’ recommendations and Act on Reporting and Using Specific Financial Transaction Information to take a anti-money laundering performance differentiated and appropriate internal control and anti-money laundering measures against high-risk customers. (KB Kookmin Bank) To that end, we classified customers and transactions based on risk level of money laundering to verify customers and conduct Enhanced Due Dilligence (EDD) for high risk groups. In particular, KB Kookmin Bank incorporated 1st for 9 consecutive years Saction Compliance into its internal policies to closely monitor persons subject to restrictions on financial transaction as designated by FSC and persons subject to sactions as designated by UN and OFAC. Also, we have a system where Politically Exposed Persons go through top management's approval to allow transactions. We also train all employees about preventing money laundering and terrorist financing at least once a year and hold expert lecture session and hold seminars to establish a global-level risk control system and respond to possible risks in advance. In recognition of these efforts, KB Kookmin Bank ranked 1st for 9 consecutive years among local financial institutions in the Comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering Performance Evaluation. Efforts for Preventing Ethics Violations To prevent ethics violations, KB Financial Group has enhanced cause analysis, monitoring of major issues, and follow-up management. Any violation is promptly treated. If an employee violates code of conduct, he or she is sanctioned following internal control policy and sanctions ranges from caution to discharge depending on the seriousness of he violation. Also those who are sanctioned face deduction in performance evaluation points and promotion. Cases of violations are used as compliance training materials. 75 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Enhancing Transparency in Governance Information Disclosure In 2019, it became mandatory for listed companies with over KRW 2 trillion in total assets to submit a corporate governance report for the purpose of reinforcing managerial transparency and improving corporate value in the mid-to-long term. As such, requirements of transparent information disclosure on environment, society, and corporate governance have become stronger. In response, we are disclosing our business strategies and performances transparently through sustainability reports, business reports, and annual reports. Whenever correction on disclosed information is required, the correction is disclosed through reports and our website to ensure transparent engagement with stakeholders. In particular, our sustainability report covers the ESG-based disclosure items following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosure (TCFD). The Annual Report on Corporate Governance and Compensation provides information on our governance structure, BOD and sub-committees, and activities and compensation for non-executive directors in a transparent manner. Classification Disclosure requirements Plans of KB Financial Group GRI General disclosure items (strategy, ethics & Plan to expand the scope of disclosure meeting integrity, governance, stakeholder engagement, the Comprehensive Option requirements by disclosure practices) and specific items for economy, expanding disclosures in specific areas beyond environment, and society current Core Option-based disclosure TCFD Governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics Report on some indices (Plan to expand the and targets with regard to climate change scope of reporting) SASB Selection of critical ESG issues by business and Report on some indices (Plan to expand the report on those issues based on accounting scope of reporting) standards Annual Compliance with 10 key principles such as Faithful disclosure governance report shareholders’ rights, function of the BOD, operation, internal audit organization, and independent auditors 76 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Transparent Engagement with Stakeholders Transparent engagement with stakeholders contributes to enhancing their trust in KB Financial Group and setting the direction of corporate management. Therefore, we are proactive in diversifying engagement channels, revitalizing engagement, and reflecting their opinions in our business management. We will continue to expand stakeholder engagement to further reflect their interests and expectations to build a culture that takes the stakeholders' needs into account. Stakeholder Comm. channel Major activities Major performances Customers Branch, website, Transparent management, ∙ (KB Kookmin Bank) KB Customer Advisory Group: 4,690 persons customer panel, enhancing engagement with ∙ (KB Kookmin Bank) KB Tribunus Plebis: 10 persons, adopted 34 out of 64 items volunteer group customers, understanding proposed customer needs for products ∙ (KB Kookmin Bank) University Student Honorary Ambassador Campus Star: 300 persons and services, reinforcing safety ∙ (KB Kookmin Bank) KB Golden Life Advisory Group: 12 persons, 6 meetings of financial products, and ∙ (KB Insurance) Customer Panel Hope Supporters: 9 persons promoting financial inclusion ∙ (KB Kookmin Card) Data analysis-based customer survey: K-Research”: 35 times ∙ (KB Securities) Consumer Protection Panel KB Star Messenger: 17 persons Employees Workshop, Work-life balance, cooperative ∙ Workshop for 68 local employees working at overseas branches employee meetings labor-management relations, ∙ 600 participants in the Town Hall Meeting (12 times) fair evaluation, and competence ∙ (KB Kookmin Card) Trekking event: 7 times, meetings among team leaders: 2 times enhancement Shareholders General shareholders' Corporate value improvement, ∙ General shareholders’ meeting (1 time) and investors meeting, earnings sound corporate governance, ∙ Earnings release (4 times) release, IR conference risk management, and ∙ IR conference (23 times) transparent disclosure Suppliers Meeting with Shared growth with suppliers, ∙ (KB Kookmin Card) Meeting with IT suppliers: 4 times suppliers, transparent engagement, and ∙ Complimenting employees nominated through the Voice of Employees satisfaction survey fair trade ∙ Grievance handling: 9 cases Communities Social contribution, Community service and ∙ Cumulative visitors to “KB GoodJob Fair”: 317,100 persons KB GoodJob, KB donation ∙ Recipients of 「Youth Mentor, KB!」: 18,220 persons Miso microfinance ∙ (KB Insurance) Selected as the “Excellent Social Contribution Company” (Ministry of Health and Welfare, Korea Association of Social Workers) 1 2 1. University Student Honorary Ambassador Campus Star 2. Town Hall Meeting with Group CEO 77 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Strengthening the Stewardship Code Spreading a Culture of Healthy Corporate Governance based on Partnership Efforts for spreading a culture of healthy corporate governance contribute not only to enhancing corporate growth and transparency but also to instilling good governance practices and structure among local and overseas companies. To this end, We will cooperate with ESG rating agencies to provide insight on governance enhancement and share best practices. Our corporate governance is highly recognized for its soundness because we have revamped the CEO succession procedure, enhanced internal control, introduced the stewardship code in advance, and independently operated the Board. As a result of our efforts, we have been ranked the best company in corporate governance for two consecutive years. We will build a cooperative system with ESG evaluation agencies including KCGS and Sustainalytics to share our innovative ways of improving governance and will take the lead in advancing overall governance structure for other companies. Best Practices Recognized by the KCGS Governance Evaluation in 2019 Classification Details ① Sound board operation Enhancement of the Board’s independence by organizing the Audit Committee, CEO Nominating Committee, and Evaluation and Compensation Committee with only non-executive directors ② Systematic management Enhancement of the competence of the internal CEO candidates, enhancement of succession program the CEO succession program, and creating programs to improve the understanding of the CEO Candidate Nominating Committee ③ Execution of the Stewardship Code Monitoring of the implementation of stewardship code at the group level by the at the group level Board of KB Financial Holdings Strengthening the Implementation of Stewardship Code Stewardship Code KB Financial Group adopted the Stewardship Code for the first time among Korean financial groups. KB Standards that institutional Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Life Insurance, and KB Investment investors holding the shares of publicly listed companies are now incorporating Stewardship Code into business practice. With a stewardship code in place, we should follow to fulfill their aim to strengthen institutional investors' role in protecting and growing customers' assets by promoting fiduciary duties as a steward taking care of and managing mid-to-long term growth of investee companies integrating not only the financial performances the assets entrusted by others but non-financial ESG aspects. Our subsidiaries disclose their voting rights execution results as well as the stewardship code and internal guidelines transparently through their websites. In 2019, KB Asset Management performed its voting rights on 158 domestic companies and sent a public letter requiring the improvement of shareholder value to four companies five times fulfilling their fiduciary responsibilities. 78 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Expanding Investments in Excellent Corporate Governance KB Shareholder Value Sound corporate governance ensures efficient check and supervision on management, ultimately Focus Fund protecting investors and increasing the rate of return through shareholder-friendly dividend policies. To A fund that invests in companies that pursue pursue the shared growth between companies and shareholders, KB Asset Management launched the shareholder value-based “KB Shareholder Value Focus Fund.” It has invested in companies with excellent corporate governance sustainable growth and intend to implement policies and growth potential, attaining 16.63% rate of annual return (as of the end of 2019). Going forward, KB for shareholder value Financial Group will continue to expand investments in companies striving to enhance shareholder value improvement and develop financial products considering governace of investee companies. Building a Comprehensive Evaluation System It has become increasingly important to evaluate non-financial aspects such as environment, social responsibility, and corporate governance as well as financial performances. In particular, there is increasing awareness that transparent corporate governance will ensure stable growth and mid-to-long term profit creation. In response, we aim to strengthen the practice of ESG management that covers environment, society, and governance. As part of this practice, we will establish a comprehensive evaluation system aimed at supporting companies to undertake and expand the ESG management. We will also sophisticate evaluation indicators and systems to build an environment where ESG-focused companies can be given preferential treatment during corporate evaluation. 79 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Performance Indices KB Financial Group is committed to respecting all stakeholders and listening to their requests. Performance indices in this section show our efforts and activities for shared growth with stakeholders. As a leading global financial group, we will fulfill our social responsibility and role going forward. Customers Community Employees Environment Financials 82 83 87 90 92 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Customers Customer Satisfaction 2017 2018 2019 KB Kookmin Bank NCSI Rank 1 1 1 KB Insurance NCSI Rank 2 2 2 KCSI (Long-term Insurance) Rank 3 KCSI (Car Insurance) Rank 4 KS-SQI (Long-term Insurance) Rank 3 KS-SQI (Car Insurance) Rank 4 KB Kookmin Card NCSI Rank 5 3 3 KCSI (Credit Card) Rank 3 3 3 KCSI (Debit Card) Rank 1 1 1 KS-SQI (Credit Card) Rank 3 3 3 KS-SQI (Debit Card) Rank 1 1 1 ※ NCSI: National Customer Satisfaction Index by Korea Productivity Center KCSI: Korean Customer Satisfaction Index by Korea Management Association Consulting KS-SQI: Korean Standard Service Quality Index by Korea Standards Association Customers Using Online Banking Services* 2017 2018 2019 Customers subscribing for online banking services (%) 72.6 74.8 76.5 Active users of online banking services (%) 36.2 37.8 39.0 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Customer Accessibility* 2017 2018 2019 Universal counters (#) 682 803 799 ATMs with zoom-in screen features for visually impaired (#) 7,988 7,185 6,723 Braille and audio guidance ATMs (#) 7,915 7,185 6,773 Wheelchair accessible ATMs (#) 5,742 6,549 6,772 ATMs applied by biometric authentication (Easy Banking)** (#) 3,750 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data ** Included in management indices from 2019 82 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Community Charitable Contributions and Volunteering Hours 2017 2018 2019 Charitable contributions (￦100m) 552 1,304 1,031 Total employee volunteering hours 296,824 236,366 171,296 Average volunteering activity hours per employee 10.6 8.4 6.0 Monetary value of employee volunteering during daily working hours (￦100m) 49* 50 38 Management overhead (￦100m) 28.3 28.3 30.2 Political contributions** * Recalculated based on fiscal year 2018 and 2019 ** In Korea, businesses are prohibited from making political contributions by the Political Funds Act. KB Financial Group prohibits political contributions to organizations based on our internal policy on charitable contributions. Community Contributions for Youth 2017 2018 2019 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 Beneficiaries 12,565 18,220 (Total) Contributions (￦100m) 40 62 KB Youth Music College Beneficiaries 114 117 112 Contributions (￦100m) 5 5 5 Entrance rate to college of music (%) 40 71.5 90 Building and expanding Schools supported (#) 243 212 all-day elementary afterClassrooms built (#) 369 320 school care classrooms Contributions (￦100m) 128 100 Building and expanding Schools supported (#) 55 129 public kindergartens Classrooms built (#) 76 211 Contributions (￦100m) 22 50 KB Foundations Beneficiaries 260 260 391 scholarship Contributions (￦100m) 5 6 6 83 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Community Contributions for Multicultural Community 2017 2018 2019 Beneficiaries of KB Rainbow Love Camp 182 80 50 Employees who participated in KB Hopeful Voice Sharing 46 23 18 Beneficiaries of KB Korean Language Class in Myanmar 514 493 523 Beneficiaries of medical support for migrant workers 1,734 1,980 2,034 Job Creation through KB GoodJob 2017 2018 2019 Individual members of KB GoodJob website (cumulative) 52,127 59,092 65,958 KB GoodJob Academy participants 380 552 515 KB GoodJob School participants 195 208 240 People employed through KB GoodJob Fair (cumulative) 7,092 8,464 11,656 Financial Education 2017 2018 2019 Beneficiaries of financial education (offline) 178,480 137,509 163,900 Beneficiaries of financial education (online & mobile web) 25,149 52,496 97,425 Total 203,629 190,005 261,325 84 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Consulting Services for SMEs and Small Businesses 2017 2018 2019 KB Wise Consulting services offered (#) 202 267 247 KB SOHO Business Incubating Consulting services offered (#) 591 749 1,674 Supply Chain* 2017 2018 2019 Business partners self-assessed for supply chain sustainability 148 141 135 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Expenses for Supporting Major Associations (￦100m) 2017 2018 2019 Korea Financial Investment Association 31.0 33.0 33.5 Korea Federation of Banks 26.3 26.4 26.9 General Insurance Association of Korea 27.6 21.2 22.4 The Credit Finance Association 11.8 13.5 12.0 Korea Life Insurance Association 2.7 3.1 3.3 Korea Federation of Savings Banks 2.0 2.1 2.3 Others 2.9 3.0 3.9 Total 104.3 102.2 104.3 ※ According to Article 31 of the Political Funds Act, every foreigner, corporation or organization both at home and abroad shall be prohibited from contributing any political funds and no one shall contribute any political funds from any corporation or any organization both at home and abroad. KB Financial Group strictly complies with this law, never contributing political funds, election campaign funds, and funds for lobbying a specific political party or organization. . Meanwhile, we contribute trade associations with public purpose and political impartiality. 85 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Support for Fintech Startups (cumulative) 2017 2018 2019 KB Starters Startup partners (#) 36 56 76 Investment (￦100m) 71.0 134.0 326.0 FUTURE9 Startup partners (#) 9 19 29 Investment (￦100m) 1.7 3.2 14.7 Total Startup partners (#) 45 75 105 Investment (￦100m) 72.7 137.2 340.7 Policy Fund Platform (KB bridge*) 2017 2018 2019 Mobile app downloads (cumulative) 60,690 Cases linked with SOHO consulting 2,550 * Launched in the second half of 2019 ※ Performance from July 2019 to June 2020 86 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Employees Employees by Gender (persons) 2017 2018 2019 Total employees Male 15,620 15,467 15,050 Female 12,867 12,990 13,054 Total 28,487 28,457 28,104 Employees by Conditions of Contract and Position (persons) 2017 2018 2019 Conditions of Executives 208 219 218 contract Full time* 25,508 25,635 25,210 Temporary 2,771 2,603 2,676 Position** Section Chief-General Manager(L2 and above) 14,840 14,445 14,230 Associate-Assistant 13,439 13,793 13,656 * Including unlimited contract workers ** Excluding executives Diversity (persons) 2017 2018 2019* Children of veterans 675 662 1,332 Employees with disabilities 379 338 328 Expats** 161 156 895 High school graduates 48 50 1,267 * 2017 and 2018: Based on KB Kookmin Bank. 2019: Based on KB Financial Group ** Including employees of overseas corporation New Recruits (persons) 2017 2018 2019 Age 20s and younger 524 777 552 30s 372 412 315 40s 199 147 144 50s and above 56 60 63 Gender Male 628 710 580 Female 523 686 494 87 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Turnover Rate* (%) 2017 2018 2019 Total turnover rate 17.1 4.0 5.4 Voluntary turnover rate 0.9 1.8 1.7 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Childcare Leave (persons) 2017 2018 2019* Employees eligible for childcare Male 3,277 leave** Female 4,239 Total 7,516 Employees who used childcare Male 62 42 89 leave Female 769 604 1,112 Total 831 646 1,201 Employees who returned to Male 28 35 67 work after childcare leave Female 400 711 2,440 Total 428 746 2,507 Employees who served for over Male 35 12 months after returning from Female 2,059 childcare leave** Total 2,094 * 2017 and 2018: Based on KB Kookmin Bank, 2019: Based on KB Financial Group ** Included in management indices from 2019 Labor Practices* 2017 2018 2019 Employees covered by labor union (%) 79.2 82.3 81.6 Employee grievances resolved (#) 596 109 84 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data 88 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Industrial Accidents* 2017 2018 2019 Absentee days 115 49 35 Absentee rate (%) 0.0016 0.0011 0.0008 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Training* 2017 2018 2019 Average training hours per employee 167 176 113 Average training expense per employee (￦10,000) 142 137 142 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Ethical Management 2017 2018 2019 Average ethics education hours per employee* 8.5 8.3 9.7 Employees' violation Conflict of interest 0 0 0 of compliance with Investment in securities, etc. 0 0 0 laws (#) Violation of fair trade 3 0 1 Violation of information control 1 0 4 Receiving graft and entertainment 1 0 0 Violation of external activity policy 0 0 0 Violation of anti-money laundering 0 0 0 Actions taken on Pay cut 0 0 0 violations Reprimand 1 0 0 (#) Warning 4 0 1 Others 6 0 4 * Based on KB Kookmin Bank data 89 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Environment Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG Emissions 2016 2017 2018 2019 GHG emissions Scope 1 emissions 21,513 19,179 19,021 18,980 (tCO2eq) Scope 2 emissions 122,536 112,322 111,994 111,731 Total GHG emission 144,050 131,501 131,015 130,711 ※ The sum may not equal the total due to rounding off. Energy Consumption 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption (MWh) 262,839 240,932 240,227 239,663 New and renewable energy consumption (kWh) 165,133 174,338 345,951 487,272 Water Consumption 2016 2017 2018 2019 Water consumption (m3) 299,777 277,454 277,999 273,723 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 198 183 183 181 Paper Consumption 2016 2017 2018 2019 Paper consumption (ton) 2,213 2,033 2,063 1,976 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,478 2,277 2,311 2,213 Waste 2016 2017 2018 2019 Waste to landfill (ton) 2,194 1,930 1,964 1,915 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 746 656 668 651 90 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Business Travel 2016 2017 2018 2019 Business travel Air 11,380,566 10,549,840 11,259,618 12,714,701 (km) Train 3,510,106 3,044,580 2,892,919 2,085,149 Bus 583,933 447,632 112,278 79,718 Total 15,474,605 14,042,053 14,264,815 14,879,569 GHG emissions Air 1,707 1,582 1,689 1,907 (tCO2eq) Train 105 91 87 63 Bus 16 12 3 2 Total 1,829 1,686 1,779 1,971 ※ The sum may not equal the total due to rounding off. Capital Goods and Purchasing Goods Unit 2017 2018 2019 Capital goods Desktop Ea 613 1,725 4,335 tCO2eq 20 56 142 Laptop Ea 332 220 492 tCO2eq 6 4 9 Monitor Ea 345 3,290 13,809 tCO2eq 5 51 214 Multi-functioning printer Ea 1,284 1,314 612 tCO2eq 509 521 243 Purchased goods Bankbook kg 302,341 285,826 246,812 tCO2eq 339 320 276 Credit card kg 72,027 68,294 56,171 tCO2eq 97 92 75 Usage and Disposal of Goods Sold Unit 2017 2018 2019 Usage of goods sold E-banking tCO2eq 5,058 7,633 9,976 Disposal of sold Accounts terminated kg 81,909 75,949 70,944 products tCO2eq 10 9 9 Cards terminated kg 60,141 57,519 29,360 tCO2eq 141 135 69 91 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Financials Financial Performance* (￦trillion) 2017 2018 2019 Total assets 437 480 519 Operating revenue 39 42 47 Net income 3.3 3.1 3.3 * Based on consolidated data of all subsidiaries including the holding company Credit Ratings 2017 2018 2019 KB Financial Holdings Moody’s A1 Standard & Poor’s A KB Kookmin Bank Moody’s A1 Aa3 Aa3 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Fitch A A A KB Securities Moody’s A3 A3 Standard & Poor’s AAFitch AAKB Kookmin Card Moody’s A2 BIS Leverage Ratio (￦100m) 2017 2018 2019 (Basel III) Tier 1 capital 301,870 329,938 354,261 (Basel III) Total exposure 4,225,855 5,056,032 5,494,772 (Basel III) Leverage ratio 7.14% 6.53% 6.45% 92 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Tax Information* (￦100m) 2019 Taxes and dues by Operating revenue Operating income Corporate tax* region (%) Korea 466,412.2 44,389.5 12,032.6 98.56 China 1,610.1 179.6 50.4 0.41 U.S. 1,116.2 (166.5) 17.1 0.14 Vietnam 389.2 134.1 34.6 0.28 U.K. 318.7 13.9 11.3 0.09 New Zealand 163.9 47.2 12.9 0.11 Cambodia 241.9 45.2 11.7 0.10 Japan 168.1 49.5 0.9 0.01 Laos 115.1 41.9 0.0 0.00 Singapore 13.5 (0.6) 0.0 0.00 Indonesia 168.0 1.5 1.9 0.02 Hong Kong 901.7 185.5 30.5 0.25 India 34.8 (11.9) 0.0 0.00 Myanmar 43.5 (2.4) 3.9 0.03 Total 471,696.8 44,906.5 12,207.9 100.00 * K-IFRS accrual basis ※ The sum may not equal the total due to rounding off. Shareholders with Over 5% Ownership Number of shares held Ownership National Pension Service 41,468,003 9.97% JP Morgan Chase Bank* 26,622,633 6.40% * JP Morgan Chase Bank is a DR depository and voting rights are granted to DR owners. ※ KB Financial Group does not hold the golden shares for the government. 93 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Distribution of Economic Value* (￦100m) 2017 2018 2019 Customers Interest on deposits 23,459 30,417 34,811 Shareholders and investors Dividend 7,667 7,597 8,611 Employees Pay and benefits 37,686 38,744 39,553 Community Donation 552 1,304 1,031 Government Corporate tax 7,950 12,396 12,208 Total 77,314 90,458 96,214 * Based on consolidated data of all subsidiaries including the holding company ESG Products (￦100m) (As of December 31, 2019) Sector ESG business Category 2019 Corporate banking, Green credit, ESG loans Prevention of environmental pollution 21,013 investment banking Support for SMEs and microfinance 18,172 (IB business) Energy efficiency 3,206 Other products 13,311 Total amount of ESG products 55,702 Total amount of corporate loan products 1,219,496 Ratio of ESG products 4.6% ESG bond Multiple themes 14,982 Green transportation 1,000 Other products 0 Total amount of ESG bonds 15,982 Total amount of bonds issued 100,940 Ratio of ESG bonds 15.8% Green and sustainable New and renewable energy 9,488 infrastructure financing Sustainable water and sewage management 1,186 Housing support for the vulnerable and the working class 297 Other products 0 Total amount of ESG investments 10,971 Total amount of PF investments 163,009 Ratio of ESG investments 6.7% 94 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Sector ESG business Category 2019 Asset management Investment product New and renewable energy 11,167 Sustainable water resource and wastewater control 6,135 Other products 0 Total amount of ESG products 17,302 Total amount of asset management investment products 420,667 Ratio of ESG products 4.1% WM·PB Investment product Green transportation 350 New and renewable energy 9 Sustainable water resource and wastewater control 11 Other products 583 Total amount of ESG products 953 Total amount of fund products held by WM & PB cusotmers 85,951 Ratio of ESG products 1.1% Retail banking Green credit, ESG loans Social economic development and human rights improvement 20,468 Green transportation 9,891 Green building 229 Other products 0 Total amount of ESG products 30,588 Total amount of private loan products 1,451,033 Ratio of ESG products 2.1% Investment product Offering of socially basic and essential services 42,463 Green transportation 30,985 Prevention of environmental pollution 5,349 New and renewable energy 116 Other products 3,425 Total amount of ESG products 82,338 Total amount of funds, deposits, and trust products 3,329,880 Ratio of ESG products 2.5% ※ The sum may not equal the total due to rounding off. 95 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Appendix KB Financial Group complies with and preemptively responds to global ESG guidelines. We have also been proactive in participating in global initiatives such as GRI Standards, SASB, UN PRB, thereby gaining a higher level of trust from all stakeholders. Third Party's Materiality GRI SASB UN PRB Initiatives and Assurance Analysis Index Index Index Memberships Statement 98 100 103 104 105 107 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis In order to identify material sustainability issues within the Group, KB Financial Group has organized an issue pool by analyzing items and requirements of the domestic and global initiatives such as GRI, DJSI, MSCI, and KCGS and conducted media research as well as benchmarking of global financial companies, and selected key issues through materiality analysis from February to April 2020. The most critical issues were reported in detail to faithfully respond to the interests of stakeholders. Materiality Analysis Process Step1 Step2 Step3 Identification Prioritization Validation Analysis of global initiatives Stakeholder survey Validation of prioritization (GRI Standards, SASB, DJSI, MSCI, Evaluated the importance of results KCGS) material issues (2,264 employees Validated the prioritization of and 3,816 external stakeholders) reporting areas through the Analysis of previous issues review of internal and external Analysis of issues and internal Selection of material issues ESG professionals materials of KB Financial Group Identified 14 material issues from in the previous year the pool consisting of 39 issues Review of alignment between based on business impacts and materiality issues and strategy Media research stakeholder interest Connected our ESG strategic Review of news articles directions and material issues (2,020 cases) Benchmarking Benchmarking of 10 global financial companies Materiality Issues Through materiality analysis, we selected 14 key issues located on the 1st tier area of the matrix which had high priority on business impacts and stakeholder interest. According to 2019 materiality analysis, social issues such as social contribution activities, stronger customer information protection, enhancement of inclusive finance accounted for around half of material issues identified. Others included the preparation of response to climate change at the Group level, and the dissemination of transparent corporate governance through strict ethical management. We reported those issues in the “ESG Strategy & Progress” section in connection with our ESG strategic directions. 98 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Materiality Analysis Results Stakeholder Interest 1st Tier 7 3 1 2 9 10 4 13 14 5 6 2nd Tier 3rd Tier Business Relevance Materiality issues connected with ESG strategic directions Impacts on Effects from issues Local Shareholder Employee Customer Supplier Expense Sales Risk community /investor Advancing climate ● Enhancing GHG reduction control ∨ ∨ change strategy for ● Building climate change response system ∨ ∨ environment ● Developing ESG products and services ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ considering environment and society* Internalizing responsible ● Establishing GWP culture* ∨ ∨ ∨ management for society ● Conducting strategic social contribution* ∨ ∨ ∨ ● Cultivating employee competence and ∨ ∨ financial experts ● Protecting human rights of employees ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ and partners ● Enhancing customer service ∨ ∨ ∨ ● Enhancing customer information protection ∨ ∨ ∨ ● Expanding inclusive finance* ∨ ∨ ∨ Spreading the culture of ● Strengthening ethical management ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ tansparent governance Others ● Developing sustainable growth engines* ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ● Creating economic performance* ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ● Operating financial and non-financial risk ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ ∨ integration sysem* * Material issues of the previous year 99 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report GRI Index Universal Standards (GRI 100) Classification Indicator Description Page Assurance Remark Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 4 ● 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 5 ● 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 ● 102-4 Location of operations 6, 7 ● 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4-7, 93 ● 102-6 Markets served 6, 7 ● 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 ● 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 87 ● 102-9 Supply chain 77 ● 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 100 ● No critical changes 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 22, 23 ● 102-12 External initiatives 107 ● 102-13 Membership of associations 107 ● Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2, 3 ● 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 22, 23 ● Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 74 ● Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 75 ● Governance 102-18 Governance structure 68-73 ● 102-19 Delegating authority 71 ● 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 72 ● 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 70, 71 ● 102-24 Nominating and selecting processes for the highest governance body 69 ● 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 69-73 ● 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 69-73 ● 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 73 ● 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 20, 21 ● 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 21 ● Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 77 ● Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 88 ● 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 77 ● 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 77 ● 102-44 Key topics and concerns 77 ● 100 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Classification Indicator Description Page Assurance Remark Report Profile 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 5 ● 102-46 Defining report content and the topic boundaries 98, 99 ● 102-47 List of material topics 99 ● 102-48 Restatements of information 101 ● No changes in the previous report 102-49 Changes in reporting 99 ● 102-50 Reporting period About this ● report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this ● report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this ● report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this ● report 102-54 Reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this ● report 102-55 GRI index 100-102 ● 102-56 External assurance 105, 106 ● Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 98, 99 ● Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 16-19, ● 28, 44, 68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16-19, ● Each issue is 28, 44, 68 evaluated and managed aligned with management strategies. Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance (GRI 200) Indicator Description Page Assurance Remark Economic 201-1* Direct economic value generated and distributed 94 ● Performance 201-2* Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 32-35 ● * Material issue 101 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Classification Indicator Description Page Assurance Remark Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 90 ● Emissions 305-1* Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 29, 90 ● 305-2* Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 29, 90 ● 305-3* Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 90, 91 ● 305-5* Reduction of GHG emissions 28, 29 ● Water 303-5 Water consumption 90 ● Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 90 ● Waste Business Travel G4-EN15 Business travel by using corporate vehicles or transportation methods 91 ● * Material issue Social Performance (GRI 400) Classification Indicator Description Page Assurance Remark Employment 401-1* New employee hires and employee turnover 87, 88 ● 401-2* Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 63 ● employees 401-3* Parental leave 63, 88 ● Occupational 403-9 Work-related injuries 89 ● Safety & Health Training and 404-1* Average hours of training per year per employee 89 ● Education 404-2* Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 60 ● Human Rights 412-1* Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 56, 57 ● Assessment 412-2* Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 89 ● Local 413-1* Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 44-50 ● Communities development programs Customer 418-1* Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 54 ● ∙C  omplaints from Privacy customer data outside parties: 0 ∙C  omplaints from regulatory bodies: 57 Compliance 419-1* Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 89 ● Product FS7* Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each 64, 65, 94, ● Portfolio business line broken down by purpose and impact 95 FS8* Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific 37-40, 94, ● environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose and impact 95 Local FS14* Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 64-67 ● Communities * Material issue 102 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix SASB Index KB Financial Group initiated the disclosure in accordance with accounting principles for the financial industry of the SASB in order to share financial impacts drawn from sustainability management with shareholders and customers. In 2020, only some of the principles were disclosed due to discord between the shareholders and customers and our management indicators. Going forward, we will continue to extend the scope of financial performance disclosure based on the SASB Index. SASB Topic Disclosure Code Category Description KB's Response Disclosures crossing multiple Sector Standards, reporting at a KBFG Group level Diversity & inclusiveness FN-AC-330a.1 Quantitative (1) Executive management Cultivating Female Professionals (p.61) FN-IB-330a.1 (2) Non-executive management Employees (p.87) (3) Professionals (4) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group Corporate ethics FN-CB-510a.2 Qualitative Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Whistle Blowing System (p.75) FN-AC-510a.2 FN-IB-510a.2 FN-CB-230a.1 Quantitative (1) Number of data breaches Response to Information Security Incidents FN-CF-230a.1 (2) Percentage involving personally identifiable information (p.54) FN-EX-550a.2 (3) Number of account holders affected Social Performance (p.102) FN-CB-230a.2 Qualitative Description of approach to identifying and addressing data Information Security System (p.54) FN-CF-230a.3 security risks Commercial Banks Financial inclusion & FN-CB-240a.1 Quantitative (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified Providing Microfinance to Vulnerable Social capability improvement to programs designed to promote small business and Groups (p.64-65) community development Incorporation of ESG FN-CB-410a.2 Qualitative Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, Environmental & Social Risk Management factors in credit analysis social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysis (p.22) Asset Management & Custody Activities Incorporation of ESG FN-AC-410a.1 Quantitative Amount of assets under management, by asset class, ESG Products (p.94-95) factors in investment that employ (1) integration of environmental, social, and management & advisory governance (ESG) issues, (2) sustainability themed investing, and (3) screening FN-AC-410a.2 Qualitative Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, Providing Financial Services through ESG Risk social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment and/or Assessment (p.24) wealth management processes and strategies FN-AC-410a.3 Qualitative Description of proxy voting and investee Strengthening the Implementation of engagement policies and procedures (Stewardship Code) Stewardship Code (p.78) Consumer Finance Customer Privacy FN-CF-220a.1 Quantitative Number of account holders whose information is used for Response to Information Security Incidents secondary purposes (p.54) FN-CF-220a.2 Quantitative Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Response to Information Security Incidents proceedings associated with customer privacy3 (p.54) Investment Banking & Brokerage Incorporation of ESG FN-IB-410a.3 Quantitative (1) Number and (2) total value of investments and loans Increasing Green Investments and Loans factors in investment incorporating integration of environmental, social, and (p.37-41) banking & brokerage governance (ESG) factors, by industry Providing Microfinance to Vulnerable Social activities Groups (p.64-65) ESG Products (p.94-95) 103 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report UN PRB Index Principle Page Principle 1: 1.1 Focus on the SDGs that are most relevant to operating context 18-19 Alignment 1.2 Regularly consult and engage with relevant stakeholders to ensure full understanding of their expectations 77 with an aim to further increase contribution to society’s goals Principle 2: 2.1 (Impact analysis and risk assessment) Conduct an impact analysis of your bank’s significant impacts 99 Impact and Target Setting 2.2 (Target setting) Establish mechanisms to periodically review targets 20-21 2.3 (Target setting) Frequently report on progress to the Board of Directors and executive team 20-21 Principle 3: 3.1 (Client and customer) Systematically engage customers and clients on sustainability issues 77 Clients and Customers 3.2 (Client and customer) Develop services to make more sustainable investments and financial decisions 31 3.3 (Entrepreneurs and small enterprise customers) Identify targets for supporting the growth of their businesses 51, 53 3.4 (Entrepreneurs and small enterprise customers) Provide specialised financial products and services to social enterprises 51, 53 3.5 (Entrepreneurs and small enterprise customers) Use digital platforms to deliver financial products and services 10-11 3.6 (Corporate and institutional clients) Assess customer credit risks based on environmental and social risk information 22-25 3.7 (Corporate and institutional clients) Encourage clients to improve their own social and environmental impacts 23 Principle 4: 4.1 Identify and map key external stakeholders 77 Stakeholders 4.2 Consult stakeholders about the direction of sustaiability promotion 23 Principle 5: 5.1 Assign clear and specific roles and responsibilities at the Board level regarding sustainability agenda 20-21 Governance and Culture 5.2 Set up a dedicated, specialized team of sustainability experts with strong leadership and clear roles and responsibilities 34 5.3 Create a dedicated Board Committee focused on sustainability 20-21 5.4 Establish a performance management system (including reward and incentive) regarding sustainability targets 33 Principle 6: 6.1 Provide information on implementation of the Principles for Responsible Banking 104 Transparency and Accountability 6.2 Align disclosures with the requirements of sustainability disclosure frameworks 100-103 104 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2019: Foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of KB Financial Group to verify the contents of its KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2019 (Hereby referred to as “the Report”). KB Financial Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and standard KB Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a type2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below. Moreover, we thoroughly reviewed the reliability of the disclosure data GHG emissions, energy, water consumption, waste generation, and absence rate, financial accessibility. Professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. • GRI Standards Reporting Principles • Universal Standards • Topic Specific Standards – Management approach of Topic Specific Standards – Economic Performance : 201-1, 201-2 – Energy : 302-1 – Water : 303-5 – Emissions : 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 – Waste : 306-2 – Employment : 401-1, 401-2 – Occupational Health and Safety : 403-9 – Training and Education : 404-1, 404-2 – Human Rights Assessment : 412-1, 412-2 – Local Communities : 413-1 – Customer Privacy : 418-1 – Socioeconomic Compliance : 419-1 • Financial Services Sector Disclosures : FS7, FS8, FS14 This Report excludes data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KB Financial Group, among report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: • Reviewed overall report • Reviewed materiality test process and methodology • Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets • Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities • Interviewed employees in charge of preparing the Report 105 2019 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KB Financial Group on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. • Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability – KB Financial Group is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KB Financial Group left out during this procedure. • Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. – KB Financial Group is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. • Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. – The assurance team could not find any evidence that KB Financial Group’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Recommendation for improvement We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. • KB Financial Group demonstrated uniformity in presenting information of its affiliates and provided detailed description of mid-to-long term ESG targets and performance reflecting the characteristics of a financial institution. We recommend that the company expand the disclosure of financial performance based on SASB and continuously strengthen communication with stakeholders. Our independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other KB Financial Group’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. July 3, 2020 CEO Eun Ju Hwang 000-129 106 ESG Value & Management ESG Strategy & Progress Performance Indices Appendix Initiatives and Memberships KB Financial Group endeavors to understand and rapidly responds to ESG issues through cooperation with diverse initiatives and associations in order to responsibly implement ESG management. Initiatives Classification Description Subscription UNEP FI The only international partnership between UNEP and KB Financial Holdings (Aug. 2018) (United Nations Environment global financial sectors where over 300 global leading KB Kookmin Bank (2004~2013) Programme Finance Initiative) financial companies participate CDP A global initiative evaluation agency who promotes the KB Financial Holdings (Aug. 2018) (Carbon Disclosure Project) institution and implementation of environmental protection by supporting companies’ response to climate change TCFD An initiative that encourages companies to incorporate KB Financial Holdings (Oct. 2018) (Task Force on Climate-related climate risks into financial information disclosures Financial Disclosures) UN Global Compact The world’s largest private initiative that encourages KB Kookmin Bank (Apr. 2009) (United Nations corporate participation in sustainability (10 principles in Global Compact) human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption) WEPs An initiative jointly promoted by the UN Women and KB Financial Holdings (Sep. 2019) (Women's Empowerment UN Global Compact for enhancing women's Principles) empowerment CoREi An initiative supporting corporate commitment to KB Financial Holdings (Jun. 2020) (Corporate Renewable transition to renewable energy and establishment and Energy Initiative) execution of renewable energy targets Memberships Association Website Association Website Korea Financial Investment Association www.kofia.or.kr Korea Federation of Banks www.kfb.or.kr Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry www.korcham.net Korea Federation of SMEs www.kbiz.or.kr Korea Life Insurance Association www.klia.or.kr Korea Enterprises Federation www.kefplaza.com General Insurance Association of Korea www.knia.or.kr Korea Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts www.kareit.or.kr The Credit Finance Association www.crefia.or.kr Korea International Trade Association www.kita.net Korea Federation of Savings Banks www.fsb.or.kr Korean Venture Capital Association www.kvca.or.kr The Federation of Korean Industries www.fki.or.kr International Swaps and Derivatives Association www.isda.org 107
