Report Brief Introduction Data Sources This report is LONGi Group's 3rd social responsibility report The data sources used in the report include relevant since 2018, as the first report issued in March 2018 and the statistical reports of LONGi Group, public reports, press second in April 2019. In line with the principles of objectivity, releases, third-party surveys or interviews, and public data standardization, transparency, and comprehensiveness, of government departments, etc. The LONGi Group Board this report discloses the practice and performance of of Directors guarantees that there are no false records, LONGi in the field of economics, environment, social misleading statements, or major omissions in this report. responsibility and governance from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019. In order to enhance the comparability Appellation of the Company and completeness, certain contents of this report cite contents of previous years for reference. For the convenience of expression and reading, LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Ltd. in this report is also expressed Scope of the Report as LONGi Group, LONGi, Company, The Group or We. This report covers some subsidiaries of LONGi in the People's Republic of China and their production bases in the Access to the Report Federal Republic of Malaysia. You can download the Chinese and English versions of this Report Criteria report from the official website of LONGi Group at http://www. longigroup.com. You can also follow the official account of the The report is compiled on the core plan of GRI Standards LONGi Group to access the report. (2016) by the Global Reporting Initiative and the content of Guidelines for Environmental Information Disclosure of Listed Companies of the Shanghai Stock Exchange and refers to the new edition of Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The English version is a translation of the original in Chinese. In case of any discrepancy or ambiguity between these two versions, the Chinese version shall prevail. 01 / 02 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. CONTENTS Group Outline Key Performance Message from the Chairman 01 About LONGi 04 Society Group Profile Employee Development Business Layout Health and Safety LONGi Branding Employees' Rights Protection Events of the Year Employee Activities Social Responsibility Management Corporate Culture LONGi and Sustainable Development Goals Charity Poverty-Alleviation 02 Photovoltaics Technology 05 Governance that Leads the Future Regulative Governance R&D System Information Disclosure Photovoltaic Products Innovation Investor Relations Promote Green Transition Anti-corruption PV Development Outlook Appendix 03 Environment Explanation of Professional Terms Green Manufacturing Global Reporting Initiative Index Environmental Management Verification Statement Energy Consumption Feedback Form Water Consumption Emission Sewage and Waste Sustainable Procurement CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GROUP OUTLINE Company Name in Chinese 隆基绿能科技股份有限公司 Company Name in English LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. Location of Headquarters Xi'an City, Shaanxi province, China Registration Date February 14, 2000 Chairman Zhong Baoshen President Li Zhenguo Stock Exchange Shanghai Stock Exchange Stock Code 601012.SH Abbreviation on Shanghai Stock Exchange LONGi KEY PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2017 2018 2019 Revenue (mln USD) 2310.6 3105.08 4645.62 Net profit attributable to shareholders (mln USD) 503.44 361.23 745.63 basic earnings per share (USD/share) 0.148 0.106 0.208 Total assets (mln USD) 4643.78 5600.53 8374.73 Weighted average Return on Equity(%) 30.14 16.71 23.93 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2018 2019 Clean electricity used in production (kW·h) / 680,883,403 1,757,609,814 Use percentage of renewable energy / 33.61% 49.67% Reuse percentage of water resources / 41.98% 43.20% Major environmental violations 0 0 0 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2018 2019 Total number of employees 17,702 21,056 32,873 Employee training (person-time) 381,914 460,410 Participation Rate of Labor Union 100% 100% 100% 03 / 04 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. China's photovoltaic industry. Currently, LONGi Group is MESSAGE FROM a multinational company with a global workforce of over THE CHAIRMAN 30,000 people, and market value exceeding 14.12 billion USD (¥100 billion). Our undertaking also goes beyond individuals, companies or even the industry. There's an old saying in China that we shall walk with the wise, and work with the kind. , which tells us that we should walk alongside the people with wisdom and kindness on the way forward. We could see a series of issues brought by global climate warming, including rising sea levels, the extinction of species, and extreme weather, which seriously threaten the very survival of humanity and its development. There is no doubt that the most effective way to resolve climate issues is to realize the transition and substitution of traditional energy sources. For our precious earth, which we live on, this is an act of utmost kindness and wisdom. As technology advances ceaselessly, PV power is playing a more outstanding role in effectively improving energy safety, tackling climate change issues and reducing environmental pollution, etc. It is the inevitable choice for a forwardlooking global energy strategy and a goal of sustainable growth to develop photovoltaic power vigorously. In terms In the past year, as the global upsurge of photovoltaic parity of climate change mitigation, solar power, as it becomes on-grid made electricity prices in China and abroad dropped a more economical power source, is sure to become the to a new record low, China's PV industry has stepped into a best choice for balancing between climate change issues, brand new track for high-quality development. For LONGi energy supply, and economic development. In terms of Group, 2019 marked a crucial year for its accelerated global market prospect, with the collective impact of climate expansion and strengthened market competitiveness. The change actions and energy transition, it is expected that company maintained steady operation, which is centered on over 1000 GW of new PV power capacity will be installed creating values for our customers. We actively adapted to the in the next 30 years. While periodic product updates will changes in the market and achieved significant sales growth also bring significant replacement of existing PV products, for major products, and LONGi's overseas market expansion which will become a sustained, multi-thousand-GW-level also achieved remarkable results. In the field of R&D, LONGi market. For technology route, high-efficient monocrystalline continuously broke key world records. The company also PV products will remain mainstream in the market in a launched industry-leading new wafer products and module certain period. There is still room for breakthroughs for the products. We accelerated the capacity expansion to ensure conversion efficiency of monocrystalline PV products. For the supply of high-efficient monocrystalline PV products. It the development strategy of the PV industry, distributed is estimated that by the end of 2020, LONGi will reach 75GW PV stations and household-use PV stations will bring new capacity for wafer and 30GW for module. The ambition, growth with great potential. And the Building-integrated PV expanding LONGi's capacity by one and half times, will products, or BIPV, also have a great prospect. gradually come ture. At the moment, the world energy system is undertaking Over the past 20 years since LONGi first established, we some fundamental changes: electrification of energy started with discovery & exploration to be committed to consumption and cleanliness of power production. This bringing clean energy for humanity with solar technology, trend will be strengthened. The global photovoltaic industry LONGi has witnessed the magnificent development of will continue to maintain good development. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 momentum. The PV industry will embrace the transition We strive to build the common corporate culture and from high-speed growth to high-quality growth. It is the values, to make every team member of LONGi Group technical capability, product quality, and the scale that follow the core value of “reliable, value-added and will determine the future of a company. We firmly believe delighted.” We hope our employees can become reliable that LONGi Group and the PV industry will usher in a more people who do reliable things, produce reliable products, promising future. and offer reliable services. We want to create more value for our customers and, in the meantime, for LONGi's We will continue to create value for our customers as our employees to achieve self-improvement during work. starting point, improve the investment for technology R&D and optimize the company’s innovation mechanism. We With our mission of “Utilizing Solar Power, Building will practice the concept of green manufacturing and build A Green World,” we cherish this rare development a green supply chain. More importantly, we will innovate opportunity. We will join hands with industry partners with our supply chain partners, integrate innovation and cooperate with our stakeholders, to promote the resources and opportunities of the industry to create a early transition of world energy structure. Together, we supply chain eco-system, which will lead the technology contribute to the sustainable development of humanity and improvement and industry upgrade for the whole PV our mother earth! industry. We will continue implementing the management philosophy of “empowerment inspires vitality and enthusiasm.” Through innovation in mechanism and business model, we encourage the transition of mindset of employees to managers, from managers to business Chairman of LONGi Group owners. The company will promote a corporate culture Zhong Baoshen that honors high performance and encourages active learning and enthusiasm, which will help construct the core competitiveness for long-term industry leadership. 05 / 06 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. 01. ABOUT LONGi GROUP PROFILE Over the years, LONGi Group has shown its robust ability in development and sustainable financing, as well as its LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (or LONGi industry-leading profitability and cost-control ability. In Group) was founded in 2000. The company went public on 2019, the Group entered the Fortune China 500 ranking for the Shanghai Stock Exchange in 2012 (SH.601012). LONGi three consecutive years and ranked as 380th. LONGi also is the world's largest manufacturer of solar monocrystalline entered the China's Top 500 Private Enterprises and Top silicon photovoltaic products1. Since its founding, LONGi 500 Manufacturers for the second time. According to the has always focused on the evolution of monocrystalline PHOTON Consulting's LLC Triathlon competitive report, photovoltaic technology, offered high-efficiency LONGi Group has been in the top tier for several quarters monocrystalline solar power solutions for customers all and was ranked as Tier 1 global module supplier by the over the world. The Group has been dedicating itself in BNEF, or Bloomberg New Energy Finance. the research and development, production and sales of monocrystalline silicon ingots, wafers, cells, and modules, as well as the development of photovoltaic power stations. Monocrystalline Monocrystalline Silicon Wafers Cells and Modules Boost production capacity for Offer monocrystalline cells monocrystalline silicon ingots and Modules with lower and wafers, to swiftly respond LCOE and higher costto market demands performance Comprehensive Solar Energy Solution Offer a high-efficient, smart, reliable and profitable one-stop solution for PV power stations Distributed PV Power Station Ground PV Power Station LONGi Group has adhered to the corporate value of Reliable, Value-added, Delighted and continuously provides green energy and excellent services to the society. Relying on the advantages of mass production, a full PV industrial chain, technological innovation, branding, and talents accumulated over a long period of time, LONGi is striving to become a leading solar technology company with great value to the world, to promote the early realization of Parity Era for photovoltaic power, and help more people enjoy photovoltaic green energy. 1Source: IHS Markit, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 BUSINESS LAYOUT The headquarters of LONGi Group is located in Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China. At present, the Group's monocrystalline silicon ingot and wafer production bases are mainly located in Xi'an City in Shaanxi Province, Yinchuan City and Zhongning County in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, Lijiang City, Huaping County, Baoshan City, Tengchong County, Qujing City and Chuxiong City in Yunnan Province, Wuxi City in Jiangsu Province, and Kuching City in Malaysia. The monocrystalline cell and module production bases are mainly located in Taizhou City in Jiangsu Province, Quzhou City and Jiaxing City in Zhejiang Province, Hefei City, and Chuzhou City in Anhui LONGi's business layout in 2019 Province, Yinchuan City in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, Xi'an City and Xianyang City in Shaanxi Province, Datong LONGi Group's Headquarter City in Shanxi Province, and Kuching City in Malaysia. LONGi Wafer Business headquarter The Group has carried out PV power station development LONGi Solar Business Unit business and provided systematic solutions in multiple the LONGi Clean Energy Business Headquarter locations at home and abroad, establishing a global Xi'an Wafer Slicing Factory marketing network of monocrystalline PV products. the LONGi New Energy Business Headquarter Xi'an Wafer Slicing Factory Domestic Production Base Yinchuan Monocrystalline Factory Yinchuan Module Factory Yinchuan Cell Factory Hefei Cell Factory Zhongning Monocrystalline Factory Taizhou Cell Factory Taizhou Module Factory Wuxi Wafer Slicing Factory Quzhou Module Factory Tuzhou Module Factory Baoshan Monocrystalline Factory, Yunnan Datong Module Factory ChuxiongCity Wafer Slicing Factory lijiang Monocrystalline Factory，Yunnan Huaping Monocrystalline Factory, Yunnan(under construction) LONGi's business layout in 2019 Xianyang Wafer Slicing Factory(under construction) Global Sales Network This report mainly covers LONGi Group's headquarters, Korea Japan USA India Germany LONGi Wafer Business Unit, LONGi Solar Business Unit Singapore Australia Africa Malaysia and their major affiliated factories that were in production Overseas Production Base and operation during the reporting period. It also covers Kuching Production Base, Malaysia(the whole industry chain) the photovoltaic power station projects developed and Andhra Pradesh Production Base, India（under construction） constructed by the LONGi Clean Energy Business Unit and the LONGi New Energy Business Unit. The information of the enterprises covered in the report is listed below: 07 / 08 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. Table 1-1 Introduction of major enterprises included in LONGi 2019 Social Responsibility Report UNIT NAME ABBREVIATIONS REGISTERED NAME LOCATION NOTES LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Ltd. HEADQUARTER LONGi Group Xi'an, Shaanxi Parent Company *The name was changed in February 2017 Xi 'an, Shaanxi Parent Company's Xi'an Wafer Slicing Factory LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Province Slicing Factory Ningxia LONGi Ningxia LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Zhongning, Ningxia Subsidiary Yinchuan LONGi Yinchuan LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Yinchuan, Ningxia Subsidiary LONGI WAFER BUSINESS UNIT Baoshan LONGi Baoshan LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Baoshan, Yunnan Subsidiary Chuxiong LONGi Chuxiong LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Chuxiong, Yunnan Subsidiary Lijiang LONGi Lijiang LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Huaping, Yunnan Subsidiary Wuxi LONGi Wuxi LONGi Silicon Material Co., Ltd. Wuxi, Jiangsu Subsidiary LONGi Solar Photovoltaic Technology LONGi Solar Xi 'an, Shaanxi Subsidiary Co., Ltd Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Taizhou, Jiangsu Branch Factory Module Factory Technology Co., Ltd Module Factory Yinchuan LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Yinchuan LONGi SOLAR Yinchuan, Ningxia Branch Factory Technology Co., Ltd Zhejiang LONGi SOLAR Zhejiang LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Quzhou, Zhejiang Branch Factory Technology Co., Ltd LONGI SOLAR Xi'an LONGi SOLAR LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Technology BUSINESS UNIT Xi 'an, Shaanxi Module Factory Co., Ltd Module Factory Branch Factory Datong LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Datong LONGi SOLAR Datong, Shanxi Branch Factory Technology Co., Ltd Chuzhou LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Chuzhou LONGi SOLAR Chuzhou, Anhui Branch Factory Technology Co., Ltd Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Cell Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Taizhou, Jiangsu Branch Cell Factory Factory Technology Co., Ltd Hefei LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Hefei LONGi SOLAR Hefei, Anhui Branch Cell Factory Technology Co., Ltd Ningxia LONGi SOLAR Ningxia LONGi SOLAR Photovoltaic Yinchuan, Ningxia Branch Cell Factory Technology Co., Ltd KUCHING LONGi LONGi(KUCHING)SDN.BHD. Malaysia Overseas LONGI CLEAN ENERGY LONGi Clean Energy Xi'an LONGi Clean Energy Co., Ltd Xi 'an, Shaanxi Subsidiary BUSINESS UNIT LONGI NEW ENERGY LONGi New Energy Xi'an LONGi New Energy Co., Ltd Xi 'an, Shaanxi Subsidiary BUSINESS UNIT * P.S. The data in this table was collected before December 2019, and only covers the enterprises mentioned in this report. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 LONGi BRANDING cooperative attitude; Respect the employees and attach importance to sharing and communication; Devoted to creating With the vision of becoming A Solar Technology Company a trustworthy and inclusive atmosphere of a “LONGi Family”. with Great Value to the World, LONGi Group undertakes the Respect parties of interest and be candid and friendly. mission of “Utilizing Solar Energy, Building A Green World”. LONGi Group is positioned as a company with sustainable solar technology and wishes to develop its brand image as Stable and Reliable with leading technology . VISION A Solar Technology Company with Great Value to the World With Great Value to the World: Provide customers with value-added products and services, provide employees with a platform with the most career growth possibility, and create the best investment value for The Brand Pyramid of LONGi shareholders. LONGi Group's founder team named the brand after Mr. Jiang A Solar Technology Company: Longji, who is the former headmaster of Lanzhou University, Build a solar technology industry-leading brand through the founding members' alma mater. Mr. Jiang is also a innovation and keeping products and services one step ahead respected and renowned educator in China. The brand of of others . LONGi is a tribute to Mr. Jiang and his legacy. LONGi believes MISSION that education promotes scientific and technological progress, thus creating better living conditions for the humankind. Utilizing Solar Energy, Building A Green World According to the 2019 China Brand Evaluation Report by We devote to the China Council for Brand Development, LONGi's brand Becoming a promoter of global energy transition and help with value rose to ¥12.577 billion ($1.776 bln). From the ¥250 the way that human access to energy. Becoming the paradigm million ($35.31 mln) first evaluated in 2015 to ¥12.577 of solar technology, creating greater value for customers' billion ($1.776 bln) this year, the brand value of LONGi investments. Promoting the ecological restoration, and increased by ¥7.891 billion ($1.114 bln), up 168.40% from creating a greener planet for future generations. last year. LONGi'S VALUE Reliable Offer reliable products and services for customers; Be a company that is worthy of the trust from customers, employees and other parties of interest; Be a reliable person. Value-added Create the most cost-effective products and services with great value addition for the customers; Bring continuous progress for the employees; Continuously create value for other parties of interest. LONGi's brand value (100 mln RMB/ or 14.12 mln USD) Delighted Care about the feelings of the customers and get along with LONGi's Brand Value Growth (in RMB) customers with the modest, respectful, friendly and 09 / 10 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. EVENTS OF THE YEAR Photovoltaic Module Brand Bankability Report of 2019 Q1 & 2018 Q4 , and LONGi Group ranked the first in BNEF January Altman-Z among all solar module manufacturers. On January 16, LONGi monocrystalline bifacial PERC cell was On June 29, LONGi Group was listed in the 2019 ranking of 50 tested by the China Photovoltaic Products Test Center (CPVT). Smartest Companies (TR50) by the MIT Technology Review. The front-side conversion efficiency reached 24.06%, which was the first time that the conversion efficiency of commercialJuly size PERC cells exceeds 24%. This achievement broke a On July 10, the Fortune magazine officially released the list of technology bottleneck at 24%-conversion efficiency, making the top 500 Chinese companies in 2019. LONGi Group ranked LONGi once again the world-record holder. Before this, 380th on the list. LONGi has continuously improved the conversion efficiency of August PERC cells and modules for many times and has maintained On August 22, the All-China Federation of Industry & its leading technical edge globally in the solar industry. Commerce (ACFIC) and the Qinghai Provincial Government March held the 2019 China Top 500 Private Enterprises Summit in On March 12, LONGi's Yinchuan Subsidiary was certified Xining City. LONGi Group ranked 397th among China's Top as the Enterprise Technology Center of the Ningxia Hui 500 Private Enterprises and 232nd among China's Top 500 Autonomous Region . This marks the 6th technology center Private Manufacturers . It was also the second consecutive certification at the national/provincial level for LONGi Group. year that LONGi Group was listed in the China Top 500 April Private Enterprises , rising 76 spots in the ranking from the previous year. On April 16, LONGi Group successfully issued a ¥3.9-billion ($550.85 mln) share allotment, with recognition rate as high as On August 27, PV-Tech released the PV ModuleTech 99.54% this marked a new record of recognition for A-share Bankability Ratings Report. LONGi Group was one of only four listed companies since 2011. companies that got AA rating (the highest level) in the sector. May September On May 9, the China Council for Brand Development released From September 4 to 6, the 2019 Fortune Global Sustainability the China Brand Value Evaluation Report , and LONGi's brand Forum was held near the Fuxian Lake in Yuxi City of Yunnan value rose to a record high of ¥12.577 billion ($1.776 bln). Province. Mr. Zhong Baoshen, Chairman of LONGi Group, was invited to attend the event and joined in the dialogue at the On May 16, at the Intersolar Europe in Munich, LONGi plenary session and panel discussion themed The Future of launched the new generation module products Hi-MO4, Green Energy. with front-side efficiency reaching 430W. After that, LONGi unveiled the high efficient shingled PERC module Hi-MO X From September 9 to 12, LONGi Group's President Li Zhenguo to the global market. The new product was widely recognized was invited to attend the World Energy Congress (WEC). At by the market. the event, Mr. Li shared his insights and respond to many people's concerns about the cost, intermittency of solar power On May 31, LONGi launched the seamless soldering and products available in the future. His remarks help the technique, which could raise the front side efficiency of its guests of the WEC understand the enormous value and great bifacial PERC module to 500.5W, breaking the world record. potential of the photovoltaic industry. June On September 12, the Ministry of Industry and Information On June 4, at the SNEC PV POWER EXPO 2019, LONGi Technology (MIIT) released China's list of green manufacturers launched a large-size M6 silicon wafer with a margin of 166 for the fourth time, with LONGi's Yinchuan subsidiary included. mm. This is considered as the optimal size for its compatibility This is LONGi Group's second factory that is honored as a with the existing production lines and the levelized cost of National Green Factory. energy (LCOE). On June 19, Bloomberg New Energy Finance released the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 November SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On November 18, Mr. Li Zhenguo, President of LONGi, was MANAGEMENT invited to attend the Fortune Global Forum. Mr. Li said that the photovoltaic industry could provide a feasible solution to LONGi Group always aims at promoting sustainable balance economic development and global warming. development and attaches importance to corporate social responsibilities. The Board of Directors gives priority to the December subject of sustainable development, and the company's From December 3 to 13, LONGi participated in multiple events management team set up a Committee on Social at the 25th UN Climate Change Conference and released Responsibility Development. Such arrangement can promote China PV Outlook 2050 . The report predicts solar energy will LONGi's social responsibility efforts in an orderly manner. become a major source of electricity for China in the future, which will help China and the world in curbing climate change COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS and realizing sustainable development. On December 9, LONGi announced it had achieved 21.65% LONGi understands that the value it gained comes from the conversion efficiency for the front side of its Type 60 bifacial company's multiple stakeholders, including the customers, PERC module, setting a new world record. staff, shareholders & investors, suppliers, government & regulatory departments, NGOs, local communities, and the On December 25, LONGi Group was listed in SSE50 Index. public. Through internal discussions and expert consultation, As of the end of 2019, LONGi Group has been listed in MSCI, referring to the industry standard, the Group has identified FTSE Russell, S&P Dow Jones Indices, SSE Constituent its key stakeholders and been in active engagement with Index, CSI 300, among other key indices. them. The Group's relevant functional departments carry out scheduled or unscheduled activities for communication, to continuously understand the expectations. And the Group actively invites these stakeholders to participate in discussions on the issues related to LONGi's social responsibilities. Table 1-2 Means of Communication between LONGi Group and its Key Stakeholders Key Stakeholders Expectations from Stakeholders Means of Communication & Activities Reliable and Efficient Products; Customer Receptions; Release Event for New Products; Exhibition; Customers Good Services Technology Seminar; 400 Service Platform; Satisfaction Survey Career Development; Staff Congress & Labor Union; Training & Education; Employer's Brand; LONGi Staff Health and Safety; Happy Family WeChat Official Account; Complaint Report Mini Wechat App; Pleasant Working Environment Staff Activities; Staff Club Business Performance Briefing; Return on Investment; Shareholders & Investors Communication with Investors; Investor Hotline; Shareholders' Meeting; Financial Stability and Health Annual Reports and Announcements; On-site/Field Research Green Supply Chain; Supplier Training; Supplier Environment Evaluation; Supplier E-portal Website; Suppliers Win-win Cooperation; Collaboration & Innovation Supplier Conference; Supplier Code of Conduct ;Overt Under the Sunlight Business Environment with No Corruption Government and Regulatory Operation with Compliance; Industry Development Departments Policy Recommendations Participate and become members of trade associations, academic institutions and Non-governmental Environmental Protection; think tanks; Open environmental-protection facilities of the enterprise to the public; Organizations Promote Sustainable Development Active communication; Project Cooperation Environmental Safety; Support Community Activities; Sustainable Development Projects; Communities Promote Community Development Participate in Public Welfare Activities as a Community Member Improve People's Livelihood; Volunteer Activities; Charities and Donations; The Public Charity Poverty Alleviation; Media Briefings 11 / 12 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. Through participating in different domestic and international Name Position associations and organizations with strategic initiatives, the company builds strong ties with the organizations and All-China Environment Federation Vice Chairman partners, focusing on global photovoltaic industry development, environmental protection, and sustainable development. China Enterprise Anti-Fraud Alliance Member Table 1-3 List of Key Associations and Organizations China Business Climate Action Member LONGi joined Name Position * P.S. 1. The data in this table was collected before December 2019; 2. The organizations in this table are in no particular order Semiconductor Equipment and Member Materials International SolarPower Europe Board Member CUSTOMER SERVICE Solar Energy Industries Association Member LONGi always focuses on creating value for customers, Asociación Nacional de Productores offering customers with high value-added products Member de Energía Fotovoltaica and services. The company is dedicated to continuous improvement and pursues reliable quality to achieve customer American Solar Energy Society Member satisfaction. LONGi is committed to creating a green, beautiful United Nations Global Compact Signatory Corporate home for mankind together with its customers. International Forum on Clean Energy Vice Chairman The company has established a 400 Hotline Operation China New Energy Chamber of Center at the group headquarters, and it integrates various Chairperson Commerce China Photovoltaic Industry Vice Chairman Association China Electronics Materials Industry Executive Director Association China Electrionics Mateirals industry Association, Semiconductor Material Vice Chairman Committee China Association of Circular Economy, Renewable Energy Special Vice Chairman Committee China Industrial Energy Conservation and Clean Production Association, Member Green Factory Special Committee Photovoltaic Committee of China Member Renewable Energy Society Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Member Organization China Chamber of Commerce for Member Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 customer-service platforms, including the 400 hotline, increasing by 1.82 points compared with 91.1 in 2018. In the HQ reception, official e-mails, message from the 2019, the company conducted a survey on the customer website as well as the online inquiry platforms on WeChat satisfaction rate for the EPC Project at the LONGi New and Weibo, China's twitter-like service. This platform Energy BU, with the score reaching 93.6. integrates the group's customer service resources and All employees in positions that have access to is aimed for better customer satisfaction. The 400 hotline customer information are subject to strict confidentiality provides customers with authenticity checking service requirements. LONGi has designated a special task force for LONGi's products, providing protection to customers' to manage customer profiles, and they conduct regular legitimate rights and interests. The group requires confidentiality training for sales team members. It is strictly the business departments to respond to customers' prohibited to disclose customer data. In 2019, the company requests or inquiries within 24 hours. If certain business received no complaints or lawsuits related to the leak of departments cannot respond in time under special customer information. circumstances, they must inform the customers on a specific timeline for response. The 400 Hotline Operation Center is responsible for the routine follow-up calls with LIGHT UP THE ISOLATED AREAS WITHOUT customers, with the overall satisfaction rate reaching ELECTRICITY 99.2%, and the rate of timely response from business departments stands at 97.4%. LONGi is also committed From 2018, LONGi New Energy Business Unit has started to continuous improvement in its customer service working to build PV projects. In May 2019, Gong Fangtao, procedures in accordance with customers' advice. Manager of LONGi New Energy BU's Micro-grid R&D Department, and He Wangbin, an engineer of the department, went to Gaize County in Ali Region to help local Tibetans install 1,000 sets of household solar energy systems and provide technical guidance. Mr. Gong and Mr. He have travelled to Tibet for many times, but as they departed from Xi'an City, 400 meters above sea level, to Gaize County, 4,500 meters above sea level, the two employees suffered altitude sickness and had to take oxygen. While the customers were located in six towns across Gaize County, making the task very difficult, and they had to borrow an oxygen cylinder to carry on their task. LONGi employees explaining to local Tibetans on how to LONGi 400 Hotline Operation Center conduct maintenance on PV power stations Since 2017, the Group has been conducting customer In four days, LONGi employees overcame altitude sickness satisfaction surveys. In 2019, the overall customer and many other difficulties. They traveled to towns locate as satisfaction for LONGi Solar BU reached 92.92, high as 6,000 meters above sea level and remote 13 / 14 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. towns locate over 200 kilometers away from the county according to the customers' needs, such as helping the center.The two employees started installing PV equipment customers to store modules or speeding up the logistics. right after they arrived at the customers' houses. They LONGi's flexible service has impressed the partners explained to the locals how to operate the system. They and customers with care and reliability. In addition, also recorded a video while explaining, so that locals LONGi's bankability and the international team's excellent could conduct daily maintenance of the system after their communication skills have won appreciation as well. departure. LONGi staff's services and devotion have won recognition and appreciation from the local government, companies, and Tibetan residents. The oxygen cylinders on their car showcased their hardships on the snowy Tibetan plateau, as well as LONGi staff's perseverance and responsible attitude to customers. Belgian partner introducing the project to President Li Zhenguo LONGi Solar Power Stations on the Tibetan Plateau LONGi PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO CUSTOMERS In November 2019, a LONGi's team led by President Li Zhenguo paid visits to LONGi's customers in Belgium. The President Li Zhenguo and Belgian partners at the photovoltaic parking lot team visited the Your Nature Eco Resort located in the Fouage Forest Reserve and Pairi Daiza. Your Nature is Europe's Whether at home or abroad, LONGi has always aimed at largest ecological resort, with 100% environmentally friendly satisfying customers' needs. LONGi is a company that grew construction and design concept, which perfectly matches up in a complete market environment. Only by putting the LONGi's Solar For Solar concept. Pairi Daiza, one of the most needs of customers first and serving the customers with the famous Zoo and botanical garden in Europe, is scheduled to higher standard can LONGi stand out in the fierce competition complete the construction of the world's largest PV parking lot in the industry. The on-site visit allows LONGi to better at the beginning of 2020. Equipped with LONGi's 62,750 highunderstand customers' needs, and LONGi will provide services efficiency monocrystalline modules, this green energy project with more specific solutions. marks another Chinese Name Card for the zoo, after the Chinese garden and the giant pandas. COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS During the visit, the Belgian partners said LONGi's products are most impressive for their reliability, stability, and high LONGi Group attaches great importance to the management quality, adding that LONGi's flexibility in services has been and maintenance of investor relations. LONGi maintains very considerate and heart-warming for partners. In this interaction and communication with the capital market through project, LONGi has always tried its best to adjust the services various methods such as the investor hotline, the interactive platform, performance briefings, and site visits, etc. LONGi also CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 maintains frequent and active exchanges with minority The environmental protection organizations and media shareholders, including a special session for minority attending the tour shared their observations, witnessed the shareholders at the shareholders' meeting and shareholder important role the photovoltaic industry played in environmental receptions. Through these activities, minority shareholders protection, and expressed confidence that clean energy can better understand LONGi's business performance and such as solar power will be key to transform the ecology on industry trends. Earth. The group also offered suggestions on environmental protection during manufacturing, disclosure and certification of environmental protection data, as well as environmental management for partners in the supply chain. In 2019, LONGi also strengthened exchanges and cooperation with renowned environmental protection organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF). LONGi attended the 7th Shenzhen International Low Carbon City Forum organized by WWF Beijing Office, also the sub-forum Shenzhen x Lancang-Mekong River Investors' Meeting during 2019 SNEC EXPO Cities. The group joins EDF's internship program named Climate Corps, and jointly held the 2019 Earth Hour events COMMUNICATION WITH ENVIRONMENTAL in Vietnam. At the 4th Xi'an International Environmental PROTECTION ORGANIZATIONS Protection Industry Exposition, or the EP Expo, LONGi worked with the Environmental-Protection Publicity and Education As LONGi's business develops rapidly, the company has Center of Shaanxi Province and delivered a Photovoltaics continuously strengthened its awareness of environmental Science Popularization Exhibition to the public, increasing the protection, and firmly followed the path of green development. In public's understanding on the PV industry. 2019, LONGi strengthened communications with environmental protection organizations and media by inviting them to visit the group. LONGi also carefully listened to suggestions from environmental protection organizations. From June 24 to June 26, the All-China Environment Federation (ACEF) held the 2019 Photovoltaic Environmental Protection Trip , inviting representatives from nearly 20 organizations and media reporters from across China to visit LONGi Group. They visited LONGi's headquarters, factories, and power stations, and had in-depth discussions on solar energy and environmental protection with the group's EHS, suppliers and brandingLONGi participating in 2019 WWF Earth Hour in Vietnam management units. Environment NGO and media visit LONGi Explaining LONGi's projects to the public 15 / 16 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. ANALYSIS ON SUBSTANTIAL SUBJECTS Based on discussions with stakeholders and consultation with ( GRI ) Standards (2016), UN Sustainable Development Goals experts, and refer to the industry research reports, LONGi (SDGs), and Guidelines of the Shanghai Stock Exchange confirms the substantial subjects of social responsibilities in this Listed Companies Information Disclosure. Here are the issues report. The report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative disclosed and elaborated in this report. Sustainable Substantial Subjects Coverage Development Fields Economy Economic performance Market performance Anti-corruption The whole group Energy Water Exhaust gas emissions Sewage and waste The whole group, Environment Environmental compliance Environment assessment on suppliers not including LONGi Kuching Employment Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunities Anti-discrimination Society Freedom of association and collective bargaining The whole group Child labor Forced or compelled labor Local communities Customer privacy Social-economic compliance LONGi AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a series of new universally-agreed development goals, which define the global vision and priorities for 2030 and create unprecedented opportunities for promoting global LONGi actively responds to the United Nations 2030 Agenda sustainable development. on Sustainable Development Goals. LONGi recognizes that participation in and implementation of SDGs can not only promote global governance but also can gain development opportunities. LONGi combines SDGs with the company's business values, and identifies the importance and meaning of the relevant SDGs to the Group. That is how LONGi develops its social responsibility strategy and promotes it. In September 2019, LONGi Group signed an agreement to join the United Nations Global Compact and become a Signatory Corporate. LONGi will join hands with many stakeholders, so that all sectors can share the solution to implement and solve the UNSDGs. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 02. TECHNOLOGY THAT LEADS PHOTOVOLTAICS THE FUTURE R&D SYSTEM 29th International Photovoltaics Science and Engineering Conference and the 18th China Photovoltaic Conference, LONGi Group believes in creating value for its customers, with its innovation breakthrough in monocrystalline PV and we continuously pay attention to customers' needs. technology, LONGi R&D team won the special achievement We firmly believe that technological innovation is the core award . President Li Zhenguo received the prize on behalf element for maintaining growth. The group has always of the R&D team. attached great importance to technological innovation, and increases investment in R&D. LONGi is committed to promoting the technical upgrading of the photovoltaic industry, and create sustainable photovoltaic technologies. Since the company went public in 2012, LONGi Group has invested, by the end of 2019, ¥5.288 billion ($746.76 mln) in R&D, ranking first in the industry. In 2019, the Group invested ¥1.677 billion ($236.82 mln) in R&D, accounting for 5.1% of its revenue. The Group had obtained 241 patents in 2019, and by the end of the reporting period, the Group had acquired 702 patents in various fields. The group's R&D LONGi R&D team won the special contribution award at the PVSEC-29 Conference efforts on crystal pulling, slicing, cells, modules, equipment, and digitalization are making progress as planned. The In 2019, LONGi Taizhou's Module Lab successfully passed company now has sufficient reserve of new technologies the Efficient Photovoltaic Module Photoelectric Parameter and products. Measurement Proficiency Test. The test is carried out LONGi launched a first-class photovoltaic technology by China's National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and the center in China, which is certified as the national-level China Quality Certification Center. The lab is certified as enterprise-based technology center. The technology a CNAS Proficiency Testing Provider (China National center covers the R&D of the technology industry Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment, PT0037) application research on monocrystalline pulling, slicing, in accordance with the 2017 CNCA (China's certification and cleaning & packaging, cells & modules, as well as a trial accreditation administration) Proficiency Verification Plan manufacturing line using integrated full-process production. (Item 47, Category C). A number of LONGi's high-efficiency LONGi has established a well-developed technology monocrystalline PERC modules have been certified R&D and cooperation platform involving manufacturers, accordingly. Taizhou's Module Lab had been certified by academic institutions, and research centers. LONGi Group both TUV Rhein Lab and CNAS (certificate number: L11419), is making joint efforts with world-renowned universities it's now a laboratory with dual accreditation qualifications in and enterprises such as DuPont, 3M, Peking University the photovoltaic industry. The laboratory has participated in and the University of New South Wales to explore leading the verification tests on high temperature, low temperature, technologies in the industry. By the end of 2019, LONGi and photoelectric performance. All test results got Group and its subsidiaries Ningxia LONGi, Taizhou Satisfactory verification. This ensures the test accuracy LONGi, and Quzhou LONGi were respectively certified as and reliability of LONGi high-efficiency modules, thus “Provincial Enterprise Technology Centers” of Shaanxi promoting the rapid improvement of LONGi products' quality Province, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, Jiangsu and competitiveness. Province, and Zhejiang Province. At the 17 / 18 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. the world's largest monocrystalline products manufacturer. LONGi encapsulates the bifacial glass to the back of its monocrystalline cells, enabling its solar modules to generate power on both sides. LONGi's products can be installed on various locations, such as wasteland, sand ground, cement roofs and even building surfaces to boost solar power generation. Being included in the TR50 suggests the enterprise is a front-runner in the industry and leading the direction of innovation. It is a list of companies showing the future business landscape. Module Testing Center of LONGi Taizhou Base It is LONGi's continuous fast-speed R&D and high-quality and reliable products that support the fast development of overseas market. LONGi Kuching's Module Lab is the company's first lab established outside China. On June 21, 2019, UL American Underwriters Laboratories, a third-party testing and certification organization, issued LONGi a WTDP (Witness Testing Data Program) laboratory qualification that complies with UL1703 international standards and UL recognition rules. This marks the third such lab receiving certification after LONGi's laboratories in Quzhou City and LONGi listed in the TR50 rank of MIT Technology Review . Taizhou City. It strongly proves LONGi's product quality management and laboratory testing capabilities, and PHOTOVOLTAIC PRODUCTS greatly reduces the time wasted during samples delivering INNOVATION and testing, which is of great significance for improving the As a technology-driven enterprise, LONGi always regards company's product certification efficiency and enhancing technological innovation and breakthroughs as the core product market competitiveness. engine for growth. Equipped with the world's leading R&D, technical and quality-control systems, LONGi maintains its focus on the R&D and production of monocrystalline products. LONGi has continuously invested considerably in funding the R&D of the entire monocrystalline industrial chain. LONGi's monocrystalline cells and module technologies have repeatedly broke world records. Regarding silicon ingots and wafers, the Group has achieved initial success on product quality improvement and energy conservation, and promoted such application in different factories. LONGi is working with equipment manufacturers to LONGi Kuching Lab obtained WTDP Qualification develop tailored equipment and decrease the cost of equipment and prolong the lifespan of equipment. LONGi is promoting the LONGi's technological innovation capability is also recognized digitalization, automation and smart level of its production lines by the science and technology sector. On June 29, 2019, the to lower the cost on human labor. MIT Technology Review magazine announced the 2019 50 Smartest Companies (TR50) list in Hangzhou. LONGi was On cells and modules, LONGi has been focusing on the included for its continuous innovation and breakthrough in improvement of quality and efficiency. The Group has photovoltaic technology. The comments from the TR50 for successfully developed the third generation of PERC cells, LONGi's listing at the awarding ceremony was LONGi is increasing the conversion efficiency of mono facial/bifacial cells CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 by more than 0.3%. In 2019, driven by non-stop and high level of R&D investment, LONGi continuously refreshed the world records in key technical indicators of the industry and has maintained its role as a Record Breaker in the sector. On January 16, LONGi set another world record with its monocrystalline PERC cell conversion rate reaching 24.06%. On May 7, LONGi's type-72 bifacial half-cut module has refreshed the world record with the front side power reaching 450.363W. On May 31, LONGi launched the seamless molding technology, which eliminates all spacing between LONGi New Products Released at Shanghai SNEC EXPO cells to improve conversion efficiency. Such technology pushed the front-side efficiency of bifacial PERC to 500.5W, PROMOTE GREEN TRANSITION setting a new world record. This new record was tested and The fast development of PV technologies has made PV verified by renowned certification agency TUV-SUD. power the most economic energy source in many areas across the globe. LONGi is actively promoting the energy transition, in order to offer a feasible solution for the dilemma between economic growth and climate change, to help with the global green transformation. TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP BASE The Photovoltaic Technology Leadership Base is an important demonstration project for China to promote the development of photovoltaic technologies, industry LONGi's Seamless Solding Technology upgrading, market application, and cost reduction. In 2018, LONGi Clean Energy Business Unit successfully won the bid In 2019, at Intersolar Photovoltaic Exhibition in Munich and of Yijun County, Tongchuan City of Shaanxi Province and the SNEC-2019 exhibition in Shanghai, LONGi respectively Licheng County in Changzhi City of Shanxi Province. The two launched M6 Wafer, a highly efficient, reliable, and costbases have connected to the power grid and been put into effective product and Hi-MO4, a new generation of module operation in 2019. product. On May 16, LONGi unveiled Hi-MO 4 Moudule on the opening day of the Intersolar Photovoltaic Exhibition in Munich, Europe's largest and most influential solar technology exhibition. Released together with Hi-MO4 was an brand new, all-black series module RealBlack. Designed with the advantages of good looks, high power, and high reliability , RealBlack is available for rooftop PV applications. On June 4, at the SNEC-2019 exhibition, LONGi launched a large-size wafer with a margin of 166 mm, which is the most optimal wafer size based on the current production line compatibility and the levelized cost of energy (LCOE). In August 2019, LONGi LONGi Tongchuan PV Power Technology Leadership Base released Hi-MO X, a mono PERC solar panel featuring a shingled layout. Shingle solar panels are modules comprised LONGi Tongchuan Photovoltaic Technology Leadership of multiple thin overlapping solar cells. LONGi's continuous Project has a total installed capacity of 250MWp. It adopts a efforts in satisfying the global market demands for highsolution named LONGi Smart PRO+, equipped with LONGi efficiency PV products have promoted the progress of lowmonocrystalline Type-P PERC shingled bifacial modules. This cost power supply. is to make sure that the leadership project can apply LONGi's 19 / 20 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. leading technology and products. The project is also equipped 2019, the 14th Global Forum on Human Settlements were with smart bifacial inverters, targeting tracking system, and held in Addis Ababa, Capital of Ethiopia. The forum was jointly energy storage system, to maximize power generation and hosted by the Global Forum on Human Settlement, the United achieve the optimal performance of the system efficiency. Nations Economic Commission for Africa and the International It is estimated that the total power generation in 25 years is Telecommunication Union. LONGi President Li Zhenguo was 8,749,542,600 kW·h, and the average annual power generation honored and awarded the Outstanding Contribution Award on is 349,981,700 kW·h, which could meet the power demand of Global Human Settlements for LONGi's long-time contribution about 250,000 urban and rural households. This is equivalent in improving human living conditions using PV technologies, to saving about 120,000 tons of coal consumption, reducing about 360,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions and 1,600 tons of soot emissions. The project also functions as a site for sightseeing, technology exhibition and targeted povertyalleviation, while serving as a demonstration base that promotes technological progress of the PV industry. IMPROVE LIVING ENVIRONMENT The Opening Ceremony of the 14th Global Forum on Human Settlements With the development of distributed photovoltaics and the innovative application of energy storage technology, the future PV DEVELOPMENT OUTLOOK energy consumption model will undergo significant changes: PRACTICING SOLAR FOR SOLAR CONCEPT Electric power dispatching and trading will be smarter, which can better satisfy different power demands. In 2019, LONGi At the 24th United Nations Climate Change Conference in promoted Building Integrated PV, or BIPV. At least 3 billion 2018, LONGi Group unveiled the Solar for Solar concept, kilowatts of additional PV installations are expected. Models that PV manufacturing could be powered by PV-generated including solar + storage integration and sharing, as well as power. To do so, LONGi advocates that the PV manufacturing virtual power plants, will reshape the energy consumption for industrial chain can be deployed in coastal areas where households and commercial sector. sunlight is abundant, and the terrain differences can be used for pumped hydro storage. This could make it possible that PV products manufacturing can be powered by solar power. Furthermore, abundant solar energy can also be used in the desalination of seawater to be used in irrigation in desert areas, which will green the deserts and restore ecology to eventually achieve negative carbon emission development on our planet. LONGi will continue its committement, by implementing the Solar for Solar concept, to achieve zerocarbon PV products manufacturing using clearn energy. Currently, LONGi has practiced such concepts in Yunnan Province of China and Kuching in Malaysia. The company has also made efforts to explore how to combine PV power station Solar+Storage Application Scenarios in the Future with desert-control, which has achieved great results. Photovoltaics could provide clean and renewable energy On July 27, 2019, the 7th Kubuqi International Desert Forum for social development and it plays an important role in was held in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China. The realizing emission reduction and curbing global warming. It forum is the world's only multilateral forum with the theme is increasingly important in sustainable development and on the prevention and control of desertification. President improving human living conditions, especially to developing Li Zhenguo was invited to attend the forum and shared his countries and underdeveloped countries. On September 5 to 6, opinion on how to use PV products in helping CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 mitigate desertification and how solar power can further UN Climate Change Conference since LONGi re-positioned help improve the ecology on Earth. He also elaborated on PV's role in the fight against climate change with the idea of the application of the Solar For Solar model regarding Solar for Solar . desertification prevention and control. President Li Zhenguo believes that one of the core issues of greening the deserts is water supply. In the past, one of the barriers is massive water supply powered by fossil energy would result in a great deal of carbon emission. While driven by technological progress, the cost of PV power has reduced significantly. Photovoltaic power generation will gradually become the most economical energy source in most parts of the world. The combination of PV power generation and energy storage can fully meet the needs of large-scale water diversion projects to green the deserts, with no carbon emission. LONGi held press conference at the COP25 According to the report, factors including system efficiency improvement, thanks to technological advancements, will lead to the rapid reduction in cost of photovoltaic power generation. The cost advantage of photovoltaic power generation will become increasingly obvious in the future. By 2025, the photovoltaic power generation will be one of the most economical renewable energy technologies. By 2050, PV-generated solar power will become China's LONGi module products for Kubuqi desertification control project with PV largest source of electricity, accounting for nearly 40% of the country's overall electricity consumption. It is estimated that human energy needs can be satisfied if 1% of the global desert area to be deployed for PV power generation. And when 70% of the earth's desert areas transformed to oases, all carbon emissions generated by human activities can be absorbed. This is the ultimate goal of LONGi's Solar for Solar A Negative Carbon Emission Planet concept. China PV in 2050 Trends on power generation cost of different power On December 12, 2019, at the 25th United Nations Climate generation technologies (2020-2050) Change Conference in Madrid, Spain, LONGi Group, along with the Energy Research Institute of China's National Development The report predicts that from the 14th Five-Year Plan and Reform Commission (NDRC) and Shaanxi Coal Chemical period (2020-2025), China's PV deployment will start to Industry Group Co., Ltd., jointly released the China PV Outlook accelerate. From 2025 to 2035, China's PV industry will 2050 report. This is the very first time that a private renewable enter a period of large-scale and accelerated deployment. company, as a key participant, develops a report on a specific In 2025 and 2035, China's total installed PV power country for its clean energy technology outlook. At the UN generation capacity will reach 730GW and 3,000GW, press conference room, LONGi further explained the China PV respectively. By 2050, this figure will reach 5,000GW, with Outlook 2050 report, and livestreamed on the official website the consequence of PV solar power to be China's largest of UN Climate Change Conference. This is the second time that source of electricity, accounting for about 40% of the LONGi spoke at the country's total electricity consumption. 21 / 22 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. 03. ENVIRONMENT GREEN MANUFACTURING promoted the localization and industrialization of the diamond wires and the relevant supply chain. With LONGi's efforts, As LONGi Group strives to make low-cost clean energy China's PV industry stepped into the diamond wire era. possible for the world, the group also practices the concept of clean production and green manufacturing. The company PRODUCTION WITH RENEWABLE also aims to shoulder greater responsibilities for global ELECTRICITY sustainable development with green manufacturing. LONGi has always been practicing the concept of “using LEAD THE INDUSTRY INTO THE DIAMOND clean energy to produce clean energy products.” In 2015, the WIRE ERA” group began to work on projects in China’s Yunnan Province and Malaysia’s Kuching, where hydropower was abundant and cheap. Using hydropower, LONGi produces PV products, including the monocrystalline silicon ingots, wafers, cells, and modules with lower production cost. These solar products can generate more clean power across the globe, becoming the important amplifier of clean power. Three LONGi factories in Yunnan Province and the factory in Malaysia are using renewable energy close to 100%. LONGi has also installed solar power systems on the roof of Wuxi LONGi and Taizhou LONGi LERRI Module Factory to increase the percentage of clean energy in overall energy use. In October 2019, LONGi applied to join the Global Initiative RE100 and committed to using 100% renewable power across its entire global operations by 2028. PROMOTING A GREEN LIFE CYCLE FOR PRODUCTS LONGi has guided the suppliers to take environmental issues during the products' life cycle into consideration when supplying materials and designing equipment. LONGi's choice of In 2015, LONGi fully replaced the traditional mortar slicing equipment not only features higher performance and advanced technique with the more efficient diamond wire slicing technology but also minimizes energy consumption. technique. LONGi is the first silicon wafer manufacturer in China to apply diamond wire slicing in mass production. When it comes to the designing and manufacturing of It promoted the substitution for domestic-made slicing PV products, LONGi advocates a waste-free, recyclable equipment and diamond wires, which lowers the slicing cost manufacturing process, and easy-maintenance for products. while substantially increasing production efficiency. And the Meeting the criterion, LONGi strives to make the best use of abandoning of silicon carbide mortar in the production process materials, making products like POE, EVA, glass and panels significantly reduced environmental pollution. LONGi then thinner and lighter (by reducing frame weight). LONGi tries its shared these technologies with the whole industry, greatly best to use recyclable and renewable materials while studying increasing the production capacity. LONGi's move has the use of green panel materials. LONGi's dual-glass module CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 features 2.0 + 2.0mm design, which substantially reduces the ENVIRONMENTAL use of raw materials. MANAGEMENT On packaging and logistics, LONGi advocates the whole industry to recycle the packaging materials throughout LONGi takes the ISO14001 Environmental Management the supply chain, that all packaging materials can be used System as the basis. All the factories disclosed in this report repeatedly. For example, the packaging materials will be have passed ISO14001 environmental management system recycled and reused after the silicon ingots delivered to the certification, and related departments will be reviewed. Any slicing plant. LONGi also encourages suppliers to recycle issues found will be corrected timely and will be reported to the packaging materials and promote this practice throughout the company management on a regular basis. supply chain. While ensuring their function and reliability, these LONGi strictly implements the environmental impact materials are made lighter and thinner, thus greatly reducing assessment system for projects under construction, to the carbon emissions during transportation. ensure the environmental impact assessment for projects is On waste recycling, LONGi established a waste management carried out orderly in compliance with laws and regulations. department to record waste data and conduct research on All factories are required to prepare EHS plans, conduct how to reuse these materials. LONGi established a waste environmental monitoring, and strictly control the collection and management system by category, covering silicon mud, waste disposal of waste materials, including sewage, waste gas, and diamond wire, graphite, paper boards, and plastics, etc. Efforts hazardous solid waste. LONGi conducts monthly inspections are made to increase the reuse of these waste materials and annual reviews to upgrade technology continuously.The to reduce carbon emissions. LONGi has been working to company also increases the investment in environmental ensure its module products' life cycle exceeding 25 years. The protection efforts and facility maintenance, so as to ensure company also tracks and studies the scrap of PV modules. the compliance with high environmental protection standards in operations. The company strictly abides by the national environmental protection laws and regulations, formulates the Emergency Plan for Environmental Pollution Accidents and files reports with local environmental protection departments. LONGi has established a comprehensive system with environmental risk prevention and control measures, and emergency responding management systems for various types of risks. LONGi Wafer Business Unit's Xi'an Slicing Factory and Ningxia LONGi are closely monitored by environmental protection authorities with a focus on the disposal of sewage and hazardous waste. During the reporting period, the factories' LONGi ranks 90 in Carbon Clean200 waste disposal was in full compliance with environmental protection standards. For LONGi Wafer Business Unit, On February 19, 2019, As You Sow , a US NGO, and a the compliance rate of sewage discharge, factory noise Canadian market research firm Corporate Knights released monitoring, waste gas emission, and solid waste disposal the latest Carbon Clean200 index (Carbon Clean200)2, all reached 100%, with zero major environmental pollution renewing its ranking on the world's top 200 cleanest public accidents recorded during the reporting period. In 2017, the companies. LONGi was among the world's top 200 green Xi'an Slicing Plant was awarded the Excellent Environmental companies, ranking 90th in the world and 7th in China. Protection Company of Xi'an Space Industry Development Area and was rated Excellent in the performance review 2 The Carbon Clean 200 Index was first published in July 2016. Every six months, on clean production in 2019. LONGi's Wafer Business Unit's it ranks the world's public companies based on their absolute return in lowcarbon products and services. The entry conditions include the market value of Xi'an Slicing Plant and Yinchuan LONGi factory has been the company over 1 billion USD, and the revenue from clean energy exceeding listed as one of the National Green Fctories by the Ministry of 10% of the company's total revenue. This rank aims to encourage enterprises and investors to contribute to the future of clean energy. Industry and Information Technology, which is the recognition of LONGi's green manufacturing concept and practice. 23 / 24 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. ENERGY CONSUMPTION each phase of development. Noting that LONGi Wafer BU's energy consumption is relatively higher due to the technical All of LONGi's production units use electricity as the power requirements for production, the LONGi Wafer BU has source. The group has established a special cost accounting established an energy management system with energymechanism to supervise power consumption, with set targets saving manuals and regulations. for energy consumption and regular assessments. The group During the reporting period, the company's electricity consumption conducts regular analysis on power consumption, adopting is 3,538,637,609 kW·h, an increase of 74.69% compared to 2018. control measures to save energy and reduce costs, to ensure The electricity use hike is mainly due to the increase in production that the group's energy consumption meets its targets set for capacity and the growing output of factories. Table 3-1 Statistics of Power Consumption for Production of LONGi Wafer Business Unit and LONGi Solar Business Unit from 2018 to 2019 Percentage of Renewable Power Consumption for Power Consumption for Electricity Business Unit Factory Production in 2018 (kW·h) Production in 2019 (kW·h) (Factory direct use or the percentage of renewable energy out of gross energy consumption in the regions the factories locate) Xi'an Slicing Plant 73,467,989 89,530,000 20.30% Ningxia LONGi 294,180,000 360,650,000 25.20% Yinchuan LONGi 991,524,843 1,296,605,640 25.20% LONGi Wafer Baoshan LONGi 85,060,135 607,832,663 100% Business Unit Chuxiong LONGi 53,440,200 141,029,491 92.00% Lijiang LONGi 166,249,880 532,448,170 92.00% Wuxi LONGi 72,643,442 80,451,574 15.83% including 1.13% by solar Sub-total 1,736,566,489 3,108,547,538 Taizhou LONGi SOLAR 51,797,530 53,579,683 16.43% including 1.73% by solar Module Factory Yinchuan LONGi SOLAR 4,739,240 5,429,440 25.20% Zhejiang LONGi SOLAR 33,587,580 30,154,634 17.80% LONGi SOLAR Xi'an / 3,105,053 20.30% Module Factory LONGi Solar 5,751,233 16.40% Datong LONGi SOLAR / Business Unit Chuzhou LONGi SOLAR / 53,987,880 14.90% Taizhou LONGi SOLAR 160,114,255 150,057,385 14.70%+ Cell Factory Hefei LONGi SOLAR 38,887,758 45,525,552 14.90% Ningxia LONGi SOLAR / 82,499,211 25.20% Sub-total 289,126,363 430,090,071 Total / 2,025,692,852 3,538,637,609 * Note: 1. The data comes from the statistics of each factory of LONGi Wafer Business Unit and LONGi Solar Business Unit; 2. In this table, the electricity consumption of Yinchuan LONGi SOLAR and Hefei LONGi SOLAR factories was revised in 2018, / means statistics not available. 3. The figures of the percentage of renewable energy power in the provinces and regions where LONGi Factories locate is quoted from the National Renewable Energy Power Development Monitoring and Evaluation Report 2018 by the National Energy Administration of China and related data. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 The group has worked tirelessly to increase the percentage WATER CONSUMPTION of renewable energy consumption. The company started planning new factories in China's Yunnan Province and LONGi's wafer and cell production are two key areas that Kuching of Malaysia, in order to use the local hydropower for involve water consumption. For the production of modules, production. Currently, Baoshan LONGi in Yunnan Province is only one production process requires a humidifier using a operating 100% on renewable energy. Wuxi LONGi's factory minimal amount of water. Most of LONGi's factories use roof PV power station is generating 912,775kW·h of electric municipal water supply or self-use water supply system. power annually, accounting for 1.13% of its total production Ningxia LONGi Solar and Datong LONGi Solar are now power consumption. Taizhou LONGi Solar's factory roof partly using underground water, which has been gradually PV power station is generating 9,271,383kW·h of electricity replaced. For certain production processes with special annually, accounting for 1.73% of its production power requirements, purified water is supplied with factoryconsumption. Renewable energy directly used by the whole based purification system. The group has also established group in 2019 reached to 618,016,821 kW·h. And additional a cost accounting mechanism for water consumption and renewable energy use, the indirect calculations , are made formulated a water management system for factories. It according to the certain percentage of renewable power out conducts monthly statistics and analysis on the company's of total energy consumption for provinces and regions where water consumption while comparing data regularly to LONGi's factories locate in. The total of LONGi's renewable reduce water consumption and costs. energy use in 2019 reached to 1,757,609,814 kW·h, accounting for 49.67% of the group's total energy consumption, higher than the 2018 level of 33.61%. LONGi Group is increasing renewable energy use year by year. Table 3-2 Water Consumption of LONGi Wafer Business Unit and LONGi Solar Business Unit from 2018 to 2019 Business Factory Source of Total Water Consumption for Production (t) Unit Water Supply 2018 2019 Notes Xi'an Slicing Plant Municipal Water Supply 871,528 1,141,616 Ningxia LONGi Partial selfMunicipal Water Supply 925,000 991,580 water supply LONGi Yinchuan LONGi Municipal Water Supply 3,951,716 4,972,428 Wafer Baoshan LONGi Municipal Water Supply 982,247 1,954,769 Business Chuxiong LONGi Municipal Water Supply 867,103 1,823,322 Unit Lijiang LONGi Municipal Water Supply 646,589 1,579,931 Wuxi LONGi Municipal Water Supply 1,234,250 1,257,439 Sub-total 9,478,433 13,721,085 Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Module Factory Municipal Water Supply / 120,919 Yinchuan LONGi SOLAR Municipal Water Supply 200 2,347 Zhejiang LONGi SOLAR Municipal Water Supply / 101,130 LONGi LONGi SOLAR Xi'an Module Factory Municipal Water Supply / 11,000 Solar Datong LONGi SOLAR Self-water Supply / 4,739 Business Chuzhou LONGi SOLAR Municipal Water Supply / 126,802 Unit Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Cell Factory Municipal Water Supply 2,018,609 1,903,299 Hefei LONGi SOLAR Municipal Water Supply 426,751 455,639 Ningxia LONGi SOLAR Municipal Water Supply / 1,059,321 Sub-total 2,445,560 3,785,867 Total 11,923,993 17,506,952 Note: 1. The data comes from the statistics of each plant of LONGi Wafer Unit and LONGi Solar Unit; 2. In this table, / means statistics not available. 25 / 26 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. Due to production techniques requirements, LONGi Wafer BU water is used for cleaning equipment and making wastewater uses significant amount of water. The LONGi Wafer Business treatment chemicals. Wafer loaders reuse cleaning water Unit has been promoting water-saving by conducting training used in production. The utilization of reclaimed water in LONGi and posting water-saving signs. factories reached 43.20%, an increase of 1.2% compared to Concentrated water is used for cleaning equipment and last year. Table 3-3 Reclaimed Water Recycling of LONGi Wafer BU 2018-2019 Use of Percentage of Use of Reclaimed Percentage of Reclaimed Reclaimed Reclaimed Water Use in Water in 2019 (t) Water Use in 2019 Calculation Method Factories Water in 2018 2018 (%) (t) (%) Xi'an Wafer Slicing Factory 249,954 28.68% Flow calculation 208,602 18.27% Ningxia LONGi 362,000 39.14% Flow calculation 470,810 47.48% Yinchuan LONGi 2,526,441 63.93% Flow calculation 2,158,161 43.40% Baoshan LONGi 425,086 43.28% Flow calculation 1,440,000 73.67% Chuxiong LONGi 40,276 4.64% Flow calculation 190,800 10.46% Lijiang LONGi 307,518 47.56% Water meter estimation 1,401,600 88.71% Wuxi LONGi 67,591 5.48% Flow calculation 57,606 4.58% Sub-total 3,978,866 41.98% 5,927,579 43.20% Note: 1. The data in this table comes from the factory statistics of LONGi Wafer Business Unit. EMISSION disclosure of the group's carbon information and its scientific approach to realize carbon emission targets. LOW CARBON OPERATION In December 2019, LONGi obtained France's CRE3 and CRE4 Most of LONGi's carbon dioxide emissions come from carbon footprint certificates. The certificates cover the carbon electricity consumption during its production and operations. emissions in the entire life cycle of photovoltaic products, from To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the group places a raw materials to manufacturing, transportation, storage, disposal, focus on reducing energy consumption by increasing the use of recycling, etc.. LONGi's PV products manufacturing covers the renewable energy and promoting low-carbon operations. entire industrial chain from wafers to modules. This made LONGi as the only enterprise in the photovoltaic industry covering the The group has been planning and conducting EHS training, and entire industrial chain to receive the certificates. putting up signs to promote energy-saving among employees. The group also worked on details like minimizing the standbytime for printers, and during production, using more clean energy, promoting the collection and re-usage of argon, and making thinner silicon wafers. Electric forklifts are used for transfer in the factories to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. During the reporting period, LONGi initiated a project to investigate its carbon emissions and established a carbon emission list. The company also proactively applied for certification on the carbon footprint for its products. It also established contacts with international organizations, including Carbon Disclosure Project, World Wildlife Fund and Environmental Defense Fund, laying a foundation for the LONGi obtained France's CRE3 and CRE4 carbon footprint certificates CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 WASTE GAS EMISSION Wafer Business Unit has greatly reduced the emission of NMHC, after the renovation of its monocrystal furnace The waste gas produced by LONGi factories mainly involves dry pump. During the reporting period, the waste gas acidic waste gas, alkaline waste gas, and organic waste gas, emissions from all factories of LONGi Wafer Business Unit which is discharged at a high altitude, after going through inand LONGi Solar Business Unit have met the country's factory gas purifiers to satisfy emission requirements. LONGi emission standards. Table 3-4 Waste Gas Emission by Factory of LONGi Wafer Business Unit (2018 2019) LONGi Wafer Sulfuric Nitrogen Volatile Organic Business Unit Year Fluoride(t) Chlorine(t) Ammonia(t) Acid Mist(t) PM(t) Compounds(t) Oxides(t) Xi'an Slicing 18 0.00035 0.65853 Factory 19 0.0048 0.11076 0.0504 0.9798 18 1.3028 0.2509 Ningxia LONGi 19 1.26 0.25 18 8.32 5.01 3.01 Yinchuan LONGi 19 0.156 1.73 3.23 5.36 18 0.02 0.31 2.038 Baoshan LONGi 19 0.11 3.63 1.924 0.024 18 1.121 0.0173 Chuxiong LONGi 19 0.1994 1.052 18 0.32 3.22 0.98 Lijiang LONGi 19 0.53 4.65 4.2 18 0.099 Wuxi LONGi 19 1.19 *Note：1.The data comes from summary of Factores' Environment Testing Reports of LONGi Wafer Business Unit. 2. VOCs in this table include NMHC emission figures; 3. The / in this table indicates not detectable. Table 3-5 Waste Gas Emission of LONGi Solar Business Unit Factory (2018-2019) LONGi Solar Business Sulfuric Nitrogen Volatile Organic Unit Year Fluoride(t) Chlorine(t) Ammonia(t) Acid Mist(t) PM(t) Compounds(t) Oxides(t) Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Module 18 0.3968 16.8874 Factory 19 0.985 0.548 Yinchuan LONGi 18 2.25 SOLAR 19 0.5423 Zhejiang LONGi 18 0.31 SOLAR 19 2.295 1.397 LONGi SOLAR Xi'an 18 Module Factory 19 0.035 0.0183 Datong LONGi 18 SOLAR 19 0.02628 0.0010512 Chuzhou LONGi 18 SOLAR 19 1.44 6.7 0.356 27 / 28 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. LONGi Wafer Sulfuric Nitrogen Volatile Organic Year Fluoride(t) Chlorine(t) Ammonia(t) PM(t) Business Unit Acid Mist(t) Oxides(t) Compounds(t) Taizhou LONGi 18 0.3965 0.01907 2.6254 0.22704 2.856 SOLAR Cell Factory 19 3.2 0.115 4.12 18 1.55 0.61 3.27 0.09 6.57 0.093 0.75 Hefei LONGi SOLAR 19 0.66 0.17 0.51 0.54 3.678 Ningxia LONGi 18 SOLAR 19 0.015 2.685 1.296 1.84 0.076 *Note：1.The data comes from the summary of Factories' Environment Testing Reports of LONGi Solar Business Unit. 2. VOCs in this table include NMHC emission figures; 3. The : / in this table indicates not detectable. 4. In this table, the 2018 emission data of Hefei LONGi SOLAR and the 2018 VOC emissions data of Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Cell Factory were revised. SEWAGE AND WASTE SEWAGE DISPOSAL For sewage treatment, the group has built sewage treatment There was no industrial production sewage discharge in the stations in each factory, purchased sewage treatment module factories of LONGi Solar Business Unit. Taizhou facilities, to ensure that sewage is treated in compliance LONGi SOLAR Cell Factory, Hefei LONGi SOLAR, and with laws and regulations and the waste water disposal Ningxia LONGi SOLAR Factory produced sewage in the meeting emission standards. LONGi's Xi'an Slicing Factory cell production process, which were 100% treated before is showing the real-time sewage treatment information for disposal to comply with standards. public supervision. LONGi Xi'an Slicing Factory Sewage Treatment Station Screen showing sewage treatment details outside LONGi Xi'an Slicing Factory CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Table 3-6 Waste Water Dsiposal Record of LONGi Wafer Business Unit Factories (2018 2019) LONGi Wafer Sewage by Production Sewage Disposal Standard Dispose to Business Unit 2018(t) 2019(t) Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Xi'an Slicing 783,853 875,059 (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard /T31962-2015 Chang'an No.9 Sewage Factory Wastewater Quality Standards for Discharge to Treatment Factory Municipal Sewers Level B Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Zhongning Sewage Ningxia LONGi 563,000 489,000 (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Treatment Factory Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Yinchuan No.3 Sewage Yinchuan LONGi 2,513,700 1,778,827 (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Treatment Factory Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard (GB89781996) Level 2 Standard (before the construction of Baoshan LONGi 311,075 843,840 East River in-factory waste water treatment station); level 3 standard after the Factory constructed. Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard (GB8978Chuxiong LONGi 867,103 1,396,426 1996) Level 2 Standard (before the construction of West River in-factory waste water treatment station); level 3 standard after the Factory constructed. Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Industry Park Sewage Lijiang LONGi 212,310 899,000 (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Treatment Factory Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Meicun Sewage Factory Wuxi LONGi 742,289 817,335 (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard of Xinwu District *Note：1.The data comes from summary of LONGi Wafer Business Unit factories. There was no industrial production sewage discharge in the module factories of LONGi Solar Business Unit. Taizhou LONGi LERRI Cell Factory, Hefei LONGi LERRI, and Ningxia LONGi LERRI Factory produced sewage in the cell production process, which were 100% treated before disposal to comply with standards. Table3-7 Waste Water Disposal Record of LONGi Solar Business Unit Factories (2018 2019) LONGi Solar Business Sewage by Production Sewage Disposal Standard Dispose to Unit 2018(t) 2019(t) Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Industry Park Sewage / / Module Factory (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Treatment Factory Yinchuan LONGi Integrated Waste Water Disposal Standard Yinchuan No.3 Sewage / / SOLAR (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Treatment Factory Donggang Sewage Zhejiang LONGi IIntegrated Waste Water Disposal Standard / / Treatment Factory in SOLAR (GB8978-1996) Level 3 Standard Quzhou LONGi SOLAR Xi'an / / / / Module Factory Datong LONGi SOLAR 6,279 Wastewater Quality Standards for Discharge to Municipal Sewage / Municipal Sewers（GBT31962-2015 ） Network Disposed into municipal Chuzhou LONGi Wastewater Quality Standards for Discharge to sewage network and to SOLAR / 58,440 Municipal Sewers（GBT31962-2015 ）& Integrated Chuzhou No.2 Sewage Waste Water Disposal Standard (GB8978-1996) Treatment Factory 29 / 30 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. LONGi Solar Business Sewage by Production Sewage Disposal Standard Dispose to Unit 2018(t) 2019(t) Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Disposal Standard for Pollutants from Cell Industry Municipal Sewage 1,475,740 1,658,408 Cell Factory (GB 30484-2013) Table 2: Indirect Disposal Standard Network Hefei LONGi SOLAR / 252,649 Disposal Standard for Pollutants from Cell Industry Tongwei Sewage (GB 30484-2013) Table 2: Indirect Disposal Standard Treatment Factory Disposal Standard for Pollutants from Cell Industry Yinchuan No.3 Sewage Ningxia LONGi SOLAR / 492,717 Treatment Factory (GB 30484-2013) Table 2: Indirect Disposal Standard Note：1.The data comes from summary of LONGi Solar Business Unit factories. 2. The / in this table indicates not detectable. WASTE MANAGEMENT of non-hazardous waste generated by the LONGi Solar Business Unit factories, including Taizhou LONGi SOLAR In accordance with the national laws and regulations, the Module Factory, Chuzhou LONGi SOLAR, Taizhou LONGi group has formulated a series of regulations and management SOLAR Cell Factory, Hefei LONGi SOLAR and Ningxia mechanisms including the Chemical Management LONGi SOLAR reached 25,867.69 tons. All were entrusted System , Waste Material Management System , Hazardous to qualified parties for disposal. Waste Management System , Silicon Material Recycle Management System , Packaging Material Recycle and HAZARDOUS WASTE Reuse Management Guidelines , and Occupational Health Each Factory of the group has established a special Management System . These regulations have been hazardous waste warehouse in accordance with the implemented throughout the factories of business units. Hazardous Waste Management System , storing the waste separately according to their categories, and entrusted NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE a qualified third-party company for disposal. The LONGi In 2019, the total amount of non-hazardous waste Wafer Business Unit has formulated a Hazardous Chemicals generated by the factories under the LONGi Wafer Business Management System and renovated the dry pump to Unit, including the Yinchuan LONGi, Baoshan LONGi and reduce the use of pump oil and the generation of wastes. Wuxi LONGi reached 34,745.61 tons. The total amount Table 3-8 Hazardous Waste Disposal Record of LONGi Wafer Business Unit and LONGi Solar Business Unit (2018-2019) LONGi Solar Factory Hazardous Waste Generated Disposal Solution Business Unit 2018(t) 2019(t) Xi'an Slicing Factory 62.765 71.435 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Ningxia LONGi 38.03 44.18 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Yinchuan LONGi 289.89 87.9 Entrust qualified parties for disposal LONGi Wafer Entrust qualified parties for disposal/ Baoshan LONGi 13 36.85 Business Unit purification and recycling Chuxiong LONGi 26.593 125.033 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Temporarily stored in warehouse(not Lijiang LONGi 0 1.000 processed yet) Wuxi LONGi 6.93 14.16 Entrust qualified parties for disposal CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 LONGi Solar Business Factory Hazardous Waste Generated Disposal Solution Unit 2018(t) 2019(t) Taizhou LONGi SOLAR 11.57 49.14 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Module Factory Yinchuan LONGi No hazardous waste generated as 3.415 0 SOLAR activated carbon used for absorption Zhejiang LONGi 173.08 151.46 Entrust qualified parties for disposal LONGi Solar SOLAR Business Unit LONGi SOLAR Xi'an Module Factory 26.865 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Datong LONGi SOLAR 0 1.4 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Chuzhou LONGi 38.13 Entrust qualified parties for disposal SOLAR Taizhou LONGi SOLAR Cell Factory 13.25 21.49 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Hefei LONGi SOLAR 15.06 16.96 Entrust qualified parties for disposal Ningxia LONGi SOLAR / 0.60506 Entrust qualified parties for disposal *Note：1.The data comes from summary of LONGi Wafer Business Unit & LONGi Solar Business Unit factories. 2. The / in this table indicates not detectable. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Recognizing that the risks regarding corporate social responsibility are increasingly affected by the supply chain, LONGi advocates to work jointly with upstream and downstream enterprises to shoulder social responsibilities, including environmental protection, energy conservation, and emission reduction. The company advocates to construct a green supply chain. At the same time, LONGi upholds the concept of cooperation under the sunlight and the principle of fairness, justice, mutual benefit and win-win . LONGi strengthens communication and collaborative innovation with supplier partners, builds a healthy supply chain under the sunlight , and takes actions to achieve sustainable procurement. GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN DEVELOPMENT Through the Supply Chain Management Center, LONGi requires its suppliers to follow the international ROHS directive and relevant requirements of OHAS18001 and ISO14001, detailing the requirements of environmental assessment in supplier approval and quality review. The group has established a Supplier Development Management Guideline, stipulating standards on the environmental assessment of suppliers. 31 / 32 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. The company also provides training for procurement personnel, LONGi . Local jobs were created as these Malaysia-based requires the suppliers to provide relevant certificates (such as companies offer services to LONGi Kuching, creating new Business License for Hazardous Chemicals, Operation Permit momentum for local economic growth. Of Highway Transportation, License for Hazardous Waste LONGi Group improved its supplier management system to Disposal, etc.). During the assessment of suppliers, review cope with the rapid development. Specific requirements are on quality assessment standards, including the supplier's clearly defined, including the supplier qualification review, environmental qualifications, are required. development process, and exit mechanism. A review standard Through on-site inspection, suppliers need to show on various materials was perfected. Over 700 suppliers were that they are subject to the three-system review, which comprehensively reviewed and classified for their product includes environmental protection during the manufacturing quality, pricing, delivery, and services. For those suppliers process, internal management, and how suppliers cope with that cannot satisfy these standards, the group will help these environmental issues. In the selection of suppliers for silicon suppliers with specific coaching programs. For the suppliers wafers and other key materials, the group prefers suppliers that failed to satisfy certain standards for longer time, they will with outstanding environmental protection performance. In the be eliminated. The company has continuously optimized its purchase agreement of raw materials and auxiliary materials, supplier system and database. requirements on the supplier's environmental performance The company actively guides suppliers to jointly create a are also stipulated. In case of a violation, the supplier is sustainable and healthy procurement environment, and required to submit a Preventive and Corrective Action Report requires suppliers to sign the Anti-Corruption Cooperation (PCAR), and be supervised and trained, so as to continuously Commitment . Currently, excluding authorized business, improve the suppliers' environmental management. During the 95% of suppliers have signed the Anti-Corruption reporting period, the company initiated an internal review of the Cooperation Commitment . In the procurement agreements supplier's development process to ensure that the supplier's for raw materials and auxiliary materials signed with environmental management system certification inspection suppliers, suppliers are required to establish and effectively and quality audit were completed as required during the operate a corporate social responsibility management development of new suppliers. system with reference to social and environmental Currently, more than 80% of the group's suppliers of principal standards and relevant regulations, and obtain relevant and auxiliary materials and equipment have either established third-party certification. If suppliers do not obtain certain or been refining a solid environmental management system certifications, they must propose a plan on when and and occupational health and safety management system, how they can be certified. The company gives priority to and have obtained official certificates. LONGi's supply chain suppliers who have obtained certifications. has also urged suppliers to check on Conflict Minerals and LONGi has built the supply chain information management make commitments not to use Conflict Minerals. In 2019, the system. An information platform established to simplify suppliers that received environmental impact assessments transactions to achieve high-efficient procurement. In 2019, accounted for 2.7% of total suppliers, up 0.6% compared with LONGi Group officially launched a web-portal for suppliers, 2018. Suppliers that received environmental assessments are making information disclosure, communication, and specific mainly located in Shaanxi, Shanxi, Jiangsu, Shandong, among procedures for procurement available and timely on the other provinces/regions. internet. This helps to create a convenient communication SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT AND platform between LONGi and its partners in the supply COMMUNICATION chain. The launch of the supplier portal not only conveys LONGi’s concept of building a supply chain ecology but also LONGi Group is developing fast, with its suppliers across facilitates the suppliers for better information exchanges, the world. 90% of LONGi's suppliers are in China and 7% more convenient business consultation, and more effective from Malaysia In 2019. LONGi Kuching's suppliers provided cooperation and feedback channels. This has much helped in the products covering 0.74% of LONGi Group's overall establishing the convenient and efficient cooperation between procurement of the year, mainly providing services for Kuching LONGi and its suppliers. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 LONGi Group Supplier Chain Web-Portal COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION Panel Discussion on Collaborative Innovation at the LONGi Supplier Conference 2019 LONGi Group hopes to carry out collaborative innovation jointly with suppliers with high synergies and leading LONGi set up a Solar Technology Innovation Platform technologies. Technology advantages shall be strengthened on its website. LONGi Group encourages companies and through joint technology development, resource sharing, individuals who have innovative ideas on technologies, and leveraging complementary strengths. The technological techniques, materials, products, and business models in the innovation achievements will be jointly protected by both solar technology or the general renewable energy sector, to parties. The company also construct a benefit-sharing collaborate with LONGi and achieve win-win results. LONGi mechanism, which will help share the profits of the industrial Group hopes to join hands with its global partners, within or supply chain in a reasonable approach and ensure the outside the PV industry, to innovate and continue improving advantages and benefits of its suppliers. These efforts will the solar technologies. These efforts will help the global PV eventually create higher value for customers and realize the industry expand continuously. healthy development of the PV industry. On November 29, 2019, LONGi Group held the 2019 Supplier Conference. The theme of the conference was Collaborative Innovation and Green Development. In his speech, Mr. Zhong Baoshen, Chairman of LONGi Group, said that LONGi had been committed to forming a high level of synergy and consensus with its suppliers. He added that LONGi will provide financial support, technology support, and business investment for collaborative innovation with its partners. With complimentary advantages and innovation capabilities, LONGi and its suppliers will lead the development direction for the industry in the future. At the conference, suppliers that have supported the development of LONGi Group with high-quality products and services were honored with awards. Also, panel discussions were held on Technical Routes & Collaborative Innovation and Green Development & Quality Improvement . Suppliers and LONGi's executives shared opinions on themes regarding supply chain management, building a supply chain under the sunlight, industry strategy analysis, and supply chain finance, etc. 33 / 34 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. 04. SOCIETY Table 4-1 LONGi Group Formal Employees Statistics EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT by December 2019 LONGi takes respect, opportunity, and incentive as the FORMAL EMPLOYEE keywords for its human resources development philosophy. Business Locations Male Female Total Respect is to respect everyone, regardless of position, and respect everyone's personalities, beliefs, personal Mainland China 22,351 7,039 29,390 hobbies, and privacy. Opportunity is to value employees' Kuching, Malaysia 2,082 1,401 3,483 suggestions and opinions, and believe that participation Total 24,433 8,440 32,873 can improve their sense of mission. And creating career *Note:1. The data of this table is provided by the LONGi Human development opportunities for employees is the very core Resources Management Department. of LONGi's talent management. Incentive is to treat every employee fairly and provide benefits that match job Most of LONGi's production and operation activities are achievement in a timely manner. undertaken by formal employees. In addition, the company also employs informal employees, such as interns and consultants. PROMOTING FAIR EMPLOYMENT As of December 2019, there were 1,598 informal employees. According to the needs of production and operation, LONGi LONGi pursues an open, fair, and equal employment policy, hired dispatched workers. As of December 2019, there were and actively maintains a harmonious and stable relation with 3,565 outsourcing workers, accounting for 9.37% of the total employees. LONGi, along with its global factories and offices, workforce. abide by the international human rights conventions and the local The company pays attention to localized management and labor standards, laws, and regulations. The company resolutely training for talents, creates diversified while equal opportunities. forbid forced labor during production and services. LONGi does In Kuching LONGi in Malaysia, all senior executives are not interfere with employees' freedom of religion and does not Malaysian. In 2019, 263 employees in Mainland China and 7 tolerate any discrimination on employees' ethnic minority, race, employees in Kuching, Malaysia, were promoted. nationality, religion, gender, age, disability or marital status, etc. LONGi respects the employees' right to form their organizations LONGi's social insurance and benefits for full-time employees freely and conduct group negotiation. The company does not in China include: hire child labor and insists on equal pay for equal work among 5 Social Insurances & 1 Housing Fund: the company pays all kinds males and females to promote gender equality. of social insurance for full-time employees, including pension As of December 2019, LONGi has 32,873 formal employees insurance, unemployment insurance, healthcare insurance, in mainland China and Kuching, Malaysia, all of whom work employment injury insurance, maternity insurance, and provide full-time. Among them, there are 24,433 male employees, housing funds for qualified employees. accounting for 74.33%, and 8,440 female employees, Holiday & Leaves: national & regional holidays, and annual leave, accounting for 25.67%. Based on different business locations, newly-weds leave, maternity/paternity leave, sick leave, there are 29,390 employees in mainland China, accounting breastfeeding leave, bereavement leave, personal leave, for 89.40%, and 3,483 employees in Kuching, Malaysia, employment injury leave, etc. accounting for 10.60%. The company's workforce is very young, with employees under 35 accounting for 86.69% and Other Benefits: accommodation allowance, transportation employees aged between 36 to 45, accounting for 11.87%. allowance, annual physical examination, stock incentive, Employees for production and operations account for 74.27%. employee care, employee activity expenditure, team leader LONGi values the development of the R&D team, with technical activity expenditure, flexible credits, telecommunication personnel account for 12.23% of LONGi's global workforce. allowance, labor protection supplies, etc. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 TRAINING AND EDUCATION included 2 Leadership Lectures taught by LONGi Chairman Zhong Baoshen, and 3 open lecturers on management, 1 lecture As the company continues to expand with more employees on on career development, and 1 lecture on professional skills. board, fast-speed growth can only be guaranteed by training and education on organizational efficiency and operation quality. The company, following the management requirement of empower, enable and incentivize, drafted the Training Management Guidelines to develop a training mechanism that can fully incentivize its employees and encourage the company and its workforce to achieve long-term development. In 2019, the company revised the In-house Lecturers Management Guidelines and identified 50 seed lecturers and 20 lecturers teaching quality courses. The company also held the first annual outstanding lecturers evaluation to encourage staff lecturers. The course system was developed based on the needs for LONGi Senior Executive Lecture Poster LONGi Senior Executive Lecture Poster business development, which includes the quality courses, staff micro-courses, standardized onboard training that applied to the Staff lecturers also participate in the training events, whole group. Other courses, such as the non-standardized onwith the theme of empowering each other and achieve board training and professional courses, were developed based growth. These lecturers participated in annual training, and on the business units' specific requirements. LONGi also worked employees will vote for good-performing and outstanding with universities to tailor-made courses for LONGi Class in the lecturers. On the Teachers' Day, lectures would receive universities. The Human Resources Management Center, along Teachers' Day gifts. The company will also organize an with the Group's Labor Union, jointly launched the LONGi Coach annual event to honor these lecturers. Workshop, to introduce new training techniques. Over the past year, a total of 15,700 sessions of training were conducted, training 460,410 person-time. A total of 55,832.7 coursehours were taught, and the average training time for LONGi's employees reached 1.47 hours. The Day-to-Day Growth HRBP Empowering Training Project was held, with external consultants joining, to have employees master the HRBP skills. The company also held training on activation, having employees discuss targeted LONGi Employees Vote for Outstanding Lecturers solutions on challenges during the business process. For LONGi's business units, the LONGi Wafer Business Unit organized training with the theme of Project Eagle and The Rising Sun Project. And LONGi Solar Business Unit organized the boot camp for front-line managers themed Gold Medal Team Leaders. HRBP Employee Empower Training Activity The LONGi Lecture Hall is a program with courses developed after inquiring about the needs of employees. The program LONGi Solar Business Unit Training for Factory Team Leaders 35 / 36 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. EMPLOYER BRANDING With the rapid development of international business, LONGi understands that the focus of LONGi's human resources strategy is attracting outstanding talents to join LONGi and retaining them. Based on the life cycle of employees, LONGi unveiled its employee value proposition as A Bright Industry, A Common Cause . to provide the best employee experience and an excellent platform for career development. LONGi strives to have its employees recognize LONGi's employer branding, which inspires employees to be more devoted to their work. The company also works hard to improve the sense of pride, honor, and responsibility among employees. In 2019, LONGi officially released the VI system for LONGi's Students and Faculty from Northwestern Polytechnical University Visited LONGi Group employer brand, which could help the company to improve the influence of its employer branding. In 2019, LONGi was honored many times for its outstanding employer branding, innovative way to attract global talents and talent retention measures. These honors and recognitions included the 2019 China Best Employer with Great Development Potential , 2019 Employer Excellence of China , Best Model Award for Talent Attraction and Retention. LONGi's employer brand video of Your Talent Can Change The World was honored the Best Employer Branding Video Award. LONGi Group has provided good experiences for candidates in and outside the PV industry. HEALTH AND SAFETY On-board Package Delivered to New Employee The company follows the EHS policy of Obeying Laws and Regulations, Clean Production, People-oriented, Safety To create a good working atmosphere, LONGi conducted & Health, and attaches the importance to employees' its third survey on the organizational atmosphere, focusing occupational protection. LONGi Wafer Business Unit and on how members of the teams feel about their work. These LONGi Solar Business Unit both passed occupational surveys could help team leaders better guide team members health and safety OHS18000 certification and promoted to improve their experiences during work. The LONGi Group the conversion of the ISO 45001: 2018 certification Human Resources Management Center has worked hard system. The company sets occupational health and to provide standardized onboard experiences for new safety management goals on an annual basis. The employees. Each new employee will get standard office company regularly conducts the testing for occupational supplies and necessities for office use. This could help the disease hazard at the factories, and the test results are staff enhance the sense of belongings as newcomers. kept in the enterprise's occupational health files. The To effectively improve LONGi's employer brand awareness information is disclosed to employees on a regular basis. and attractiveness in universities, the LONGi Group Human When employees are diagnosed with diseases that are Resources Management Center works closely with key identified as occupational diseases in accordance with the universities, inviting students to join the Light Chaser Regulations on the Prevention and Control of Occupational students internship program and the LONGi Open Day. In Diseases , the company will report timely and cooperate 2019, more than 1,000 university students from 13 universities with investigations in accordance with national or local and colleges joined LONGi's internship program. laws and regulations to protect employees' rights. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Table 4-2 LONGi Occupational Health and Safety The company encourages employees to organize labor Management Goals unions to ensure their rights. In March 2019, the Labor Union of LONGi Group was officially formed. By the end of CATAGORY GOALS 2019, there are 23 labor union organizations in the Group headquarters, business units, and subsidiaries. There are OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE 0 53 employees (part-time or full-time) representing staff FIRE DISASTER 0 interests. The labor union cherishes the opinions from the No major and fatal accident, and the employees, organizes employee seminars at headquarters PRODUCTION SAFETY incidence of accidents with minor and subsidiaries, and listens to the opinions and suggestions ACCIDENT wound was less than or equal to 2‰ of employee representatives on company development, operation & management, etc. The company appointed LONGi has formulated Management Measures for the special representatives to follow up and resolve these issues. Treatment of Occupational Injuries to standardize the The labor union also conducted satisfactory seasonal surveys procedures for handling industrial injuries. When employees on the employee canteen among employees. The result will be suffer occupational injuries, they are identified and handled in a key basis for the company to manage its catering suppliers. accordance with relevant laws. EMPLOYEES' RIGHTS PROTECTION With the mission of serving employees and supporting business, the LONGi labor union is serving as a communicator of trust between the company and its employees. The labor union bridges people and handles employee protection, dispute mediation, and the improvement LONGi Group Headquarters 2019 Annual Staff Representative Meeting of quality of the dining hall services and meals. The union plays a key role in promoting the harmonious relationship The labor unions motivate the staff to participate in the disclosure between the company and employees. of factory-related affairs. The meeting system for a more democratic management environment was optimized, with the All employees of the group are labor union members. The labor unions, both at the group HQ level and subsidiary level, union and the enterprise signed a contract to protect the shall hold representative meetings every year. In May 2019, the employees' legal rights on work-related policies, payment, second assembly meeting for the 4th LONGi Group Labor Union insurance, labor protections, and benefits. The labor union was held, with 51 representatives attending and 33 proposals by also cares about the health of employees, and conducts the employees collected. There were a total of 11 proposals that regular health inspection, strengthen and improve hygiene were approved by the assembly meeting, which the labor union conditions in workplaces. The union also provides labor will push for implementation. In December 2019, the Group Labor protection for employees and special protection for certain Union was honored as the 4-star labor union among Xi'an City types of work and female workers. Manufacturing Industry Workers' General Assembly. The LONGi Group Labor Union was honored as a four-star union The First General Meeting of the LONGi Group Labor Union by the Xi'an General Labor Union 37 / 38 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES Caring employees and organizing activities are the key work for LONGi Group's labor unions. The labor unions always take care of employees and help them solve practical issues. The labor unions have initiated many employee caring programs, including holiday benefits, employee health care, family care, etc. These efforts have helped to improve employees' sense of belonging. Badminton Court at the Staff Activity Center in Group's HQ sports areas for aerobic, body-building, body-sculpting, and brain exercise for employees. After work hours, the employees can relax and relieve stress. The Group currently has 10 employee activity centers, with 8,000 square meters of space. In response to UNICEF's 10 Square Meters for Mother Love initiative, the company's labor union set up a total of 6 employee nursery rooms across the group to create a relaxed and warm environment for workplace mothers and let female employees Group Photo for LONGi Group's 2019 Badminton Competition feel the joy and care at these special rooms. The labor unions held 23 employee events during the report period, including 9 online events and 14 off-line events. CORPORATE CULTURE These events included the LONGi sports competitions, LONGi Group attaches importance to cultivating corporate cultural events, charity events, with each event attracting culture and shared values, and encourage employees to over 1,000 employees. The highlights of these events are actively learn and practice corporate culture. The value shared on the labor union's Wechat account. The satisfactory of Reliable ， Value-Added and Delighted is the basic survey found that the employees' average satisfaction rate in principle and value proposition of the company, which is these events was 92%. advocated by LONGi. LONGi put forward the shared values and code of conduct for employees: Customer First, Take Initiative, Improvement & Innovation, Drive Growth, Integrity & Dedication, Be Honest & Objective, Be Kind to Others, Be Open & Inclusive, and Team Coordination. In 2019, LONGi Group's Human Resources Management Center started the evaluation of employees' understanding of values. A third-party evaluation agency, based on LONGi's core values and code of conduct, adopted a 360-degree evaluation method to promote LONGi Group 2019 Cross-Country Race the implementation of corporate cultural values. On May 17, 2019, the Group's Human Resources Management Center and labor union held the LONGi Group 2019 crosscountry race in Xi'an City Sports Park. More than 170 LONGi employees participated in the race. This allows employees to understand better about the company's Delighted corporate value, and increase satisfaction about work. The Group has 10 employee libraries, encouraging employees to read and study more. The headquarters of the Group opened an employee activity center with various LONGi Corporate Culture Exhibition CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 LONGI ONE PERCENT FOUNDATION To carry out charity activities in a consistent and professional manner, LONGi Group, along with many other charity efforts from all sectors of society, initiated the LONGi One Percent Foundation of RCSC, a non-public foundation in 2010 registered at the Red Cross Society of China. The foundation, with the concept of one percent of the donation, one hundred percent of change, advocates everyone to donate no less than 1% of their Stories of LONGi Event annual income or time in social public welfare activities. Since its founding, LONGi One Percent Foundation has made many Efforts were made as the company continuously improves the donations, including supporting the reconstruction of Yushu City understanding and recognition of corporate culture among of Qinghai after the magnitude-7.1 earthquake in 2010, curing employees, creates a pleasant atmosphere that all staff values children with congenital heart disease in Tibet together with the corporate culture, and hopes to further develop it. In 2019, local Armed Police Hospital, and offering a scholarship to support the 2nd LONGi Group Corporate Culture Festival was held to more than 800 students to finish school. In 2019, LONGi One promote corporate culture, including three events Online Percent Foundation completed the second phase of Lanzhou Knowledge Contest, Impression of LONGi, and Stories of University's Excellence and Inspiration scholarship program LONGi. There were 24,668 employees participated in these (2015-2019). Over the past 10 years, the program had funded events, with the participation rate reaching 76%. 9,024 people 100 students from Lanzhou University. On the occasion of the obtained full marks at the online knowledge contest, over 1,919 110th anniversary of Lanzhou University, LONGi One Percent cases on corporate culture were shared, and 1,009 works Foundation and Lanzhou University Shaanxi Alumni Association of calligraphy, painting, handicraft, photography, and other jointly launched the Lanzhou University Student and Teacher works were exhibited. These activities enriched the cultural Aid project. The registered donation amounted to ¥5 million, experiences for employees and improved their understanding or 0.7 million USD, which will continue the support for Lanzhou and recognition of the corporate culture. University on education development. CHARITY LONGi Group is committed to charity and regards public social welfare as one of the substantive issues of its corporate social responsibilities. LONGi Group has carried out many kinds of charity events, with the priorities in line with the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These events are carried out in line with Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all , Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all , Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts SUPPORTING EDUCATION and Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable . LONGi has established a charitable donation LONGi believes that supporting education is an important part mechanism to coordinate and manage the whole company's of fulfilling the company's corporate social responsibilities. donations and charity, making sure that the charity activities Combined with the company's business development and of the headquarters and all business units are in line with the talent needs, LONGi continues to promote the development of company's social responsibility planning and philanthropic China's education through public welfare projects and activities, ideas. The company aims to make contributions to SDGs building photovoltaic power plants for schools, and engaging in goals with its efforts. university-company cooperation. 39 / 40 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. In 2019, LONGi Group donated an 18.6kW PV power station to Longji Middle School in Xixiang County, Hanzhong City of Shaanxi Province, where Mr. Jiang Longji, a famous educator in China and the former headmaster of Lanzhou University, studied when he was young. LONGi coordinated and promoted the LONGi One Percent Foundation to establish a scholarship of ¥100,000（$14,122）. The Xixiang County Red Cross Society would donate the scholarship to Longji Middle School students in three years to support students from lowincome families to finish school. LONGi also organized the Cui Ying Wei Guang summer camp, together with the Education LONGi started cooperation with the School of Physical Development Foundation of Lanzhou University. During Science and Technology of Lanzhou University the summer camp, 14 volunteers from the Xinhuo Welfare Association of Lanzhou University lived with 40 students from Longji Milddle School, helping these students from rural areas learn more about the outside world. At the closing ceremony of the camp, the LONGi labor union also organized employee representatives to donate sports equipment to the school. The employees experienced the pleasure and meaningful participating in public welfare activities. Chuxiong LONGi donated the Slicing machine as teaching equipment to Lufeng Vocational Middle School In addition, LONGi Solar Business Unit donated a broadcasting system to Zhanjiang Yanitang Village Primary School through the Guangdong Charity Association to improve the school's operation conditions. Taizhou LONGi Solar Factory held an open day to receive teachers and students from Changzhou Institute Longji Middle School in Xixiang County Summer Camp of Technology and Changzhou Engineering Vocational Technology College. For factories under the LONGi Wafer LONGi attaches great importance to the exchanges with Business Unit, Baoshan LONGi has started cooperation renowned universities and promotes school-company with Yunnan Engineering Vocational College, Baoshan cooperation. In 2019, LONGi Group and the School of Physical College, and Baoshan Technician College. Lijiang LONGi Science and Technology of Lanzhou University started schooland Panzhihua College have also started cooperation. company cooperation. LONGi will donate ¥1 million each year to support scientific research, talent training, faculty building, While Chuxiong LONGi donated ¥15,000 to Lufeng County and campus activities, and help the school develop first-class through the Yunnan Red Cross Society and continued to discipline among Chinese universities. participate in the 2019 Lufeng County Donation Funding Charity. Chuxiong LONGi also donated teaching equipment and provided internship opportunities to Chuxiong Normal College and Lufeng County Vocational Senior Middle School. LONGi's factory in Chuxiong has established a close partnership with local schools and helped promote local education. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS LONGi Group, based on the characteristics of the photovoltaic industry, continues to participate in the agenda of the UN Climate Conference, actively carries out photovoltaic science education for college students, and participates in clean heating projects in rural areas. With these efforts, LONGi is helping more and more people, especially college students, realize the urgency of global climate change and how PV technology can be a powerful tool to tackle climate change issues. LONGi also shared Students from Hong Kong Polytechnic University its insights on the PV industry development outlook and visited the wafer production workshop encouraged more communities to work together in resolving this global climate change crisis. Promoting clean heating in the vast rural areas can effectively reduce China's carbon emissions to tackle climate change issues. In 2017, LONGi built 6.4MW distributed photovoltaic power plants on the rooftop of 544 village clinics in Guyuan City, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. Using the clean energy technology of photovoltaic to power indoor heating in the winter, the grassroots-level village clinics are providing a more comfortable environment in the winter. Coal-fired stoves are replaced by clean and pollution-free solar power heating, making these clinics cleaner and warmer. LONGi donates ¥1.632 million to all village clinics every year, to help further reduce the use of coal and promote clean heating transition in lowincome mountainous areas in central and western China. In 2019, LONGi Group joined the China Corporate Climate LONGi's Module products exhibited at COP25 Change Action of China Champions for Climate Action (C Team), a non-profit organization located in Shenzhen, In 2019, more than 500 students from 9 universities visited and participated in its Green Rural Cleaning Heating LONGi Group. They experienced the leading technologies project in Yan'an , Shaanxi. LONGi donated highly efficient and manufacturing capability of LONGi Group, who leads monocrystalline bifacial half-cut PV modules and support China's PV industry. On July 24, more than 100 students households to implement the solar power + water-heating from Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Harbin Institute model. And that is how LONGi helps promote the clean of Technology visited LONGi Group and started a unique energy transformation in rural areas. exploration of the photovoltaics industry. At the LONGi Xi'an slicing factory, students from Hong Kong were attracted by PARTICIPATING IN COMMUNITY the monocrystalline silicon wafers, as thin as 180μm, cut ACTIVITIES by diamond wire. The students were impressed by LONGi's leading manufacturing techniques. In the exhibition hall LONGi Group values its relations with the local communities of LONGi Group's headquarter, students from the Harbin where its businesses locate. The company hopes to support Institute of Technology, a university dubbed as the cradle the sustainable development of these communities. By making of engineers, were inspired that LONGi's industry-leading donations, purchasing local goods for employee benefits, and R&D investment and the domestic substitution of the organizing community charity activities, LONGi promotes a diamond wire cutting technology. harmonious atmosphere within these communities. 41 / 42 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. During the reporting period, LONGi's subsidiaries provided enhanced employees' awareness of environmental issues. support and assistance to the local communities. Chuxiong On September 10, LONGi Solar BU, together with Xi'an Beilin LONGi invested ¥60,000 in improving the environment District Red Cross Foundation, jointly held an activity of Visit of Zhaoyuan Village, a poverty-stricken village in Heijing with Warmth Get Closer to Children from the Stars. LONGi Township, Lufeng County of Chuxiong City in Yunnan employees, among other participants of the event, visited the Province. Ningxia LONGi carried out a poverty alleviation teachers and children of an educational institution for mental project in Xutao Township, Zhongning County, Ningxia Hui disability children. Autonomous Region, and purchased office equipment and donated it directly to the village committee. LONGi's Huaping subsidiary donated ¥100,000 to the 2019 Local Basketball Games in Huaping County to activate the sports and cultural life of the community. Poverty alleviation by the procurement of goods and services from the poverty-stricken regions is a new form to alleviate poverty that is advocated and supported by the Chinese government. In 2019, LONGi continued its sustainable development projects for communities in Xiayuan village, Xiamaguan Town, Tongxin County, the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. The company invested ¥125,000 in planting trees in these poverty-stricken villages and helping with the honey LONGi employees at charity activity held by community products sales of the local co-operatives. Through a qualified special education institution factory with food processing and sales permit, the market value of these products increased. LONGi Group also procured local POVERTY-ALLEVIATION agricultural products from Zhashui County of Shaanxi Province Eradicating all forms of poverty worldwide is the biggest as employee benefits, helping the villagers at the same time. global challenge facing the world today and an inevitable requirement to achieve sustainable development. No Poverty is also the first goal among the 17 UNSDGs. LONGi actively participates in targeted efforts of poverty alleviation through constructing solar power stationswith products of advanced technology. LONGi Group, as a front-runner with leading standards, has paved its way for poverty alleviation with PV products. LONGi Clean Energy Business Unit built several PV power stations (total capacity 100MW) in Datong County and Guangling County of Shanxi Province, Shenrao Area of Hebei Province, and Baisha County of Hainan Province, helping 3,467 low-income families increase their income. Products of Hongyuan beekeeping Cooperative in Tongxin County, Ningxia. Supported by LONGi Group. Photovoltaic power stations could benefit each lowincome family with about ¥3,000 (423.73 USD) of additional The group also encourages employees to participate in income each year, and help them enjoy long-term and community activities for public welfare. In May and September stable income to live above the poverty line. In 2019, LONGi of 2019, the labor union of the group organized two Collect Solar Business Unit provided 196MW high-efficiency solar Garbage with Love activities to protect the Qinling Mountains. modules to Yunnan Province, accounting for 85% of the More than 60 employees and their family members hiked into total PV poverty-alleviation projects. These PV stations the mountain area to collect garbage. The events also benefit a total of 40,218 low-income families. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 With good experience in building PV power stations and good project quality management capabilities, LONGi New Energy Business Unit also built the PV power stations in Ninglang, Yongsheng, Qiubei, Honghe, etc. Among them, the village PV poverty-alleviation power station in Ninglang Yi Ethnic Autonomous County has been connected to the grid. The electricity sales can help the locals to achieve 100% poverty alleviation by 2020. LONGi not only invests PV poverty-alleviation projects and supplies advanced solar modules to these kinds of projects but also donate modules for social welfare programs. Simu Village in Yongxing Township of Lijiang City in Yunan Curious children attending the event touching the PV modules Province is a poverty-stricken village, with LONGi's Lijiang Subsidiary as its poverty-alleviation corporate partner. After the PV power station was completed, local villagers People from the ethnic minority group of Lisu, Yi, Naxi from various ethnic minorities joined the launching event and others live here for generations. After several visits with singing and dancing in their ethnic costumes. The and interviews, senior executives and employees of villagers were very curious about the newly completed LONGi's Lijiang Subsidiary drafted a long-term work plan PV power station. The LONGi staff gave them a detailed for assistance, and have donated ¥120,000 of necessities. introduction, and the local villagers gave thumbs up to these In 2019, LONGi's Lijiang Subsidiary invested ¥100,000 in magical PV power plants and said, Ka-sa-sa! (meaning building an 18.3KW PV power station covering 240m2 of the getting better and better in Ethnic Lisu Language) ! rooftop area of the Simu Village Primary School Buildings. The power station can bring monthly ¥1,500 to ¥1,800 ($211.86 to $254.24）of additional income through electricity sale. The sustained cash flow can help students from lowincome families and for the school's development. This is the first PV power station donated by LONGi Group to the poverty-stricken areas with ethnic minorities in Yunnan Province. PV Poverty-Alleviation Power Station for Simu Village Primary School, donated by LONGi Group 43 / 44 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. 05. GOVERNANCE REGULATIVE GOVERNANCE Table5-1 Members of LONGi Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors and Senior Management As a company registered and listed in China, LONGi No. Name Gender Position Group strictly abides by laws and regulations, including 1 Zhong Baoshen Male Chairman of the Board, Director the Company Law of the People's Republic of China, the Securities Law of the People's Republic of China, the General Manager, Legal 2 Li Zhenguo Male Representative, Director Code of Corporate Governance for Listed Companies, and others. LONGi Group has been optimizing its corporate President of LONGi Wafer BU, 3 Xu Dapeng Male Director governance system and improves the level of governance. Based on the company's shareholder meetings, Board of Head of Finance Management 4 Liu Xuewen Female Center, Director Directors, Board of Supervisors, and senior management team, LONGi Group has established a governance 5 Zhang Rumin Female Director structure that is sound and effective, transparent, and Vice President of LONGi Wafer 6 Bai Zhongxue Male balanced by external supervision. LONGi Group protects BU, Director the legitimate interests of its shareholders, respects 7 Tian Gaoliang Male Independent Director their fundamental rights, and improves the value of the 8 Li Shoushuang Male Independent Director corporate as a whole. To do so, the company improves the compliance and effectiveness of information disclosure 9 Guo Ju'e Female Independent Director and manages investor relations more comprehensively. Chairman of Supervisory Board, 10 Qi Chengjun Male Shareholder Representative During the reporting period, LONGi strictly abided by the Supervisor requirements of relevant laws, department guidelines, Shareholder Representative business rules, the Articles of Association, and other 11 Li Xiangju Female Supervisor relevant regulations. LONGi Group continued regulating Employee Representative business operations and enhanced its internal control. 12 He Jing Female Supervisor The company also revised the Rule of Procedure for 13 Liu Xiaodong Male Board Secretary Shareholders' Meeting, the Board of Supervisors Rules of Procedure, and the External Security System, in *Source: LONGi Group 2019 Annual Report compliance with the current regulations and corporate governance practices. Therefore, the company further The Board of Directors has 4 committees, including the perfected its policies and procedures, improved its Strategy Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination operational capabilities, and consequently formed a Committee, and the Compensation & Review Committee. governance structure that is adaptive to the industry These committees fully play their roles in strategic characteristics and the LONGi's strategic development. consultation for key decision makings, which ensures the board of directors can operate in a more professional The Board of Directors of LONGi Group consists of 9 approach. LONGi Group's corporate social responsibility directors, including 3 independent directors. The Board of (CSR) work is led by the Chairman of the Board. The Supervisors of the company has 3 supervisors. In 2019, Board of Directors drafts the guidelines and plans for CSR the company held 5 shareholders meetings, 22 board work. The board committees, senior management, and meetings, and 10 supervisory board meetings. related departments are in charge of implementation and to integrate sustainability growth with business operations. The Group President's Office leads the coordination of CSR-related work. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Organization Chart of LONGi Group (2019) INFORMATION DISCLOSURE were authentic, accurate, and complete, with no falsehoods, misleading statements, or major missing To further improve LONGi's information disclosure system, information. As a result, LONGi has established a during the reporting period, the Board of Directors Office corporate image as a listed company of integrity and took the lead and set up a working group, which covered all compliance. business areas, including production, sales, procurement, marketing, strategy, etc. Through coordinated efforts on INVESTOR RELATIONS crucial information, the company ensures that key messages can be exchanged in time and effectively, which further As a listed company in China, LONGi Group is recognized perfects the internal control mechanism of information for its governance, operations, and good market image. In disclosure and improves the risk management capability. recent years, LONGi's board of directors has attached great importance to investor relations. LONGi's investor relations In 2019, the company disclosed 185 interim stand out among many listed companies. announcements and 4 regular reports. LONGi's information disclosure is proven to be highly efficient, Since the company went public, LONGi Group has actively transparent, and in compliance. LONGi's announcements delivered return for the investors with stable & sustained 45 / 46 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. dividends and business growth. To ensure better understanding from the capital market, LONGi Group has conducted in-depth exchanges with investors through roadshows, performance briefings, investor receptions, teleconferences, investors' platform, on-site surveys, etc. LONGi Group actively responds to investors' concerns and have them understand the company comprehensively. The frequent and close interactions with the investors have helped the company's value to be better reflected and have won recognition from the capital market and investors. LONGi won the Tianma Award Best Investor Relations and Best Board of Directors in China's A-share Listed Companies. ANTI-CORRUPTION People are paying increasing attention to creating a bribery-free and corruption-free business environment home and abroad. LONGi Group is dedicated to creating an LONGi Group Share Allotment Issue Online Roadshow (2019) anti-corruption corporate culture, as well as jointly building an eco-system under the sunlight with LONGi's partners In April 2019, the company completed its 3.9bn-RMBin the supply chain. Under the strong leadership from the worth (549 million USD) share allotment issue. To ensure senior executive team, and with anti-bribery measures in the investors being fully informed, LONGi held a series of place, the anti-bribery culture is integrated into the daily roadshows and activities to communicate with investors operations for all employees. LONGi Group has set up the based on the company's investor structure. The company Audit & Risk Control Department, which is a permanent completed this issue successfully, with ¥3.875 billion (545 department under the Audit Committee of the Board of million USD) raised in 10 months. The recognition rated Directors and independent from the function centers of reached up to 99.54%, marked a new record on the A-share the corporate headquarters and other business units. It market since 2011. This shows the solid confidence from reports directly to the Chairman of the Board to keep the investors on LONGi's value and future growth prospects. audit work independent and truly reflect objectivity. The LONGi Group was highly recognized by the capital market company has released a series of regulations, including and investors with its performance in corporate governance, the Code of Conduct on Integrity for Management Team transparency in information disclosure, and innovative and Members, Principles on Complaint and Report, the efficient investor relationship management. The company Supervisory Management Guidelines, etc. LONGi took the has won numerous awards including the China Outstanding reference to the leading international anti-fraud principles IR Information Disclosure Award, Best Board of Directors as benchmarks and combined with its own experiences. Award, Best Listed Company Award, Top 100 China's The company has established a world-leading anti-fraud Most Valuable Listed Companies on A-share , Outstanding system with its own characteristics. These efforts show Investor Relations Management Awards 2018 , and was LONGi's resolution on anti-corruption, which is No Dark included in the Top 50 New Fortune Best Listed Companies. Corners, Full Supervision, and Zero Tolerance. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 In 2018, the LONGi Group and its subsidiaries in Japan, anti-corruption and integrity training. There were no lawsuits Europe, and the US obtained the ISO 37001 Anti-bribery on business fraud, corruption, or unfair competition throughout management system certificate, becoming the world's first the year. solar company that is certified by so. In 2019, the company As LONGi Group improved its anti-fraud management, it applied this anti-bribery system and continued to optimize. also asks its partners in the supply chain to follow such antiThe system also passed the audit by ISO in 2019. fraud practices. LONGi took the lead in creating a business environment under the sunlight with partners throughout LONGi asks the employees to observe the key values of the supply chain. LONGi's teams have paid on-site visits to reliable, value-added, delighted, being self-disciplined. its partners to advocate transactions with integrity and riskThe company asks its staff to abide by the anti-bribery control concepts, and have promoted better accessible items of the laws and company regulations, including the reporting channels to its partners. At the 2019 Supplier Employee Handbook and the Code of Conduct on Integrity Conference, LONGi presented the integrity concepts to for Management Team Members. Employees are also its partners, to build an eco-system of open and clean asked to practice their commitments on integrity and selfcollaboration. discipline and spontaneously resist any bad practices and corruption. In January 2019, the company released the The company has built a platform to make complaints and Management Guideline on Punishment for Regulations report channels more accessible. LONGi Breeze, a WeChat Violations (Trial Edition) to keep any regulation violators mini-app, is the first complaint and report platform of the PV accountable. This new guideline aims to clarify the industry, which turns out to be very innovative for the industry. accountability of the violator him/herself and his/her By December 2019, the number of confirmed corruption cases directly-reporting managers and the accountability of the is 7. 21 employees had been dismissed or received disciplinary senior corporate leadership of the business sector. 1,200 punishment due to corruption, and 16 cases of cooperation people, including managers, had participated in had ceased because of corruption. 47 / 48 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. APPENDIX Explanation of Professional Terms Noun Definition Monocrystalline with periodically arranged silicon atoms in bulk silicon crystals MONOCRYSTALLINE are prepared from high purity polycrystalline silicon by mainly Czochralski and SILICON zone melting methods. A square or octagonal sheet formed by cutting a monocrystalline silicon ingot SILICON WAFER or a polycrystalline silicon ingot. The ingot-like silicon monocrystalline grown from polycrystalline silicon by CZ SILICON INGOT and FZ. It is monocrystalline. The solar cell, a device that uses photovoltaic principle to convert solar CELL radiation energy into electricity through semiconductor materials, is also called photovoltaic cell. The solar module consists of multiple solar power units connected in series and parallel. Its function is to converge smaller solar power generated by MODULE single solar cell into a photoelectric device with larger power output. It can be used to charge all kinds of batteries, or it can be used in series or parallel as a generating unit for off-grid or grid-connected solar power system. Passivation emitter back contact technology, which uses SINx or Al2O3 to form a passivation layer on the back of the cell, as a back reflector, to PERC CELL increases the absorption of long-wavelength light, maximizes the electric potential difference between P-N electrodes and reduces the recombination of electrons. It can significantly improve the efficiency of the cell. LCOE is the abbreviation of the Levelized Cost of Energy, which is the generation cost calculated after leveling the cost and power generation in the LCOE life cycle of a project, i.e., the present cost in the life cycle/the present value of power generation in the life cycle. MW Megawatt, unit of power for solar cells, 1 megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts GW Gigawatt, unit of power for solar cells, 1 gigawatt = 1,000 megawatt. CELL CONVERSION The ratio of the optimum power of solar cells to solar radiation power projected EFFICIENCY on their surface. GRI is the abbreviation for Global Reporting Initiative. GRI aims to provide a GRI generally accepted framework for corporate social responsibility report. NGO Non-governmental organization EHS stands for Environment, Health, and Safety. It is also the integration of EHS the Environmental Management System (EMS) and Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS). CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Global Reporting Initiative Index Global Reporting Initiative 2016 standard Index Table GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER GENERAL DISCLOSURE 102-1 Name of the organization P3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services P6，P9 102-3 Location of headquarters P7 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-4 Location of operations P7 102-6 Markets served P7 102-7 Scale of the organization P8 102-9 Supply chain P31 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach P11 102-12 External initiatives P12 102-13 Membership of associations P12 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-makers P4 ETHICS AND 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior P7 INTEGRITY 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics P47 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure P45 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P11 STAKEHOLDER 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders P11 ENGAGEMENT 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement P11 102-47 List of material topics P16 102-50 Reporting period P1 REPORTING 102-51 Date of the most recent report P1 PRACTICE 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report P1 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards P52-54 102-55 GRI content index P49-51 49 / 50 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER SPECIAL ISSUE DISCLOSURE-200 ECONOMIC TOPICS ECONOMIC 103 Management Approach P3 PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P3 103 Management Approach P34 MARKET PRESENCE 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the P34 local community ANTI-CORRUPTION 103 Management Approach P47 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures P47 300 ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS 103 Management Approach P24 ENERGY P24 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 103 Management Approach P25 303-1 Water withdrawal by sources P25 WATER 303-3 Water recycle/withdrawal P25 103 Management Approach EMISSIONS P27 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides(SOx), and other major air emissions P27 103 Management Approach P28 EFFLUENTS AND 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination P29 WASTE 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method P30 ENVIRONMENTAL 103 Management Approach P24 COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and P24 regulations SUPPLIER 103 Management Approach P32 ENVIRONMENTAL 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using P33 ASSESSMENT environmental criteria CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER 400 SOCIAL TOPICS 1103 Management Approach P34 EMPLOYMENT 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees while P34 not provided to temporary or part-time employees OCCUPATION HEALTH 103 Management Approach P34 AND SAFETY TRAINING AND 103 Management Approach P25 EDUCATION DIVERSITY AND EQUAL P34 103 Management Approach OPPORTUNITY ANTI-DISCRIMINATION 103 Management Approach P34 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE 103 Management Approach P36 NEGOTIATION CHILD LABOR 103 Management Approach P34 FORCED OR COMPULSORY 103 Management Approach P34 LABOR 103 Management Approach P41 LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and P41 development programs CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103 Management Approach P41 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in SOCIOECONOMIC the social and economic area P47 COMPLIANCE 51 / 52 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 53 / 54 LONGi Green Energy Technology Co.,Ltd. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 FEEDBACK FORM Feedback for the LONGi Group Social Responsibility Report 2019 Dears, Thank you for reading the LONGi Group Social Responsibility Report 2019. In order to further improve LONGi's social responsibility and report quality, please help fill the feedback form and send it to us. We solemnly promise to keep your personal information strictly confidential. Personal information * Name：____________ * E-mail：__________________ * Which stakeholder group do you belong to? □ Employee □ Customer □ Government □ Public □ Supplier □ Public Organization □ Others_____________ Your Feedback： * Your overall assessment of the report is： □ very good □ good □ not bad □ bad * Your assessment of the environmental responsibilities of LONGi Group disclosed in this report is： □ very good □ good □ not bad □ bad * Your assessment of the social responsibility of LONGi Group disclosed in this report is: □ very good □ good □ not bad □ bad * Did you get the information you wanted in this report: □ Yes □ No * Do you think the content and layout of this report are easy to read? ： □ Yes □ No * What other information you would like to know which is not disclosed in this report? ____________________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________________________ * What are your opinions and suggestions on LONGi's social responsibility work? ____________________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________________________ * What information would you like to learn from LONGi Group's Social Responsibilty Report? ____________________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________________________ You can fill in this form and send it by mail or provide your feedback by the following means: Contact: Wang Zifu Tel: +86 139 9183 1774 Address: Block B, 7th Floor, Shangji Road No.8989, Economic and Technological Development Zone, Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province Post code: 710016 Tel: 029-85767999 Fax: 029-81566685 Website: www.longigroup.com E-mail: CSR@longigroup.com For sales, product quality, and service quality, please contact customer service: Market@longigroup.com For CSR and Sustainable Development, please contact: CSR@longigroup.com For media, please contact: PR@longigroup.com For previous CSR reports, please visit: http://www.longigroup.com To report violations of professional ethics by LONGi employees or departments, please contact us by:
