www.osram.com Sustainability Report 2019 of OSRAM Licht AG Light is OSRAM 2 Contents Report Profile Company Profile Sustainability Management Responsible Corporate Sustainable Products Governance and Integrity About this Report 03 1.1 Our Company  08 2.1 Organization and Structures 10 4.1 Added Value for Customers 27 Foreword04 2.2 Materiality Analysis 11 3.1 Corporate Governance 14 4.2 Innovation Management  27 Our Sustainability Performance 2.3 Dialog with Stakeholders 12 3.2 Combating Corruption and 4.3 Impact Measurement 29 at a Glance 06 Anti-Competitive Behavior 16 4.4 Product Safety and Quality 30 3.3  Protection and Security of Personal Data 19 3.4 Supply Chain Management 21 3.5 Customer Relationships 24 Environment and Employees Society Appendix Climate Protection 6.1 Responsibility to Employees  48 7.1 Respect for Human Rights 60 8.1 List of Material Topics 65 5.1 Environmental Management 33 6.2  Occupational Health and Safety  49 7.2 Social Engagement  63 8.2  Independent Auditor’s Limited 5.2 Energy Efficiency  34 6.3 Fair Working Conditions  51 Assurance Report regarding 6.4 People Development  53 Sustainability Information 66 5.3  Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change  36 6.5 Diversity and Inclusion  55 8.3 GRI Content Index 68 5.4 Water39 6.6  Employee Satisfaction and 8.4 Acknowledgments and Contact 75 About the cover picture: Research on ultraviolet radiation for 5.5 Waste  41 Employer Attractiveness  57 the development of high-performance 5.6 Raw Materials and Substances  42 UV LEDs – the germicidal impact of “blue light” 5.7 Compliance in Environmental Protection  46 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 3 REPORT PROFILE — About this Report Report Profile About this Report GRI Index 102-40 102-45 102-48 This Sustainability Report presents the sustainability perforreporting requirements through a separate non-financial Unless otherwise stated, the number of employees is given 102-49 mance of the OSRAM Licht Group (OSRAM) in fiscal year group report, which forms part of the ›› OSRAM Licht in thousands of full-time equivalents (FTEs) as of the report2019. It sheds light on the impact of our business from a Group’s Annual Report published on December 6, 2019. ing date. social, environmental, and economic perspective, and describes the systems we have developed and the measures The reporting period for this Sustainability Report covers fisErnst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has we have taken. The report is intended to inform our stakecal year 2019 (October 1, 2018 to September 30, 2019). identified the disclosures for the period from October 1, 2018 holders—our employees, customers, analysts and investors, Unless otherwise indicated, all figures for this fiscal year to September 30, 2019, in the German PDF version of the suppliers, non-governmental organizations, politicians and and, where applicable, the comparable figures for the prior report with a [ … ] that were subject to a limited assurgovernment agencies, and anybody with an interest in the fiscal year(s), refer to the continuing operations of the ance engagement in accordance with the International Company—about what we do in order to make our products, OSRAM Group*. As of September 30, 2019, OSRAM reported Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (Revised). solutions, processes, and supply chain even more sustainable. the North American luminaire service business, which was Only disclosures for fiscal year 2019 were part of the assursold in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, and the Euroance engagement. Most of the figures for the previous fiscal Like the reports for the two prior fiscal years, the Sustainabilpean luminaires business which has also been sold as a disyear were covered by the assurance engagement for the ity Report we present here is based on the Global Reporting continued operation ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual 2018 Sustainability Report and are identified as such there. Initiative (GRI) framework. This report has been prepared in Report, A.2.2.3 Other Significant Events Responsible for the This report is published in PDF format accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The report Course of Business, p. 13. The prior-year figures have been ›› www.osram.com/sustainability. also presents our Communication on Progress (COP) report restated accordingly and refer to the continuing operations of for this fiscal year in relation to the UN Global Compact. The the OSRAM Licht Group unless otherwise indicated. This corresponding sections of the report have each been identireport—unless otherwise indicated—includes OSRAM CONTIfied in the GRI Index. OSRAM signed up to the UN Global NENTAL. For certain key performance indicators, we also References in the text Compact in 2005 and has been publishing a COP since 2006. include a reporting period covering multiple years. Due to rounding, numbers presented in tables throughout this report › Internal reference As a company that is active in the capital markets, OSRAM is may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percent(within the document) required to disclose its sustainability performance by the ages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz (CSR-RUG—German CSR ›› External reference Directive Implementation Act), which came into force at the The financial data is taken from the ›› www.osram.com/ (in another document or beginning of 2017. As in the prior year, we have met these annual-report-2019. on the Internet) OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * OSRAM Licht AG and its subsidiaries; associates are not included. 4 REPORT PROFILE — Foreword Foreword Dear Readers, We look back on a turbulent fiscal year in 2019. It was a year in which conditions in our most important markets have clouded over further, and a year in which several takeover bids were made for OSRAM, with the bid of Austrian chip manufacturer ams ultimately proving successful. We firmly believe that integration with ams will allow us to make even faster progress in our current transformation into a high-tech photonics champion. Our complementary strengths will enable us to create a European global market leader for sensor solutions and photonics—an engine of growth for both companies. Throughout these changes, our products have been contributing to progress and to the quality of life of our customers and society for the past 113 years—true to our mission of using the limitless possibilities of light to improve people’s lives. We are fully exploiting the potential presented by the digital revolution. And we are extending our reach far beyond lighting to cater to fields of application such as sensors, visualization, and light-based treatments. Horticulture, water desinfection, and surface treatment are just some of the areas in which we provide treatment solutions. We want to support sustainable development while generating economic added value. Our intelligent, energy-efficient products and solutions, for example, serve to combat climate change. Furthermore, our lighting technologies are helping to enhance safety in road traffic and public spaces, protect personal data, and improve well-being in the workplace and the home. Sustainability means responsibility, which for us includes not only the value that our products add but also the way that we treat our employees, suppliers, and customers. Throughout our value chain, we put the emphasis on careful use of resources, environmental protection, good working conditions, health and safety, and compliance with human rights—both in respect of our own employees and those of our partners. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 5 REPORT PROFILE — Foreword This Sustainability Report highlights OSRAM’s commitment to sustainable development. The Top Employers Institute also awarded us certificates as a Top Employer in Germany, It documents the progress that we are making in our sustainability activities, which are based Malaysia, China, and the U.S.A. In China, OSRAM again received the Employer Excellence on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. As a long-standing Award of China. We regard these accolades as both acknowledgement of our work so far supporter of the UN Global Compact, we also align our business and our strategy to these and an incentive to do more. universally acknowledged principles. We want to continue doing better in the future. The best way to do this is with partners who Our efforts are delivering results and we have already received several acknowledgments of share our aims in terms of sustainable development. This is why we are issuing you with a our sustainability achievements. In autumn 2018, OSRAM came second in the Jewels of the very warm invitation to enter into a dialog with us. Your ideas are very much welcome and German Economy ranking, and in early 2019 we were included in Corporate Knights’ Global they will help us to continue growing our Company in a sustainable way. I hope you find this 100 index. The index lists the 100 most sustainable corporations in the world. Only five German report both informative and enlightening. companies made it onto the index, and OSRAM came third out of these five. In summer 2019, Volkswagen named us ‘top supplier’ in the ‘sustainability’ category at their 2019 Supplier Days. And at the end of the fiscal year, we won the 2019 Golden Peacock Global Award for Sustainability. Dr Olaf Berlien We also continue to be listed by ISS ESG (formerly oekom) in the Prime Status category. Chairman of the Managing Board of OSRAM Licht AG Furthermore, OSRAM shares are included in the sustainability indices FTSE4Good, MSCI ACWI IMI Low Carbon Leaders Index, Global Challenges Index, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, and STOXX Global Social Leaders. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 6 REPORT PROFILE — Our Sustainability Performance at a Glance Our Sustainability Performance at a Glance Key Indicators Environment Employees/Society Corporate Governance Primary energy 163,600 MWh Employees Expenditure F&E F&E intensity Secondary energy 23,500 €418 million 12.1% 540,000 MWh  30,200 t CO2 emissions Scope 1 Expenditure on Expenditure Scope 2 238,700 t professional training citizenship projects Newly signed Code of Conducts (CoC) €7.53 million €3.3 million 270 Scope 3  upstream value chain  942,700 t Water consumption Internal recruiting (management) Internal and external EHS audits 3,007,500 m³ 76% 25 Waste water 2,352,200 m³ Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Employees trained Employees trained Waste for disposal Waste for recycling (LTIFR) Severity Rate (SR) in compliance in data privacy 5,700 t 8,400 t 0.29 6.04 6,686 11,304 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 7 1.0 Company Profile OSRAM is undergoing a transformation from a lighting manufacturer to a high-tech photonics company. Our mainly semiconductor-based products find wide-ranging use in our specialist fields of mobility, safety, connectivity, and health and well-being. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 8 COMPANY PROFILE — Our Company OSRAM’s global business is structured on a regional GRI Index 1.1 basis. OSRAM’s activities, which encompass more than 102-45 120 countries and over 26 production sites, are divided into three reporting regions/markets: EMEA (Europe, Russia, the Our Company Middle East, and Africa), APAC (Asia, Australia, and the Pacific region), and the Americas (U.S.A., Canada, Mexico, and South America). Key locations are listed in the ›› 2019 The OSRAM Licht Group comprises the parent company OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, A.1.1.3 Organization and OSRAM Licht AG, which is headquartered in Munich and is Reporting Structure, p. 6. OSRAM employed a total of an Aktiengesellschaft (stock corporation) in accordance with around 23.5 thousand people as of September 30, 2019 German law, and 103 subsidiaries and 22 investees ›› 2019 (previous year: 26.2 thousand) (full-time equivalents, FTEs). OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, B.6 Other Disclosures, Note 38 I List of Equity Investments of the OSRAM Licht In the past fiscal year, we continued to pursue our Group in Accordance with Section 313 of the HGB, p. 130. strategic realignment despite persistently weak markets ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, A.2.2.3 Other We are currently undergoing a transformation from a lighting Significant Events Responsible for the Course of Business— manufacturer into a high-tech photonics company. In addition Capital Expenditure, p. 13. to lighting, we are increasing our focus on sensors, visualization, and light-based treatments. Our mainly semiconductorbased products find wide-ranging use. Sample applications Revenue by segments Revenue by regions (by location of customer) in € million in € million range from virtual reality, autonomous driving, and high-tech 2018 2019 2018 2019 smartphones to intelligent and connected lighting solutions in Opto Semiconductors 1,725 1,453 EMEA 1,284 1,180 buildings and the indoor cultivation of plants. The operating Automotive 1,920 1,776 therein Germany 692 553 activities covered by our business model are essentially Digital 914 916 APAC 1,462 1,232 organized into three business units: Opto Semiconductors, Reconciliation to consolidated financial statements – 770 – 681 therein China (including Hong Kong) and Taiwan 953 760 Automotive, and Digital ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual OSRAM (continuing operations) 3,789 3,464 Americas 1,044 1,053 Report, A.1.1.1 Business Model, p. 3 and A.1.1.3 Organization therein U.S.A. 871 805 OSRAM (continuing operations) 3,789 3,464 and Reporting Structure, p. 6. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 9 2.0 Sustainability Management Because we are an international business, our responsibilities extend around the world. Sustainability is a key pillar of our Company’s positioning. Our sustainability strategy provides an overarching framework for our actions and activities. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 10 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — Organization and Structures 2.1 to combating corruption and bribery, and to protecting the data of our customers, partners, and employees. In all of Sustainability governance structure these areas, we help to continually reduce negative impacts Organization and and strengthen positive effects using appropriate guidelines, Managing Board Supervisory Board management systems, and measures. In the following chapStructures ters, we describe how we are fulfilling this responsibility. Chief Sustainability Responsible The issue of sustainability touches on many aspects of the Officer Business & Sustainability Our business activities and the impact that they have on business, and responsibility for this area lies directly at the economy, the environment, and society mean that our Managing Board level in the form of the Chief Sustainability responsibilities extend around the world. We* meet our Officer. The Responsible Business & Sustainability departSustainability Council responsibilities by aligning ourselves with the UN’s Sustainable ment works with the relevant partners from functions Corporate Business Units Corporate Development Goals and complying with international law, in throughout the Company to develop action plans and focal Communications Strategy line with the principles of the UN Global Compact. We have areas, which are then presented to the Sustainability Council. & Brand Strategy identified our key areas for action as part of our materiality The latest trends and emerging economic, social, and envianalysis › 2.2 Materiality Analysis, p. 11. These include proronmental issues that could become relevant to OSRAM are Operations, Innovation Human P Page <11> moting climate protection and energy efficiency in our own discussed by the Council and embedded within the organiQuality & EHS Resources business and further developing our product portfolio. Our zation if appropriate. The Sustainability Council also objective is to keep pace with the competition and offer safe approves the draft resolutions on sustainability to be subCorporate Procurement Corporate Audit, products that add value for our customers, while also conmitted to the Managing Board. Governance, Risk Management tributing to society. Throughout the value chain, we put the Compliance emphasis on protecting the environment and resources and The Sustainability Council is headed by the Chief Sustainability acting as a fair employer that looks after the health and safety Officer and comprises the heads of the business units and the of its employees and strives to fulfill its duty of care with heads of those corporate functions that have sustainabilityregard to human rights. We want to develop the individual related issues. Other experts are co-opted depending on Operative Implementation skills of our workforce and be an employer of choice for the topics being dealt with, and other delegates from appropotential employees. We are committed to fair competition, priate functions are also involved as necessary. * OSRAM’s centralized sustainability management does not include OSRAM CONTINENTAL. However, the management approaches and results at OSRAM CONTINENTAL are OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 included in OSRAM’s sustainability reporting. 11 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — Materiality Analysis 2.2 4. For each of these categories, an assessment was carried In fiscal year 2019, a review was conducted to determine GRI Index 102-43 out regarding OSRAM’s impact. The significance of the whether the materiality analysis needed to be updated or 102-44 individual topics for stakeholders and for the business modified due to any significant changes to key influencing Materiality Analysis 102-46 was also assessed. factors both inside and outside the Company. The review 102-47 5. Finally, a review was carried out to determine in which showed that no significant changes had occurred that would stages of the value chain these impacts occur. The topics be relevant to the business or have any significant negative The materiality analysis carried out in fiscal year 2018 provides were also prioritized according to their importance for impacts. the basis for our reporting. It meets the requirements of both stakeholders and for the development and performance GRI and CSR-RUG. The following criteria have been defined of the business and the position of the Group. All topics that are considered to be material in accordance on this basis: with CSR-RUG have already been featured in the Non-finanThe materiality analysis yielded the following list of topics, cial Group Report for fiscal year 2019. It forms part of the —— High relevance for stakeholders (GRI) which was presented to and approved by the Managing OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report ›› www.osram.com/ —— Required to understand the impacts of the business Board. annual-report-2019. activities (GRI and CSR-RUG) —— Required to understand the development and perforFor a comprehensive list of the topics we have identified as mance of the business and the position of the Group The material topics for OSRAM in material, and the equivalent GRI topics, see the appendix (CSR-RUG) accordance with GRI are: › 8.1 List of Material Topics, p. 65. This Sustainability Report P Page <65> also covers topics that we consider relevant to our stakeCombating corruption and bribery The materiality analysis process was divided into five phases: holders or help to paint a broader picture of sustainability at Protection and security of personal data 1. The first step was to establish the materiality process in OSRAM. That also applies to topics that are not referenced in Customer relationships line with the requirements of GRI and CSR-RUG. Product safety the GRI standards. 2. The next step was to identify potential topics. A media Energy efficiency analysis, internal sources, a peer review, stakeholder Greenhouse gases and climate change feedback, global standards, and supporting interviews Raw materials and substances provided the basis for this. Occupational health and safety 3. In the next step, these topics were divided into five cateFair working conditions gories: Environment, Employees, Social, Human Rights, People development and Compliance. Employee satisfaction and employer attractiveness Human rights OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 12 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — Dialog with Stakeholders in summer 2019. The department also examines the make-up GRI Index 2.3 of our stakeholders, identifies which communication channels 102-40 102-42 exist for each group, and documents the implemented 102-43 measures. The results are reported to the Managing Board if 102-44 Dialog with Stakeholders there are any significant changes. We* look to improve the sustainability of our activities by engaging in dialog with our stakeholders. We use the feedWe communicate with our stakeholders in many different ways: back obtained in the process of communication to continuously improve our strategy and measures. In doing so, we Employees Customers also help to spread the word about sustainable practices. We engage in dialog with our employees in a For our customers, we have put in place key variety of ways, including town hall meetings account managers that are specifically geared and webcast. We survey the satisfaction of our Annual toward the individual activities of each business We regularly engage in dialog with our stakeholders around General Meetings employees via a worldwide employee survey, unit and established corresponding customer the world: employees, customers, suppliers, analysts, inveswhich is usually conducted every two years. Meeting relationship management (CRM) systems. Initiatives tors, journalists, academics, neighbors, politicians, and repManagement conferences and events attended We also communicate directly with our customers by senior executives also take place. Partnerand invite them to trade events. About every two resentatives of non-governmental organizations, government ships years, we conduct a customer survey in order to Potential applicants agencies, and associations. We communicate at different Key Account review satisfaction and loyalty. We engage with potential applicants in Management Surveys management levels, at varying locations, and through a the networks that are relevant to them. Ratings Organizations and associations range of departments. The interests of key stakeholders We attend numerous career fairs and offer internships and opportunities for Our contribution to sustainable change such as employees, customers, suppliers, analysts and degree dissertations so as to position is achieved through dialog with various investors are also taken into account by the Supervisory OSRAM as an attractive employer among Roadshows Webcasts organizations and associations, particischool-leavers and graduates. pation in initiatives, and the establishBoard, whose members—half of whom are employee reprement of long-term partnerships. Talks sentatives—have expertise in various fields. The Responsible Capital markets In addition to our Annual General Meeting Business & Sustainability department assesses the relevance and the Annual Press Conference, we engage Trade associations of various topics for stakeholders once a year. The most with representatives of the capital markets and We are also active in various trade associations. our shareholders via roadshows, ratings, As a member of LightingEurope, for example, recent assessment was carried out in May 2018 as part of our OSRAM advocates high-quality applications in and investor meetings. › 2.2 Materiality Analysis, p. 11. The Responsible Business & Suppliers the field of visible and invisible light that make P Page <11> We engage in intensive dialog with our suppliers through various cooperation efficient use of energy and resources. Sustainability department checked that this was up to date formats with the aim of developing sustainable and innovative solutions and communicating our values. Our suppliers are expected to comply with basic requirements and demonstrate commitment to our values. We support them in their efforts. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * Stakeholder management covers the OSRAM Group without OSRAM CONTINENTAL. 13 3.0 Responsible Corporate Governance and Integrity OSRAM would not be able to achieve its sustainable business success without the trust of its stakeholders such as employees, customers, investors, and suppliers. We strengthen this trust by means of transparent and responsible corporate governance. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 14 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Corporate Governance five members of the Supervisory Board were women and must ensure that an appropriate compliance management 3.1 three members were of a nationality other than German. system (including data privacy) is in place that takes into The CVs of the members of the Managing Board and the account the risk situation of the Company Supervisory Board are published on the Company’s website ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4.3.2 DiscloCorporate Governance ›› www.osram.com/management. sures on Corporate Governance Practices—Company Values, Business Conduct Guidelines, and Compliance ManOSRAM Licht AG complies with all the recommendations of agement System, p. 167. OSRAM Licht AG is an Aktiengesellschaft (stock corporation) the German Corporate Governance Code included in the in accordance with German law and has a two-tier manageversion dated February 7, 2017, which comprises key regulaThe Managing Board and Supervisory Board work closely ment system consisting of a Managing Board and a Supervitions on the management and supervision of publicly listed together for the benefit of the Company. The Managing sory Board ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4 German companies, and internationally and nationally Board provides the Supervisory Board with regular, timely, Corporate Governance, p. 151. The Managing Board currently acknowledged standards for good and responsible corporate and comprehensive information on all issues of importance has three male members, all of whom are German nationals. governance. The Corporate Governance Declaration is updated to the Company in relation to strategy, planning, business The members of the Managing Board are appointed by the annually and is published on the website of our Company performance, financial position, results of operations, and Supervisory Board, which also determines the assignment of ›› www.osram.com/governance. compliance, as well as on material business risks. The Manresponsibilities on the Managing Board. aging Board considers diversity when filling managerial 3.1.1 Functions and Responsibilities of the Governance positions within the Company and, among other things, The Supervisory Board is made up of twelve members: six Bodies strives to increase the number of women in these roles representatives of the shareholders, who are appointed by (for detailed information on the relevant targets, see the General Meeting, and six representatives of the employAs the management body of OSRAM Licht AG, the Managing ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4.3.4 Targets ees, who are elected on the basis of the MitbestimmungsgeBoard is bound and committed to the Company’s interests for the Proportion of Women on the Managing Board, setz (MitbestG—German Codetermination Act). The memand to sustainably increase shareholder value. The members Supervisory Board, and in Senior Management, p. 169). bers of the Supervisory Board and its committees are of the Managing Board are jointly responsible for the overall The Supervisory Board has set the target for the proportion disclosed in the Company’s Notes to the Consolidated management of the business and decide on fundamental of women on the Company’s Managing Board to be Financial Statements in the Annual Report ›› 2019 OSRAM issues regarding business policy and corporate strategy, as achieved by June 30, 2022, at 25%. Licht Group Annual Report, B.6 Other Disclosures, Note 39 I well as on the Company’s annual and multi-year planning. Supervisory Board and Managing Board, p. 133. The objecThe Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing tives for the composition of the Supervisory Board are pubThe Managing Board is responsible for preparing the financial Board with regard to the management of the business. It lished on the Company’s website ›› www.osram.com/govstatements of OSRAM Licht AG and the OSRAM Group. It regularly discusses business performance, planning, straternance. The Supervisory Board strives to include a wide must also ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements egy, and the implementation of strategy. Important decisions range of professional and international experience in its and internal guidelines are complied with, and must work to by the Managing Board on issues such as major acquisicomposition and in particular to have reasonable represenensure that all Group companies comply with them as well. tions, divestments, and financial actions require its approval. tation of both genders. On September 30, 2019, a total of In order to fulfill its duty in this regard, the Managing Board The Supervisory Board regularly reviews the efficiency of its OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 15 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Corporate Governance work, involving external experts where required. This process The Supervisory Board believes that all shareholder representulations and international treaties on human rights, the fight entails identifying and acting on potential areas for improveatives are independent within the meaning of the German against corruption, and other areas of responsible corporate ment ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.3 Report Corporate Governance Code. Furthermore, the Supervisory governance form the basis of the Business Conduct Guideof the Supervisory Board, p. 144. The Annual Report provides Board assumes that the employee representatives are also lines ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4.3.2 a comprehensive description of the working practices and independent because it believes that the circumstance of Disclosures on Corporate Governance Practices, p. 167: We functions of the Managing Board and the Supervisory being an employee representative or having an employment respect the personal dignity, privacy, and personal rights of Board, their relationship, and the composition and working contract with the OSRAM Group in itself does not call into every individual, and we reject all forms of discrimination › 6.5 P Page <55> practices of the committees of the Supervisory Board doubt the independence of the employee representatives. Diversity and Inclusion, p. 55. The Business Conduct Guide›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4 Corporate No former members of the Managing Board are members of lines set out how we meet our ethical and legal responsibiliGovernance, p. 151. the Supervisory Board. At least three of the shareholder repties as a Company. They apply both to internal working relaresentatives on the Supervisory Board are people with no tionships and to conduct toward external partners such as 3.1.2 Remuneration and Independence potential conflicts of interest. Some members of the Supersuppliers. In Germany, our Group-wide agreement on partvisory Board work in senior positions at other companies nership in the workplace expressly states that all employees The remuneration of the Managing Board comprises nonwith which OSRAM has business relationships or has done should be valued and treated with respect—regardless of performance-based and performance-based components so in the past year. Transactions that OSRAM conducted their gender, ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, physical limitaand is intended to provide incentives for sustainable corpowith these companies were on an arm’s-length basis. The tions, or sexual identity › 6.3 Fair Working Conditions, p. 51. P Page <51> rate governance. The remuneration is thus structured with Supervisory Board does not believe that these transactions Any violations of our principles can be reported via the an appropriate balance of non-performance-based and percompromise the independence of its relevant members. If any whistleblowing system ‘Tell OSRAM’ › 3.2 Combating CorP Page <16> formance-based components. The multi-year basis of calcuconflicts of interest arise in the course of routine business, ruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 16. lation takes account of both positive and negative developthey must be disclosed to the Chairman of the Supervisory ments, encouraging the Managing Board to take a long-term Board. If the conflicts of interest are significant and not simply 3.1.4 Memberships and Political Engagement approach. When setting short-term variable remuneration, of a temporary nature, the affected member of the Supervithe Supervisory Board also takes into consideration nonsory Board should step down from his or her position. Overall responsibility for our political engagement lies with financial targets. The Supervisory Board carries out regular the Managing Board, supported by the Public Affairs departreviews to ascertain that the level of remuneration for the You will find additional information in the Annual Report ment. In line with our values, we are committed to not making Managing Board is appropriate. The remuneration for the ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.4 Corporate any direct or indirect donations—or any other contributions— members of the Supervisory Board is defined in the Articles Governance, p. 151. to politicians, political parties, or political organizations. Our of Association of the Company. The remuneration report Business Conduct Guidelines contain rules to this effect. describes in detail the structure of the remuneration system 3.1.3 Corporate Values OSRAM does not operate lobbying offices, nor does it employ for the Managing Board and the remuneration principles, lobbying agencies. and it provides explanations of the structure and the level of The basis for a trusting cooperation is mutual respect, honremuneration for the members of the Managing Board and esty, and integrity. These principles* are set out in our Sponsorships are not considered donations, nor are contrithe members of the Supervisory Board ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht ›› Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG), which every new butions to industry associations or fees for memberships in Group Annual Report, C.4.2 Remuneration Report, p. 156. employee must sign at the start of their contract. Legal regorganizations that serve business interests. Sponsorships * OSRAM CONTINENTAL has implemented a Code of Ethics in fiscal year 2019. The code defines the values that shape the Company's actions and help it to act lawfully and ethically. The Code of Ethics also provides guidance on how to interact responsibly with one another in the workplace, for example. The requirements to be met by suppliers OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 with regard to fair working conditions and respect for human rights are also set out in OSRAM CONTINENTAL’s Code of Ethics. 16 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Corporate Governance — Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior must be free of any political contributions, meet certain Objectives and Results transparency requirements, and be documented in the form We manage memberships centrally to create transparency 3.2 of a written agreement, be earmarked for legitimate busiacross the Group. Our political engagement remained limness purposes, and be commensurate with the consideration ited to membership of industry associations in fiscal year offered by the event host › 7.2 Social Engagement, p. 63. 2019. This included the three most important associations Combating Corruption P Page <63> for our industry: the German Electrical and Electronic ManuOSRAM is a member of LightingEurope, which represents facturers’ Association (ZVEI), LightingEurope, and the North and Anti-Competitive leading lighting manufacturers and national trade associaAmerican Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA), as tions. As a key member of the association, OSRAM is pushwell as employer and business associations. During the Behavior ing for the new requirements to not only cater to the overfiscal year, we paid membership fees totaling €3 million arching objective of low-energy, resource-efficient, and (previous year: €3 million). high-quality lighting but also to take account of users’ needs, [ OSRAM is committed to the prevention of corruption and as well as to be feasible for implementation by the industry. bribery as well as to fair competition. We believe that susWithin this framework, we make a contribution to the further tainable business success can be achieved only through development of the circular economy through topics such as lawful and responsible practices. Bribery and corruption are the repairability of products › 5.6.3 Take-back and Circular an impediment to healthy markets and hold back economic P Page <45> Economy, p. 45. We advise governments and authorities, for growth and the development of the affected society. Our example on solutions for sustainable urban development. open corporate culture and the established and effective In addition, we are actively championing the introduction compliance management system are key components in our of globally harmonized substance restrictions, for example in endeavors. connection with the implementation of the United Nations’ Minamata Convention, which requires the signatory counGuidelines, Responsibilities & Structures, and Processes tries to refrain from using mercury. The European regulations OSRAM’s compliance management system is designed to on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances prevent possible violations of applicable anticorruption and RoHS and REACH, which carry global weight, are further antitrust laws. To this end, a compliance guideline suppleimportant topics ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, ments, and defines in more detail, the conduct rules on A.1.1.4 Legal and Sector-specific Conditions, p. 6. tackling corruption and dealing with competitors that are set out in the Business Conduct Guidelines. The compliance management system follows the management system methodology described in the IDW AssS 980 assurance standard. From an organizational perspective, OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 17 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior the compliance management system consists of employees OSRAM has several tools at its disposal for dealing with corA further key component of our compliance management at the headquarters and in the regions. The Compliance ruption-related risks. For example, we review and classify system is our employee training program, as part of which department has the managerial authority to issue guidelines, certain business partners according to particular criteria, we conduct classroom-based and online training sessions specifies content and processes, and regularly monitors such as the prevalence of corruption in the country in which focused on combating corruption and on antitrust law. The compliance. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly the partner operates, and require them to comply with rules training courses are mandatory for all senior-level employto the Chairman of the Managing Board. As part of its remit on combating corruption. Our suppliers must sign the Code ees and for all employees working in sensitive functions to supervise management functions, the Supervisory Board of Conduct for Suppliers, which prohibits corruption and (particularly sales, purchasing, and marketing). monitors the effectiveness and appropriateness of the combribery › 3.4 Supply Chain Management, p. 21. P Page <21> pliance management system. At OSRAM, this task is assigned Regular communication activities are carried out to raise to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee, to which the Another element of OSRAM’s compliance management sysawareness among employees and to strengthen the compliChief Compliance Officer reports on a quarterly basis and, tem is the whistleblowing system ‘Tell OSRAM,’ which ance culture. They highlight the commitment of management if needed, incident-driven. employees and third parties can use to report violations of to compliance and the relevance of compliance to OSRAM. compliance rules, anonymously if they so wish. Reports can Compliance risk assessments focused on combating also be made through the usual internal company channels, OSRAM CONTINENTAL , which was founded in fiscal year corruption and on antitrust law are regularly carried out such as the relevant Compliance Officer, Corporate Compli2018, introduced a compliance management system in fiscal in selected entities and areas of the business in order to ance, or the line manager. All reports received by OSRAM year 2019. This is also designed to prevent breaches of the identify compliance risks and make continuous improveare followed up. Retaliation against whistleblowers will not applicable anticorruption and antitrust laws and is based on ments to the Group-wide compliance management system. be tolerated. Internal compliance investigations are carried the OSRAM CONTINENTAL Code of Ethics. Each management team and the compliance organization out if there are concrete indications of wrongdoing. Once an also conduct regular controls of tool-based processes for investigation is complete, the Compliance department recOSRAM’s compliance management system contains also dealing with business partners and invitations to entertainommends measures to address any identified deficiencies specific rules that formalize its commitment to upholding ment events, for example. These controls are also part of and monitors their implementation. In the event of misconantitrust law. Any form of arrangement with business partour internal control system ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group duct on the part of our employees, OSRAM may take disciners or competitors that aims to unfairly influence the marAnnual Report, A.4.2.5 Key Features of the Accountingplinary action in accordance with labor law. ket or otherwise restrict competition is prohibited for all related Internal Control and Risk Management System, p. 45. employees. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 18 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior The compliance management system is also covering the topic of anti-money laundering since July 2018. Targeted OSRAM Compliance Management System according to IDW AssS 980 measures are now helping us to meet the requirements of anti-money-laundering law. Via our internal whistleblowing Compliance monitoring Compliance culture system ‘Tell OSRAM,’ it is also possible to report suspicious and improvement •C ompliance as part of the cases of money-laundering and terrorism financing to the • Compliance controls OSRAM cultural values • Internal compliance reporting Compliance department, which alerts the relevant authori• Reporting to the Management Board and the •C ompliance responsibility and management committies if necessary. Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board ment ( tone from the top ) Objectives Compliance communication Compliance objectives Our overarching objective is to systematically combat corCompliance • Classroom and online training •P revention of white-collar crime ruption and bribery, to follow up on all suspected breaches, • Communication measures Management (focus: anti-corruption, antitrust law) and to enforce consequences if a breach is confirmed. • Compliance advice • Avoidance of damage to reputation System (CMS) In order to meet this objective, we need an effective compliance management system that reflects the organizational structure of the OSRAM Licht Group and the relevant regulatory environment. We therefore engaged an auditor in fiscal Compliance program Compliance organization (Prevent, detect, respond) •H eadquarter: Chief Compliance year 2019 to review our compliance management system • Business Conduct Guidelines, Guideline Officer and Corporate Compliance pertaining to combating corruption and to antitrust law, and Compliance, due diligences on business •R egions: Compliance Officers partners and benefits certify it in accordance with the IDW AssS 980 assurance Compliance risks • Reporting and handling of compliance cases, standard. internal investigations, disciplinary consequences • Compliance risk assessments • Compliance controls A modern training program is a key component of our compliance management system. That is why we want to reflect the current regulatory environment and OSRAM organization in our classroom-based and online training sessions, and provide our employees with the most comprehensive train[ In fiscal year 2019, we set ourselves the task of implementwe want our training program to reflect the latest developing coverage possible. ] ing training and communication measures to raise awarements in the regulatory environment, and we aim to regularly ness among employees in sensitive functions of risks related train our employees. to money laundering and terrorism financing. In this respect, OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 19 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior — Protection and Security of Personal Data Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators In fiscal year 2018, we engaged an auditor to review our Compliance training focusing on 3.3 compliance management system pertaining to combating anti-corruption corruption and to antitrust law in accordance with the IDW (continuing operations) AssS 980 assurance standard. A significant part of the 2018  2019 Protection and Security of review took place in fiscal year 2018 and focused on OSRAM Personal Data Employees (OSRAM Licht Group; FTE) 26,200 23,500 GmbH as the largest operating company and home of the Number of employees trained corporate functions. The adequacy, implementation, and (in-person and online) 4,926 6,686 effectiveness of the OSRAM Licht Group’s compliance manthereof in EMEA 1,305 2,722 agement system was certified without qualification in thereof in APAC 3,216 2,588 [ The shift in the lighting market toward semiconductorthereof in Americas 405 1,376 accordance with the IDW AssS 980 assurance standard in based technologies and photonics solutions is opening up October 2019. new business opportunities that OSRAM would like to take There were 27 reports of possible compliance violations in full advantage of ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, Targeted communication measures were taken in fiscal year fiscal year 2019 (previous year: 41). In total, six cases had A.1.1.1 Business Model, p. 3. This changing market is also 2019 to raise awareness among the employees. For examdisciplinary consequences in fiscal year 2019 (previous year: characterized by ever greater digitalization, which presents ple, a video interview with the Chairman of the Managing three). opportunities, but also risks. The scope of personal data Board on the importance of compliance to the Company’s being processed is growing all the time as more and more success was published on the intranet, and complianceweb-based apps and products become available. At the related questions were raised in panel discussions with Compliance incidents1) same time, more and more regulatory requirements have (continuing operations) internal experts.  been introduced concerning the protection, integrity, and 2018 2019 availability of personal data. We aim to protect any personal In fiscal year 2019, we adapted our training program to the Employees (OSRAM Licht Group; FTE) 26,200 23,500 data that we collect and only use it in a way that is in comcurrent regulatory requirements and incorporated insights Reports on possible compliace violations 41 27 pliance with the law. from the successful review of the compliance management Compliance investigations (substantial) 20 14 system. The following table provides information on our Disciplinary consequences 3 6 Guidelines, Responsibilities & Structures, and Processes Closed incidents from previous reportings 43 31 training activities with focus on anti-corruption. OSRAM has embedded data privacy in its business principles [ 1) Compliance incidents encompass especially all possible allegations of a violation and internal guidelines, and introduced a data privacy manof criminal or administrative law related to OSRAM's business activities. ] In addition to the above-mentioned training on anti-corrupagement system (DPMS) in fiscal year 2018 to achieve its tion, a total of 406 employees successfully completed the goals. Data privacy encompasses the protection of personal online training on antitrust law. In fiscal year 2019, no legal actions were brought against data pertaining to employees and customers, but also to our OSRAM for anti-competitive behavior, breaches of antitrust business partners and their customers. Our actions in this law, or monopolistic practices. ] regard are guided by the requirements of national and international data privacy laws. Our data privacy guideline reflects OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 20 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Protection and Security of Personal Data these legal requirements and covers the entire OSRAM Despite the high technical and organizational security standAction Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators Group. Applicable to all employees, it contains mandatory ards that we have in place, data breaches cannot be comIn fiscal year 2019, the Group guideline on data privacy was core principles and practical guidance for the handling of pletely ruled out. OSRAM is required by law to promptly notify brought into line with the current laws and regulations and personal data and defines in more detail the general princithe competent supervisory authorities if it is believed that a the processing register was updated. Privacy policies and ples of data privacy set out in our Business Conduct Guidepersonal data breach has occurred. Since fiscal year 2018, consent forms for employees, customers, and shareholders lines. it has also been possible to report suspected data privacy were also revised and data privacy requirements were intebreaches via the existing whistleblowing system ‘Tell OSRAM’ grated into the product development processes. The data privacy organization is a global function and forms › 3.2 Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior, P Page <16> part of the compliance organization. The head of Group Data p. 16. The basic online training on data privacy, which is provided Privacy is responsible for the Group-wide DPMS and its regularly—most recently in fiscal year 2018—is currently implementation in the OSRAM Group companies. Data priObjectives being updated in line with the current regulatory environvacy coordinators are named in the Group companies or, if Our objective is to protect the personal data of our employment with a view to it being carried out again in fiscal year necessary, data privacy officers are appointed. The head of ees and customers, as well as that of business partners and 2020. Group Data Privacy reports to the Managing Board on all their customers, in all our products and processes and to developments. Data privacy is also routinely covered in the avoid data breaches. Numerous technical and organizational During the reporting period, all locations and parts of comChief Compliance Officer’s reports to the Managing Board measures are in place to help us achieve this objective. panies brought into the OSRAM Licht Group within the preand the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. ceding twelve months were integrated into the data privacy To help us meet this challenging objective in an international organization and the relevant employees were trained OSRAM’s data privacy organization has the managerial and heavily regulated environment, we have defined supaccordingly. A total of 11,304 employees received training authority to issue Group-wide data privacy guidelines, formuporting objectives. As well as taking care that our guidelines via the web-based training tool or a classroom-based seslates guidelines that apply across the Group, and regularly and training materials comply with the applicable laws and sion. checks that these are adhered to. regulations, we want to reach a point where any OSRAM employee who comes into contact with personal data in the Data privacy training was provided to 21 employees of We require our employees to treat personal data and infor­ course of their work undergoes regular basic training. It is OSRAM CONTINENTAL in fiscal year 2019. mation confidentially. The specific rules are described in our also our goal to integrate all new locations, either newly data privacy guideline. In addition, we provide a web-based established or added as a result of acquisitions, into the Various means of communication were used to raise training on data privacy to all employees who have access to data privacy organization within twelve months and to train awareness of data privacy among employees. OSRAM an email account. All our business partners that handle sensithe new employees accordingly. held another data privacy and compliance day, for example. tive data are also required to train their employees accordEmployees at headquarters were given the opportunity to ingly. This applies in particular to our service providers and participate in panel discussions and visit stands where they suppliers. could find out about data privacy and about services offered by the Data Privacy department. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 21 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Protection and Security of Personal Data — Supply Chain Management During fiscal year 2019, we did not receive any inquiries audits. Strategic buyers check compliance and manage related to data privacy from the competent supervisory 3.4 the suppliers in conjunction with the Quality Management, authorities. No complaints were made by customers either. Logistics, and Research & Development departments. These We received five requests for information, which were sourcing teams are responsible for the procurement strategy answered adequately and within the period of time preSupply Chain in all fields of material. For matters relevant to sustainability, scribed by law. During the fiscal year under review, we for example training courses, conflict minerals, and the reported two data privacy breaches to the competent superManagement coordination of audits, the sourcing teams are supported by visory authorities. Because of the action that we had already the Environmental Protection, Health and Safety (EHS), Cortaken, the supervisory authorities put the reports on file and porate Procurement, and Responsible Business & Sustainarefrained from issuing any sanctions. ] [ As a global company with an extensive network of supplibility departments. ers, OSRAM has a responsibility for the environment and society all along its supply chain. That is why we place great Embedded within the supplier development and supplier importance on how we select our international partners and qualification processes are various requirements that help how we work with them. We also have internal and external us to fulfill our duty of care with regard to human rights control mechanisms in place. In particular, these enable us › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. The strategic buyers P Page <60> to fulfill our duty of care with regard to human rights in the and the local purchasing representatives are responsible for context of conflict minerals › 7.1.1 Conflict Minerals, p. 62. implementing these requirements. Corporate Procurement is P Page <62> responsible for compliance and for providing training on the Generally speaking, we strive for long-term relationships individual steps involved in supplier management. with reliable and flexible partners. The expertise of our employees is a further cornerstone of Guidelines, Responsibilities & Structures, and Processes our supplier management process. We regularly provide OSRAM’s procurement function is managed globally but is information and training to our global purchasing teams and organized regionally with regard to certain materials and we offer guidance on matters relevant to human rights, for services. Germany, China, Malaysia, and the U.S.A. are the example at the town hall meetings that take place every two countries from which we procure the most; key fields of months for employees of the procurement organization. The material include pre-materials for opto semiconductors, contraining courses cover overarching topics such as the importract manufacturing, and electronic components. For each tance of the Sustainable Development Goals for purchasing raw material group, we have formulated specific requireat OSRAM, and on specific changes relevant to sustainability ments for suppliers. For example, they must provide eviin our supply chains. We have summarized the objectives dence of certification, be compliant with RoHS/REACH and results at the end of this chapter › Objectives, Action P Page <23> › 5.6.1 Critical Substances, p. 43, and undergo supplier Taken, and Results, p. 23. Page <43> OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 22 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Supply Chain Management 3.4.1 Code of Conduct for Suppliers ment volume, each supplier receives notification of OSRAM’s 3.4.2 Review of Suppliers General Terms and Conditions and CoC when purchase We expect our suppliers to comply with all laws and regulaorders are placed. By signing the CoC, suppliers join OSRAM performs a continuous risk assessment of direct suptions and with the values set out in our Business Conduct OSRAM in making a commitment to continuously improving pliers, i.e., those that supply product materials, which takes Guidelines. We have produced our own Code of Conduct* their environmental measures and establishing an appropriinto account country risks and procurement market risks. Stra(CoC) ›› www.osram.com/coc which incorporates our basic ate environmental management system. We give preference tegic suppliers, which include all those classified as ‘preferred’ principles and international standards such as the UN Global to ISO 14001-certified suppliers, particularly if their materials as well as innovation and integration partners, undergo a susCompact and the Conventions of the International Labour are incorporated directly into our products. tainability assessment. Before they are included in the supplier Organization ›› International Labour Organization (ILO). The CoC for Suppliers contains topics such as: —— compliance with all applicable laws, Our Code of Conduct (CoC) covers topics such as —— combating corruption, —— observance of human rights of employees, Laws —— compliance with laws prohibiting child labor, Compliance with all applicable laws —— responsibility for employee health and safety, —— compliance with the relevant national laws and internaSupply Chain Corruption The express demand that these values are Avoidance of corruption tional standards on environmental protection, and implemented and complied with in the —— the express demand that these values are implemented supplier’s own supply chain and complied with in the supplier’s own supply chain. Environmental Protection Human Rights Since fiscal year 2018, the Code has also contained an Compliance with the relevant national laws and Observance of human rights of employees explicit ban on all forms of modern slavery, forced labor, and international standards on environmental protection human trafficking. Suppliers must prevent internal and external employees being affected by unethical practices in the Health and Safety Child Labor recruitment of new workers. The CoC is mandatory for all Responsibility for employee health and safety Compliance with laws prohibiting child labor suppliers with a procurement volume of €50,000 or higher. It also forms part of the qualification process that new suppliers to OSRAM must go through. Irrespective of the procure* At OSRAM CONTINENTAL, the requirements to be met by suppliers with regard to fair working conditions and respect for human rights are set out in OSRAM CONTINENOSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 TAL’s Code of Ethics. 23 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Supply Chain Management system, all suppliers are also checked against restricted party —— Procurement volume: Objectives, Action Taken, and Results lists (German, European, and U.S. sanctions lists). Updated · Up to €50,000: low risk In fiscal year 2019, town hall meetings for employees of the lists are automatically uploaded into OSRAM’s export monitor· Up to €500,000: medium risk procurement organization were again used for training on ing systems so that appropriate checks are also made of exist· > €500,000: high risk human rights matters. In collaboration with the HR departing suppliers when an order is submitted. Suppliers from coun—— Supplier is set up for international business: the risk ment, lectures on ‘Human rights and our duty of care in tries where social risks are more acute must also submit a associated with a small, local supplier combined with purchasing’ were organized to coincide with the approval self-assessment on relevant aspects of corporate responsibilthe country risk can be higher than that of a global of the new OSRAM Human Rights Policy. ity. The selection is based on the country assessment of company that is committed to international standards ›› Transparency International (Transparency International —— Results of previous self-assessments and/or on-site As part of the relationship with our existing suppliers, we Corruption Perceptions Index ≤ 40). audits again evaluated the results of the CR audits and/or other certifications that were requested in fiscal year 2019. The We use many tools and processes to fulfill our duty of care The suppliers are assigned to one of five risk groups based audits’ geographical focus in fiscal year 2019 was on China with regard to human rights › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, on this risk assessment. The suppliers in the highest risk and Malaysia. The regular audits, carried out by independP Page <60> p. 60 and to check compliance with our CoC in the supply groups are invited to undergo the CR audit, which is valid for ent auditors, of our duty of care regarding human rights and chains. Based on the analysis of our procurement volume three years. The supplier is then eligible for selection again. of compliance with our CoC for Suppliers identified nonwith regard to social risks, each year a selection of existing The audits cover health and safety, wages and salaries, compliance in the areas of working hours and health and suppliers are requested either to submit an up-to-date corworking hours, environmental protection, and management safety as the most common failures in fiscal year 2019. porate responsibility (CR) audit or to have it carried out, or to systems. ISO 14001 certificates are stored in our global purNonetheless, there was a slight improvement in compliance prove compliance with CR requirements by means of equivchasing system to verify environmental compliance and their with working hours and therefore fewer cases of excessive alent certifications (ISO 14001 in combination with ISO validity is regularly checked. As part of the qualification proovertime. Action plans have been drawn up that are 45001 or OHSAS 18001). The suppliers are assessed cess, new suppliers from which materials are to be purdesigned to remedy the identified failures and improve the according to the following criteria: chased directly must undergo a process audit in accordance performance of the supplier over the long term. —— High country risk: all suppliers from countries that score with VDA 6.3 (German Association of the Automotive Indus40 points or fewer in Transparency International’s Cortry). The audit assesses the supplier’s manufacturing proWe strive to achieve a coverage rate for the CoC of 100% ruption Perceptions Index cesses and service processes. The results of the process for our entire purchasing volume. Increasing the proportion —— Social risk of the material group: categorized as low, audit are published in our global purchasing system and, as of our direct materials suppliers that hold ISO 14001 certifimedium, or high based on the Company-wide materialsuch, are integrated into the overall procurement process. cation is a further aim. A joint campaign by the Environmenity analysis; highest risk: construction services, assemOn-site audits provide an assessment of the environmental tal Protection, Health and Safety, Quality, and Purchasing blies, and electronic components and social situation. departments in fiscal year 2019 raised awareness among our suppliers of the importance of environmental aspects. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 24 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Supply Chain Management — Customer Relationships In fiscal year 2018, we analyzed our entire procurement ational responsibility for sales. This business model enables GRI Index volume with regard to social risks › 7.1 Respect for Human 3.5 us to operate in the relevant markets in a targeted and mar102-43 Rights—Action Taken and Results, p. 61. On the basis of the ket-oriented manner. P Page <61> identified risk areas, we will initiate appropriate risk mitigation measures in the future. The results of the inspections Customer Relationships The Global Sales Excellence function was established in are taken into consideration when selecting suppliers to fiscal year 2018 in order to make sales processes and strucinvite to the next CR audit. ] tures more efficient. It coordinates and implements Com[ Our customers’ requirements are changing significantly as pany-wide initiatives and projects as well as measures that technology shifts toward LED -based lighting systems. This are applicable to all business units. The head of Global Procurement performance indicators transition is also resulting in a shift from a purely productSales Excellence reports directly to the Chairman of the (continuing operations) driven business to a modular and project-based business Managing Board. 2018 2019 that is very different in character. Number of suppliers 14,054 13,614 OSRAM attaches great importance to obtaining regular and Procurement volume €2.6 billion €1.9 billion Digitalization is also becoming increasingly important within structured customer feedback on matters such as the satis(of which 58% is (of which 63% is (goods and services acquired accounted for by accounted for by the sales and procurement channels, although we still have faction and loyalty of the customers involved. We continufrom third parties) local suppliers1)) local suppliers 1) ) to contend with large differences in the degree of digitalizaously incorporate this feedback into the improvement of our Supplier Codes of Conduct signed 395 new CoCs 270 new CoCs tion in specific industries and with specific customers. processes and structures. About every two years, a world(which covers 99% (which covers 96% of our procurement of our procurement wide customer survey on the relevant customer touchpoints volume) volume) Particularly in light of current changes in the industry, with OSRAM is carried out for all business units. Proportion of direct procurement OSRAM strongly focuses on managing customer relationvolume covered by ISO 140012) 67% 77% ships in an efficient and targeted manner and in a way that OSRAM CONTINENTAL only commenced operations in sumCMRT coverage 96% 98% takes advantage of the structures of the Group. mer 2018, so the plan is to carry out a survey of its custom[ 1) L  ocal suppliers are defined as those that are based in the same country as the ers’ satisfaction levels at a later point in time. purchasing OSRAM location. Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes 2) Excluding capital spending on long-term capital assets, CAPEX. ] The operating activities covered by our business model Objectives are essentially organized into three business units: Opto One of our primary sales goals, in addition to winning new Semiconductors (OS), Automotive (AM), and Digital (DI) customers by breaking into new markets, is to further ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, A.1.1.1 Business expand business with existing customers and to strengthen Model, p. 3. Each business unit’s sales function is specifiexisting customer relationships so that together we can cally geared to the requirements of its customers and mardevelop new business opportunities. Since fiscal year 2017, kets and, as the direct interface to our customers, has operwe have been using the Customer Loyalty Index (CLI) to OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 25 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY — Customer Relationships measure quality in this area. The CLI is calculated on the Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators basis of responses to questions posed in the biannual cusIn fiscal year 2019, we integrated the Global Sales ExcelCustomer satisfaction (continuing operations, excl. OSRAM CONTINENTAL) tomer survey regarding overall satisfaction and likelihood of lence function, which had been established in fiscal year recommendation and can lie within a range of 0 to 100. With 2018, even more closely into the operational sales units and 2017  Target OSRAM currently in a phase of transformation, we strived to increased the focus on sales structures. Our objective is for (last survey) 2019 2019 maintain the CLI score in fiscal year 2019 at the very high this to have a positive impact on our customer relationships Customer Loyalty Index (CLI)1) 81 81 ≥ 81 level of 81 that we had achieved in the previous customer in what is a challenging market environment. For example, Range (minimum) 0 0 survey in fiscal year 2017. It was also once again our goal to new ABC customer segments were defined in the sales Range (maximum) 100 100 outperform our best competitors in the relevant KPIs. organization of several business units and corresponding Best competitors’ average 2) 65 68 service catalogs were implemented. [ 1) The CLI is calculated from the evaluation of satisfaction and the recommendation In order to continue being able to serve our customers in readiness of the customers. The evaluation is done by the customer during the survey using a an 11-point scale (0 to 10). The rating is transformed to a scale from 0 ever-changing sales channels while at the same time reapWe made particularly good progress with the projects (minimum) to 100 (maximum). Indicated is the average value of the customer ratings. 2) In each customer interview conducted as part of the survey, a value for OSRAM’s ing efficiencies in the sales process, it was our goal in fiscal related to the introduction of the B2B sales portal and CRM, best competitor is recorded. The results of the individual ‘best competitors per cusyear 2019 to set up a new B2B sales portal (online ordering with roll-out of the new sales support software having comtomer’ are aggregated to a competitor value that is then compared with the OSRAM value (CLI). ] system for corporate customers) as part of our Next Genermenced at the end of September 2019. ation Sales corporate program as well as a new customer relationship management (CRM) system to help us manage The overall implementation and refining of the system—as customer relationships in a targeted and efficient manner. well as the related processes—will last around two years We would like to use the introduction of the new B2B sales and is being carried out using an agile method. Customer relationships (continuing operations) portal to significantly increase the proportion of our revenue that is generated online and to systematically build on our In fiscal year 2019, OSRAM once again conducted a world2017 2018 2019 objectives. The intention is to greatly simplify the online purwide survey of customer satisfaction and loyalty. Once the Sales employees (in thousand FTEs) 2.3 2.1 2.0 chasing process for our customers and to provide greater survey has been completed and the results analyzed, the Share of revenue of top 50 customers 64.8% 64.9% 60.2% transparency with regard to products, variants, and availabusiness units define measures specific both to particular bility, etc. CRM is being introduced in part to pool salescustomers and customers generally, and monitor their implerelated information and to make this readily available in a mentation. The survey is submitted to the OSRAM Managing user-friendly system. Board for approval, which is informed on a case-by-case basis of the results and the action taken by the business Because of its customer and production structure, OSRAM units. At 81 out of a possible 100 points, OSRAM was able CONTINENTAL is not currently part of Next Generation to maintain its CLI score at the very high level achieved in Sales. The customers of OSRAM CONTINENTAL are already 2017. ] individually served by a dedicated key account management system. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 26 4.0 Sustainable Products OSRAM is undergoing a transformation from a lighting manufacturer to a high-tech photonics company. In addition to lighting, we are increasing our focus on sensors, visualization, and light-based treatments. Our products are addressing global challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity, and urbanization, while also adding value to our customers’ businesses. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 27 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS — Added Value for Customers — Innovation Management We are also working closely with the automotive industry on 4.1 lighting solutions and sensor systems for self-driving vehi4.2 cles, which will be key to addressing the growing traffic problems in major urban centers. A further future-focused Added Value for application is plant lighting in which the spectrum of light Innovation Management that illuminates the plants is dynamically adjusted to optiCustomers mize yield. It is used in urban farming, for example, to provide fresh plant products for expanding mega cities. OSRAM has always been driven by innovation. The transformation it is currently undergoing from a lighting manufacOSRAM’s energy-efficient products and solutions are helpThese examples demonstrate how OSRAM is transforming turer into a leading high-tech photonics company means ing to mitigate climate change. Lighting offers excellent itself into a supplier of complete systems and digital platthat innovations and how they are managed* are now even opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This forms that can manage light, indoor climates, and irrigation more important to the business. is because artificial lighting accounts for around 15% of in an intelligent way. We can add considerable value for our global power consumption and nearly 5% of greenhouse customers through such applications. But we will only be Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes gas emissions. According to the United Nation’s ›› United able to achieve this if we successfully manage the topics Guidelines on product lifecycle management and project for Efficiency (U4E) environmental initiative, if the whole that are addressed in this chapter. In the following section, management help the Company to adhere to quality criteria, world were to switch to energy-efficient lighting it would we will explore the ways in which OSRAM is going about regulations, time frames, and budgets in the development of lower CO2 emissions by 390 million metric tons a year and this. products and in innovation activities. A software developsave around US$ 50 billion in annual energy costs. ment guideline was added in fiscal year 2019 to cater to the growing demand for software. Our guidelines are designed However, the many new possibilities for LED lighting in comin such a way that they provide the necessary framework bination with sensors and digital control are also paving the but do not obstruct flexible, agile practices that reflect way for applications whose benefits extend well beyond changing market demands. energy savings. For example, OSRAM is offering innovative products and solutions in which the color and intensity of The Chief Technology Officer (CTO) is responsible for the light adapts dynamically to the needs of people (humaninnovation and technology strategy and the management of centric lighting). This can be used to enhance well-being in development activities. The corporate venture capital unit, the workplace or to raise levels of attention in learning enviFluxunit, can provide support for innovations developed outronments or hazardous situations. Our lighting solutions are side the Company—preferably by start-ups—that tie in with already making a contribution to safety in public spaces and OSRAM’s strategy. on our roads—for example by means of intelligent dimming. * Innovation management at OSRAM encompasses the OSRAM Group, excluding OSRAM CONTINENTAL. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 28 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS — Innovation Management Another key aspect of the strategic management of our used in white LEDs is key to this. The business unit Extensive up-to-date information on our R&D projects is portfolio is to terminate projects and fields of activity that Opto Semiconductors (OS) made significant advances available on our website ›› www.osram.com/press. For furare unlikely to yield success before too much time and here in fiscal year 2019. In the field of traditional phosther R&D success stories, see ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group money have been invested. A stage-gate process incorpophors, substances with a greatly reduced spectral width Annual Report, A.1.1.2 Research and Development (R&D), rates regular reviews of the commercial and technical facwere developed. Furthermore, quantum dot phosphors p. 4. tors that determine the viability of the product in question. were used for the first time in an LED product. They were manufactured by the company Pacific Light TechWe collaborate with a range of commercial partners and uninologies, which OSRAM acquired in 2018. In both of versities in order to optimize the efficiency of our innovation these examples, the narrower line width of the phosactivities. This includes industry alliances, publicly funded phor has significantly improved efficiency, particularly in collaborative projects to evaluate future technologies with LEDs with a high light quality. uncertain economic prospects, bilateral partnerships in which complementary areas of expertise are employed to —— Research project: The publicly funded project BlauLas come up with shared solutions, and standardization commitwas completed in fiscal year 2019. This collaborative tees that safeguard the functionality of systems and interopinitiative, which drew on the expertise of our business erability. unit OS, Coherent/DILAS, Laserline, and the Max Born Institute in Berlin, developed high-power laser bars in We protect our innovations at the earliest possible stage by the blue spectral range with an output of 100 watts and means of patents and other industrial property rights. Straan efficiency of up to 46%. These lasers can be used in tegic cross-licensing agreements and additional contracts materials machining to substantially improve the speed on patent utilization with other players in the lighting indusand quality of copper welding processes while also try help to secure our leading position in the lighting market reducing the amount of energy that is consumed. ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, A.1.1.2 Research and Development (R&D), p. 4. —— In the smart building segment, the business unit Digital (DI) significantly enhanced its SiteWorx application. Objectives, Action Taken, and Results Industrial customers can now use the platform to moniThe following activities in fiscal year 2019 are particularly tor and measure the state of their facilities and connotable with regard to sustainability: sumption levels, for example in terms of water, gas, electricity, compressed air, and process heat. This —— Energy efficiency of LEDs: One of the primary develallows customers to implement and keep an eye on opment goals for LEDs is to continually improve energy their sustainability and efficiency goals. efficiency. Enhancing the light output of phosphors OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 29 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS — Impact Measurement —— The corporate Procurement department assesses by the Civil Society in Numbers (ZiviZ) within Stifterver4.3 potential negative impacts associated with the purchase band and the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Engiof services and substances, for example by analyzing neering IAO’s Center for Responsible Research and our procurement volume with regard to social risks Innovation (CeRRI). We are also active in the SDGs and Impact Measurement › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. Sustainability Task Force of the German Electrical and P Page <60> Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI) and the —— Every year, a human rights workshop is held with interDigitalization and Sustainability Task Force of the AssoWe strive to offer products that generate economic added nal stakeholders with the aim of assessing risks and ciation for Information Technology, Telecommunications value while also making a contribution to dealing with global preventing human rights violations. In fiscal year 2019, and New Media (BITKOM). Although these initiatives challenges › 4.1 Added Value for Customers, p. 27. In 2017, we also completed the integration of potential human focus on different topics, all of them tie in with our core P Page <27> in order to gauge the added value that we provide for socirights violations into the risk management system objective of systematically analyzing the impact of our ety, the Responsible Business & Sustainability department › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. activities and making this impact transparent and manP Page <60> and Innovation department set up a concept for impact ageable through collaborative approaches. measurement with the goal of being able to methodically —— We have prepared lifecycle analyses for selected OSRAM measure the impact of various technologies on the environproducts in order to better assess their impact on the ment and society. environment. We have used these analyses to examine the environmental aspects and potential environmental Here are some examples from the wide-ranging field of impacts of specific products over the entire lifecycle. impact measurement that we implemented in fiscal year They highlight the level of energy consumption and 2019: therefore the environmental impacts in the different phases › 5.2.2 Impacts in the Product Lifecycle, p. 36. P Page <36> — — We focused on our impact on climate change during the process of devising a climate strategy in fiscal year —— OSRAM* participates in ‘Wirtschaft macht Klimaschutz’ 2019. The objective is to have a climate strategy with (Business and Climate Protection), an initiative of the medium and long-term targets for the reduction of CO2 German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature emissions attributable to our own production activities Conservation and Nuclear Safety, as a member of the and, looking further ahead, to our upstream and downCircular Economy and Corporate Climate Protection stream supply chain as well › 5.3 Greenhouse Gases Goals working groups. The program ‘Innovating P Page <36> and Climate Change, p. 36, and ›› www.osram.de/ Responsibility/Future Skills through Engagement’ is climate-management. another initiative to which we contribute. It was set up * Participation in the initiatives/working groups mentioned here relates to the OSRAM Group, excluding OSRAM CONTINENTAL. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 30 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS — Product Safety and Quality development; it plays a role in the procurement and producMethods designed to safeguard quality are rigorously 4.4 tion process, and is a key aspect for our customers during applied during the product design stage to meet the develthe product lifecycle. opment milestones. We follow standardized checklists when approving products and take remedial action if relevant risks Product Safety At Managing Board level, responsibility for product safety are identified. In addition, we regularly check our products and quality lies with the Chief Technology Officer (CTO), who regarding their impact on health and safety. and Quality has assigned the relevant tasks and managerial authority to the head of the corporate Quality Management department. All products for the automotive sector are tested in accordThe corporate Quality Management department is responsiance with defined schedules in our environmental simulation [ OSRAM strives to offer a high level of quality, safety, and ble for setting up and maintaining a quality management laboratories, which are accredited to DIN EN ISO/IEC 17025. reliability in its products and solutions. The Company’s repsystem, for issuing regulations that apply across the Group, Accreditation of the laboratories allows us to achieve comutation plays a key role in ensuring that our business and for regularly monitoring compliance with these policies. pliance with global standards. remains successful over the long term. Our customers in the Our core practices are described in the quality manual and automotive industry set particularly high standards that must quality policy and are publicly available. The regulations and Customers can return defective products at any time and be upheld in order to retain their business. processes cover, for example, product safety, product will find the relevant information online. Employees can also development, and the handling of defective products as well report potential incidents. The lighting market is undergoing constant technological as the corresponding escalation steps. Operational responchange and is not globally homogeneous. Regulations sibility for implementing statutory and internal rules regardWhen a matter relevant to product safety is reported, we regarding product safety are often specific to individual ing product safety and quality lies with the CEOs of the indiimmediately check and assess risks using a risk assessment countries. In order to bring our products to market quickly vidual business units. The Quality Management department matrix. The EU General Product Safety Directive (GPSD, while also complying with all rules and regulations, we need reports directly to the CTO on significant developments reg2001/95/EC), which sets out a structured framework for risk to coordinate these requirements at global level and take ularly. The CTO is also informed immediately of any incident assessment, provides the global basis for our evaluation of them into account at an early stage. that has been classified as a critical quality issue by the potential product safety violations and of action plans to responsible business unit. remedy such violations. As soon as any product safety risks Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes are identified, appropriate processes are triggered to conWe are committed to complying with all legal requirements, Significant developments and critical issues at OSRAM tain and resolve these risks as quickly as possible. Relevant standards, and norms relating to products and their safety, CONTINENTAL are reported to the CEO, who reports to the internal and customer-oriented measures have been speciincluding labeling, that apply in the individual regions and shareholders via the Advisory Board. fied and may result in information being provided to customcountries in which we operate, and to implementing changes ers or even a product recall. in good time. Product safety at OSRAM starts with product OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 31 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS — Product Safety and Quality Our processes and management systems are regularly certidefined processes in a structured manner and that we con[ In fiscal year 2019, we succeeded in our goal of identifying fied to ISO 9001 and, for automotive customers, also to IATF sistently adhere to these processes and work to improve new legal and regulatory requirements, standards, and 16949. In addition, OSRAM conducts regular internal audits them. norms in a timely and routine manner and applying them of its factories, processes, and suppliers so that deficiencies to our internal product safety specifications. can be identified and corrected at an early stage, before The quality of our products is a key criterion in our customcustomers are affected. ers’ satisfaction and therefore plays a key role in securing During fiscal year 2019, the Quality Management department their loyalty, which at OSRAM is measured using the Cusreceived one notice of potential violations concerning the External environmental influences can have an impact on the tomer Loyalty Index (CLI). The CLI targets and level of target impact of a product line sold in North America on the health characteristics and functions of our products. By testing attainment are reported under › 3.5 Customer Relationships, or safety of our customers and, as a result, initiated a recall of P Page <24> product performance through accelerated aging and envip. 24. the products in accordance with the internal guidelines. ] ronmental simulations, we can identify how long the products should last as well as shortcomings in their design or Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators components, and then initiate improvements before failures [ We had our processes and management systems recertioccur in actual use. We believe that high-quality products fied to ISO 9001 in fiscal year 2019. All locations supplying can only be realized if the early stages of their development automotive customers were additionally certified to IATF include an analysis of safety requirements and an evaluation 16949. Individual measures were taken at business unit level of expected product quality based on environmental simulaas well in order to further improve product quality and custions. Avoiding defects before they occur is essential for tomer satisfaction. ] OSRAM. The programs are already proving effective: The number of Objectives customer complaints about the relevant products was We strive to sell our products globally. We therefore reduced by a double-digit percentage figure. OSRAM also endeavor to identify new legal requirements, standards, reduced the defect rate at our customers by a low doubleand norms that are relevant to our business in a timely and digit percentage range in fiscal year 2019. routine manner and apply them to our internal product safety specifications. ] In order to improve the processes, the Company began to restructure them so that they form a complete flow extendFurthermore, we want to ingrain the key principles of our ing across the organization (end-to-end). The result is a quality culture—‘Learn from mistakes. Be proactive. Never clearer picture of the purpose of sub-processes that need to stop improving.’—throughout the organization and in the be carried out in a particular order (chronologically/logically) mindset of our employees. So it is important that we follow in order to meet specific customer requirements. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 32 5.0 Environment and Climate Protection As an industrial company, we consume natural resources and emit greenhouse gases during production. In order to fulfill our responsibility, we are committed to environmental management practices that conserve resources and to developing innovative, energy-efficient products. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 33 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Environmental Management The management team of OSRAM CONTINENTAL does not figures for their volatile organic compounds ( VOC) emissions 5.1 formally delegate responsibility for environmental protection and waste water volumes. and occupational health and safety to a department. The operational implementation is the responsibility of EHS manEvery year, OSRAM sets specific annual targets for energy Environmental agement at OSRAM CONTINENTAL . consumption, CO2 emissions, water consumption, and waste generation. Progress in these areas is shown in the relevant Management The EHS department coordinates environmental rules and sections of this report. guidelines, monitors performance, and continuously improves the environmental management system. In addition to the Senior managers implement specific measures at the individ[ By engaging in environmental management practices, we Group’s overarching EHS policy, it issues guidelines that ual manufacturing facilities. The corporate EHS department aim to meet the requirements of the law and the expectations apply across the Company and cover industrial and prodcooperates with government agencies and industrial associof our customers and employees, of the capital markets, and uct-related environmental protection, occupational health ations on a variety of topics. It also regularly reviews impleof society, and also to contribute to the success of OSRAM’s and safety, the transportation of hazardous goods, and fire mentation of the aforementioned guidelines at the locations business. As regulation increases, so do the demands made safety. These guidelines clearly state that compliance with by carrying out site visits, inspections, and internal audits. ] of our environmental management system by a range of environmental laws and regulations at local, regional, and stakeholders ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, global level is mandatory. A.1.1.4 Legal and Sector-specific Conditions, p. 6. For example, all production facilities and the Group headGuidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes quarters maintain an environmental management system Overall responsibility on the Managing Board for environcertified to the international standard ISO 14001, while all mental protection and occupational health and safety within European locations are also certified to the energy managethe OSRAM Group lies with the Chief Technology Officer ment system ISO 50001. As part of its environmental report(CTO), who delegates tasks and managerial authority to the ing, OSRAM collects data on energy consumption, CO2 emishead of the corporate Environmental Protection, Health, and sions, water consumption, and waste generation. The data Safety department (EHS). At regular intervals, the EHS departcovers more than 99% of our environmental impacts* and ment reports directly to the Managing Board on significant the locations at which a total of 89% of all our employees developments. are based. These locations also calculate and report annual OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * Estimates are made on the basis of energy consumption, which in the context of OSRAM’s environmental impact is seen as the most relevant metric here. 34 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Energy Efficiency 5.2.1 Energy Consumption the environment and to keep production costs competitive. 5.2 The worldwide EHS management system controls energy use OSRAM’s Environmental Protection, Health, and Safety (EHS) in our production processes. An energy management system department has the managerial authority to issue environis mandatory for the relevant OSRAM locations. This includes Energy Efficiency mental protection guidelines, formulates guidelines that assessment of regulatory requirements and of potential apply across the Group, and regularly checks that these are improvement measures. adhered to › 5.1 Environmental Management, p. 33. Our P Page <33> [ In the face of climate change, it is OSRAM’s responsibility business model dictates that responsibility for implementaObjectives to optimize the energy efficiency of its business. Our largely tion of these central EHS guidelines lies with the business Through its energy efficiency initiatives, OSRAM is striving LED -based portfolio means that we can also help to reduce units themselves. Each business unit is also responsible for for continual improvement at its locations. emissions through the sale of energy-efficient products and ensuring that its products are designed in an environmentally solutions. compatible way and that energy is used efficiently both in We do not report on absolute targets due to our ambitions production and use. for long-term growth and the potential expansion of manuAs an industrial company, OSRAM uses both primary and facturing capacity connected to this and due to our portfosecondary energy, with electricity and natural gas the most To operate our production facilities, we generally utilize an lios’ shift toward products with greater vertical integration. important sources of energy. Of particular relevance are the energy mix that is both economical and environmentally Instead, we set our targets according to the ratio of total production facilities, followed by the Group headquarters and friendly. OSRAM does not yet distinguish between renewable energy used in MWh to revenue earned. The specific metric larger development centers. Increasing the energy efficiency and non-renewable energy for measurement and reporting used—MWh electricity used per €1 million in revenue—is of our business helps to improve our cost position and therepurposes. In Germany, however, we can report the amount therefore comparable over time. fore also our competitiveness. of electricity that we obtain from renewable energy sources. Relative consumption targets are set annually at location level The OSRAM Licht Group’s target for fiscal year 2019 was In addition to these optimization efforts in our manufacturing and aggregated into a specific global target (megawatt hours 194 MWh per €1 million in revenue, slightly higher than the operations, OSRAM products and solutions can also help to (MWh) electricity used per €1 million in revenue) for energy previous year’s level of 191 MWh per €1 million in revenue. reduce our customers’ energy consumption, related emissions, consumption using the budgeted figures for production and This reflected the further expansion of our semiconductor and energy costs. At the same time they can make a contrirevenue. At Group level, OSRAM monitors and reviews proproduction locations, in particular. We are now achieving a bution to climate protection. Improving the energy efficiency gress toward the targets as part of the quarterly reporting greater, even if more energy-intensive, degree of added of our products is therefore a key criterion in our customers’ cycle and the energy efficiency reviews conducted with the value here than in other business areas. The optimal energy purchasing decisions and satisfaction. operational heads of the business units. efficiency of the new factories will only be reached at high volumes. Group headquarters as well as all production and development sites that consume more than 1,400 MWh a year are pursuing In the medium term, we aim to continually reduce the aforeenergy efficiency programs in order to reduce their impact on mentioned energy consumption per €1 million in revenue OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 35 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Energy Efficiency across the Group. This will require the current market environ—— In Penang, Malaysia, the air circulation provided by the While absolute consumption fell slightly, a figure of 203 MWh ment for our core business to stabilize, so that we can run air conditioning system in the test labs was optimized, per €1 million in revenue in fiscal year 2019 means we missed our production facilities at full capacity and with maximum and the efficiency of cooling facilities in the production our target for energy usage in relation to revenue by around energy efficiency. area was increased through technical measures. 5%. This increase is due to the aforementioned lower capac—— We also implemented the first efficiency measures at ity utilization at our production locations compared to the Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators our newest location in Kulim, Malaysia, such as fineprevious year. This is particularly the case at our semiconAt 703,600 MWh, OSRAM’s energy consumption in fiscal tuning the settings of the air conditioning system. Where ductor locations with high infrastructure requirements (air year 2019 was slightly lower than the prior year. While conpossible, we have also lowered the temperature and conditioning), which has to be maintained irrespective of the sumption at our locations in Wuxi, China, and Kulim, Malaysia, humidity requirements. production volume. ] was higher due to the expansion of production, the absolute KPIs were lower than the previous year at almost all locations. This is mainly due to scaled-down production following a drop in demand. Energy consumption (continuing operations) in MWh  We again achieved energy savings in the fiscal year under 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 review by means of a large number of efficiency measures Primary energy 159,300 160,600 166,800 171,000 163,600 at various locations. Here are some examples: Natural gas 130,200 132,600 137,100 138,000 133,500 —— In Monterrey, Mexico, small mobile air compressors Liquefied petroleum gas, diesel for on-site use, heating oil, hydrogen 29,100 28,000 29,700 33,000 30,100 were used instead of the energy-intensive central supSecondary energy 427,000 442,100 473,200 549,700 540,000 ply in production areas with low demand. Furthermore, Electricity 404,900 420,400 445,100 521,800 508,900 loss of cold air from temperature-controlled areas was of which share of renewable energies (%) 27 25 reduced through the use of air curtains. District heating and steam 22,100 21,700 28,100 27,600 30,800 —— In Hillsboro, U.S.A., all the lighting in the main building Renewable energy generated inhouse 300 300 was converted to a state-of-the-art LED lighting system. Total 586,300 602,700 640,000 720,700 703,600 —— In Treviso, Italy, the vacuum supply was upgraded with Target for energy consumption in MWh per €1 million revenue 181 187 194 variable speed driven ( VSD) vacuum pumps, significantly Energy consumption in MWh per €1 million revenue 184 179 166 191 203 increasing efficiency. — — In Foshan, China, the cooling water system was redesigned so that fewer pumps are needed. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 36 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Energy Efficiency — Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change 5.2.2 Impacts in the Product Lifecycle Absolute energy use 5.3 in MWh [ We want to offer our customers transparency when it comes to improvements to the energy efficiency of OSRAM 800,000 700,000 products. OSRAM conducts lifecycle assessments (LCAs) on Greenhouse Gases and selected products that are representative of product families Climate Change 600,000 500,000 and makes the results of these assessments, which are 400,000 based on the ISO 14040 and 14044 environmental manage300,000 ment standards, available to our customers and the public 200,000 on the Company’s website ›› www.osram.com/lca. These [ Climate change is a global challenge that also affects 100,000 activities cover the majority of OSRAM’s product portfolio. OSRAM. The direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 0 Across all product families, it is evident that the phase of the that result from our use of energy contribute to climate change 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 lifecycle in which the product is being used by the customer and mainly take the form of CO2. Greenhouse gas emissions Primary energy Secondary energy has the greatest impact on the environment. also occur in our upstream and downstream value chain. Less than 4% of energy consumption in main product groups OSRAM’s Environmental Protection, Health, and Safety (EHS) Specific energy use is attributable to manufacturing, distribution, and disposal. department has the managerial authority to issue environin MWh/M€ revenue Around 96% is accounted for by the usage phase. Reducing mental protection guidelines, formulates guidelines that 220 the amount of energy that is consumed when the product is apply across the Group, and regularly checks that these are being used therefore represents the most effective means of adhered to › 5.1 Environmental Management, p. 33. P Page <33> 200 reducing the overall environmental impact › 4.3 Impact 180 Measurement, p. 29. ] OSRAM bases its documentation and reporting on the recP Page <29> 160 ognized standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) 140 and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure ( TCFD) when recording CO2 emissions under 120 —— Scope 1 direct emissions from the use of energy 100 sources, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 —— Scope 2 indirect emissions resulting from the use of secondary energy sources such as electricity or district Examples of how our products’ energy efficiency has been heating, and improved can be found under › 4.2 Innovation Management, —— Scope 3 emissions that occur up or down the value P Page <27> p. 27. chain that are attributable to the Company, as well as upstream and downstream in our products’ lifecycle, e.g., emissions resulting from the use of our products. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 37 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change That is why we adopt both market-based accounting Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators In fiscal year 2019, we reported figures for Scope 3 once (‘market-based’), using the vendor-specific emission factor, At 268,900 metric tons, CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2, more. These include greenhouse gas emissions attributable and location-based accounting (‘location-based’), using the market-based) in fiscal year 2019 reached approximately the to the upstream and downstream value chain. In the upstream regional and national grid average, when reporting our same level in absolute terms as in the prior year, although value chain purchased goods and services and capital Scope 2 emissions. total energy consumption fell slightly › 5.2 Energy Efficiency, goods are taken into account. Thereby, a model that is recP Page <34> p. 34. This is predominantly attributable to expansion at the ognized within the industry is used to estimate the emisMeasurements of energy consumption are used to manage locations in Asia—particularly in Kulim, Malaysia and Wuxi, sions. For emissions from upstream transport and distribution efforts to reduce the above-mentioned Scope 1 and Scope 2 China—and the local, more carbon-intensive electricity mix. and from business travel, we obtained the underlying data emissions. Absolute figures are documented at location level from our business partners and service providers. ] and, using the corresponding conversion factors, scaled in The measures taken to reduce our impact on the environrelation to revenue at global level. ment included the lowering of energy consumption by raising We consider the use of sold products relevant in the downefficiency at the individual locations. The examples provided stream value chain. The amount of emissions produced during Objectives in › 5.2 Energy Efficiency, p. 34 alone have resulted in operation is heavily dependent on how the electricity used P Page <34> OSRAM sets itself annual targets for reducing the Scope 1 savings of 2,800 metric tons of CO2. In addition, targeted was generated, and we have only limited influence over this. and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions caused by the efforts were again made in Germany to purchase energy The figures are based on an internal model that helps us to Company. Consistent with our energy efficiency targets obtained from renewable sources. During fiscal year 2019, estimate, in absolute terms, how many metric tons of CO2 › 5.2 Energy Efficiency—Objectives, p. 34, we have also around 127,900 MWh (previous year: 140,500 MWh) of the were saved by our low-carbon products and our emission P Page <34> defined a specific target for reducing CO2 emissions in relation electricity used at OSRAM in Germany came from renewable avoidance solutions. to revenue. This reflects the Scope 1 and Scope 2 (marketenergy sources. This avoided 54,300 metric tons of CO2 based) emissions that are attributable to OSRAM in relation emissions (previous year: 62,900 metric tons). As consumpOSRAM also engages with these issues in the dialog forum to revenue. tion in Germany dropped more sharply than in Asia, the ‘Wirtschaft macht Klimaschutz’ (Business and Climate Proshare of renewable energies in the overall use of power fell tection), an initiative of the German Federal Ministry for the As our targets for CO2 emissions and energy efficiency are to 25% (previous year: 27%) › 5.2 Energy Efficiency, table Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety. P Page <35> linked, the changes mirror each other. The OSRAM Licht ‘Performance Indicators—Energy Efficiency (Continuing Group’s target for fiscal year 2019 for combined Scope 1 and Operations),’ p. 35. Scope 2 emissions was 72 metric tons per €1 million in revenue. It does not yet have any targets for Scope 3 emissions. Due to the aforementioned reasons relating to the electricity supply and the issues relating to energy consumption outSince only a few locations emit volatile organic compounds lined in › 5.2 Energy Efficiency, p. 34, the specific CO2 target P Page <34> ( VOCs) and only in small amounts, we are striving to achieve was missed by 8%, with the final figure reaching 78 metric a general reduction without any specific targets. tons per €1 million in revenue. * estell, developed by Systain Consulting, measures environmental impacts based OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 on an input-output analysis ›› www.systain.com. 38 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change CO2 emissions Absolute CO2 emissions (continuing operations) in metric tons in metric tons  2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 300,000 GHG Scope 1 emissions 32,000 31,600 30,500 31,000 30,200 250,000 Natural gas 28,200 28,300 27,600 27,800 26,800 Liquefied petroleum gas, diesel for on-site use, heating oil 3,800 3,300 2,900 3,200 3,400 200,000 GHG Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 221,400 225,600 205,700 237,200 238,700 150,000 Electricity 215,700 219,800 199,400 230,900 231,000 District heating and steam 5,700 5,800 6,300 6,300 7,700 100,000 GHG Scope 2 emissions (location-based) 265,400 286,200 279,600 50,000 Total GHG Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market-based) 253,400 257,200 236,200 268,200 268,900 0 Target for metric tons of CO2 emissions from own activities 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 per €1 million revenue 71 72 72 Metric tons of CO2 emissions from own activities (Scope 1 and 2) GHG Scope 1 emissions GHG Scope 2 emissions per €1 million revenue 79 76 61 71 78 GHG Scope 3 emissions1) Purchased goods and services 1,098,600 1,099,000 1,022,900 795,300 Capital goods Not yet 86,500 174,900 153,100 55,300 Specific CO2 emissions Upstream transport and distribution2) systematically 81,000 104,700 81,000 in metric tons/M€ revenue recorded Business travel3) 18,400 15,100 11,100 Use of sold products 22,000,000 19,100,000 16,100,000 80 Absolute savings in metric tons of CO2, resulting from the use of 75 OSRAM products4) Low-carbon products 1,490,000 1,327,000 937,000 70 Not yet systematically recorded Emissions avoided 4,940,000 4,495,000 4,284,000 65 VOC emissions5) in metric tones 29 29 25 29 24 60 [ 1) Upstream Scope 3 data has not included discontinued operations since 2018. 2) Data on CO2 emissions generated from transport paid for by OSRAM is based, wherever possible, on information from our forwarding agents. In the Opto Semiconductors Busi55 ness Unit, no reliable information is available for land-based transport in Malaysia and China and so this is not included in the reporting. In the other business units, estimates for the Latin America region as well as for road transport in Asia are made using average figures for comparable regions. In the EMEA region, we only record data for transport that is 50 paid for by OSRAM GmbH. Smaller units such as Traxon and Clay Paky are excluded from the reporting. Overall, based on an estimate of freight costs, we judge that, despite the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 aforementioned limitations, more than 90% of the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our transport activities are included in the calculation. 3) Emissions generated by business travel encompass worldwide flights, rail travel in Germany, and trips made in hire cars and leased vehicles. We obtain the data on European hires from our hire car partners and we make qualified estimates for the rest of the world, which for vehicle hire is mainly the U.S.A. OSRAM mostly leases vehicles in Germany. An estimate for vehicles leased outside Germany was added to create a worldwide figure, which we then extrapolated over the fiscal year as a whole. 4) Downstream Scope 3 data and the savings for products have not included discontinued operations since 2019. 5) OSRAM locations are only included in VOC reporting if they are required by local laws or regulations to register as an emitter of VOCs. ] OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 39 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change — Water [ OSRAM was assessed by CDP, the world’s largest climate before it is discharged. This process is in compliance with protection ranking scheme, for the first time in fiscal year 5.4 the relevant legislation. All locations have the necessary 2019 (score: C—‘awareness’ of climate change) and took licenses from government authorities. Most of the groundpart in the CDP survey for the second time. water we use is returned in a chemically unchanged form. Water Some of the waste water has to be considered as hazardous A concept for devising an OSRAM climate strategy with waste and so has to be professionally treated by external longer term targets was developed in the past fiscal year. It companies. The remaining waste water is released into the includes an initial focus on emissions from our own business [ Water is an important resource for OSRAM that is used for atmosphere by evaporative coolers. activities; in the medium term it will also cover emissions cooling in production, as a processing medium in the manufrom the upstream and downstream supply chain. The share facture of LEDs, and for sanitary purposes. Rationing water at Objectives, Action Taken, Results, and of renewable energy purchased also plays a role in achievour locations would compromise our productivity. Performance Indicators ing our reduction targets. ] [ As in the case of energy consumption, the consumption In order to minimize our impact, we manage water use at all and withdrawal of water are recorded locally as absolute figlocations with the aim of conserving water resources and ures and then scaled to revenue at regional and global level. keeping water consumption as low as possible. We take Location-specific targets for the reduction of water use in water mainly from the public drinking water supply and from production are based on action plans set out in the environgroundwater. We are aware of sensitive sources and resermental protection programs and in some cases are aligned voirs that are close to our production sites and these are proto production output. Locations that use water only for sanitected as appropriate. tary purposes have absolute reduction targets that take into account increases or decreases in headcount. In order to proactively identify potential issues with the availability of water, we perform an annual risk analysis on our The global target for specific water consumption for the water requirements at our locations using the Aqueduct reporting period of 828 cubic meters per €1 million in reveWater Risk Atlas supplied by the World Resources Institute nue was higher than both the target figure for the previous ›› www.wri.org/aqueduct. The analysis looks at the levels of fiscal year (743 cubic meters per €1 million in revenue) and water withdrawal as well as the type and amount of waste the figure that was actually achieved for that year (767 cubic water discharges at the locations. meters). It was increased to take account of the planned expansion of our semiconductor manufacturing facilities. Data on the amount of waste water produced at the individual Specific water consumption in fiscal year 2019 stood at 868 locations is collected every year. Most of this is discharged cubic meters per €1 million in revenue. The global target as industrial or sanitary waste water into the sewage system was therefore missed by 5%, mainly because the underutilior into surface water. ] Where quality has been comprozation of capacity at the production sites was greater than mised by our production processes, we purify the water expected. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 40 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Water There are no specific targets for the discharge of waste water. Nevertheless, key figures are recorded and monitored within Water consumption the framework of EHS management. ] (continuing operations) in cubic meters Around 22% of all  the water withdrawn in fiscal year 2019 was attributable to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 losses in waste value streams or evaporation into the atmosLocal-authority water supply 1,884,000 1,993,300 2,088,900 2,568,500 2,726,200 phere. Groundwater from own supply 365,300 355,000 366,800 305,000 269,600 Other water 9,400 15,400 18,400 18,200 11,700 [ Release of chemically unchanged cooling water has to be Total 2,258,700 2,363,700 2,474,100 2,891,700 3,007,500 Target for water consumption in cubic meters per €1 million revenue 697 743 828 in accordance with official regulations and therefore moniWater consumption in cubic meters per €1 million revenue 708 701 642 767 868 toring is stricter and uses a higher quality of data than in the other discharge paths. During the reporting year, water quality checks carried out for the local authorities did not identify any breaches of officially prescribed thresholds. Waste water by destination in cubic meters 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OSRAM does not currently regard the availability of water Into public sewers as industrial waste water 1,035,600 1,194,400 at any of its locations as critical. However, the regions in Into public sewers as sanitary waste water 516,900 470,000 China and Malaysia where our semiconductor production Into saline surface water as industrial waste water 642,800 486,800 facilities are located are expected to see high and continuInto non-saline surface water as industrial waste water 35,100 32,500 ally growing demand for water from 2030 onward. We will Into the groundwater as chemically unchanged waste water from cooling processes 269,100 286,300 266,700 194,400 168,500 continue to monitor developments. Total 2,424,800 2,352,200 Consumption—through evaporation, disposal as waste, other losses 446,900 655,300 At the Foshan location in China, OSRAM completely refurbished and relaid the pipe systems used for firefighting so that it can save 45,600 cubic meters of water every year. Absolute water consumption Specific water consumption in cubic meters in cubic meters/M€ revenue OSRAM’s reporting of relevant data was assessed by the CDP 3,500,000 900 Water Security Initiative for the first time in fiscal year 2019 850 3,000,000 (score: C—‘Awareness’) and took part in the CDP survey 800 2,500,000 regarding water for the second time. ] 750 2,000,000 700 1,500,000 650 1,000,000 600 500,000 550 0 500 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Town water Own water Other water OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 41 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Waste Objectives, Action Taken, Results, and reduced not only our volume of waste but also our carbon 5.5 Performance Indicators footprint in the supply chain. The production of raw germaOur overarching objective is to use the resources in our value nium is extremely energy-intensive and associated with high P Page <36> chain efficiently so that we can minimize the volume of waste CO 2 emissions › 5.3 Greenhouse Gases and Climate Waste that is produced at our locations. We had set ourselves a Change, p. 36. This process began in summer 2019 and the specific target for fiscal year 2019 of 1.95 metric tons of first wafers containing recycled germanium are expected waste for disposal per €1 million in revenue, which is close back in Regensburg in early 2020. [ OSRAM uses numerous substances in production that have to the level that was achieved in the prior year. an impact on people and the environment as a result of their Professional service providers recycle and dispose of our procurement, transport, usage, and disposal. Our aim is for The actual result of 1.64 metric tons of waste for disposal hazardous waste with the necessary care and in accordance valuable raw materials to be recycled › 5.6 Raw Materials per €1 million in revenue not only met this specific target but with local regulations. We have established an internal moniP Page <42> and Substances, p. 42, and › 5.6.3 Take-back and Circular clearly exceeded it. There were also significant falls in the toring system for the transport of hazardous goods, whether Page <45> Economy, p. 45, and for negative impacts on the environabsolute volumes recorded across all categories (hazardous waste or products. In the reporting year, we received no ment to be minimized or avoided entirely. We follow the and non-hazardous waste, waste for disposal and for recynotification of any failure to comply with relevant laws and guiding principle at all our locations of avoiding waste in cling). This was due to a range of factors. Unlike for the requirements. ] production or recycling the waste, or if neither is possible energy and water environmental criteria, for example, there arranging for its professional disposal. was no decline in output efficiency for waste, despite the fact that capacity at our production sites was underutilized. Waste (continuing operations) in metric tons We record locally the amounts of material that are recycled And at a number of locations, particularly Penang, Malaysia,  or sent away for disposal. A distinction is drawn in these we were able to substitute the previous estimates with 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 categories between hazardous and non-hazardous waste. actual measurements. Because these estimates had been Waste for disposal Reduction of the waste requiring disposal is a priority. too high, this led to a significant correction in the figure that hazardous 1,000 1,800 2,400 3,800 3,100 Employees who work with waste are trained in the locally had been assumed. non-hazardous 3,200 2,300 3,200 3,500 2,600 Total 4,200 4,100 5,600 7,300 5,700 applicable regulations. The locations are set targets that are Target for waste for disposal in based either on the output of the factory or on the annual Where waste cannot be avoided, we endeavor to have it metric tons per €1 million revenue 1.31 1.75 1.95 production forecast. Specific revenue-related targets are recycled rather than disposed of. In Regensburg, Germany, Waste for disposal in metric defined at regional and global level. for example, processes have been changed so that filters tons per €1 million revenue 1.32 1.22 1.45 1.94 1.64 containing germanium residues are no longer disposed of as Waste for recycling hazardous waste, but are recycled by specialist companies. hazardous 1,500 1,200 1,400 1,400 1,700 The recovered germanium is then made available to our supnon-hazardous 7,400 7,700 7,100 7,900 6,700 Total 8,900 8,900 8,500 9,300 8,400 plier as a raw material for germanium wafers. This has OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 42 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Waste — Raw Materials and Substances and by participating in trade associations › 3.1.4 MemberWaste for disposal 5.6 ships and Political Engagement, p. 15. P Page <15> in metric tons Our activities in various trade associations mean that we 9,000 7,500 Raw Materials and find out in good time about new and anticipated regulation and are able to make plans accordingly. This regulation 6,000 Substances aims, among other things, to make it easier to recycle prod4,500 ucts, to avoid hazardous materials or to provide a framework 3,000 for declaring them, and to safeguard and improve the level [ A wide range of raw materials and substances are used in of protection offered to customers and the people who use 1,500 the manufacture of our products, some of which remain in our products › 4.4 Product Safety and Quality, p. 30. It is P Page <30> 0 the products. Furthermore, the OSRAM portfolio of products therefore essential that we are able to reliably obtain and 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 requires the use of substances that could be classified as communicate relevant information and declarations within hazardous non-hazardous conflict minerals due to their origin, for example from the the supply chain. Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. Action Taken and Results P Page <60> Specific waste for disposal In accordance with our business model, responsibility for in metric tons/€M revenue OSRAM focuses on monitoring and reducing the use of hazinitiatives aimed at improving the use of substances lies 2.0 ardous and critical substances › 5.6.1 Critical Substances, mainly with the individual business units. Here is an examP Page <43> p. 43, and generally we believe that resource-efficient use ple: Within the framework of the ORCA funding project of the 1.8 of substances is important, as this has a positive impact on German Federal Ministry of Education and Research, 1.6 the environment, reduces the cost of our products, and OSRAM is working with partners to develop alternatives to 1.4 makes them more acceptable to customers. the use of rare earth elements in LED phosphors. This 1.2 research is following various paths, which include substitut1.0 We work on the basis that it should be possible to market our ing rare-earth-based phosphors with organic conversion 0.8 products anywhere in the world. The raw materials and subphosphors and reducing the share of rare earths in rare0.6 stances used in the manufacture of our products—and earth-based phosphors—partly by means of a chemically 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 remaining in them—are subject to ever-increasing regulation, altered structure and partly through the combination of trawhich is an important factor for OSRAM in its various areas of ditional rare-earth-based phosphors with organic compounds. business ] ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, For other examples, see › 5.6.3 Take-back and Circular EconP Page <45> A.1.1.4 Legal and Sector-specific Conditions, p. 6. We anticiomy, p. 45, and › 4.2 Innovation Management, p. 27. Page <27> pate this regulation by keeping a close eye on the market OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 43 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Raw Materials and Substances [ Our portfolio of products also requires the use of subefficiently both in production and use. At the product develObjectives, Action Taken, and Results stances that are classified as conflict minerals due to their opment stage, measures are built into the processes to We have made it our goal to monitor the use of critical subpotential origin. We have put in place appropriate due diliimprove products continuously and meet legal requirements stances at component level to ensure that, in the face of gence processes for procurement in order to properly disand customer specifications. EHS advises the units on legal increasingly stricter regulatory requirements, we can sell our charge our responsibilities with regard to the protection of requirements and monitors compliance. electrical and electronic devices around the world without human rights › 7.1.1 Conflict Minerals, p. 62. further development. P Page <62> Against a backdrop of ever stricter requirements, we use a 5.6.1 Critical Substances special IT application that allows us to monitor the use of We also aim to gradually reduce the amount of critical raw critical substances at component level and to achieve legal materials and substances we use, particularly conflict minerIn order to fulfill our ambition of selling our products globally, compliance for our electrical and electronic devices. We als, and replace them with alternative materials where techOSRAM applies the world’s strictest regulations as a global refine the application continually. nically possible and commercially feasible. OSRAM strives standard when it comes to the substances used in its prodfor full transparency with regard to conflict minerals for its ucts and the associated declarations. We deviate from this The OSRAM Index List Environment (ILE) contains informaentire purchasing volume and is committed to dealing with approach in local markets only to a very limited extent but tion on prohibited, restricted, and declarable substances. the issue in accordance with the guidelines of the Organisaalways comply with local law. The status of the availability of Our own developers and the suppliers of substances tion for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) the necessary information and declarations can be included employed in our products use this information to help avoid, › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. P Page <60> in the quarterly reporting and the management review. reduce, and declare the use of hazardous substances. In fiscal year 2019, we refined and improved our special IT Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes In order to fulfill our responsibility along the entire supply application that allows us to continually monitor and improve In line with the OSRAM Environmental Protection, Health, chain, we also involve our suppliers. They are required to the use of critical substances and components in accordand Safety policy and our Group guideline on productpromptly provide the necessary declarations and informaance with our global requirements. These improvements related environmental protection, we are committed to tion for the qualification of new parts as well as for changes mainly concern the simplification of communications from responsible environmental management and the efficient use in relevant laws. the supply chain, in particular. Changes in the regulatory of resources, and to the development of eco-friendly proenvironment were incorporated. cesses and advanced products. The relevant rules and Responsibility for the aforementioned conflict minerals lies guidelines are issued by EHS; our business model dictates with Purchasing, which at Managing Board level also falls The focus was on updating the data for the revised RoHS that responsibility for operational implementation lies with under the remit of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Directive (2015/863/EU; Restriction of Hazardous Substances), the business units themselves. Each business unit is responBecause of the close association with risks of possible which prohibits the use of four new substances. We were sible for ensuring that its products are designed in an envihuman rights violations, this area is explained in detail in again able to significantly improve the completeness of the ronmentally compatible way and that resources are used › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. information, data, and declarations provided electronically P Page <60> OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 44 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Raw Materials and Substances by our suppliers. This enables us to assess risks and prodResponsibility for the development and specification of In fiscal year 2019, we formulated an approach for reducing uct conformity more quickly and to react promptly and packaging at OSRAM lies with the Packaging Processes the packaging material used to transport pre-materials for appropriately. department, which serves all business units and monitors the production of spare lamps kits. It involves reusing the compliance with the guidelines. In the European Union (EU), packaging, which should reduce consumption by 75%. Our suppliers are required to comply and keep up to date Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste aims Implementation began in the 2019 calendar year. with the regulations that are relevant to our markets. We to minimize the complexity of packaging and the amount of carry out regular supplier audits to ensure that they meet material used in packaging. OSRAM is committed to responsible practices both in relathis obligation, among other things. tion to the packaging material used and to the information OSRAM uses a software tool to consolidate and evaluate that is provided on the packaging › 4.4 Product Safety and P Page <30> Due to the close association with human rights, all action data on packaging materials. The tool can calculate recyQuality, p. 30. Our product labeling complies with the reletaken and results relating to conflict minerals are described cling charges for a particular country and select an approvant legislation. We provide additional information on energy in › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. ] priate service provider, for example. It collects data that consumption and product lifespan either on the packaging P Page <60> covers 80% of revenue generated in the EMEA region and itself or on a separate data sheet. 5.6.2 Packaging and Labeling extrapolates this to 100%. Since no figures are available in other regions, the packaging weight is estimated based on The labeling of our products is subject to country-specific OSRAM has clear guidelines for the design and procurement revenue. We work on the assumption that product groups regulations. A system is in place to manage these requireof packaging. Packaging should be made from environmenare packaged in a similar way in all regions. ments on a global basis so that our newly launched or moditally sustainable materials that can be easily recycled or fied products meet all local requirements. OSRAM uses a disposed of. In addition, its volume and weight should be OSRAM has set itself the target of increasing the share of its ‘market access conditions awareness’ platform*, a centrallimited to what is required to protect the product. Packagpackaging that uses paper-based and reusable materials ized database that includes information about national laws, ing is even incorporated into the design process, which (returnable packaging). Relevant quantitative data is availatechnical regulations for market access, and requirements makes a significant contribution to waste prevention. To ble only on a project-by-project basis. In fiscal year 2019, relating to the labeling of products. If there are changes to avoid waste, we use folding boxes as the primary packaging approximately 6,500 metric tons of paper-based packaging regulatory requirements in the countries in which we opermedium for the majority of our products and corrugated materials (e.g., folding boxes, blister cards, and corrugated ate, the companies concerned will report any changes. The cardboard boxes for transit packaging. cardboard) and around 5,500 metric tons of plastic packaging business units are then informed and can take appropriate (e.g., thermoformed shells, injection-molded components, measures. foam, and corrugated plastic) were used. * Due to its customer and product structure, OSRAM CONTINENTAL does not use this platform. It instead works closely with the customers themselves in order to identify OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 and meet their requirements 45 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Raw Materials and Substances 5.6.3 Take-back and Circular Economy In accordance with our business model, initiatives for conAs part of our work in the LightingEurope trade association’s serving resources take place at the level of the business sustainability focus area, we contribute to the position As part of its contribution to the circular economy, OSRAM units: adopted by the lighting industry on the circular economy strives to continuously return used raw materials › 5.6 Raw and ecodesign and to white papers on serviceable lumiP Page <42> Materials and Substances, p. 42, to the production process. —— In the automotive lighting business, OSRAM added a naires. In ‘Wirtschaft macht Klimaschutz’ (Business and Our focus on recycling and consistently improving recyclafog light solution to its portfolio of replaceable LED light Climate Protection), an initiative of the German Federal Ministry bility starts right at the initial development stage. The aim of sources that meet the ECE R128 standard in fiscal year for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, recycling is to recover as many unmixed materials as possi2019. When a fault occurs, it is now no longer necesOSRAM works on industry-wide solutions as a member of ble in order to conserve limited and valuable resources. sary to replace the entire headlight but only the defecthe circular economy working group. tive component. In the EU, we are required by law to take back our products and recycle them*. Since 2005, we have been working —— OSRAM had launched an entire product line of drivers together with other manufacturers in the lighting industry to with casings made of 100% recycled plastic in fiscal establish recycling service organizations. Specialist service year 2018. In fiscal year 2019, the production process providers collect and recover products so that waste from was improved as well: Plastic that is left behind in the electrical and electronic equipment can be efficiently recyinjection molds (up to 20% of the total volume used) is cled when the products have reached the end of their opercollected, ground down, and melted, and then sprayed ating life. Since the program is implemented by third parties into the mold for the next part to be produced. and on a cross-brand basis—for example in Germany by the company Lightcycle Retourlogistik und Service GmbH—we —— In fiscal year 2019, our business Unit Opto Semiconare unable to provide any specific figures for the reuse, ductors launched a project focused on the recovery of reprocessing, or recycling of OSRAM products and compogermanium › 5.5 Waste, p. 41. P Page <41> nents. Outside the EU, statutory take-back obligations are very limited in extent. *O  SRAM CONTINENTAL does not participate in the take-back practice described here. OSRAM CONTINENTAL manufactures components for end products and only after they are built into these end products are they potentially subject to a legal take-back OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 requirement. 46 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE PROTECTION — Compliance in Environmental Protection In our supply chain, we use the OSRAM Index List Environ5.7 ment (ILE) and the Code of Conduct for Suppliers to communicate our expectations relating to the environment and climate protection and to request that these are met Compliance in › 3.4.1 Code of Conduct for Suppliers, p. 22. P Page <22> Environmental Protection Our guidelines require all new OSRAM employees to receive an induction on EHS -related issues and then be given further training at regular intervals. The aim is not just to raise [ Employees, customers, and society rightly expect compaawareness of such matters but also to point out the consenies to adopt legislation, legal requirements, and standards quences for OSRAM of any regulatory breaches. on a proactive and comprehensive basis. OSRAM is therefore committed to complying with regulations and legislaTo meet its environmental goals, OSRAM strives for matrix tion. We meet this objective through our EHS guidelines, certification to the standards ISO 14001 (environmental manwhich are mandatory for all locations. We are also expressly agement) and ISO 50001 (energy management). During the committed to strict compliance with environmental legisla2019 calendar year, eight locations were inspected as part tion and to striving to achieve our targets. of ten external certification audits (six for ISO 14001 and four for ISO 50001). The corporate EHS department carried out a The EHS guidelines also take into account the relevant further eleven corporate EHS audits to check that the EHS chemicals legislation that regulates the use of specified hazmanagement system is used permanently worldwide. These ardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. combined audits are based on the standards ISO 14001 and They regulate the use and handling of substances and prepISO 45001 (occupational health and safety) and in Europe arations at all our locations and thereby improve the level of also on ISO 50001. protection afforded to people’s health and the environment both inside and outside the Company. OSRAM is not content In fiscal year 2019, no relevant penalties or fines amounting to simply apply the substance bans and threshold limits that to more than €10,000 for breaches of environmental legislaare set locally. For example, it uses lower proportions of lead tion were imposed. ] and mercury in its products than those prescribed by law. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 47 6.0 Employees Our employees are the key to our long-term success as a business. They add the value that we want to offer our customers. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 48 EMPLOYEES — Responsibility to Employees Guidelines and Responsibilities 6.1 Human Resources (HR) is responsible for the key topics Employees by region (continuing operations) in thousand FTEs identified above, with the exception of occupational health and safety. HR at OSRAM is organized on a global basis, Responsibility to September 2018 September 2019 and overall responsibility for HR matters and HR organization EMEA 10.1 9.4 lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer, who reports Employees of which Germany 6.2 5.8 directly to the Chairman of the Managing Board. OccupaAPAC 13.1 11.2 tional health and safety at OSRAM falls under the remit of of which China 4.3 3.8 of which Malaysia 8.0 6.9 the Chief Technology Officer (CTO), who has delegated this [ Our Human Resources (HR) work plays a key role in our area of responsibility to the head of Environmental Protection, Americas 3.0 2.9 of which NAFTA 2.8 2.7 efforts to drive sustainability. We believe that employees Health, and Safety (EHS) › 6.2 Occupational Health and OSRAM (total) 26.2 23.5 who are satisfied, successful, and also healthy provide the Safety, p. 49. P Page <49> necessary foundation for achieving long-term commercial success. OSRAM’s global HR guideline aims to establish worldwide For the chart below showing how many employees were standards in the area of HR. It contains firm rules for employed in which function groups at OSRAM in fiscal year HR work at OSRAM is currently facing two major challenges. employees and managers on the hiring process, diversity, 2019, the number of employees is measured in terms of the Firstly, the lighting industry has been in transition for a numtalent acquisition, people development, training, remuneration, average full-time equivalents (FTEs) for the year: ber of years now and OSRAM is becoming a high-tech player and benefits. ] in the photonics sector ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report A.1.1.1 Business Model, p. 3. Secondly, we are faced You will find additional information in the ›› 2019 OSRAM Employees by function in thousand FTEs with an increasing shortage of skilled workers in many of the Licht Group Annual Report, B.6 Other Disclosures, Note 31 l 2018 2019 regions in which we operate. OSRAM’s HR work is therefore Personnel Costs, p. 122. Production and service 19,767 18,610 hugely important to the continued success of the business, Research and development 2,621 2,752 which is why the Chairman of the Managing Board (CEO) Selling 1,995 2,017 also serves as the Company’s Labor Relations Director. Administration and general services 1,255 1,307 Employees 25,637 24,685 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 49 EMPLOYEES — Occupational Health and Safety This year, the locations in Wuxi, Kunshan DO, Kunshan OSRAM records work-related injury data at its locations as 6.2 OSRAM CONTINENTAL, and Foshan, all China; Chennai, India; a basis for calculating the internationally recognized key Penang and Kulim, both Malaysia; and Bergamo, Italy; and metrics Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and Severity the headquarters in Munich, Germany were still externally Rate (SR). Occupational Health certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard for occupational health and safety management. In 2019, we completed Targets are set for each individual location. For LTIFR, the and Safety the transition to the new ISO 45001 standard. OSRAM strives target is based on achieving a reduction relative to the averfor matrix certification to the standard ISO 45001. Our interage figure for the past three years. The SR target factors in nal guidelines require the other production facilities to also the regional average duration of absence per injury. The [ OSRAM is committed to offering its employees a safe and maintain a management system for occupational health and regional and global targets are then aggregated from the healthy working environment. Minimizing the risk of occupasafety in accordance with the ISO 45001 standard. Compliindividual values. tional illnesses and accidents at work forms part of this. In ance is monitored by internal audits. Development and sales this way, we not only fulfill our responsibility to society as a locations with more than 50 employees operate a reduced For fiscal year 2019, we set ourselves a global LTIFR target whole but also reduce economic losses. management system and contribute data to the health and of 0.30 (previous year: 0.28). The SR target for fiscal year safety indicators. The EHS department includes in its report2019 was 7.53 (previous year: 9.45). We already expect a Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes ing a selection of locations that do not quite reach this zero-injury rate at non-production locations. OSRAM’s Environmental Protection, Health, and Safety (EHS) threshold but might do so in the future, and our reporting department has the managerial authority to issue guidelines therefore covers 96% of our employees. Action Taken, Results, and Performance Indicators related to occupational health and safety and formulates releA host of activities and measures focused on occupational vant guidelines that apply across the Group. The occupaAt the aforementioned locations, the responsible managers health and safety were initiated and carried out in our tional health and safety guideline applies across the Commust carry out a risk assessment for each area of activity in regions in fiscal year 2019. These included special work pany, and appropriate training and monitoring processes accordance with internal guidelines and with the support of safety days and newsletters that were distributed centrally have been implemented for its compliance. trained safety officers. We have also established occupational and locally with the aim of improving the sharing of best health and safety committees in accordance with local legal practice, including in the raising of safety awareness and Overall responsibility for occupational health and safety lies requirements or on a voluntary basis. Furthermore, all OSRAM the optimization of personal safety equipment. with the Chief Technology Officer (CTO), who has delegated employees have an obligation and a responsibility to be tasks and managerial authority to the head of the corporate mindful of safety, wherever they are. We achieved the targets that we had set ourselves for fiscal EHS department › 5.1 Environmental Management, p. 33. year 2019. The comparatively low LTIFR of 0.29 was below P Page <33> Objectives the target, for example, and in line with the low figure attained Our goal is to offer our employees a safe and healthy workin fiscal year 2018 (0.28). There was no rise in the number of place. In order to meet this goal, we aim to continually workplace accidents, but there was a decrease in the numimprove the parameters that impact on health and safety. ber of hours worked. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 50 EMPLOYEES — Occupational Health and Safety The SR of 6.04 was well under the figure for the previous year (9.45) and was below the target as well. As we had to Performance indicators for occupational health and safety (continuing operations) factor in absences in fiscal year 2019 that were related to  accidents from the previous year, the SR did not match the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target 2019 level of fiscal year 2017 (5.42). We cannot directly influence Global LTIFR 0.46 0.37 0.34 0.28 0.29 0.30 medically justified absences, so we continued to work on LTIFR EMEA 0.87 0.63 0.73 0.59 0.55 reducing the overall accident rate in fiscal year 2019. The LTIFR APAC 0.29 0.27 0.15 0.10 0.10 long-term trend shows that the result for the previous year LTIFR Americas 0.26 0.07 0.18 0.17 0.34 Global severity rate (SR) 5.32 5.51 5.42 9.45 6.04 7.53 does not reflect a systematic problem, but rather a coinciSR EMEA 11.40 11.42 13.64 18.46 11.40 dental chain of accidents. SR APAC 2.35 2.64 1.52 3.90 2.12 SR Americas 4.17 2.23 2.21 9.15 7.45 No fatal workplace accidents occurred in the fiscal year Number of accidents resulting under review. ] in absence from work 115 94 85 75 75 [ The LTIFR represents the number of accidents at work resulting in at least one day lost in relation to the total number of working hours during the fiscal year. The SR represents the total number of days lost in relation to the total number of working hours during the fiscal year. Both KPIs are scaled to 200,000, excluding commuting accidents. ] Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Severity Rate (SR) 0.5 12 10 0.4 8 0.3 6 0.2 4 0.1 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 51 EMPLOYEES — Fair Working Conditions Guidelines, Structures, and Processes In order to fulfill our responsibilities along the entire supply GRI Index 6.3 In order to offer fair working conditions to our employees chain, we require our suppliers to comply with the rules and 102-41 around the world, we make use of, and commit ourselves to, obligations enshrined in the OSRAM Code of Conduct for international frameworks such as those provided by the Suppliers, and to provide their employees with working conFair Working Conditions International Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global ditions that conform to this › 3.4 Supply Chain Management, P Page <21> Page <60> Compact. We are committed to giving our employees the p. 21, and › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60. right to freedom of association and the possibility of con[ Fair working conditions are a cornerstone of how we concluding collective agreements. At OSRAM CONTINENTAL , the requirements to be met by duct our business and the basis of good and fair collaborasuppliers with regard to fair working conditions and respect tion. We aim to offer every employee a working environment These and other principles, such as respect for the personal for human rights are set out in OSRAM CONTINENTAL’s that is free from violence and discrimination, and in which dignity, privacy, and personal rights of each individual and a Code of Ethics. each person is respected as an individual. Priorities in our zero-tolerance approach to discrimination, are set out in our efforts to create fair working conditions include, in particular, Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and apply to all employOur corporate diversity activities are embedded in the HR promoting diversity, fair pay and company benefits, and open ees and members of OSRAM’s Managing Board and Superorganization. We place great value on developing our culture and fair collaboration between employers and employees. visory Board. The guidelines govern our dealings with each of diversity and on meeting the needs of the local workforce. other and with our customers, shareholders, business partIncreasing the proportion of women in managerial roles is a Having a diverse workforce is of great importance to us as a ners, and the public. Potential violations of the behavioral key aspect of this ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual global company › 6.5 Diversity and Inclusion, p. 55. In times requirements set out in the BCG can be reported via the Report, C.4.3.4 Targets for the Proportion of Women on the P Page <55> where skilled workers are increasingly scarce, being able to whistleblowing system ‘Tell OSRAM.’ All reports are followed Managing Board, Supervisory Board, and in Senior Manageoffer an open working environment and fair pay with suitable up › 3.2 Combating Corruption and Anti-Competitive ment, p. 169, and › 6.5 Diversity and Inclusion, p. 55. P P  age <16> Page <55> company benefits is very important. We conduct an open and Behavior, p. 16. The new cultural values were defined in fiscal fair dialog and find an appropriate balance between the interyear 2018 based on the ongoing realignment of OSRAM There are currently no targets for diversity at OSRAM ests of employees and employer, never more so than during (›› #TheNewOSRAM) and focus on how employees should CONTINENTAL . OSRAM’s current transformation phase ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht work together and how leadership at OSRAM should be Group Annual Report, C.5.6 Employee Aspects, p. 181, which structured. Collective agreements are in place at our largest European involves restructuring of the workforce ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht companies in terms of number of employees*. We work closely Group Annual Report, Note 5 | Personnel-related RestructurThe Code of Ethics was implemented at OSRAM CONTINENTAL with these companies’ employee representatives (whether ing Expenses in B.6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial in fiscal year 2019. The code defines the values that shape works councils or trade unions). In Germany, for example, this Statements, p. 84. the company’s actions and help it to act lawfully and ethihas resulted in a large number of works agreements. ] cally. The Code of Ethics also provides guidance on how to interact responsibly with one another in the workplace, for example. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * These are Germany, Italy, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic; Bulgaria is excluded. 52 EMPLOYEES — Fair Working Conditions Objectives, Action Taken, and Results areas such as health and accident insurance, occupational GRI Index [ In fiscal year 2019, the existing whistleblowing system ‘Tell Fulland part-time employees (headcount) pension provision and other forms of deferred compensa102-41 (continuing operations) OSRAM’ was expanded so that violations of our fair working in Germany (figure for previous year in brackets) tion, parental leave, maternity rights, and in Germany also environment principles can also be reported via the system. an employee share program in fiscal year 2019. 9% (8%) We aim to analyze the reports and identify Company-wide Part-time employees prevention measures. We also offer our employees various means of providing feedback and engaging in dialog with us › 6.6 Employee Overall, there was one reported indication of a possible vioSatisfaction and Employer Attractiveness, p 57. P Page <57> lation of the principle of fair working conditions in fiscal year 2019. This report was recorded and analyzed systematically, 91% (92%) 6.3.2 Reorganization of the Company and no violation of the principle of fair working conditions Full-time employees and Restructuring Measures was identified. We are currently working on specific prevention measures, including training and flyers, to ensure that Restructuring remains an essential step in OSRAM’s transfair working conditions can be achieved in all sectors and formation outlined above. Where job cuts are unavoidable, regions. ] OSRAM strives to minimize the social impact and to consult its employees at the earliest stage possible. In the reporting year, 88% of our employees within the main 6.3.1 Pay and Participation European companies were covered by collective bargaining With regard to the transformation of the Company, we agreements. In Germany, more than 97% of employees are [ We value our employees and treat them with respect, and succeeded in agreeing a future concept for the German covered by collective bargaining agreements. part of this includes offering them fair pay. Our remuneration locations with the employee representatives during fiscal system is designed so that pay is commensurate with peryear 2018. The talks were held not only in the committees formance and does not discriminate on the basis of gender required by the Betriebsverfassungsgesetz (BetrVG—German Employees (headcount) by contract type or other characteristics. It is our responsibility to comply Works Constitution Act), such as the Economic Committee (continuing operations) Male and female with local legal requirements in relation to pay. In Germany, and the General Works Council, but also in a steering comFiscal year the collectively agreed remuneration system forms the basis mittee set up for this purpose. The steering committee, in September 30, 2018 September 30, 2019 for equal pay among workers covered by this scheme. Roles which representatives of the Group Works Council and of Temporary employees Approx. 23% Approx. 19% that are above the pay scale are also treated equally, with the labor union participate, discusses developments resulting of which female 61% 62% Permanent employees 77% 81% non-discriminatory criteria used to determine the level of from the transformation at a very early stage and highlights of which female 44% 43% remuneration. In addition, OSRAM uses a clearly defined the consequences for employment. Information is provided incentive system to boost employee performance. Dependfirst-hand by members of the Managing Board, by the head ing on the national rules and regulations, OSRAM offers disof Operations, and by the head of HR. cretionary benefits over and above the legal requirements in OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 53 EMPLOYEES — Fair Working Conditions — People Development The bulk of the measures were implemented in fiscal year opportunities for professional and personal development 2019 in line with the plan, which runs until the end of fiscal 6.4 throughout their career at OSRAM, from vocational training year 2020. Its implementation involves both job cuts and and the management trainee program to subject-specific employee training. This program provides employees with training and management and specialist programs. the training they need to meet the new job requirements and People Development so to be assigned to other tasks. OSRAM has made a cenHuman Resources (HR) is responsible for people developtral training budget available for this purpose. Where job ment at OSRAM › 6.1 Responsibility to Employees, p. 48. P Page <48> cuts were necessary, we made sure that they were voluntary [ Employee training and continuing professional developredundancies with the minimum possible social impact ment are key factors in the future success of our business. Our apprenticeships play a major role in securing the next ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, Note 5 | PersonOSRAM and the labor market are undergoing a transition generation of employees. We currently provide training in nel-related Restructuring Expenses in B.6 Notes to the Con›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.5.6 Employee eight recognized technical trades and one commercial occusolidated Financial Statements, p. 84. Early retirement, in Aspects, p. 181. We want to keep our employees’ skills up to pation and as part of a dual study program. In fiscal year particular, played an important role alongside termination speed with ongoing changes in industry and the workplace 2019, 134 (previous year: 139) young people were employed agreements. We have so far been able to avoid termination by providing opportunities for professional development, at OSRAM in apprenticeships or on the dual study program, notices through the extensive use of pre-retirement partand thus improve their long-term engagement. of whom 128 (previous year: 133) were in Germany. time employment arrangements and the aforementioned skills training. We also believe it is part of our role as a corporate citizen to In addition to providing training, OSRAM continually and sysprovide training for young people in many of the countries in tematically works on employee development. This involves a OSRAM CONTINENTAL is not part of OSRAM’s transformation which we operate and in doing so give them access to the regular and structured dialog between employee and line process. world of work at an international company. manager. For non-pay-scale employees and selected employee groups, this forms part of the established GROW The new cultural values were defined in fiscal year 2018 Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes process. The process encourages close dialog between line based on the ongoing realignment of OSRAM (#TheNew­ People development at OSRAM is an essential strategic manager and employee, and also involves top management. OSRAM) and focus on how employees should work together approach to maintaining and improving our competitiveness and how leadership at OSRAM should be structured. The over the long term. Our objective, based on the businessWe offer our entire workforce a comprehensive general traininitiative implemented in this regard in fiscal 2019 included specific requirements, is to fill positions with the right peoing program with numerous opportunities for professional a variety of measures such as integration into recruitment ple and make the best use of each employee’s individual taldevelopment and skills upgrading. The program is reviewed and people development processes, team workshops, a ents and skills. once a year and modified if necessary. It is particularly impormultiplier network, a self-learning and quiz platform for all tant during the current transformation phase to give our employees, poster campaigns, and #TheNewOSRAM flyers, People development at OSRAM includes educational and employees the opportunity to get involved in specialist areas and played an important role in enshrining the new cultural training opportunities, a range of career paths, and proof increasing importance to OSRAM, such as digitalization, as values throughout the Group. ] grams for high-potential employees. Employees have many well as in customer and project management. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 54 EMPLOYEES — People Development We offer our employees a range of development opportunities [ Employees are nominated for our high-potential programs, Training and career development programs and talent manto match their individual skills profile under the Leadership, the aforementioned career paths, and the accompanying agement are being established and implemented at OSRAM Key Expert, and Project Management global career paths. ] development programs as part of the GROW process. The CONTINENTAL . high-potential programs are used to develop our most tal—— Leadership: The OSRAM Leadership career path helps ented individuals at global and local level. Objectives, Action Taken, and Results our managers to more effectively overcome the chalTo remain competitive in a changing industry and employlenges that they will face in their work. The focus is on A total of 209 employees worldwide are currently enrolled in ment landscape, we need to identify at an early stage the change management, entrepreneurship, innovation, the high-potential programs; 356 are enrolled in the career skills that the Company will need in the future so that wherstrategic decision making, performance management, path development programs. ever possible we are able to fill vacancies, including senior and nurturing of talent. In fiscal year 2019, there were roles, internally. 2,173 employees on this career path. To help us adequately fill our management positions, we —— Key Expert: This career path gets the best out of Personnel management established structures and processes in fiscal year 2019 that employees with outstanding technical expertise so we will regularly review and adapt as required. As a result, that they can drive innovation and technology trends we have developed a global talent management strategy and ential Progra h Pot ms within the Company. In fiscal year 2019, there were Hig introduced a new learning management system, for example. 84 employees on this career path. ture Values & Cul In fiscal year 2019, OSRAM invested €7.53 million in its —— Project Management: The Project Management career employees’ continuing professional development. fers Of Performan path enables employees whose role is 100% focused OW ( al Eval ce and n) ar ning and T Promoting for Le on project management and who have the necessary The revised and newly created processes and programs expertise to develop in a similar direction to those on Engagement and were introduced in the past fiscal year in line with our objecte ti uatio n rain the leadership career path. The Project Leader DevelopPersonal tives. The new learning management system has signifiment Programs (PLDP) contribute to the professionalizaGrowth cantly improved user-friendliness, and further countries will Po GR tion of our project manager skill profiles, are tailored to ing be included and have access to it in the future. In fiscal year the various levels within the Company, and strengthen Le ade es 2019, the content of both the local GoFurther! and the global rs h ip P ri n ci pl the project management community at OSRAM. In fiscal high-potential programs was revised and an executive proyear 2019, there were 102 employees on this career gram was launched. Thanks in part to these activities, we path. C a re e r P a t h s were able to significantly increase the number of manageOSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 55 EMPLOYEES — People Development — Diversity and Inclusion ment and senior management positions filled by internal Objectives, Action Taken, and Results candidates. 6.5 Diversity is one of a number of factors that are used at OSRAM in recruitment and making internal promotions. Since early 2019, the Leadership Quality Gate has been For this reason, our manager recruitment guidelines were used in selecting candidates for recruitments to senior manDiversity and Inclusion reviewed for diversity aspects and adapted in fiscal year agement. This process is carried out by an external partner. 2019, for example. The aim of the global trainee program LightUp! launched [ As a global company that operates in over 120 countries, On July 13, 2017, the Managing Board set the target for during fiscal year 2018 is to provide training to new recruits having a diverse workforce is of great importance to OSRAM Licht AG for the proportion of women in the first and make OSRAM even more appealing to graduates. The OSRAM. In fiscal year 2019, OSRAM employed 23,500 peolevel (senior managers) and second level (managers above 17 trainees currently undergoing the 18-month program are ple of 77* different nationalities. We firmly believe that diverthe pay scale) of management in Germany at 34% and 30% benefiting from a comprehensive range of career developsity has a positive effect on our business in the various marrespectively. Both targets are to be reached by June 30, ment opportunities. They are supported and encouraged in kets, as relationships with international customers and 2022. For the Group as a whole, the Managing Board set the their personal and professional development by experienced suppliers require cultural awareness and flexibility, and that target for both levels in Germany to be achieved by June 30, mentors. ] diverse teams have a strong ability to innovate. We define 2022, at 17.5% ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, diversity not only with regard to employees’ cultural backC.4.3.4 Targets for the Proportion of Women on the Managing ground, age, sexual identity, gender, physical limitations, Board, Supervisory Board, and in Senior Management, p. 169. Recruitments to management positions religion, and beliefs, but also in terms of the skills that they Globally, the share of women in first level management roles (continuing operations)  possess. To put our beliefs into practice, OSRAM signed the was 15% as of September 30, 2019, while the figure for sec2018 2019 Charter of Diversity in 2013, a voluntary commitment by ond level management roles increased to 22%. As of SepNumber of recruitments— German companies under the patronage of the Federal tember 30, 2019, the proportion of women across the Group senior management positions1) 29 37 Chancellor. in the first and second levels of management in Germany thereof internal recruitments 12 31 stood at 12.2% and 17.6% respectively. Number of recruitments— management positions2) 250 254 Guidelines, Structures, and Processes thereof internal recruitments 51 189 The Business Conduct Guidelines, which apply across the OSRAM CONTINENTAL is excluded from the calculation of Number of recruitments— OSRAM Licht Group, are intended to exclude the possibility the target figures for the Group as a whole. total management positions 279 291 of any employee being discriminated against because of one thereof total internal recruitments 63 220 of the aforementioned characteristics ›› www.osram.com/bcg. Twice a year, we record the gender ratio in countries where [ 1) Senior managers who belong to the executive level of the organization. Diversity is also enshrined in the HR guideline as an integral the Group has more than 400 employees to further increase 2) Managers above pay scale. ] element of the HR strategy › 6.1 Responsibility to Employees, the proportion of women in managerial roles internationally P Page <48> p. 48, and › 6.3 Fair Working Conditions, p. 51. as well. Our objective is to further increase the proportion of Page <51> OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * Figures for nationalities do not include OSRAM CONTINENTAL. 56 EMPLOYEES — Diversity and Inclusion women in managerial roles while taking regional circumstances into account. As a technology company, OSRAM Share of female and male employees at OSRAM (continuing operations) initiates and participates in activities in Germany aimed at making technology careers more attractive to women and First management level 1) Second management level 2) Total workforce girls in order to achieve this objective over the long term. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Female 16% 15% 20% 22% 48% 46% In the past fiscal year, there were numerous activities to Male 84% 85% 80% 78% 52% 54% make technical roles at OSRAM more attractive to women and girls, in particular. For example, the first Girls’ Day was [ 1) Senior managers who belong to the executive level of the organization. 2) Managers above pay scale. ] held in Munich in fiscal year 2019, in which 40 girls with an interest in technology took part. We also visited fairs such as her CAREER and women&work in Germany. OSRAM also women with inspirational careers at a range of international advocates flexible working time models at OSRAM, and our participates in ‘Komm mach MINT,’ a German networking inisites › 6.4 People Development, p. 53, and › 3.1.1 Functions Women Network, which brings together female role models P Page <53> tiative for women working in science, technology, engineerand Responsibilities of the Governance Bodies, p. 14. and talented female employees. In fiscal year 2019, we held Page <14> ing, and mathematics. another successful Diversity Day. Diversity was also one of OSRAM also makes it easier to combine work and family life, the key topics for our Sustainability Council in fiscal year OSRAM runs the ‘Frauen in Führung’ (women in leaderfor example by offering flexible working models such as the 2019. Examples of how we promote diversity can be found ship) and ‘Frauenkompass’ (women’s compass) programs, option of working part-time or from home. In Germany, supon the OSRAM website ›› www.careers-osram.com/en. ] and provides management training specifically for female port is also provided with childcare. employees, in particular in Germany. Frauenkompass offers a structured development process for individual career paths. Our Diversity Program is designed to firmly establish diverGlobally, the Women Leadership Forum offers women in sity in the corporate culture and encompasses various initiasenior positions the opportunity to hone their management tives. By linking diversity with our #TheNewOSRAM culture skills and establish a network within OSRAM. A working group initiative, for example, we aim to support this process through in HR is also developing further measures and initiatives to a variety of formats. The Employee Groups give all OSRAM support women in the Company. To mark International employees a forum for discussing specific topics and aspects Women’s Day, we ran a feature on our intranet introducing of diversity. They include the Flexwork Community, which OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 57 EMPLOYEES — Employee Satisfaction and Employer Attractiveness We carry out a global survey in order to measure employee ‘Top Employer’ by external institutes and to remain highly GRI Index 6.6 satisfaction and engagement. To obtain further feedback popular with the target group of potential employees. In 102-43 from employees, we hold regular events such as town hall order to maintain awareness of our attractiveness, we meetings with OSRAM’s management and run webcasts with wanted to expand our activities in social media. Employee Satisfaction and the Managing Board and other members of management. We incorporate the feedback received into our HR work, The employee survey planned for fiscal year 2019 was Employer Attractiveness which we strive to continually improve based on what our delayed due to financial considerations. We intend to conduct employees tell us. Employee motivation and satisfaction are the survey in fiscal year 2020 instead. also enhanced by intangible benefits such as flexible work[ Our employer attractiveness, i.e., how we are perceived ing hours and the option to work remotely as well as a good Global measures resulting from the 2017 employee survey internally and externally as an employer, is a key determinant work-life balance. were completed in the previous year. In fiscal year 2019, of the long-term success of the organization, particularly in measures at global level were integrated into the campaign light of our transformation and the development of the labor OSRAM also regularly takes part in or supports training days, #TheNewOSRAM. market ›› 2019 OSRAM Licht Group Annual Report, C.5.6 graduate fairs at universities, and other relevant events in Employee Aspects, p. 181. We believe that employee satisorder to communicate our employer positioning and present The target of retaining our certification as a Top Employer faction and our attractiveness as an employer are an indicaOSRAM as an employer of choice. was achieved in fiscal year 2019, with certificates awarded tor of how we treat our employees, and is heavily influenced by in Germany, China, Malaysia, and the U.S.A. ›› https://www. › 6.2 Occupational Health and Safety, p. 49, › 6.3 Fair Working Objectives, Action Taken, and Results top-employers.com/enGB/companyprofiles/de/osram. P Page <49> Conditions, p. 51, and › 6.4 People Development, p. 53. During the Company’s current transformation, our objective We also added further platforms to our social media presPage <51> is to match the employee satisfaction levels of other compaence, and can now showcase OSRAM as an attractive Page <53> Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes nies that are undergoing change, with a view to maintaining employer on Twitter, Instagram, and Xing as well as on We have defined an employer positioning that is aligned with our strong appeal as an employer in the labor market. We LinkedIn and Facebook as before. ] our corporate goals and that provides a strategic framework hope to achieve this through the successful transformation for our HR work. This is set out and described in an employer of our Company, underpinned by HR activities with a longbranding guide* in order to provide uniform standards term focus. In terms of employer attractiveness, our objecacross the Group. tive for fiscal year 2019 was to continue to be certified as a OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 * OSRAM CONTINENTAL does not currently have an employer branding guide. 58 EMPLOYEES — Employee Satisfaction and Employer Attractiveness New hires in 2019 by age category, gender, and region  (continuing operations) (absolute figure and proportion of workforce) EMEA Americas APAC OSRAM (total) Headcount % Headcount % Headcount % Headcount % Male < 30 81 11 108 44 247 15 436 16 30 – 49 111 3 142 19 232 6 485 6 > 49 25 1 38 7 4 2 67 3 Total 217 3 288 19 483 9 988 7 Female < 30 60 13 107 34 193 6 360 9 30 – 49 92 4 109 14 160 4 361 5 > 49 33 3 36 9 3 1 72 4 Total 185 5 252 17 356 5 793 6 Employee turnover in 2019 by age category, gender, and region  (continuing operations) (absolute figure and proportion of workforce) EMEA Americas APAC OSRAM (total) Headcount % Headcount % Headcount % Headcount % Male < 30 227 30 80 32 543 32 850 32 30 – 49 448 11 175 23 525 14 1,148 14 > 49 113 7 101 19 29 13 243 10 Total 788 12 356 23 1,097 19 2,241 17 Female < 30 116 26 126 40 850 27 1,092 28 30 – 49 325 14 149 19 562 15 1,036 15 > 49 177 15 63 16 44 16 284 16 Total 618 16 338 23 1,456 20 2,412 19 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 59 7.0 Society OSRAM sees itself as being part of society, which means that our responsibility also extends beyond the confines of the Company. We are committed to helping the communities in which we operate to develop in such a way that they are well equipped for the future and we support the embedding of sustainability principles in society. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 60 SOCIETY — Respect for Human Rights being called upon by investors and customers to identify HR coordinates our duty of care with regard to human rights 7.1 and mitigate any adverse impacts that our business activiand our employees. The head of HR (Chief Human Resources ties and business relationships might have on human rights. Officer) reports directly to the Chairman of the Managing Board, who also serves as the Labor Relations Director. The Respect for Human Rights Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes HR department has the managerial authority to issue human We outline our approach in the OSRAM Human Rights Policy. rights guidelines and coordinates how compliance with We respect and support internationally recognized human these guidelines is monitored. [ As an international company with diverse products and rights at all of our locations and are committed to the princicomplex global value chains, we know that our business ples of the United Nations (UN) Human Rights Charter, which In order to fulfill our responsibility along the entire supply relationships present the risk of human rights violations, we actively support as a member of the UN Global Compact. chain, we also involve our suppliers in the process. We place especially for potentially more vulnerable groups such as a duty on them to comply with the rules and obligations of migrant and temporary workers. The OSRAM product portThe human rights of OSRAM employees are enshrined in the the OSRAM Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which includes folio also requires the use of substances that could be clasBusiness Conduct Guidelines › 3.2 Combating Corruption respect for human rights › 3.4.2 Review of Suppliers, p. 22. P Page <22> sified as conflict minerals › 7.1.1 Conflict Minerals, p. 62, and and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 16, and the new Human Page <16> › 5.6 Raw Materials and Substances, p. 42. Rights Policy ›› www.osram.com/human-rights-policy introSince fiscal year 2019, it has also been possible to report Page <62> duced in fiscal year 2019. The policy is based on the ›› Univerpotential human rights breaches via the existing whistleblowing Page <42> We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, child labor, sal Declaration of Human Rights, the ›› fundamental convensystem ‘Tell OSRAM’ › 3.2 Combating Corruption and Antiforced labor, or human trafficking, whether within our own tions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Competitive Behavior, p. 16. P Page <16> business or at our suppliers and business partners. We have principles of the UN Global Compact, and the ›› Guiding also put processes and policies in place to help our own Principles for Business and Human Rights (UN). We place an Objectives locations and our suppliers to meet standards for environobligation on all OSRAM employees to implement the policy A comprehensive Group-wide policy regarding respect for mental and social accountability › 3.4.1 Code of Conduct for in an appropriate way in their area of responsibility. human rights was introduced for the first time in fiscal year P Page <22> Suppliers, p. 22. 2019. Our aim is to regularly review it against developments The OSRAM CONTINENTAL Code of Ethics contains requirein the regulatory environment and adapt it as required. Our The expectations of companies to commit themselves to proments regarding respect for human rights › 6.3 Fair Working objective for fiscal year 2019 was to integrate human rights P Page <51> tect human rights are on the rise. This is reflected in legislaConditions, p. 51, and › 3.2 Combating Corruption and Antirisks into the OSRAM risk management system and to comPage <16> tion such as the UK Modern Slavery Act and policy initiatives Competitive Behavior, p. 16. plete the internal audit. such as the German government’s National Action Plan for Business and Human Rights (NAP). We are also increasingly OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 61 SOCIETY — Respect for Human Rights Since fiscal year 2019, it has also been possible to report The volume of materials ordered for use in our electronic As part of the relationship with our existing suppliers, we potential human rights breaches via the existing whistlecomponents and assembly in Malaysia and China, in particagain evaluated the results of the CR audits and/or other blowing system ‘Tell OSRAM’ › 3.4.2 Review of Suppliers, ular, resulted in an increase in human rights risk › 3.4.2 certifications that were requested in fiscal year 2019. We are P Page <22> p. 22. As well as investigating each report, we want to sysReview of Suppliers, p. 22. We are mitigating this risk by working with our suppliers on continual improvement based Page <22> tematically analyze the reports and derive appropriate measfocusing our corporate responsibility (CR) audits on the on the findings of the analysis › 3.4 Supply Chain ManagePage <23> ures from them. This is how we aim to raise awareness of regions concerned. Suppliers in high-risk countries are also ment—Objectives, Action Taken and Results, p. 23. this important topic within the organization and prevent required to provide a self-assessment. By choosing to work human rights violations. only with quality-focused partners and suppliers, especially Details on how we deal with the risks of modern slavery in in the field of optoelectronic components, we attempt to our business activities and our supply chain are set out in Action Taken and Results mitigate potential negative effects from the outset. the 2017 OSRAM Modern Slavery Statement ›› www.osram. Our departments continued to monitor the relevant national com/modern-slavery-statement. ] and international legal frameworks on human rights in fiscal year 2019. Our Human Rights Policy was published on our website in January 2019. Human rights risk areas The OSRAM CONTINENTAL Code of Ethics contains requirements regarding respect for human rights but currently is Working conditions of employees Environmental protection, Working conditions and Product impacts occupational health, safety livelihoods in the supply chain P Page <51> not published externally › 6.3 Fair Working Conditions, p. 51. Human rights risks can be reported as part of the enterprise risk management process. Questions regarding human rights risks have also been included in the company level control questionnaire, which is used in the annual evaluation of the local control system of all consolidated entities by the relevant CEOs and CFOs. In the past fiscal year, a process Privacy and data protection Impacts related to strategic Impacts related to integrity business decisions, mergers and anti-corruption for continually monitoring human rights risks and appropriand acquisition and divestitures ate management processes was introduced to enable an annual risk assessment. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 62 SOCIETY — Respect for Human Rights [ For the first time, it was also possible to report potential Guidelines, Responsibilities, Structures, and Processes Our long-term objective is to establish conflict-free status for human rights breaches via the existing whistleblowing system We have also put appropriate due diligence processes for all products in the portfolio. We have already achieved this sta‘Tell OSRAM’ in fiscal year 2019. We received two notificaprocurement in place in order to properly discharge our tus for the product portfolio of the Opto Semiconductors busitions of possible violations in total in fiscal year 2019, with responsibilities with regard to the protection of human rights ness unit, and hope to maintain this status in the future. Our a geographical focus on the APAC region and concerning in the context of conflict minerals › 7.1 Respect for Human objective for fiscal year 2019 was to achieve a portfolio for the P Page <60> human rights matters. These reports were recorded and Rights, p. 60. Responsibility for the issue of conflict minerals Automotive business unit that is free of conflict minerals. analyzed systematically, and no violation of human rights lies with the Purchasing department, which is assigned to was identified in either case. We are currently working on the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and reports directly to To date, we have not yet fully succeeded in establishing, measures, such as information material for managers and him. OSRAM has been a member of the Responsible Minertogether with our suppliers, conflict-free status for all products employees, to raise awareness of the new option to report als Initiative (RMI) since 2017. The sharing of information and in the portfolio. We have made some progress, but we did not human rights violations via ‘Tell OSRAM.’ insights within the RMI is helping us to continuously improve manage to achieve conflict-free status for the portfolio of our our due diligence on conflict minerals. RMI training materials Automotive business unit during the reporting period. ] As part of our activities to promote respect for human rights, are available to our suppliers via an online training portal. we also pursue region-specific topics that are identified by When purchasing raw materials, OSRAM makes sure that it our risk analysis. Corporate responsibility in the supply uses qualified sources. For example, all our directly comchain, for example, was a topic of panel discussions at this missioned smelters for conflict minerals are RMI certified. year’s Supplier Day › 3.4 Supply Chain Management— P Page <23> Objectives, Action Taken and Results, p. 23. Objectives, Action Taken, and Results We strive for full transparency with regard to conflict miner7.1.1 Conflict Minerals als for our entire purchasing volume and are committed to dealing with the issue in accordance with OECD guidelines The OSRAM portfolio of products requires the use of suband the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. For a number of years, we stances that are classified as conflict minerals due to their have been working on investigations into country of origin potential origin › 7.1 Respect for Human Rights, p. 60, and and on due diligence checks of the smelters in our supply P Page <60> › 5.6 Raw Materials and Substances, p. 42. We are aware chains. We support industry-wide multi-stakeholder initiaPage <42> of the associated risks and are mitigating them as follows. tives that are aimed at preventing conflicts, human rights abuses, and violations of labor and environmental laws in our supply chain › 3.4 Supply Chain Management, p. 21. P Page <21> OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 63 SOCIETY — Social Engagement An online tool supports us in measuring the costs and Action Taken and Results 7.2 success of our projects. This tool is also used for project In fiscal year 2019, as part of its social engagement activiapproval. In some cases, this may also require clarification, ties, OSRAM provided a total of around €3.3 million (previe.g. about the intended social impact. ous year: €3.2 million) in donations, sponsorship, and memSocial Engagement bership fees to citizenship projects, initiatives, organizations, OSRAM CONTINENTAL is not part of the strategy and measand events. The selection of projects below provides an ures outlined in this chapter, but has initiated its own projects. insight into the content and geographical area covered: Wherever OSRAM is active, we want to assume responsibility for the world outside our business, to exert a positive impact, and to be perceived accordingly. We therefore engage at local level across the globe in initiatives that foster sustainable development and a prosperous society. Examples of our social engagement Our social engagement activities follow a clear strategy and are aligned with our corporate values. The OSRAM Group is committed to many different forms of Education projects Arts, culture, and sports projects Social and humanitarian projects social engagement, from cash, product and in-kind donations, —— OSRAM sponsors the Welker Award, which recog—— As the market leader in the field of entertainment — — As an official global corporate partner of the Gersupport and sponsorship of cultural, social, educational and nizes outstanding global research in the field of lighting, OSRAM once again supported the Euroman Red Cross, OSRAM has been supporting an sports events or institutions, through to membership in assocompound semiconductors and was awarded for vision Song Contest, this time in Tel Aviv, Israel. innovative approach to anticipatory aid in natural the 41st time in 2019. Culturally important buildings in the old quarter catastrophes since 2016: Forecast-based Financiations, organizations and clubs. We have appointed one were placed center stage with a spectacular light cing (FBF) uses forecasting models in order to proindividual to take responsibility for each of the categories —— OSRAM supports university education and research show and the interactive involvement of locals and vide targeted financial and humanitarian aid to rereferred to. Rules relating to corporate citizenship are inteby providing scholarships and technical equipment. visitors via an app. gions particularly at risk before the disaster occurs. Examples include the Germany Scholarship at two grated in our Business Conduct Guidelines and are supported universities in Regensburg, Germany, research — — Since 2013, OSRAM and ARRI have been present— — OSRAM is working with Boston Children’s Hospital by guidelines covering specific topics › 3.1.4 Memberships scholarships at universities in Malaysia, and laboraing the ARRI/OSRAM Award at the annual Munich to support young patients and their families. In aid P Page <15> tory equipment for the Wesleyan University and Film Festival to the best international film in the of this, there are activities across Boston and at and Political Engagement, p. 15. Voluntary activities qualify Boston University in the U.S.A. CineMasters category. our sites in the U.S.A. throughout the year. as a citizenship activity if they contribute to an improved —— OSRAM works with the Hillsboro-Deering High School — — OSRAM employees and their families met for the — — At our site in Wuxi, China, we are actively commitsocial environment and if society as well as employees, cusin New Hampshire, U.S.A. and again in fiscal year 45th Winter Sports Days and the presentation of the ted to combating poverty in local communities. tomers, suppliers, or the Company itself benefit from them. 2019 awarded scholarships to students looking to Trofeo Aldo Busch. Employees from twelve EuroFinancial support, donations of materials, and volThe criteria of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) define further their education in science, technology, engipean locations attended in 2019. OSRAM uses unteering by OSRAM and its employees again in neering, or mathematics. sports to bring colleagues together and encourage fiscal year 2019 enabled schoolchildren to receive the framework for this. We also support our employees in intercultural dialog. high-quality education. their fundraising activities and their personal involvement in —— At the Girls’ Day, female schoolchildren in Munich were able to explore the many facets of light, take a projects. look into the future, and talk to our experts about their education and careers. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 64 8.0 Appendix 8.1 List of Material Topics 65 8.2 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report regarding Sustainability Information 66 8.3 GRI Content Index 68 8.4 Acknowledgments and Contact 75 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 65 APPENDIX — List of Material Topics 8.1 List of Material Topics Material Topics GRI Topics Potential Impact by OSRAM on the GRI Topics Location of Impacts in the Value Chain Greenhouse gases and climate change Emissions Direct and indirect Within OSRAM and downstream Energy efficiency Energy Direct Within OSRAM and downstream Raw materials and substances Materials; Direct and indirect Within OSRAM Environmental Compliance Human rights Child Labor; Direct Upstream and within OSRAM Forced or Compulsory Labor; Human Rights Assessment; Procurement Practices; Supplier Social Assessment Fair working conditions Employment; Direct Upstream and within OSRAM Diversity and Equal Opportunities; Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Occupational health and safety Occupational Health and Safety Direct Upstream and within OSRAM Employee satisfaction and employer attractiveness Employment; Direct Within OSRAM Training and Education People development Training and Education Direct Within OSRAM Product safety Customer Health and Safety; Direct and indirect Upstream, within OSRAM, and downstream Marketing and Labeling Protection and security of personal data Customer Privacy Direct Downstream Customer relationships Direct Downstream Details and further infor­ Combating corruption and bribery Anti-corruption; Direct and indirect Upstream and within OSRAM Anti-competitive Behavior; mation are available on our Procurement Practices; website ›› www.osram.com/ Socioeconomic Compliance sustainability. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 66 APPENDIX — Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report regarding Sustainability Information spective statements or information for previous years. The ssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as 8.2 report is published as a PDF version at ›› www.osram.com/ well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control: Requirements sustainability. for Quality Control in audit firms [IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Independent Auditor’s Management’s responsibility Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)]. The legal representatives of OSRAM Licht AG are responsiLimited Assurance Report ble for the preparation of the report in accordance with the Auditor’s responsibility criteria as set out in the Sustainability Reporting Standards Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on information regarding Sustainability of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereafter “GRI criteria”) marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” in the report based on and for the selection of the information to be assessed. our work performed. Information This responsibility includes the selection and application of We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordappropriate methods to prepare the report and the use of ance with the International Standard on Assurance EngageThe assurance engagement performed by Ernst & assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disments (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (EY ) closures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthan Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information relates exclusively to the German PDF version of the thermore, the legal representatives are responsible for interpublished by the International Auditing and Assurance Sustainability Report 2019 of OSRAM Licht AG. The nal controls that they deem necessary for the preparation of Standards Board (IAASB). This standard requires that we following text is a translation of the original German a report that is free from—intended or unintended—material plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a Independent Assurance Report. misstatements. limited level of assurance to preclude that the information marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” in the report for the Auditor’s statement regarding independence and quality reporting period from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 To the Management Board of OSRAM Licht AG, Munich We are independent from the entity in accordance with the has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance provisions under German commercial law and professional with the relevant GRI criteria. engagement on information marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” requirements, and we have fulfilled our other professional in the Sustainability Report of OSRAM Licht AG for the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each reporting period from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 sustainability disclosure which is marked with the symbol (hereafter “the report”). Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft “ [ … ] ”. In a limited assurance engagement the assurance applies the national statutory regulations and professional procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurOur engagement is exclusively limited to the information pronouncements for quality control, in particular the by-laws ance engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” in the German PDF verregulating the rights and duties of Wirtschaftsprüfer and verassurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected sion of the report. Our engagement did not include any proeidigte Buchprüfer in the exercise of their profession [Berufdepend on the auditor's professional judgment. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 67 APPENDIX — Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report regarding Sustainability Information Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which has Conclusion parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to been conducted between September and December 2019, Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot we performed amongst others the following assurance and come to our attention that causes us to believe that the effectively be precluded. other procedures: information marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” in the Sustainability Report of OSRAM Licht AG for the reporting We make express reference to the fact that we do not —— Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability period from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 has not update the assurance report to reflect events or circumstrategy, sustainability principles and sustainability been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with stances arising after it was issued unless required to do so management of OSRAM Licht AG, the GRI criteria. by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone taking note of —— Inquiries of employees responsible for the preparation the result of our assurance engagement summarized in this of information marked with the symbol “ [ … ] ” in the Intended use of the assurance report assurance report to decide whether and in what way this report in order to assess the sustainability reporting We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed result is useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplesystem, the data capture and compilation methods as with OSRAM Licht AG. The assurance engagement has been ment, verify or update it by means of their own review prowell as internal controls to the extent relevant for the performed for the purposes of the Company and the report cedures. limited assurance engagement, is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of —— Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the assurance engagement and must not be used for purthe sustainability report, poses other than those intended. The report is not intended Munich, 21 January 2020 —— Inspection of relevant documentation of the systems to provide third parties with support in making (financial) and processes for compiling, analyzing and aggregating decisions. Ernst & Young GmbH data in the relevant areas, e.g. Environmental ProtecWirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft tion, Health and Safety in the reporting period and testEngagement terms and liability ing such documentation on a sample basis, The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Nicole Richter Hans-Georg Welz —— Analytical evaluation of disclosures in the sustainability Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer report at Group level, and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 are applica(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) —— Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample ble to this engagement and also govern our relations with basis relating to the collection and reporting of selected third parties in the context of this engagement (›› www. data, de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In addition, please —— Critical review of the draft report to assess plausibility refer to the liability provisions contained there in no. 9 and and consistency with the information marked with the to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We assume symbol “ [ … ] ”. no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 68 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index GRI Index 8.3 102-55 GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC GRI 101 Foundation 2016 GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization OSRAM Licht AG GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 8 Ownership: We publish any changes on our website: GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8, 14 ›› https://www.osram-group.com/en/investors/regulatory-news GRI 102-6 Markets served GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 58 Not applicable: We are not publishing this indicator (permanent/temporary employees by region and numbers of part-time/full-time GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers workers by gender) in full as the required depth of detail is not relevant to OSRAM’s management of this topic. GRI 102-9 Supply chain 21 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 3 ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 13 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 34 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 15/16 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 15/16 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15/16 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 69 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 15 10 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 15 10 Management Approach GRI 102-18 Governance structure 14 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 10 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 10 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 11/12 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 14 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 14 ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 151 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 14 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 15 ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 151 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 14 GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 10 ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 144 GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 15 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 11 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 34 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 34 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting This report was checked and approved by the Managing Board. GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 56 GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 56 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies 15 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 15 GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 158 GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Not applicable: We are not publishing this information because it is not relevant to OSRAM’s management of this topic. GRI 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 158 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 51/52 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11/12, 24, 57 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11/12 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 70 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC Reporting Approach GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 130 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 11 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 11 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 3 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 3 GRI 102-50 Reporting period October 1, 2018 – September 30, 2019 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report January 30, 2019 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 75 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI standards The report was not subject to a GRI Materiality Disclosure Service this year. GRI 102-55 GRI content index 68 GRI 102-56 External assurance 66 Material Topics GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 8 1 – 6/10 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8 ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 58 1 – 6/10 In the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the Annual Report (p. 34), we describe risks that could have particularly adverse effects on our business and on our net assets, financial position, and results of operations, or that are highly likely to occur. We also describe the opportunities that may arise for OSRAM. The report does not look at climate change. GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 25 The benefits arising from the energy efficiency of our products are described in chapter 4.1 Added Value for Customers. GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 99 7 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government ›› 2019 Annual Report, p. 85 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 29 6 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 63 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 29 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 21 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 24 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 71 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 16 – 19 10 All Group companies are subject to regular reviews of corruption risk as part of compliance risk assessments. Objective criteria are used GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption to assign the Group companies to risk categories that determine whether they will be selected for review in a particular year. 10 Not applicable: We are not publishing this indicator in full as the required level of detail (total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on combating corruption, broken down by region and with a breakdown of employee numGRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 19 bers by category) is not relevant to OSRAM’s management of this topic. GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 19 10 GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 16 – 19 GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 19 GRI 301 Materials 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 42 – 45 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Not applicable: Further information is not relevant to OSRAM in this degree of detail and so is not recorded. 7/8 Not applicable: Because of the high number and diversity of materials groups, the information required under 301-3 is not relevant for GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials OSRAM. 8/9 GRI 302 Energy 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 33 – 36 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 35/36 7/8 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 35/36 8 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35/36 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 36 GRI 303 Water 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 39/40 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 40 8 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water We have not identified any significantly compromised sources within the meaning of 303-2. 8 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36 – 38 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 38 7/8 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 38 7/8 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 38 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 38 8 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 72 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 38 8/9 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) OSRAM does not emit any ozone-depleting substances. 8 OSRAM does not generally emit nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides, but where it does the amounts are so negligible that we do not need GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions to collect data on them. 8 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 39 – 41 Not applicable: We record more information about waste water, but we do not report it because it is not relevant to OSRAM’s GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination management of this topic. 8 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 41 8 GRI 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant releases of hazardous substances in fiscal year 2019. 8 GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff We discharge waste water into bodies of water in only a handful of cases. Where we do so, we hold the necessary licenses. 8 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 33, 46 8 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 46 8 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 21 – 23 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 22/23 7–9 GRI 401 Employment 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 48 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 58 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 49/50 We do not publish this information with this level of detail because the number of incidents is so small that a statistical breakdown GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 50 would not add any significant value. GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 53 – 55 Roll-out of a new learning management system began in fiscal year 2019. As previously announced, we reviewed how we can record GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 54 this performance indicator. The outcome of the review was negative, so the indicator is not applicable. 6 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 52 – 55 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 55/56 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 56 Information on the age and gender of the members of the governance bodies can be found at ›› www.osram.com/management. 6 There are no indications that people are treated unequally because of their gender. We are currently analyzing the data and are planning GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men to publish the results of the analysis next year. 6 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 73 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 51 – 53 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 52 GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 51 – 53 As part of the planned expansion of our reporting on human rights, we intend to record information on this indicator in fiscal year 2020 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk as part of our new process for the continual assessment of human rights risks. 1/3 GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 60 – 62 As part of the planned expansion of our reporting on human rights, we still intend to record information on this indicator in the medium GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor term. 1/5 GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 60 – 62 As part of the planned expansion of our reporting on human rights, we still intend to record information on this indicator in the medium GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor term. 1/4 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 60 – 62 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 61 1/2 Not applicable: The figure is not recorded systematically. Employees receive training on the topic at various events, such as the town GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures hall meeting of the Procurement department. GRI 413 Local Communities 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 63 GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 63 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities There are no OSRAM facilities that have or could have significant negative impacts on local communities. GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 21 – 24 2 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 24 2 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 23 GRI 415 Public Policy 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 15/16 GRI 415-1 Political contributions 15/16 10 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 74 APPENDIX — GRI Content Index DISCLOSURES Page COMMENTS UNGC GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 27, 30/31 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 27, 30/31 1 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 31 GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 30/31, 42 – 44 GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 43 – 45 GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 19 – 21 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 21 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 14 – 19 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 19 OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019 75 APPENDIX — Acknowledgments and Contact 8.4 Acknowledgments and Contact 8.4.1 Editorial Notes 8.4.2 Forward-looking Statements 8.4.3 Publisher and Contact Details This report is published online in German and English. In addition to a retrospective analysis, this report contains OSRAM Licht AG The editorial deadline was January 14, 2020. forward-looking statements and information, i.e. statements Responsible Business & Sustainability about events that lie in the future rather than the past. These Marcel-Breuer-Strasse 6 The Annual Report and the Sustainability Report are availaare based on information available today and on assump80807 Munich, Germany ble in German and English and can be downloaded at tions based on current forecasts, which means they are subEmail: sustainability@osram.com ›› www.osram-group.com. ject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, forward›› www.osram.com/sustainability looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. 8.4.4 Production and layout in partnership with Due to rounding, numbers presented in this and other akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich, reports may not add up precisely to the totals provided and Germany percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures to ›› www.akzente.com which they relate. OSRAM Licht AG – Sustainability Report 2019
