MANPOWERGROUP ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) REPORT 2020 What’s Inside INTRODUCTION 3 HUMAN CAPITAL 4-10 HEALTH & SAFETY 11-13 HUMAN RIGHTS 14-16 ETHICS 17-19 INFORMATION SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY 20-22 SOURCING & SUPPLY CHAIN 23-25 ENVIRONMENT 26-29 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES 30-35 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION | 2 We are proud of the progress we’ve made, and ambitious to do even more to promote trust and transparency while we deliver on our purpose – because we believe meaningful and sustainable employment has the power to change the world. Jonas Prising, Chairman and CEO Welcome to the ManpowerGroup Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report 2020. This report details our approach to the most relevant ESG issues and provides data and metrics on key performance indicators for fiscal year January 1 through December 31, 2019, covering global activities across all 75+ countries of operation. The ESG Report serves as a companion piece to our Work to Change the World reporting (updated September 2019) and Sustainability & SDGs Update (November 2019), which outline how and where we are delivering on our Sustainability Plan and commitments to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Together, these comprise our Communication on Progress for our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. In preparing this report, we have been guided by a number of international frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB). GRI and SASB disclosure indices can be found at the end of the report. We welcome feedback from all of our stakeholders – employees, associates, consultants, candidates, clients, community, investors and society at large – to ensure our reporting continues to meet evolving interests and areas of greatest impact. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION | 3 HUMAN CAPITAL “ W E A RE CON V INCED TH AT IT IS THE WORKERS OF THE FU T URE W HO W ILL SH A PE THE FU T URE OF WORK , A ND W E CA N PL AY A M A JOR PA R T IN M A KING THIS COME TRUE .” ~Jonas Prising, Chairman & CEO Why This Matters Human capital management is at the core of our business and is how we create value for individuals, organizations and communities. Every year, we connect millions of people to meaningful work across a wide variety of skills and industries, helping to power the success of organizations around the world while providing individuals with opportunities to build skills for the future and achieve their potential. And our Sustainability Plan addresses human capital challenges facing organizations and individuals as they strive to stay relevant amid rapidly evolving skills and organizational demands: preparing young people to enter the workforce, upskilling and reskilling for long-term employability, and fostering diversity and inclusion at work. Today, organizations are transforming faster than they ever imagined possible, with shifts to remote working and digitization happening practically overnight in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Even before the pandemic, technical and human skills demands were changing faster than organizations could predict: in January 2020, 54% of companies globally said they cannot find the skills they need — almost double what it was a decade ago.1 By March 2020, we were seeing the biggest workforce shift and reallocation of skills since World War II,2 with skills needs shifting from aviation and hospitality to driving, retail, healthcare and information security at an unprecedented scale. And despite soaring levels of unemployment, acute skills shortages — in cyber security, software development and data analysis for example — continue unabated, reinforcing the need for a Skills Revolution,3 now more than ever. The COVID health crisis, now an economic and social crisis, is disproportionately impacting some communities – especially people of color and other minorities — in infection rates and deaths, furloughs and job losses. Organizations have work to do to address the potential acceleration of this bifurcation as remote working becomes a norm for white-collar workers while essential and blue-collar workers are required to show up and take more risk for less gain. We must all play a role in closing the skills gap and unleashing the potential of all people. 1 Closing The Skills Gap: What Workers Want, ManpowerGroup, 2020 2 Coronavirus Pandemic Compels Historic Labor Shift, Wall Street Journal, March 2020 3 Skills Revolution Series, ManpowerGroup, 2019 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 4 “We believe organizations need to be part of the solution to address the polarization, unrest and racism that is playing out in many of our communities and countries. When our society is broken for some, it is eventually broken for all of us. We are confident that ManpowerGroup is uniquely positioned and able to help our clients and candidates succeed now and in the longer term. We will contribute solutions within our field of expertise, which is providing meaningful and sustainable employment for millions of people across the world by matching their aspirations and skills with companies needing to become more agile and competitive. We are committed to delivering on our values to making workplaces more equitable and more inclusive, and to ensuring organizations, individuals and communities can emerge from this crisis stronger, more skilled, more competitive and more successful than ever before.” ~ Jonas Prising, Chairman & CEO, July 2020 Developing our People Capabilities for the Skills Revolution Our success in creating value for individuals and organizations around the world depends on our ability to unleash the potential of our own people. Creating a culture of learnability. Developing our people’s skills and capabilities. Curating upskilling opportunities. Attracting and developing diverse talent. Fostering an inclusive and resilient culture that values the contribution and wellbeing of every person. Building a talented leadership team to drive the transformation of our business. ‘Skilling Up’ is a pillar of our Sustainability Plan and all of this begins at home, across our 28,000-strong talented team in over 75 countries. LEADERSHIP SUCCESS TO UNLEASH POTENTIAL We continue to invest in building a talented leadership team to drive the transformation of our business and unleash the talent of our people. During 2019, we enhanced our Executive Leadership Team bringing in strong strategic and operational leadership capabilities. And we refined our Leadership Success Model to ensure we are developing leaders who are not just good operators, but also have the skills and capabilities to unleash potential, identify and nurture high performers, prioritize diversity and inspire the highest integrity. EMERGING LEADER EXPERIENCE: DEVELOPING OUR NEXT GLOBAL LEADERS Our Emerging Leader Experience is a rigorous two-year program designed to rapidly develop high potential individuals to become our next global leaders. The program combines workshops and coaching with company executives and tailored coursework from Harvard Business School with individual psychometric assessments, development planning, stretch assignments and high-impact mentoring. Each cohort is geographically diverse and gender balanced – nearly 50% are female — and we track promotion and mobility rates to measure the effectiveness of the program. EXPOSURE, EXPERIENCE, EDUCATION: DEVELOPING OUR EMPLOYEES Employability, resilience and success in today’s world of work requires continuous upskilling, reskilling and a collaborative learning culture. Learning (education) includes assessment to identify strengths and opportunities and formal training to develop skills and capabilities. While all our employees have access to on-demand learning, a great deal of their development comes from experience and exposure — activities and projects to apply and continue developing skills (experience), supported by ongoing coaching and guidance from managers, peers and mentors (exposure). In 2019, more than 75% of employees globally received assignments and additional responsibilities that supported their development. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 5 POWERYOUTM : NURTURING LEARNABILITY WITH ON-DEMAND LEARNING We know that people want the opportunity to develop skills on the job – this kind of learning ranks among the top five priorities for workers of all ages, genders and geographies.4 And free training opportunities at work correlate with higher job satisfaction too. That’s why we continue to invest in PowerYOU, our global skills portal, providing access to thousands of microlearning opportunities on-demand for our 28,000 employees and the millions of associates that work for us throughout the year. Customized ManpowerGroup content combined with our Skillsoft™ library is curated for in-demand skills so our people can develop the capabilities they need to stay relevant today and keep learning for the future. We designated 2019 the Year of Learning. Guided by dedicated, personalized learning pathways with a focus on digital and soft skills, 78% of our staff worldwide upskilled to develop the digital and human capabilities of benefit to them and our business. And nearly 62,500 of our associates also took advantage of PowerYOU to learn and upgrade their skills too. During COVID-19 shutdowns, we ensured that furloughed staff and associates could continue to benefit from free access to online training, so they could build their skills and enhance their employability as we emerge from the crisis. Through our relationship with Skillsoft, we also facilitated 60 days of complimentary access for candidates to thousands of online learning experiences. CREATORS OF TALENT AT SCALE: TALENT AGENTS, MYPATH® AND SKILLS ACADEMIES We are also investing in upskilling our own Recruiters — over 2000 have transformed their role to become Talent Agents, experts in assessment, data and coaching, so they can provide candidates personalized guidance to develop for future roles, creating a pipeline of skilled talent to our clients at a time when skills needs are changing faster than ever. And as remote working became the overnight norm during the COVID-19 pandemic, we swiftly upskilled our Sales teams in remote selling conversion courses to ensure we can continue to serve our clients and provide workforce solutions in this challenging environment. Our global Sales Academies will continue to build these capabilities in our people to benefit our clients and candidates in the future. Our commitment to helping people adapt for future jobs extends beyond our employees to associates and candidates, and our workforce solutions increasingly position us as a creator of talent at scale, providing tailored learning, development and upskilling opportunities, while advancing the careers of hundreds of thousands of individuals. In 2019 we rapidly expanded one of our key innovation initiatives, MyPath, to seven countries including two of our major markets, France and the U.S., providing 50,000 people with career advancement and skills development for growth sectors in IT, sales and finance, and increased earning potential through fast-track learning, on the job training and certification. Already driving operational efficiencies and added value, MyPath is delivering faster and higher placement rates, increased re-assignment rates, better skilled, better utilized and more motivated, increasingly loyal associates. As ManpowerGroup advocates, our associates are referring others to our brands and driving significant improvements in our Net Promoter Score for candidates and clients. Through our ManpowerGroup Academies we are providing opportunities for individuals to develop skills and certifications for in-demand roles in IT, engineering, logistics and digital manufacturing. We now have Manpower and Experis Academies in 10 key markets – including Australia, Belgium, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, UK, and the U.S. – where we are helping thousands develop the skills our clients increasingly need. 4 Closing The Skills Gap: What Workers Want, ManpowerGroup, 2020 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 6 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: TAKING THE PULSE OF THE ORGANIZATION Listening to our people is key to supporting an inclusive and resilient culture. Through annual and regular pulse surveys we can understand employee sentiment around various items from the effectiveness of our people and culture strategy, to leadership, ethics and values and development opportunities. For nearly 15 years, the ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey has given every employee around the world the opportunity to voice their opinion and provide critical feedback on what we’re doing well and where we can improve. We analyze results to identify actions we can take to enhance our global strategy, and also ensure that leaders and managers have the tools to develop action plans with their local teams. More recently in light of COVID-19, we have been able to consult real-time to understand how our people feel about remote working, productivity, returning to and reimagining the workplace, wellbeing and more, and to turn real-time results into clear communications and action plans. WELLBEING AND RESILIENCY FOR A POST-COVID WORLD To create a work environment where all individuals are respected and valued and can contribute fully to the organization’s success, we must enable our people with tools and resources to support their wellbeing so they can perform at their best. Ensuring our people have access to health insurance, paid time off and parental leave is just a start. Our wellness initiatives around the world also support physical fitness and financial and emotional health. And even before COVID-19, we have been investing in technology that supports flexible work schedules and remote working for many of our staff. When we transitioned more than 80% of our staff to remote working over 10 days to flatten the curve of COVID-19 transmission, we provided additional tools, technology and training so our people could stay safe and productive. Flexible and reduced hours and leaves of absence have allowed our people to prioritize personal and family responsibilities. And we’re leveraging our virtual collaboration technology in new ways to support our people, with a Global Wellbeing Resource Center to share best practices and a new TeamsBuddy app fostering connections and friendships between colleagues around the world. Nurturing a Diverse and Inclusive Workforce At ManpowerGroup, we believe in human potential and we advocate acceptance, respect and inclusion. We are committed to do all we can to fight racism and to strengthen diversity, equality and inclusion within our company, and in the communities in which we live and operate. We also know, from our vast experience in labor markets across the world, that we must engage and include all available talent and ignite human potential to sustainably grow prosperity around the world. It is the right thing to do, and it is what we must do to prosper. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is driven from the top by our CEO, and our leaders are held accountable to nurture workplace cultures where people from all backgrounds feel welcome and valued ‘Integrating & Including’ is a pillar of our Sustainability Plan. We focus on creating a culture of conscious inclusion in our own organization, and with our client and community partners we develop and support programs that upskill underrepresented and underserved populations for meaningful and sustainable work. GLOBAL COMMITMENT, LOCAL FOCUS Our business is naturally diverse, with operations in more than 75 countries around the world. We believe our organization, our leadership and our customers should reflect the diversity of those communities. Globally, we are committed to gender parity as a first, shared diversity and inclusion priority in all our countries. Following gender, our key markets also prioritize a second diversity focus and goals relevant to each local labor market. These focus areas include addressing the representation of ethnic and racial minorities, people with disabilities, refugees and immigrants, generational diversity and socio-economically disadvantaged populations. Progress against diversity goals are reported annually to the Global Diversity Officer and the Board of Directors. 5 Women in the Workforce – Global: Quick Take, Catalyst, 2020 6 Education at a Glance, OECD 2019 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 7 ADVANCING WOMEN INTO LEADERSHIP Women represent 39% of the world’s total working population and now make up the majority of graduates, yet hold less than one third of managerial and leadership positions.5,6 At ManpowerGroup, 45% of our Board of Directors is female, the highest in our industry. Women make up nearly 65% of our organization, and hold 59% of all management positions and 37% of senior leadership roles globally. We are committed to hiring, retaining, developing and advancing more women into leadership, and are on track to achieve our goal of 40% women in leadership by 2024. In 2018 we launched our Women’s Leadership Summit, bringing together 50 of our senior female leaders globally for coaching, mentoring and networking, and we ensure our ongoing Emerging Leader Experience cohorts are gender balanced. We are also committed to accelerating the path to pay equity, and conduct a gender pay equity analysis in our largest markets every year. In France, our single largest market, we are in the top 1% of companies on the Gender Pay Equity Index, as well as the clear leaders (by a margin of more than 10%) in our sector. RESOURCE GROUPS PROMOTE INCLUSION, ACCELERATE CAREERS AND SUPPORT BUSINESS OUTCOMES Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) bring together a cross-section of diverse backgrounds to promote multicultural understanding and a stronger sense of community, build partnerships and networks, and develop high-potential talent to accelerate their careers. The BRGs — for women, LGBTQ, young professionals and multicultural employees — take a leading role in forging strategic partnerships and alliances with professional associations and community organizations, providing learning and development opportunities, sponsoring cultural events, and most recently developing an Inclusion and Support toolkit for colleagues. Well established in the U.S., we are working to expand the BRGs to more markets. COMMITTED TO BEING ANTI-RACIST: PRO-INCLUSION AND PRO-DIVERSITY IS NOT ENOUGH We continue to make progress in building a strong pipeline of diverse leaders and providing opportunities to diverse candidates. We are consistently recognized as a best place to work for women, LGBTQ equality and disability inclusion and our employees rate us highly on Diversity & Inclusion in our Annual People Survey. We are proud of what we have accomplished, but know that we still have a long way to go to make our communities and workplaces more equitable and inclusive. As employers we should all be asking ourselves, what more can we do to make sure meaningful jobs, competitive wages, equitable promotions and wider opportunities are available to all? In the U.S. we have set bold targets to increase the representation of People of Color in both our total workforce and in leadership roles, and our commitment starts in the community where we are headquartered: Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Compared to peer regions across the country, Milwaukee shows a significant gap in economic prosperity measures for African American and Latinx communities, as well as disparity in workforce representation. In 2019-20, as Chair of the Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce (MMAC), our CEO leads the commitment of 64 local businesses — including other Fortune 1000 companies Harley-Davidson, Northwestern Mutual, Quad/Graphics, Rexnord and Rockwell Automation — in pledging to make Milwaukee a Region of Choice for Diverse Talent, with the goal that by 2025, we can increase diverse management by 25% and diverse employment by 15%. The disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on our Black, Brown and Latinx communities means it is more important than ever to accelerate progress to this goal. We say to every employee, especially Black and Brown, that we are with you, we support you and we hear your pain and anger. To accelerate our active listening inside our organization, leaders together with our Multicultural Employee Resource Group for Excellence launched a series of Courageous Conversations with colleagues across the U.S. on the role we can play in making positive change, starting with Minneapolis and Milwaukee. Collective action is how we will make progress fastest. VOLUNTEERING SUPPORTS EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY RESILIENCE We’ve always encouraged our people to take time out from work to volunteer in the community, to develop their skills and increase their adaptability while creating deeper connections both within and outside the organization. Our volunteer initiatives align with the three pillars of our Sustainability Plan and focus on preparing young people to enter the workforce, upskilling and reskilling for long-term employability, and fostering diversity and inclusion at work. Through global and national partnerships with organizations like Junior Achievement and United Way, local community investment initiatives, and service on local boards and committees, our people are supporting our communities every day. With COVID-19 lockdowns, we’ve taken many of our signature volunteer initiatives virtual, and will continue to adapt to as we emerge. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 8 Creating Social Impact Through Upskilling We believe meaningful, sustainable employment has the power to change the world. That’s why we partner with hundreds of public and private organizations around the world to develop programs that provide access to employment for as many people as possible. Our programs are designed to develop the in-demand skills and talent that organizations need to fuel their growth, while addressing diversity and inclusion challenges in our local markets and helping individuals overcome barriers to employment. This is how we deliver on our purpose in the 75+ markets where we operate, and some examples are illustrated here. See more at Work to Change the World. AMERICAS EUROPE AFRICA & ASIA PACIFIC ARGENTINA BELGIUM AUSTRALIA Building Bridges Manpower Unlimited and STEP Defence Force Recruiting Training and coaching people with Supporting integration of people with Helping meet ambitious targets to attract disabilities, refugees, women and disabilities and low-skilled youth into and retain women, Indigenous socio-economically disadvantaged the workforce. Australians, and culturally and youth to increase employability. linguistically diverse recruits. FRANCE COLOMBIA HandiCapable INDIA Visionary Youth Recruiting and connecting thousands of Udaan Skilling Program Coaching, mentoring and training people with disabilities to jobs annually. Upskilling young women and minorities at-risk young people to develop from impoverished areas for jobs in IT skills and employability. GERMANY and other growth roles. Refugee Welcome Centers MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA Providing dedicated teams and resources JAPAN Let’s Walk Together to quickly connect refugees to jobs. Job Support Power Counselling and training refugees, Training, educating and providing people with disabilities and older NETHERLANDS teleworking infrastructure to support workers to help secure jobs. From Refugee to Interpreter employment of people with disabilities. Training refugees for employment with PANAMA our Language Services business. SOUTH AFRICA Talent without Borders Maharishi Institute Training and coaching refugees to SPAIN Supporting Black Economic improve employability and connect Integra Empowerment with 25% of local profits with jobs, in partnership with directed to educating students. UNHCR and HIAS. Training, mentoring and connecting students with disabilities to internships. VIETNAM UNITED STATES Ministry of Labor SWEDEN Academy of Advanced Manufacturing Partnering to enhance women’s digital Manpower Matching Upskilling veterans for in-demand jobs and leadership skills and enable full in advanced digital manufacturing, in Coaching immigrants and refugees workforce participation. partnership with Rockwell Automation. to help them quickly enter education or employment. MILWAUKEE TURKEY Ready.Set.Work! and Success Starts Here UNHCR Helping women and men learn tools and techniques to overcome persistent Assessing, training and employing barriers to employment. thousands of Syrian refugees for UNHCR programs. UNITED KINGDOM Disability Confident Leader Helping organizations identify, recruit, and retain people with disabilities. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 9 HUMAN CAPITAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CULTURE & CAPABILITIES 2017 2018 2019 Employee Engagement Index score 1 60% 59% 62% Collaborative Culture Index score1 82% 82% 84% Fast & Agile Culture Index score 1 76% 75% 76% Performance-based Culture Index score1 79% 80% 81% Trusted & Ethical Culture Index score1 79% 79% 80% Diverse & Inclusive Culture Index score1 — 84% 85% Development & Career Index score 1 73% 74% 75% Investment in employee development (million $USD) 2 $15 $17 $15 Average hours in formal training (per person)2 22 22 18 Courses taken on PowerYOU 72,000 170,000 232,000 Employees participating in formal skills training2 74% 82% 96% Employees developing through experience and exposure 3 74% 75% 77% Management and leadership roles filled by internal promotion2 55% 52% 48% Total turnover – at all levels2, 4 24% 27% 25% Voluntary turnover – at all levels 2, 4 16% 19% 17% Total turnover – management level and above2 16% 17% 16% Voluntary turnover – management level and above 2 10% 10% 10% GLOBAL WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS BY REGION BY AGE GROUP BY LEVEL Asia Pacific & Middle East 13% 18-35 45% Senior Leadership5 1% Europe 58% 36-49 39% Leadership 4% North America 15% 50+ 16% Field & Functional Management 16% Latin America 15% Individual Contributor 79% GLOBAL & U.S. DIVERSITY WOMEN (GLOBAL) PEOPLE OF COLOR (U.S.) 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Board of Directors 42% 45% 45% 18% 18% 18% Executive Management 20% 25% 27% 20% 20% 33% Senior Leadership5 33% 36% 37% 10% 10% 13% All management roles 57% 56% 59% 15% 15% 15% All levels 69% 64% 64% 22% 23% 24% New hires 6 — 65% 49% 32% 34% 34% Promotions6 67% 69% 55% — 19% 19% NOTE ON PERFORMANCE DATA Unless otherwise noted, all data is representative of 100% of worldwide employee population 1 Percentage of employees responded favorably to all Index indicators on the ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey 2 In key markets representing approximately 80% of worldwide employee population and revenues 3 As reported via the ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey 4 A significant percentage of our roles are entry level, and we expect a high level of turnover as these jobs are typically a pathway to other careers 5 Includes Executive Management, global function leaders, and key market leadership teams 6 Global gender data from key markets representing approximately 80% of worldwide employee population MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN CAPITAL | 10 HEALTH & SAFETY CRE ATING WORKPL ACE S W HERE PEOPLE FEEL SA FE A ND SECURE Why This Matters Every company has a responsibility to protect the health, safety and wellbeing1 of its employees. We put millions of people to work each year so we know that when people feel safe, engagement is higher, they stay longer and develop more skills and experience that benefit everyone. Social media also means that employee experience is more transparent than ever, so maintaining high standards helps position us as a great company to work for and attract the best talent. Since the health crisis caused by COVID-19, it’s more imperative than ever for people to feel safe and secure in a healthy work environment. That’s why in March 2020 we founded the Safely Back to Work Alliance with other leading HR services companies to help organizations, policy makers and governments prepare for the new normal in the workplace. As the world’s largest private sector employer, our industry has a leading role to play in driving healthy labor markets and protecting individuals. We shared safety protocols from across 26 countries and many industries and are proud that we have been a part in scaling this important initiative, to now be led by our industry association, the World Employment Confederation. Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today GLOBAL COMMITMENT, LOCAL OVERSIGHT Our global Health and Safety Policy outlines our commitment to provide a safe working environment for all our internal staff, as well as the associates and consultants we place on assignment with clients. The policy is included in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and all employees are trained and certified annually. Aligned with our global commitment, and in compliance with applicable local and national regulations, our operations around the world maintain local health and safety standards. Using custom designed work environment surveys, we ensure our workplaces are safe while assessing the health and safety risk of client worksites and roles and educating clients on ways they can improve their own practices. TRAINING FOR GREATEST IMPACT We provide training on safe and healthy work practices for all employees, associates and consultants globally via powerYOU, our digital learning platform, with additional roleand site-specific training where client locations require it. We have designed tailored training for industries where workplaces present additional safety challenges. In France, our largest market, our virtual reality training prepares associates to navigate potential hazards safely before they ever set foot on site. In Belgium and the Netherlands, we have developed logistics academies where we train and certify the safe operation of forklifts and other equipment in actual warehouse environments. Our targeted training reaches over 20,000 people annually in these three countries alone. 1 for details on ManpowerGroup’s approach to wellbeing, see our page 7 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HEALTH & SAFETY | 11 GETTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK AFTER INJURY We have 600,000 people working across thousands of client sites every day, and take all possible measures to prevent injuries at work and keep our accident rates low. We also look to ensure that if any of our people do sustain an injury, they can get back to work safely and quickly. If they cannot return immediately to their previous role we aim to find alternative assignments that support their path to recovery. In Canada, we’re partnering with Habitat for Humanity to place associates in roles at ReStores, enabling people to work through recovery while supporting Habitat’s mission to create safe and affordable housing for families across the country. This innovative solution contributed to Manpower Canada winning several ACSESS Health and Safety Awards over the past five years. CRISIS RESPONSE AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS The health crisis created by COVID-19 also allowed us to activate our well-developed business continuity plans across the globe, supported by proven issues management communications to navigate emergency situations. Our first priority is always ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of our staff and associates. Then we can focus on helping as many people as possible to continue working safely, carrying out essential roles and continuing to provide for their families and communities. In less than 10 days, we migrated 80% of our staff to remote working and enabled thousands of associates to work safely from home. We reassigned associates from disrupted industries like hospitality to roles supporting essential work. As workplaces begin to reopen, we have rolled out client and associate communications around a Safe Return To Work and Safe Restart and also require inspections, certification and training on Safely Back to Work protocols across our locations. We are also well-accustomed to mobilizing our teams to support disaster response efforts, partnering with governments and non-profit organizations, for example, the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency, to train and place hundreds of our associates on 24/7 standby to support residents impacted by hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters. EXTERNAL CERTIFICATION AND VALIDATION Several of our largest operations have obtained formal certification for their health and safety management systems, including ISO 45001, OHSAS 18001, VCU, MASE, and AS/NZS 4801. These operations represent approximately 50% of our 2019 revenues and 40% of worldwide employees. HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2018 2019 Markets with health & safety certification1 43% 50% 50% Employee absentee rate2 1.9 2.9 4.6 Number of recordable injury events among employees per million hours worked 3,4 3.7 3.8 4.7 Number of lost-time injury events among employees per million hours worked 5 — 2.8 3.9 Number of recordable injury events among associates on assignment per million hours worked4,5 24 23.9 23.3 Number of lost-time injury events among associates on assignment per million hours worked5 — 22.3 21.6 NOTE ON PERFORMANCE DATA ¹ Percentage of worldwide revenues in countries with certified management systems 2 In key markets where data is tracked. 2019 data represents approximately 50% of worldwide employees, reduced from 60% in 2018 due to lack of data availability at the time of reporting. Absenteeism rates vary significantly between countries, ranging from a low of 0.2 to a high of 8. Absenteeism data is not tracked in some markets, including the US, where our Paid Time Off policy enables employees to take scheduled or unscheduled time off as needed for any reason. 3 Data was unavailable in several countries heavily impacted by COVID-19 at the time of reporting, resulting in a reduction in coverage from 80% of worldwide employees in 2018 to 67% in 2019. Incident rates vary widely between countries, ranging from a low of 0 to a high of 10 events per million hours worked. 4 Not tracked globally prior to 2018. 5 In key markets representing approximately 60% of associates on assignment. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HEALTH & SAFETY | 12 Prévention 3D: Virtual Reality Training to Create a “Safety Reflex” Construction sites remain one of the workplaces with greatest safety and health risks. Conventional training and quality onboarding can reduce risk, but we are constantly innovating to ensure we can continue to minimize risk as much as possible. Prévention 3D provides virtual reality safety training for construction workers, leveraging the latest emerging technology from 2J Process and ManpowerGroup’s expertise in preparing millions of people for work. Workers are trained before they head to construction sites to nurture a “safety reflex” skillset and build awareness not only around hazards but ways to prevent them too. Workers strap on a VR headset and are transported to a simulated construction site built through virtual reality. Fully immersed in the setting, the workers move through actual on-the-job scenarios and are challenged to identify potential risks, while learning about preventative measures. Through this gamified experience, workers navigate risks including falling objects, fires, lack of safety barriers, and more – all without any serious consequences to their own health and safety. When the experience is complete the worker receives a certificate and is able to head out safely on assignment, ready to spot safety risks before ever stepping foot on site. ManpowerGroup first showcased the virtual reality safety training experience in 2018 at Viva Technology, the world’s largest innovation conference for startups and tech leaders. The program has since trained more than 15,000 workers in France and expanded to additional industries: finishing work, electricity and public works. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HEALTH & SAFETY | 13 HUMAN RIGHTS ENSURING WORK IS A SOURCE OF DIGNIT Y A ND PURP OSE FOR A LL Why This Matters We believe meaningful, sustainable employment has the power to change the world. For more than 70 years, we’ve been connecting millions of people to work and helping them develop skills to stay employable for the long-term. This way they can support their families, contribute to their communities and achieve their career goals. By respecting and promoting internationally proclaimed human rights, we can ensure that work is a source of dignity and purpose – as well as income – for the people we employ. People, governments, investors and shareholders rightly expect nothing less. Our global reach, working with hundreds of thousands of organizations around the world, means we can influence the way people are treated across complex multinational supply chains. This isn’t just the right thing to do; it mitigates risk for our clients, who can rely on us to ensure that their talent supply chains are free from child labor, forced labor and other abuses. By engaging with organizations, governments and NGOs, we advocate for conscious inclusion so individuals from all backgrounds can participate in the workforce and bring their authentic selves to work every day. We aspire to go beyond simply complying with employment and non-discrimination laws. We advocate acceptance, respect and inclusion and are committed to do all we can to fight racism and to strengthen diversity, equality and inclusion within our company, and in the communities in which we live and operate. Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today GLOBAL COMMITMENT ManpowerGroup was one of the first companies to sign the Athens Ethical Principles, declaring zero-tolerance for working with any entity which benefits from human trafficking. We have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2006, publicly declaring our support for internationally proclaimed human rights and reporting on our activities annually. Through partnerships with international organizations — like the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration, the Tent Partnership for Refugees, and the Valuable 500 – we actively promote the rights of individuals and provide support that enables them to connect to sustainable work. IT’S IN OUR CODE Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics highlights our respect for individuals and our shared obligation to ensure fairness in the hiring and advancement of all employees without discrimination. It also outlines our mutual responsibility for maintaining safe and respectful workplaces that are free from abusive or unprofessional conduct and provides clear guidance on how to report concerns, including a 24/7 Global Ethics Hotline. All employees train on the Code annually. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS | 14 RESPONSIBLE BY DESIGN Our standard recruitment, assessment, employment and talent management practices are designed to protect fundamental rights at work. We helped define the World Employment Confederation Code of Conduct and quality standards, which include not charging placement fees to job-seekers, transparent terms of employment, respect for health and safety at work, nondiscrimination and ensuring that workers can report concerns without fear of recrimination or discrimination. And we cascade these standards to our suppliers through our Supplier Code of Conduct. INDUSTRYWIDE ENGAGEMENT AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE Through our leadership role in the World Employment Confederation, we are active in our industry’s engagement with the ILO’s Fair Recruitment Initiative and endorsement of the ILO’s Convention No. 181 on Private Employment Agencies. We cooperate with organizations like UNI Global Union, which represents more than 20 million workers from over 150 different countries in the fastest growing sectors in the world: skills and services. Most recently, we led collaborations with UNI-Europa on behalf of our industry to develop and adopt joint recommendations for protecting workers and safeguarding work during the COVID-19 pandemic, including the recognition of our industry as an essential sector, and recognition of our role in preparing for inclusive economic and social recovery. Within our own organization, we support the right to form employee representative councils and engage in collective bargaining. We have established European Works Councils in all our European Union country operations, which represent approximately 65% of our global reach, and over half our employees and associates in our largest markets are represented by unions or collective bargaining agreements. EXTERNAL RECOGNITION AND VERIFICATION We proactively seek external verification of our practices. Since 2012 we have undertaken EcoVadis business sustainability assessment at the corporate level, and in 2016 we began using these assessments in our local market operations to educate our organization and manage performance around the world. The assessment analyzes our sustainability management practices and reporting, with labor practices and human rights representing 60% of the assessment. To date, we have achieved Silveror Gold-level ratings for labor practices and human rights in nearly every country assessed, and in 2020 we earned Platinum rating at the corporate level. Ambitious for Improvement: What Next The way people live and work is changing fast. We are on the forefront of predicting the future for work and the future for workers, including how this impacts human rights and working standards of new forms of work. Technology provides new opportunities – but this can also increase the threat of unscrupulous operators taking advantage of workers in an informal economy. We will continue to advocate for ethical recruitment practices and employment flexibility balanced with the security we know people need. As a leader in our industry, we have been actively engaged in the setting of standards for new forms of work including the gig economy with the World Economic Forum’s Principles of Good Platform Work Charter. We are also committed to scaling our programs that help people – especially those from under-represented and at-risk populations — develop in-demand skills and experience so they can participate in the formal economy and increase their employability for the long term. HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2018 2019 Employees represented by unions and/or collective bargaining 1 46% 53% 50% Countries assessed by EcoVadis (cumulative) 13 20 22 Countries rated Gold or Silver for labor practices and human rights by EcoVadis 85% 95% 95% People from vulnerable groups coached & upskilled (cumulative from 2015, rounded to 160,400 198,200 – nearest 100) 1, 2 Donations to organizations serving vulnerable groups (cumulative from 2015, rounded to $18 M $23 M – nearest million) 1, 2 NOTE ON PERFORMANCE DATA 1 In key markets representing approximately 80% of worldwide employee population and revenues 2 2019 data not available at the time of reporting MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS | 15 Connecting Refugees with Sustainable Work – ManpowerGroup and the Tent Partnership Refugees and immigrants are among the populations at highest risk for human rights abuses, especially when they are forced to seek work in the informal economy. At ManpowerGroup we know that meaningful work is a passport to integration. That’s why we’ve been helping refugees develop their employability and connect to jobs for more than ten years. And it’s why we joined the Tent Partnership for Refugees, an initiative to mobilize even more private sector organizations to improve the lives and livelihoods of people who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. As part of our commitment to the Tent Partnership, we are leveraging our core activities and expertise to connect thousands of refugees to sustainable career opportunities in their new homes. In Europe, we are training refugees to become vital interpreters in the Netherlands, creating dedicated “Welcome Center” branches to quickly connect refugees with jobs in Germany, and providing coaching to help identify education or employment opportunities in Sweden. In our Latin American markets, including Argentina, Mexico and Panama, we have partnered with more than 500 government, corporate and non-profit organizations to provide coaching and training to help refugees develop critical skills so they can secure jobs and achieve independence. Our Talento Sin Fronteras program, developed in partnership with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), was featured at a recent meeting of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We are proud to have helped over 4,800 refugees find meaningful and sustainable employment over the past few years. And through collaboration with the Tent Partnership we look forward to helping even more. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS | 16 ETHICS “ W E A RE A LL RE SP ONSIBLE FOR KEEPING OUR E THICA L COMPA SS FIRMLY IN PL ACE , CRE ATING A CULT URE W HERE PEOPLE CA N ACHIE V E THEIR FULL P OTENTI A L .” ~Jonas Prising, Chairman & CEO Why This Matters Trust and transparency in the workplace have moved from aspiration to expectation almost overnight. And as technology continues to disrupt, unprecedented access to data and information brings increasing ethical challenges for organizations to manage. After more than a decade of talent shortages1, even in the COVID-19 era skilled talent is in high demand and there are more options than ever for people with sought-after skills. A purpose-driven, ethical culture is a key differentiator for employers to attract the best talent. At the same time, being recognized as a leader in ethical business practices has a direct impact on company value with reputation now responsible for an average of 38% of market capitalization2. High ethical standards are a differentiator for clients and customers too – in a world of complex global supply chains, transparency has become an expectation of doing business. As a company whose purpose is to connect people with meaningful and sustainable work, we understand the importance of trust and transparency. We are proud to set a high standard for our industry. In 2020, we were recognized by Ethisphere as a World’s Most Ethical Company for the 11th time — the only company in our industry to earn this distinction. Our extensive global reach – working across more than 75 countries with hundreds of thousands of employers — gives us the opportunity to promote and advocate for the highest ethical standards for business conduct and responsible employment across regions and industries around the world. 1 Closing The Skills Gap: What Workers Want, ManpowerGroup, 2020 2 The 2018 UK Reputation Dividend Report MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ETHICS | 17 Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today SETTING THE TONE Our strong and comprehensive global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code”) sets the tone for everyone we work with, from internal staff to suppliers and partners. Given our global footprint, the Code is available in over 20 languages, making it accessible to all employees and stakeholders around the world. REGULAR, REALISTIC AND RELEVANT TRAINING All our employees regularly train on our Code and other issue-specific policies, including anti-corruption, fair competition, information security and data privacy. We focus on ensuring training is understandable, realistic and relevant to the situations people face every day. In 2019, we enhanced mobile access to policies and training, making it even easier for our people to stay current with our standards. UP TO DATE WITH THE LATEST REGULATIONS We regularly refresh training to address emerging risks or changes in regulations. For example, we enhanced our data protection, privacy and cyber security training in anticipation of the General Data Protection Regulation, educating and empowering every individual to take responsibility for information security and privacy. We reinforce data privacy and cybersecurity training through frequent campaigns and executive messaging at company-wide virtual townhall meetings. OPEN DOOR POLICY We reinforce and promote our culture of ethical behavior by fostering a work environment that encourages colleagues and associates to raise ethical concerns without fear of retaliation. Our Global Ethics Hotline is available anytime from anywhere, for anyone to report issues or seek guidance. We also encourage our people to bring concerns directly to their managers, and we train managers on creating work environments that help people feel safe in reporting their concerns. ANNUAL ETHICAL HEALTH CHECK The ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey (MAPS) gives us an annual ethical health-check. Employees are asked if they trust the organization to treat them fairly, if they feel people are treated with respect and if the guidelines on ethical practices are clear to them. We also source feedback on tone from the top and the example set by management, whether they know how to report ethical concerns, and if they feel they can do this without fear of retaliation. These questions are among the highest scoring on the survey, confirming that we are succeeding in creating a trusted and ethical culture. MAPS results are reported to our Board of Directors, and we ensure every team receives their results while managers are held accountable to address any concerns. CULTURE AUDIT: A DEEP-DIVE ANALYSIS In 2018, we conducted our first culture audit, analyzing three years of MAPS results in relation to the company’s four culture enablers: Collaborative, Fast & Agile, Trusted & Ethical, and Performance-Based. The audit, which included a deep-dive analysis of seven of our largest country operations, showed all culture enablers were consistently positive throughout the assessment period. We will continue to use these types of audits to assess the health of our organization and the effectiveness of our leadership in reinforcing our commitment to ethical practices. ADVOCATING ETHICS ON THE GLOBAL STAGE Through our leadership activity with the World Employment Confederation we continually advocate the role that our industry plays in promoting fair recruitment practices and upholding high standards for employment. Our strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum also enables us to elevate the conversation about ethical, responsible and sustainable work to a world stage alongside other leaders and decision makers outside our organization and beyond our industry. Over the last few years, our leaders have promoted ethics and integrity in a variety of forums, including Ethisphere’s Global Ethics Summit, the ILO/UN Conference on Trade and Development, the G100 Economic Consensus Meeting, the World Employment Conference on Labour Dynamics in the Digital Age, Tripartite Alliance for Fair & Progressive Employment Practices Conference, the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, the National Association of Corporate Directors Global Leaders Summit and the World Economic Forum Sustainable Development Impact Summit. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ETHICS | 18 Ambitious for Improvement: What Next As we continue to diversify and grow our business, we recognize the importance of transparent sharing of our ethical expectations both within our organization and with our business partners. We are expanding the reach of our Supplier Code of Conduct and developing a framework for third-party relationships that positions our standards for ethical and responsible business practices. We believe it is important to anticipate not just regulatory measures but also public expectations and to lead best practice accordingly. As digital transformation continues across all sectors we can expect more regulation that will define who owns data – likely in favor of individuals. Over the past two years we have reinvested to refresh our approach to companywide training and communications, enabling us to quickly integrate additional growing priorities like cyber security. We are committed to building the skills of our people, empowering them with real-life knowledge and creating a culture of continuous learning so we can anticipate and quickly adapt to evolving stakeholder expectations. ETHICS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2018 2019 Employees trained on ethics policies 1 99% 99% 99% Trusted and Ethical Culture score2 79% 79% 80% Countries assessed by EcoVadis 13 20 22 Countries rated Gold or Silver for ethics by EcoVadis 100% 100% 100% NOTE ON PERFORMANCE DATA 1 All employees are required to complete annual training on the ManpowerGroup Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Corruption Policy, and information security and data privacy standards. Given employee turnover, we expect at least 95% completion rate. 2 Percentage of employees answered favorably to all Trusted & Ethical Culture indicators on the ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ETHICS | 19 INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY PROTEC TING A ND RE SPEC TING THE INFORM ATION ENTRUS TED TO US Why This Matters As technology evolves and we adopt new tools and expand our use of data and analytics to deliver more value to clients and candidates, we are committed to being good stewards of the information entrusted to us. Managing our information security is vital to ensuring trust and transparency with our employees, clients and partners. At the same time, the frequency and sophistication of cyber-crimes are rising and we take our responsibility to be vigilant and educate our people seriously. In the wake of COVID-19, the mass migration to remote working and rapid digitization of processes requires even greater prioritization of information security and privacy. Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today LEADERSHIP AT THE TOP Under the direction of the Chief Information Security and Chief Privacy Officer (CISO/CPO), responsibility for our global security program resides at the highest levels of executive leadership reporting to the Chief Financial Officer. The CISO/CPO meets quarterly with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors to review and discuss security strategy and progress around our investments, and all members of the Executive Leadership Team are included in all cyber training and phishing awareness campaigns alongside the whole organization. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY | 20 GLOBAL STANDARDS AND FRAMEWORKS Our commitment to the highest standards of information security and data privacy are outlined in our global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Available in 20 languages on our corporate website, the Code is shared with every employee and stakeholders around the world. Our Global Privacy Policy describes the types of personal information we collect from candidates, associates and clients, how we use it, with whom we share it, and the rights and choices available to individuals regarding our use of their information. Employee (internal staff) privacy policies, maintained at the country level, align with our global standards and comply with all local laws and regulations. We have established a comprehensive global information security framework, aligned with the internationally recognized ISO 27001 standard, which all of our operations around the world are required to adopt. Several operations in key markets, including France, Germany, India and Spain, are externally certified to these standards, as are a majority of our data center partners. MANAGING RISK, PROTECTING INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANIZATIONS Keeping information safe requires constant risk assessment. Our Global Risk and InfoSecurity Program (GRIP) is an organization-wide framework that combines people, process and technology to reduce risk, create value for our clients and ensure the data people entrust to us is protected. To ensure we are prepared to respond to incidents and effectively neutralize threats, our InfoSecurity and Internal Audit Teams work with an independent third party to conduct Red Team exercises that simulate security attacks against our environment on an annual basis. Our systems are continually tested for vulnerabilities through additional penetration testing and automated scanning tools and services. STAYING SECURE: TRAINING AND MAINTAINING AWARENESS The policies and procedures designed to keep information safe also depend on people to execute them. That’s why we roll-out regular employee awareness programs including annual online training, quarterly phishing exercises and company-wide Cyber Week intensive awareness campaigns, offering daily bite-size training, instructor-led seminars, team activities and securityrelated quizzes and competitions. We regularly refresh training to address emerging risks or changes in regulations. For example, we enhanced our data protection, privacy and cyber security training in anticipation of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act and India’s Personal Data Protection Bill — educating and empowering every individual to take responsibility for information security and privacy. REPORTING: A CRITICAL LINE OF DEFENSE Employees play a critical role in identifying potential issues. Through our awareness training, staff are educated on how to report suspicious activities they may witness in their workplace environment or in the technology they use. Seamless security integration enables staff to report suspected phishing emails with one click, and our Global Ethics Hotline is available anytime from anywhere, for anyone to report issues or seek guidance. Issues reported via the hotline are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Through our enhanced and targeted awareness efforts, employee engagement, resilience to social engineering and overall awareness continues to demonstrate measured improvement year on year. EXPANDING OUR TEAM, DEEPENING OUR CAPABILITIES The centralization of our information security and data privacy governance, operations and thought leadership has led to greatly improved security capabilities and maturity enterprise-wide, and allows for rapid deployment of future capabilities. Our cybersecurity program has been assessed by an independent third party over the last three years and has shown measured capability and maturity improvement year after year. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Our talented team dedicated to information security and data privacy has increased in size significantly over recent years. Our people are strategically positioned at the global, regional and local market levels to ensure consistent policies, processes and technology exist in all locations, and all are highly trained with certifications including: CISSP, CISM, CISA, CRISC, CQA, Security+, CSCP, CIPM and CIPP/E. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY | 21 Cyber Safe at Home During COVID-19 In the very early phases of the COVID-19 health crisis, we swiftly shifted to close offices and move to remote working even ahead of government lockdowns, in order to ensure our PeopleFirst priority and the safety of our employees, associates, clients and communities. More than 80% of our staff migrated to remote working over a period of 10 days, with data security maintained as a top priority. With over 20,000 staff using new technology in new locations, we recognized the need to help our people exercise even greater vigilance and created Cyber Safe at Home, an upskilling series to increase our cyber awareness while working from home. The program included guidance on safe, effective use of collaboration tools – our own and others – as well as staying alert to phishing attacks, security tips unique to COVID-19, and all-around good online security habits for work and home use. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY | 22 SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN DRI V ING RE SP ONSIBILIT Y A ND TR A NSPA RENCY W ITH OUR PA R TNERS A ND SUPPLIERS Why This Matters Every organization relies on partners to provide the goods and services needed to conduct their business and deliver for customers. When supply chains function well, companies can focus on core business and creating value for stakeholders. As the health, economic and social impact of COVID-19 continues to be felt around the world businesses are dealing with supply chain shocks and looking to reduce over-dependence and build sourcing resiliency for the future. As a global organization, our reach is extensive and we take this responsibility seriously. We operate in over 75 countries and territories and work with thousands of suppliers whose services range from technology and financial services to facilities management and office supplies. By setting high standards for our extended network, we can amplify our sustainability impact and drive social change: improving transparency, reducing risk for ourselves and our clients, raising standards and positively impacting the lives of millions of people. As the COVID-19 pandemic drove overnight lockdowns, hampering economic activity globally, many companies delayed or cancelled projects with suppliers, putting jobs and even entire businesses at risk. In contrast, we continued critical transformation projects with strategic suppliers, enabling hundreds of consultants to continue working safely while positioning our organization to emerge stronger as economies recover. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN | 23 Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today ETHICS AT THE HEART OF OUR DECISIONS The ManpowerGroup Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines our principles and guides our people in selecting business partners: objective selection criteria; guidelines for performing proper due diligence; reinforcement to never allow decisions to be influenced by personal relationships or inappropriate gifts. All of our employees globally train and certify annually on the Code. SETTING HIGH STANDARDS FOR OUR SUPPLIERS Our Supply Chain Business Partner Policy, communicated to all our sourcing professionals worldwide and available on our corporate website, outlines our requirement that business partners be committed to principles, culture and values aligning with our own commitment to ethical, responsible and sustainable business. We expect supply chain partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the United Nations Global Compact, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Athens Ethical Principles. The Supplier Code clearly outlines standards for legal compliance, employment practices, client and customer value, sustainable communities, environmental practices and business integrity. We communicate the Supplier Code during the proposal and/or supplier onboarding process and expect suppliers to positively declare their commitment to abide by these principles. ZERO TOLERANCE AND ANYTIME ANYWHERE REPORTING We have a zero-tolerance policy on forced labor, child labor, human trafficking and abusive treatment of workers. All suppliers are held to the strictest standards of compliance. We will not knowingly do business with any company that benefits in any way from the trafficking or abusive treatment of workers. We provide a global, 24-hour Ethics Hotline for employees, suppliers and the public to report concerns or suspected violations of our Code and other policies. Reports received via the Hotline are reported to the Board of Directors, thoroughly investigated and resolved at the most appropriate level. Ambitious for Improvement: What Next Partnering with EcoVadis, a global provider of business sustainability ratings, we are assessing our practices in key markets and aim to achieve Gold or Silver ratings in 30 countries. To date more than 20 countries have been assessed, with most rated Gold or Silver on sustainable procurement. In two of our largest markets – North America and France – we have developed additional tools that help assess risks inherent with particular categories of services, such as technology and real estate, and determine when additional actions and assurances are required before engaging in supplier relationships. We are now looking to expand the use of these tools to additional markets and supplier categories to further mitigate risk. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN | 24 Annual Supplier Diversity Forum: Embracing the Future of Work and the Future for Workers In 2019 we hosted our 17th Annual Supplier Diversity Forum to share insights on the future of work and the future for workers with over 200 women-, minority-, veteran-, and LGBT-owned businesses, clients and community partners. The two-day event shared insights around world of work trends from digital disruption to talent shortages, and solutions to help diverse-owned businesses succeed via expert coaching, one-to-one sessions, panel discussions and presentations from industry experts. “The skills employers are looking for are changing at an exceptional rate, and we expect this to continue in the years ahead as new waves of technologies create demand for new skills – digital and otherwise,” said Becky Frankiewicz, President of ManpowerGroup North America. “That’s exactly what our Supplier Diversity Forum is about — bringing together our partners to collaborate on innovative solutions to drive growth and development of their diverse businesses.” The annual Forum is just one aspect of our award-winning Supplier Diversity Initiative. We’ve been dedicated to supporting the capacity of diverse suppliers for nearly 20 years. Our reach is substantial – in 2019, more than $1 billion of supplier spend was managed through the program, with 560 diverse-owned businesses benefiting from increased opportunities. And we’re committed to growing: we have launched a dedicated mentoring program and plan to expand the Supplier Diversity Initiative globally. By sharing our knowledge and resources with diverse partners, we accelerate their growth and profitability, while helping our clients meet their supplier diversity goals. The end results are optimal client solutions and thriving communities. Our commitment has led to Platinum recognition by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council for 10 consecutive years. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN | 25 ENVIRONMENT REDUCING THE IMPAC T OF OUR BUSINE SS A ND SHIF TING TOWA RDS A LOWCA RBON ECONOM Y Why This Matters Climate change — severe weather events, extreme temperatures, water shortages and other environmental concerns are impacting people’s ability to live and work safely. In 2019, it was estimated that 1.2 billion jobs — 40% of all employment — were dependent on a healthy environment.1 The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us just how much all jobs rely on our ability to manage our environment. Corporations have an important role to play, together with public sector and civil society, to solve these challenges and ensure a sustainable future for all. As a professional services company our environmental impact has always been relatively small. The shift to remote working and radical reduction in business travel during COVID-19 have highlighted opportunities for organizations like ours to reduce our impact even further. As we build back better as part of the recovery, we are committed to adjusting our business model to support sustainable ways of working. And we are looking for new ways to advance the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the European Green Deal, especially in the areas of jobs and skills, where we can have the greatest impact. Proud of Our Progress: Where We Are Today A CLEAR CODE AND GLOBAL COMMITMENT Our policy on environmental stewardship, part of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, is available in 20 languages and is included in annual training for all employees. Our Global Environmental Management Policy and Guidance provides practical examples of how we can deliver on these commitments at the local level. 1 ILO World Employment and Social Outlook: Trends 2019 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | 26 LOCAL ACTIONS, GLOBAL IMPACT Over the last ten years, we have implemented a number of initiatives, supported globally, delivered locally, to reduce the impact of our operations around the world: • Reducing energy use and resulting emissions in our offices, by replacing lighting and electronics, consolidating data centers, conducting energy audits, and promoting employee-driven programs. • Reducing the impact of business travel by investing in virtual meeting and collaboration platforms, sourcing fleet vehicles with lower carbon impact, limiting air travel when possible, and subsidizing public transport costs for commuting. • Reducing office waste by printing less and recycling and upcycling furniture and electronics. 2019 saw reductions in all of these areas, and we are seting ambitious goals for 2021 and beyond, especially around business travel and renewable energy in headquarter buildings in many locations. GREEN CERTIFICATION AND EXTERNAL VALIDATION Sixty percent of our key market headquarters are in green buildings with certifications from LEED, HQE, BREAM and NABERS, and half of our key market operations have obtained ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management systems. We partner with EcoVadis, provider of the world’s most trusted business sustainability ratings, to assess our environmental management systems in key markets around the world and aim to achieve Gold or Silver ratings in 30 markets. To date, more than 20 countries — half of them key markets — are already assessed, with a majority rated Gold or Silver. Our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) means we can be transparent about our initiatives and impact to global stakeholders, while supporting us in identifying opportunities for improvement. In 2019, we completed our 9th CDP Report and received a rating in the “Awareness” band, on par with industry and regional averages. EVOLVING OUR STRATEGY AND REPORTING Since 2018 we’ve engaged with EcoAct, a leading international climate change advisory and consultancy, to undertake a wholesale review of our environmental management and reporting strategy. We identified key actions to enhance our strategy and focus our resources for greatest impact, starting with developing a more robust data capture and calculation methodology that is enabling more accurate assessment of our footprint. The new methodology uses raw data from 14 of our largest operations, representing approximately 70% of our total employee population and 80% of our revenues, as well as contextbased intensity metrics that consider the different activities of headquarters, branch offices and data centers. We are already seeing that more access to accurate data is enabling us to set better informed targets and more ambitious goals. Ambitious for Improvement: What Next No war, no recession, no previous pandemic has had such a dramatic impact on emissions of CO2 over the past century as COVID-19 has in a few short months. Multiple sources indicate we are now living through an unrivaled drop in carbon output.2 We have an opportunity to retain this progress as we recover and build back by reimagining work and workplaces. Like many organizations, we saw remote work jump from 20% to 85% of staff during the pandemic, and business travel hit rock bottom lows. We are now reviewing how we use office space for collaboration and innovation – to add value, not just as a default – and how much business travel is really necessary. Alongside other members of the World Economic Forum CEO Climate Action Group, we are setting ambitious goals including reducing business travel by at least 25% versus pre-COVID norms. We also recognize that as a global leader in innovative workforce solutions, we can have the greatest impact by helping people retrain and reskill for jobs in a low carbon economy. Although current projections for green job creation remain low in the next two years, we are looking now at the skills people will need to transition to these and other new tech roles as they evolve. We are also helping people retrain and reskill from sectors that will lose jobs, as part of our commitment to ensuring a sustainable work environment that can reduce inequity. We will continue to invest in skills, innovation and technology to accelerate progress toward a new future of work that is more sustainable, more resilient and more equitable. 2 Climate change and coronavirus: Five charts about the biggest carbon crash, BBC 2020 MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | 27 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT INDICATORS 2017 2018 2019 Key markets with ISO 14001 certification 40% 50% 50% Key market headquarters in “green” certified buildings 53% 60% 60% Countries assessed by EcoVadis 13 20 22 Countries rated Gold or Silver for environmental management by EcoVadis 62% 65% 72% ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2018 2019 Total energy consumption (MWh) 199,849 163,956 Energy from renewable sources (in key markets) 14% 11% Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 26,280 21,499 Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 28,479 23,955 Scope 3 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 47,623 41,853 Scope 1 + 2 emissions per $million revenue 2.49 2.16 Scope 1 + 2 emissions per FTE 1.85 1.58 Water consumption (MIO m3) 0.32 0.36 Total waste generated (t) 2,782 2,345 Waste not recycled (t) 1,396 843 Waste recycled (t) 1,386 1,502 Percentage of waste recycled 50% 64% NOTE ON PERFORMANCE DATA In 2018, after a review of our environmental reporting approach, we determined that a more robust data collection and reporting methodology was required to enable accurate capture and calculation of our footprint. We engaged environmental consultancy EcoAct to develop and pilot a new approach in 14 key markets representing 80% of our worldwide operations. The methodology is context-based, considering different activities and consumption behaviors of headquarters, branch offices and data centers to make informed estimates where consumption data is unavailable. The approach also considers other Scope 3 impacts not previously reported. We were not able to reverse-apply the new methodology to prior years and comparison with previously reported data is not meaningful. Therefore we have established 2018 as our new baseline year. Some 2018 figures have been restated following receipt of corrected data. Unless otherwise noted, all data is uplifted to represent 100% of worldwide operations. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | 28 SeminiAmo: A Model for Sustainable Development Milan has long been considered one of Europe’s leading financial, fashion and business centers. For the past few years, the city has been reinventing itself as a green hub, with an architectural makeover that includes plant-covered buildings, green rooftops and innovative parks. We’re partnering in the creation of one these sustainable greenspaces while also providing meaningful work for people with disabilities. The project – SeminiAmo (“Sowing Love”) combined the restoration of Piazza della Scala with the cultivation of thousands of plants, turning this historical urban space back into a beautiful and sustainable community gathering place where sensors measure the reduction of noise and capture of CO2 from the environment. Integral to the project was the mission to train people with disabilities, upskilling them to provide ongoing maintenance of the space. “SeminiAmo perfectly represents our idea of sustainability because it combines the commitment to upskilling, inclusion and sustainable work with the sustainable development of our country,” said Riccardo Barberis, Managing Director of ManpowerGroup Italy. SeminiAmo has scaled to other areas of the city, with 10 projects planned through the end of 2020. Learn more http://semini-amo.com/aree-verdi/piazza-della-scala/ MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | 29 APPENDIX GRI DISCLOSURE INDEX The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international independent organization that helps businesses, governments, and other organizations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues. GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards are the most widely used standards on sustainability reporting and disclosure, enabling businesses, governments, civil society and citizens to make better decisions based on information that matters. This Index is intended to provide a roadmap to ManpowerGroup’s disclosures on key sustainability topics with reference to the GRI 2016 Standards. GRI INDICATORS MANPOWERGROUP REPORTING GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization ManpowerGroup Inc. 102-2 Primary brands and services Workforce Solutions 102-3 Location of headquarters 100 Manpower Place, Milwaukee WI 53212 USA 102-4 Countries of operation ManpowerGroup operates in 75+ countries. List of Subsidiaries and Affiliates. Largest countries of operation in each regional segment are listed on pages 6-7 of the 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K. As noted in the performance indicator tables in each section of the 2020 ESG Report, the majority of performance indicators reflect data provided by key market operations representing approximately 80% of global revenues. These markets include the following countries: Argentina, Belgium, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States. 102-5 Nature of ownership 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K 102-6 Markets served 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K 102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K 102-8 Information on employees Global Workforce Demographics 102-9 Supply chain Sourcing & Supply Chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K 102-12 External initiatives At the global level, ManpowerGroup participates in a number of external initiatives including United Nations Global Compact, World Economic Forum (WEF) Partners Against Corruption Initiative, WEF CEO Climate Leaders Coalition, Safely Back to Work Alliance, Catalyst CEOs for Change, Women’s Empowerment Principles, Junior Achievement, Tent Partnership for Refugees, and Valuable 500. We also participate in various regional and national initiatives, managed at the local level. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES | 30 GRI INDICATORS MANPOWERGROUP REPORTING 102-13 Association memberships At the global level, ManpowerGroup is a member of a number of associations, including World Economic Forum, World Employment Confederation, National Association of Corporate Directors, Business Ethics Leadership Association, HR Policy Association, and National Academy of Human Resources. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 Year in Review CEO Letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K, 2019 Year in Review CEO Letter 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of ManpowerGroup Code of Business Conduct and Ethics behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Business Ethics Hotline ethics 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive level responsibility for ESG topics Ultimate responsibility for ESG resides with the Executive Management Team, which includes Global Function leaders and Regional Presidents. GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement We regularly engage with core stakeholders – employees, candidates, clients, and shareholders – as well as community organizations, NGOs and industry bodies to seek feedback and ensure our reporting addresses their areas of greatest interest. 102-45 Entities included in consolidated financial 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries We conduct a periodic review of stakeholder concerns, changes in the regulatory environment, World of Work trends, and competitor reporting. We then prioritize reporting topics based on their relevance to our strategic business objectives and importance to stakeholders. Reporting includes activities both inside and outside of our organization. 102-47 Relevant topics identified Reporting focuses on the following topics: Human Capital, Diversity & Inclusion, Health & Safety, Human Rights, Ethics, Information Security & Data Privacy, Sourcing & Supply Chain and Environment 102-48 Restatements of information As noted in the Environmental Performance Indicators table on page 28, some 2018 environmental figures have been restated following receipt of corrected data. 102-49 Changes from previous reporting period As noted in the relevant Performance Indicator tables, data for a number of performance indicators was not available due to organizational impacts from COVID-19. 102-50 Reporting period Performance indicator data is reported for the 2019 calendar year. All other information is inclusive of activities through June 30, 2020. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report November 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle We publish a full report every 3 years, with brief annual updates on activities and performance indicators. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report JoAnn Strickon, Global Sustainability Manager joann.strickon@manpowergroup.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI We use the GRI standards to inform our ESG reporting. standards 102-56 External assurance Financial reporting has been assured by an external auditor. GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of material topics Introduction to each topical disclosure explains the relevance of the topic to our business and our stakeholders. See: Human Capital, Diversity & Inclusion, Health & Safety, Human Rights, Ethics, Information Security & Data Privacy, Sourcing & Supply Chain and Environment 103-2 Management approach Management approach for each topic is included within each topical disclosure. Refer to links immediately above. MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES | 31 GRI INDICATORS MANPOWERGROUP REPORTING GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 2019 Annual Report Form 10-K distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Climate-related risks and opportunities are disclosed in our annual opportunities due to climate change response to CDP, which are publicly available on the CDP site. GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Human Capital, Human Rights, Sourcing & Supply Chain GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to ManpowerGroup’s global Audit Advisory Services team performs an corruption annual Country Risk Profile Analysis, including corruption risk, across all countries of operation. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption Ethics; Anti-Corruption Policy policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions In 2019, there were no confirmed incidents of corruption. taken GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment 302-3 Energy intensity Environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment GRI 305: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 Employee hires and turnover Human Capital 401-3 Parental leave Human Capital — Employee engagement Human Capital GRI 403: HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Health & Safety system 403-2 Hazard identification and risk assessment Health & Safety 403-5 Worker training on health and safety Health & Safety, Human Capital 403-6 Promotion of employee health Health & Safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Health & Safety and safety impacts directly related to business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Health & Safety GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Human Capital employee 404-2 Programs for upskilling and career Human Capital management MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES | 32 GRI INDICATORS MANPOWERGROUP REPORTING GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Global Workforce Demographics 405-2 Ratio of remuneration of women to men Human Capital GRI 406: NONDISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective As stated in our Human Rights disclosure, we encourage all employees actions taken to report concerns to their managers or through our Ethics Hotline. We provide a number of different mechanisms for reporting claims, as explained in detail in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. All allegations of harassment or discrimination are thoroughly investigated and action is taken at the most appropriate level. Allegations received through the Ethics Hotline are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We do not require employees to take sexual harassment claims to private arbitration. GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Human Rights procedures relevant to our operations 412-1 Human rights reviews / impact assessment Human Rights 412-3 Significant agreements or contracts that Sourcing & Supply Chain include human rights clauses GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement Human Capital, Work to Change the World and development programs GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions The use of company funds for political contributions is strictly prohibited by the ManpowerGroup Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches See item SV-PS-230a.3 in the SASB Disclosure Index on page 34 of customer privacy and losses of customer data MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES | 33 SASB DISCLOSURE INDEX The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is a nonprofit focused on helping companies identify and publicly disclose the sustainability topics that matter most to their investors. SASB has developed industry-specific reporting recommendations, including accounting and activity metrics, to guide businesses’ public reporting. This Index is intended to provide a roadmap to ManpowerGroup’s disclosures on the topics identified in the SASB Professional & Commercial Services Sustainability Accounting Standard Version 2018-10. ACCOUNTING METRICS MANPOWERGROUP REPORTING DATA SECURITY Description of approach to identifying and SV-PS-230a.1 Information Security & Data Privacy addressing data security risks Description of policies and practices SV-PS-230a.2 relating to collection, usage, and retention ManpowerGroup Global Privacy Notice of customer information (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage In 2019, we experienced 3 data events resulting from unauthorized access involving customers’ confidential business to a system or other fraudulent activities (e.g., social engineering). To date SV-PS-230a.3 information (CBI) or personally identifiable we have not identified any material impact on our operations or financial information (PII), (3) number of customers results. None of the events involved confidential business information or affected personally identifiable information (PII). WORKFORCE DIVERSITY & ENGAGEMENT Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic SV-PS-330a.1 group representation for (1) executive Global Workforce Demographics management and (2) all other employees (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover SV-PS-330a.2 Human Capital rate for employees SV-PS-330a.3 Employee engagement as a percentage Human Capital Description of approach to ensuring SV-PS-510a.1 Ethics professional integrity Total amount of monetary losses as a SV-PS-510a.2 result of legal proceedings associated with 0 professional integrity ACTIVITY METRICS Number of employees by: (1) full-time and In 2019, we had 28,000 internal staff employees and more than 600,000 SV-PS-000.A part-time, (2) temporary, and (3) contract associates and consultants on assignment with clients each day. Employee hours worked, percentage SV-PS-000.B Not Applicable billable MANPOWERGROUP ESG REPORT 2020 APPENDIX: GRI & SASB DISCLOSURE INDICES | 34 ABOUT MANPOWERGROUP ManpowerGroup® (NYSE: MAN), the leading global workforce solutions company, helps organizations transform in a fast-changing world of work by sourcing, assessing, developing and managing the talent that enables them to win. We develop innovative solutions for hundreds of thousands of organizations every year, providing them with skilled talent while finding meaningful, sustainable employment for millions of people across a wide range of industries and skills. Our expert family of brands – Manpower, Experis and Talent Solutions – creates substantial value for candidates and clients across more than 75 countries and territories and has done so for over 70 years. We are recognized consistently for our diversity – as a best place to work for Women, Inclusion, Equality and Disability and in 2020 ManpowerGroup was named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the eleventh year – all confirming our position as the brand of choice for in-demand talent. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, and these may include, among other things, information concerning our sustainability strategies and objectives, and the company’s socioeconomic, human capital and environmental efforts. All forwardlooking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties identified under Item 1A – Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 (“2019 10-K”), and any additional risks described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual performance, results and events to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. It should be noted that much of the information contained in this report derives from our 2019 fiscal year, before disruption brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, references to our 2019 10-K speak as of the date the 2019 10-K was filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update such information, or to update this 2020 ESG Report, to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. www.manpowergroup.com 100 Manpower Place, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53212 For more information on ManpowerGroup, visit: WWW.MANPOWERGROUP.COM/SUSTAINABILITY 35
