Gentle care for life Unicharm Sustainability Report 2020 Group for Sustainability ■Contents Overview of Unicharm Group .......................... 3 Labor Standards ............................................ 89 View Concerning Human Resources ..................... 89 Editorial Policy/Contents ................................. 4 Personnel Utilization and Training ......................... 92 Respect for Diversity ............................................. 94 Message from the President ........................... 5 Health and Safety .......................................... 97 Unicharm Group's Sustainability ........................ 7 Human Resources Data .............................. 100 Unicharm’s Approach to Resolving Social Issues ................................. 14 Local Community ........................................ 101 Our Attitude toward Social Contribution CSR Key Topic 1: and its Structures ................................................ 101 Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy ........... 15 Making Contributions to Society through Business Development ........................................ 101 CSR Key Topic 2: Community-based Social Contribution Supporting Women’s Independence and Activities (Japan) ................................................. 104 Community-based Social Contribution Improving Hygiene ......................................... 19 Activities (Overseas) ............................................ 107 CSR Key Topic 3: Supply Chain (Society) ................................ 111 Contributing to Global Environment .............. 24 Our Basic Approach and Strategy ...................... 111 Management Structure ........................................ 114 CSR Key Topic 4: Initiatives .............................................................. 116 Contributing to the Community ..................... 31 Shareholders and Investors ........................ 118 Environment .................................................. 34 Our Basic Policy on Profit Returns to Our Environmental Management .................................. 34 Shareholders ....................................................... 118 Climate Change ...................................................... 40 Information disclosure for our investors .............. 118 Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization ...... 49 Status of Inclusion in ESG Indexes ..................... 119 Supply Chain (Environment) .................................. 53 Biodiversity ............................................................ 57 Governance ................................................. 120 Corporate Governance ........................................ 120 Water Resources ................................................... 60 Compliance ......................................................... 122 Activity Results ...................................................... 63 Risk Management ................................................ 124 Site Data ................................................................ 67 Tax Compliance ................................................... 128 Human Rights ................................................ 73 Third Party Assurance Report ..................... 129 Responsibility to Our Customers .................. 76 List of Awards and Commendations Communicating with Customers ........................... 76 Received in Fiscal 2019 .............................. 130 Product Development and Marketing ................... 83 List of contents ............................................ 131 Quality ........................................................... 84 GRI Standard Comparison Table ................ 132 Cover Title Spiral Light Sakura I have enjoyed painting ever since I was a child, and I have created We are a supporter of art created by people with disabilities. picture books, etc. Paralym Art aims to help artists with disabilities become financially independent by supporting their business activities. Currently, while working at Unicharm’s special subsidiary, I am also active as an artist with the Paralym Art® association. unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Overview of Unicharm Group Overview of Unicharm Group Company profile Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Cosmotec Corporation Capital 15,993 million yen (as of December 31, 2019) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Number of Shares Issued 620,834,319 (as of December 31, 2019) Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan-Greater China) Head Office Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) Registered Company Office 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Ehime, Japan Uni.Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Number of employees 16,304 (on a consolidated basis as of Unicharm Consumer Products (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. December 31, 2019) Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Baby and child care products Diana Unicharm Joint Stock Company Vietnam Feminine care products The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) Health care products Other 44 companies (as of December 31, 2019) Clean & fresh products Pet care products URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html Production and Sales Areas Unicharm has a business presence in more than 80 countries Netherlands around the world. Korea Russia China Myanmar Japan United States India Egypt Taiwan-Greater China Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ■ Sales Areas Brazil Indonesia Australia Production and Sales Bases Sales Bases Main Business Indicators ■Consolidated net sales ■Consolidated operating income ■Number of group employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) 8,000 1000 951 7,387 (Unit: person) 7,142 898 16,207 16,304 7,000 6,883 900 868 16,000 15,498 15,843 15,757 6,416 799 791 6,046 800 14,000 2,838 3,323 3,886 4,028 6,000 3,797 Other 700 4,537 12,000 5,000 4,404 4,115 600 3,781 10,000 4,000 3,533 500 overseas 8,000 9,686 9,519 8,851 9,121 9,032 3,000 400 6,000 Asia 300 2,000 200 4,000 2,850 2,513 2,635 2,768 2,738 1,000 2,000 Japan 100 2,974 3,001 3,109 3,200 3,244 Japan 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） （IFRS） We have been using International Financial Reporting Standards since FY2017. 3 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Editorial Policy/Contents Editorial Policy/Contents Editorial policy In preparation for the “Sustainability Report 2020” This report has been prepared as Unicharm Group's corporate sustainability which is embodied by our corporate philosophy “NOLA & DOLA*”. Here, we will take a closer look at how we are working to practice NOLA & DOLA through our businesses. This year as well, we will stipulate the progress of our initiatives for corporate social responsibility (CSR) key topics and, at the same time, strive to further improve the report from the view-point of ESG information disclosure. Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Global Compact, ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report. We will continue to accommodate the requests of our stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. Therefore, we ask that you go through our “Integrated Report 2020” as well as the newly published update summary, and provide whatever any frank opinions and comments you may have. * NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities.” From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams. Contents ■Areas Covered Business outline, CSR vision, activity goals, promotional structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. This report presents details of results for FY2019 as well as the latest information for the early part of FY2020. ■Organizations Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated basis. Details of companies mentioned in the environmental activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. ■Intended Audience All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, employees and society in general ■Period January 1 to December 31, 2019 (including some activities before and after this period as well as future targets) ■Reference Guidelines ・GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards ・2018 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment ・ISO26000 ・Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ・Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) ・Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) ・Annual report (World Energy Outlook) by the International Energy Agency (IEA) ■Date of issue May 2020 (the next edition is scheduled for publication in May 2021) ■Available at ・“Sustainability” on the Unicharm website 4 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Message from the President Message from the President Transitioning from “CSR Report” to “Sustainability Report” Unicharm was founded in 1961. The year 2020 represents our 60th year in business, while February 2021 marks our 60th anniversary. On this important milestone, we have transitioned from “CSR Report” to “Sustainability Report”, bringing readers more in-depth stories about employees who are working hard on the various frontlines of our operations. This report covers our initiatives across the entire value chain and future plans with regard to topics in the spotlight worldwide such as “climate change,” “responsible procurement,” “sustainability,” “biodiversity,” “human rights” and “preventing environmental pollution,” in an effort to provide stakeholders with a better understanding of Unicharm today. I held frank discussions on a number of occasions with members of the ESG Division involved in the editing process and examined how best to convey the “non-financial information” required by stakeholders. While this marks our first true sustainability report, by improving even the slightest each year, I hope to gain the understanding of stakeholders regarding Unicharm's vision of “sustainability.” Unicharm's “purpose” is found in “promoting the SDGs” We established the “Unicharm Ideals” in 1974 when we were still a small company. We worked extensively to imprint this message so that each and every employee could recite the “Unicharm Ideals” verbatim for embodying this message in our actual business activities. The “Unicharm Ideals” include the following: “We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by continuing to offer only the finest products and services to the market and customers, both at home in Japan and abroad” and “We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulfillment of our social responsibilities.” At the time, we had finally reached 10 billion yen in net sales and were only a smalland medium-sized enterprise with operations mainly in our hometown of Kawanoe City, Ehime Prefecture (presently, Shikokuchuo City). Despite this, and yet precisely because of this, the “Unicharm Ideals” include a very “ambitious dream” and “commitment” considered beyond our means at the time. In 1981, our 20th anniversary as a company, we established our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA”, which initially stood for “Necessity of Ladies' Activities & Dreams of Ladies' Activities.” “NOLA” meant “liberate women from burdens” while “DOLA” meant “allow women to fulfill their dreams.” To realize “NOLA & DOLA”, we launched better performing and higher quality products in rapid succession and, in particular, helped liberate women from the physical burdens of menstruation through our “Sofy” brand of sanitary napkins and freed them from the burden of washing cloth diapers through our “Moony” and “MamyPoko” brands of disposable baby diapers. When I took over as president in 2001, we changed “ladies'” in “NOLA & DOLA” to “life with” for “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities” as a part of the changes we made to our corporate identity which has demonstrated that “We are now working to liberate all consumers, from infants to the elderly and even pets, from constraints and fulfill their many dreams.” Our “Lifree”, a top brand in nursing care and incontinence care products, has addressed the need for excretion care, a serious social issue in an aging society, “with the goal of eliminating bedridden seniors” and “helping people go to the bathroom on their own until the last moment.” We also came up with a new dementia prevention program called “Social Walking®” that combined “interaction with society” with “walking” and rolled it out nationwide in Japan since 2016. We further evaluated the effectiveness of “animal therapy” aimed at improving people's quality of life through “interaction with pets.” In this manner, we have developed a series of innovative products and services that support cohesive societies, so that people of all ages and genders, including their pets, can live a healthy and happy life together. In this manner, looking back on our history, I believe that “Unicharm's purpose was found in resolving social issues.” As such, I believe that our purpose is working to address the “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” adopted by the United Nations in 2015. 5 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Message from the President Sharing and implementing our mission, vision and values among all employees while setting the “SDGs” as our purpose In our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2019, 62.1% of our sales came from outside of Japan. Our workforce of some 16,000 people is active in more than 80 countries and regions around the world with nearly 80% located outside of Japan. In today's “new normal” where changes become the norm, the key to ensuring flexibility is encouraging independence by “having our diverse workforce think and act on their own while capitalizing on their unique talents.” In 2006, Unicharm announced its support for the “UN Global Compact” and since then we have been actively creating sales and manufacturing jobs locally in the countries and regions where we operate. The key to maximizing this “diversity” and our agility as an organization is to share “Unicharm's purpose of promoting the SDGs” with all employees, share our mission, vision and values among them and encourage everyone to promise and compete with each other to realize them. Specifically, our “mission” is “realizing ‘cohesive societies’” and “contributing to realizing a society where we coexist not only with people and pets but also the global environment.” Our “vision” is “NOLA & DOLA” which is “‘resolving consumer issues’ and ‘realizing their dreams’.” Our “values” are found in “the execution of ‘Management with Resonance’”. That is, all the companies and employees of the Unicharm Group carry out their work by utilizing the common management model. Specifically, we employ a new management method called the “observe-orient-decide-act(OODA) loop” to implement management grounded in “The Unicharm Way” and strive to foster human resources through this. To fulfill this “purpose along with our mission, vision and values,” we are introducing and implementing various personnel systems and striving to provide compensation and motivation that are among the best in the region and industry. We also maintain an ongoing commitment to “work-style reform” where we are encouraging diverse workstyles, improving productivity while reducing working hours and maximizing opportunities to create innovation. This year, 2020, marks the final fiscal year of our 10th Medium-Term Management Plan. Running parallel with carrying through the Plan completely, we are currently in the process of formulating our 11th Medium-Term Management Plan that will kick off in 2021. At the same time, we are moving ahead to announce the “Kyo-sei Plan 2030” (tentative name) in October 2020 that will outline our mediumto long-term ESG targets. Looking ahead, we will continue with various activities in order to contribute to the realization of cohesive societies by endeavoring to fulfill the “SDGs” which happens to be our purpose. May 2020 Takahisa Takahara President & CEO 6 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability Unicharm Group's Sustainability Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm's corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA” (Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities). Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams.” Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. In order to make this aspiration even more effective, Unicharm has established CSR Key Topics and Key Performance Index (KPI). ■Unicharm Group's Value Creation Process 7 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability In selecting our CSR Key Topics, we hold interviews with stakeholders both within and outside the company to identify topics that are felt to be of particular importance. These topics are then grouped under “Environmental Themes” or “Societal Themes”, and classified according to the level of concern that our stakeholders have for them and according to the extent of the potential impact on our business operations. ■Environmental themes ・Use of water resources ・Response to climate change ・Disclosure of environmental targets ・Wastewater treatment and ・CO2 reduction target with ・Response to increased waste and management suppliers recycling ・Reduction and recycling of ・Correlation with SDGs ・Procurement of sustainable packaging materials materials ・Proper management of ・Legally compliant processing of ・Supplier selection and assessment hazardous substances waste results ・Emissions of VOC gases ・Percentage of environmentally・Collaboration with suppliers ・Labeling of carbon footprint friendly products ・Promotion system and governance ・Scenarios for science-based targets ・Environmental impact studies ・Emissions of NOx and SOx ・Accuracy of non-financial data of plant sites ・Compliance with environmental ・Percentage of third party certification ・Protection and restoration of laws and regulations ・Targets for renewable energy IUCN red list species ■Societal themes ・Respect for human rights ・Improving product quality and ensuring product safety ・Promoting CSR procurement ・Appropriate communication with customers ・Respect for diversity ・Promotion of universal designs ・Work-life balance ・Protection of customer information and privacy ・Lengthening healthy life expectancy ・Promotion of active participation of women at work ・Contributions to local communities ・Commitment to anti-corruption ・Establishment and maintenance of positive ・Promotion of fair competition labor-management relations ・Appropriate labor conditions and work environment ・Commitment to occupational health and safety ・Human resource development ・Protection of intellectual properties Dialogue on environmental materiality Dialogue on establishment of human rights policy After carefully examining the content of the “Environmental Themes” and “Societal Themes” and following intensive discussions, we selected the following five “CSR Key Topics.” 1.Lengthening healthy life expectancy 2.Supporting women's independence and improving hygiene 3.Contributing to global environment 4.Contributions to the community and respecting people 5.Strengthening organizational foundation and following fair business practices Through communication with stakeholders Unicharm obtained an opinion about the Unicharm Group's CSR key topics and indicators (KPI) from Mr. Hidemi Tomita of Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. to receive an objective evaluation from a wide-ranging perspective. We will utilize his observations to improve our initiatives going forward. 8 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability The basics that must be performed as a company are covered in Unicharm's CSR key topics and indicators (KPI). However, considering what is important to the company over the medium-to-long term and focusing on issues that are connected to your business could lead to materiality that is unique to Unicharm. When I look at Unicharm's business, resources seem likely to be most important social issues. I think it is because of this awareness that Unicharm has been working on disposable diaper recycling in Shibushi City. Energy consumption KPIs are also important. However, I think that formulating KPIs that are linked to essential initiatives focused on resource circulation will result in topics for resolving social issues that are unique to Unicharm. Mr. Hidemi Tomita The education on the beginning of menstruation that Unicharm provides can be Director expected to have more impact. I think there are many regions in the world where there Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. is still a lack of understanding about menstruation. Further expanding your education on the beginning of menstruation in such countries and regions and contributing through your business can be expected to create a cycle that leads to more ongoing initiatives. Positioning such symbolic initiatives as having materiality and promoting their activities will move toward aiming at the SDGs. While it is important to do the things that are required as a company in a comprehensive manner, I look forward to initiatives having a social impact that is unique to Unicharm. ■Unicharm Group's Key Topics and Indicators (KPI) Key Topics/ Internal/ Correlated SDGs Initiatives Indicators (KPI) 2019 targets 2019 results 2020 targets external* Targets Lengthening Responding to Dementia prevention Number of Lifree Number of Lifree Number of Lifree External healthy life a super-aging education Social Walking Social Walking Social Walking expectancy society experiential activity experiential activity experiential activity participants 1,300 participants 1,508 participants 1,500 persons persons persons Number of “Mild 18,000 persons 18,858 persons 21,000 persons External Incontinence Care and Continence Care” seminar participants (cumulative since 2014) Building a Animal Therapy Verification of Verified results Verification of External cohesive Companion Animal results six times seven times results society for Partnership Program Plan to verify results people and (CAPP) Support seven times pets Education on new Number of Number of Number of External approach to care of participants in participants in participants in aging dogs courses for staff at courses for staff at courses for staff at veterinary clinics veterinary clinics veterinary clinics 160 persons 140 persons 160 persons Supporting rescue Education making Implementation of Education making External dogs and cats use of consumer the “Let's all support use of consumer campaigns, etc. Panel for Life!” campaigns, campaign seminars, etc. Supporting Supporting Supporting 283,850 persons 342,166 persons 601,500 persons External women's women's education of first independence and independence menstruation (Japan improving hygiene and overseas) Maintaining Breast cancer early Sofy Pink Ribbon Sofy Pink Ribbon Sofy Pink Ribbon External women's detection initiative activities awareness activities awareness activities awareness health rate rate rate 26% 27.8% 28.0% Female employee Female employee Female employee Internal breast cancer breast cancer breast cancer screening rate screening rate screening rate At least 95% 95.5% 100% Improving Support for Cooperating in the Distribution of Cooperate in the External health and measures to help spread of maternal maternal and child spread of maternal sanitation for safeguard the health and child health health handbooks in and child health women and of mothers and handbooks in Myanmar during handbooks in children children emerging countries sampling emerging countries Improving Supporting lowDonated to Tiny Donated to Tiny Donated to Tiny External health and weight new born Lives Support Lives Support Lives Support sanitation for babies Project Project Project children Started to use Started to use Maintaining NICU External Unicharm's low Unicharm's low development in birth-weight baby birth-weight baby seven countries diapers in NICUs in diapers in NICUs in Expanding the nine countries seven countries domestic measures worldwide worldwide taken within each individual country 9 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability Key Topics/ Internal/ Correlated SDGs Initiatives Indicators (KPI) 2019 targets 2019 results 2020 targets external* Targets Contributing to the Eco Plan 2020 Recycling used Establishing Establishing Operation Internal/ global environment disposable diapers recycling model recycling model External Percentage of paper 97% 95% 100% Internal/ and pulp suppliers External certified by third parties (Japan) Percentage of paper 92% 95% 100% Internal/ and pulp suppliers External certified by third parties (overseas) Percentage of 93% 89% 100% Internal/ environmentalExternal friendly products (Japan) Percentage of 60% 66% 60% Internal/ products with the External Eco Charming label (Japan) Initiatives to Energy consumption 10.60GJ 10.76GJ 10.50GJ Internal/ environmental (GJ) / Net sales External impact (millions of yen) (per reduction unit of net sales basis) *Based on the IFRS standards. Resource Recycling rate at 99% 99% 99% Internal/ environment three main plants in External Japan Contributing to the Diversity & Employment rate of 2.3% 1.9% 2.3% Internal local community inclusion persons with and respecting disabilities people Rehiring rate of 90% 92.3% 93% Internal retired employees Percentage of 14% 13.3% 14% Internal female managers (Japan) Creating a Work satisfaction 4.10 3.96 4.10 Internal worker(average score on a friendly scale of 5) workplace Employee 4.15 4.01 4.10 Internal satisfaction (average score on a scale of 5) Maintaining Implementation rate 100% 100% 100% Internal and promoting of mental health employee care and lifestyle health habit improvement education (for those eligible) Providing Number of 2,000 persons 2,389 persons 2,000 persons Internal/ ongoing participants in Super External support for Cool Biz and Warm disaster areas Biz Improving Raising awareness Providing sanitary Providing sanitary Providing sanitary External health and of maintaining products in products in products in sanitation sanitation preparation for preparation for preparation for disasters disasters disasters Launching of a Launching of a Spreading website for provision website for provision awareness of a of relevant of relevant website for provision information information of relevant information 10 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability Key Topics/ Internal/ Correlated SDGs Initiatives Indicators (KPI) 2019 targets 2019 results 2020 targets external* Targets Strengthening Corporate Number of female At least 1 person 2 persons At least 2 persons Internal organizational governance officers foundation and Practicing fair Implementation rate 100% 100% 100% External following fair and equitable of supplier business practices transactions evaluations with suppliers (applicable companies) Assuring Number of problems 0 0 0 External product safety with material or product safety Improving Customer 90% 91.2% 91.3% External customer satisfaction with satisfaction customer inquiries *Main scope of the impact of the initiative. ● Message from Management At the Unicharm Group, we are working to create products and services that are the first of their kind in the world, or number one in the world, so as to bring people comfort, emotional satisfaction and joy, thereby contributing towards the building of “cohesive societies” where all people can continue to shine through independence and mutual aid. With the trend towards smaller families and an aging population in Japan and other mature economies, environmental problems that are global in scale, problems relating to poverty and sanitation, etc. in developing nations, the societal problems affecting the world have become increasingly diversified, as reflected in the issues addressed by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and by the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We believe that it is necessary to address these problems in a comprehensive manner so that we can “pass the baton” to future generations in a responsible manner and we feel that it is vitally important to work towards the achievement of the 17 Goals and 169 Targets specified by the UN SDGs, as well as Tetsuya Shite working to resolve the various environmental, social and corporate governance related Senior Executive Officer, problems and to address their risks. Chief Quality Officer(CQO) and Head of the Global Human At Unicharm, we have been focusing on the recycling of used disposable diapers, with the Resources & General Affairs aim of contributing towards the realization of the sustainable society and the building of Division responsible for the recycling-based society. Having started with the development of recycling technology overseeing the ESG Division that is capable of turning pulp and superabsorbent polymer(SAP) derived from used and Customer Communication disposable diapers back into material that can be used again in the manufacturing of Center sanitary products, we have also identified three key topics under our “Eco Plan 2030,” our Unicharm Corporation guideline for medium-term environmental measures: Addressing the problem of plastic waste, responding to climate change, and ensuring that we are not contributing to the destruction of forests. We are already implementing strategies to address these key topics. Within Japan which is headed towards becoming a super-aged society, in aiming at extending the healthy-life expectancy, we are working together with communities and local governments to realize the goal of reducing the number of senior citizens who are isolated at home by raising awareness of the importance of preventing the need for nursing care and of implementing appropriate excretion care, through the provision of products that reduce unease about incontinence so that elderly people become more willing to leave the house. Internationally, we have rolled out menarche (first menstruation) education programs in developing nations, and we have been expanding job opportunities for women in Saudi Arabia at our offices and factory in that country. In this way, Unicharm is empowering women to play a more integral role in society. In January 2020, we established a new “ESG Division” to replace our existing CSR Division, as an evolutionary step towards strengthening our ESG-related measures and speeding up the dissemination of these measures within the company, and towards enhancing our corporate value by strengthening our ability to spread our message outside the company. In the future, we will continue to generate innovation, enhance our corporate value and provide value for all our stakeholders by working to address societal problems. For example, we will seek to make a positive contribution to the global environment through our business activities and throughout the supply chain, with the development of a recycling system for used disposable diapers and the promotion of environmentally-friendly products. We will also contribute towards the extension of healthy life expectancy, placing even more emphasis on living in harmony with the local community, and we will be providing support for women's empowerment throughout the world. 11 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability Management structure ESG promotional structure Unicharm has established a structure to implement and promote smooth ESG activities in order to meet our stakeholders' expectations. Our “ESG Committee” is a cross-organizational structure for the support of ESG, chaired by the Representative Director. The committee meets four times a year to discuss and share information about ESG-related activities, which in turn is utilized in management. ■Unicharm Group's ESG Promotional Structure ■Core themes and categories of ESG Committee initiatives ISO26000 Organizational governance, Human rights, Labor practices, The environment, Fair business practices, Core Subjects Consumer issues and Community involvement and development Core themes ・ Climate change / GHG, Energy use management and Climate change risk ・ Water resources / Water use and Reduction of water use ・ Pollution and resources / Waste disposal, resource usage and recycling E ・ Supply chain / Supplier policy, Environmental issues and Sustainable palm oil procurement ・ Biodiversity ・ Development of environmentally-friendly products ・ Labor standards / Child labor, Forced labor, Anti-discrimination, Freedom of association, Collective bargaining rights, Minimum wage and Harassment ・ Health and Safety ・ Human rights / Due diligence, Children's rights, Child labor, Community employment and Complaint handling S ・ Society / Community investment and Social contribution activities ・ Responsibilities to customers / Responsible advertising and marketing and Customer satisfaction ・ Supply chain / Child labor, Forced labor and Antidiscrimination, Freedom of association, Collective bargaining rights, Minimum wage, Health and Safety, Due diligence and Capacity building ・ Product quality and Product safety ・ Corruption prevention / Anti-bribery, Insider trading, Whistleblower hotline, Education and Risk assessment ・ Corporate Governance G ・ Company-wide risk management (environment, society, corporate governance) ・ Compliance ・ Tax transparency 12 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Unicharm Group's Sustainability Reference framework for Unicharm's CSR strategy At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact”, and have participated in the compact since May 2006. Communicating with stakeholders Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners, employees and society under its “‘Beliefs and Pledges’ and Corporate Principles of Action”, and encourages two-way communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. ■Communicating with stakeholders Communication policy Primary communication methods Examples of dialogue themes (Beliefs and Pledges) We pledge to earn the full Customer Communication Center Quality, safety and functions support of customers by Group interviews concerning products Customers always doing everything we Monitoring surveys Opinions concerning products and can. Exhibitions and events services and response We pledge to distribute General shareholders' meetings Summary explanations of financial Shareholders industry-leading returns to Results briefing results shareholders. Overseas IR roadshows Sound company management We pledge to achieve Quality Policy Briefing Session Supply chain management Business mutually sound growth by New product presentation conference Quality, safety and the environment partners maintaining fair and equitable Exhibitions and events relationships. Audits We pledge to achieve the Labor-management discussions Compensation and health happiness of associates and Employee survey Pride and satisfaction toward work Employees their family members by filling Employee counseling hotline Introduction of programs that respect each of them with confidence Family visit day at factories diversity and examples and pride. Internal intranet and company newsletter We pledge to contribute to Agreements with local governments Disaster assistance the economic and emotional Cooperation with government and Continence care classes, Social fulfillment of the entire NGOs/NPOs Walking program Society population and society Emerging countries Health and hygiene and local hiring through our corporate Activities through industry organizations Japan Hygiene Products Industry activities. Association (JHPIA) and Japan AntiPollinosis Council (JAPOC) 13 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Unicharm’s Approach to Resolving Social Issues Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams.” Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy ................... 15 CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene .................................................. 19 CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment ....................... 24 CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community .............................. 31 14 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy Our basic approach and strategy The aging of the population has proceeded more rapidly in Japan than in any other country in the world. In 2007, Japan became a “super-aging society” with over 21% of the population aged 65 or older which is forecasted to reach 30% by 2025. Improvements in medicine have led to an increased average life expectancy and a growing focus on “healthy-life expectancy” the length of time for which people stay physically and mentally healthy and are able to live independently. Everyone wants to be able to maintain their own preferred lifestyle and a high level of well-being as they get older. Unicharm's mission is to contribute to the lengthening of healthy-life expectancy by offering support for the maintenance of active lifestyles through the provision of continence care products, including lightweight continence pads, rehabilitation pants, etc. Social issues recognized Social issues Our activities ・A shortage of carers ・Provision of continence care products to support senior citizens' ・Increased healthcare costs due to the increasing independent living number of senior citizens in the population ・Dementia prevention activities ・Isolation of senior citizens in regional communities ・Building an environment in which people and pets can live in harmony Contributing to the realization of the SDGs Unicharm's “lengthening of healthy-life expectancy” activities are in conformity with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) Goal-3 “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages” and Goal-4 “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”. In the future, we will continue to leverage our company's unique strengths with the aim of making an even greater contribution towards the solving of the world's shared problems. Unicharm Group's Key Topics and Indicators (KPI) Social impact With regard to “lengthening of healthy-life expectancy,” we are taking the ■Social impact No. of people participating in “Social number of participants in our “Social Walking®” initiative as a “social impact” Walking®” indicator. A total of 3,080 people have participated in our “Social Walking®” activity. Background While the aging of the population has been accelerating, the number of people aged 65 or over who are still working has also been rising and there is growing awareness of the importance of taking steps to maintain one's health for example by exercising, etc. so that people can avoid the need for care as they age and can continue to enjoy an active lifestyle that suits them. Of the various effects of aging (what are sometimes referred to as “geriatric syndrome”), continence problems including urinary incontinence, etc. can have a particularly big impact on mental health. People who are worried about urinary incontinence tend to stop going out, may not get enough exercise and may find themselves gradually becoming isolated from society, among other negative effects. At Unicharm, we are continuing to take measures aimed at making more people aware of how appropriate care can enable them to continue to enjoy an active lifestyle, and we are striving to provide even better products, as one of the keys to realizing a lengthening of healthy-life expectancy. 15 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy Our activities Lifree “Social Walking®” contributes to the lengthening of healthy life expectancy Lifree “Social Walking®” is a program aimed at helping to stop senior citizens from becoming “housebound and isolated” and to prevent “dementia.” For dementia prevention, there is widespread agreement that a good approach is to combine the “physiological approach” which emphasizes regular exercise and a balanced diet with the “cognitive approach,” which emphasizes maintaining human contact through hobbies, volunteering and involvement in neighborhood activities. When people have continence problems, they may become reluctant to leave their homes which in turn can lead to or exacerbate dementia. Unicharm contributes to the lengthening of healthy-life expectancy through our provision of continence care products so that senior citizens can still keep going out as much as they want even if they have continence issues. We have launched the Lifree “Social Walking®” initiative, through which participants who are using Unicharm's continence care products have the opportunity to walk while enjoying social interaction in a purposeful way, thereby fostering exercise and social participation and helping to prevent dementia. Since the “Social Walking®” program was first devised in 2016, we had already held its experience activities throughout Japan. In 2019, we partnered with the Foundation for Prevention of Dementia to launch the “Social Walking® Support Program” for dementia prevention. This is a new initiative to provide support to help local government authorities and NPOs that are interested in holding “Social Walking®” events, so as to get as many people as possible, in as many regions as possible, taking part in “Social Walking®.” ● Holding a Lifree “Social Walking ” experience activity at the Unicharm Products Kyushu Plant ® On September 6, 2019, a “Social Walking®” experience event and factory tour were held at the Unicharm Products Kyushu Plant in Kanda-machi, Miyako-gun, Fukuoka Prefecture. After a talk on dementia and a lecture on methods of preventing and dealing with continence problems, the participants were able to experience Nordic Walking within the plant ground. Besides learning how to walk with correct posture, using the whole body, while holding a walking pole in each hand, the participants were also able to see the difference in length of step compared to their normal walking pace and experienced an efficient form of aerobic exercise. In their responses to the questionnaire survey that was administered to the 61 participants(whose average age was 64) after the activity, 97% of them stated that they had been very satisfied with the experience. In addition, 78% of them stated that they would be interested in incorporating “Social Walking®” into their normal routine at least three times a week. It was thus clear that participants appreciated the effectiveness of “Social Walking®”. Voices of participants (selected comments) ・ “After reaching the age of 70, I started to feel nervous about walking. My daughter was able to take part in the activity with me and it was a great opportunity to get out of the house.” (A man in his 70s) ・ “I was able to enjoy walking energetically while chatting with local residents.” (A lady in her 60s) ・ “I took part together with my husband and it has given us a new way of getting outside and enjoying ourselves. I hope that we will be able to keep doing it in the future.” (A lady in her 60s) 16 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy “Lifree Walking Assist Underwear” provides support for the torso and helps people to walk independently With the assistance of 149 people who are engaged in providing care for family members, Unicharm conducted a questionnaire survey regarding the three main aspects of care provision(eating, bathing and excretion). The survey continued to be implemented with the same participants for five consecutive years, starting in 2015, to investigate attitudes to daily living activities in relation to care provision. From the survey results, it was discovered that around 80% of people providing care for family members want the care recipient to be able “to live with as much autonomy as possible,” but that many of them are concerned about whether the care recipient can “walk safely.” The “function of walking” is an extremely important one and could be said to be the foundation for all daily living activities. However, as people get older, walking ability tends to deteriorate and they become more reluctant to leave the house which can lead to becoming isolated from the local community. More detailed survey questions used to clarify the rather broad concept of “deterioration in walking function” showed that this involved a complex mix of factors such as “walking with too short a step”, “poor left-right balance” and “moving very slowly”. This kind of “deterioration in walking function” is very likely to lead to deterioration in overall activities of daily living(ADL) and the survey results confirmed just how important this is. While more than 60% of respondents agreed that “Walking is very important for staying healthy,” in reality, only around 30% of the care recipients were actually “leaving the house at least three days a week”*. This was due to the carers' concern about whether the care recipients could walk safely with carers worrying that “their balance isn't good”, “they are walking with too short a step”, “the walking speed is too slow”, etc.* * Based on Unicharm survey results. ■People who are taking proactive steps to stay healthy ■Nervousness about going outside due to and who feel that walking is important deterioration in walking function * Based on Unicharm survey results. * Based on Unicharm survey results. In order to walk stably, it is very important for the pelvic floor to be strong enough to support the torso. Unicharm's newly-developed “Lifree Walking Assist Underwear” product is a special type of pants using technology which exerts pressure on the pelvic girdle to enhance abdominal muscle pressure, thereby providing support for the torso and helping the wearer maintain their balance which in turn makes the wearer feel less anxious about walking. The structure of the pants is designed so that it does not restrict the movement of the legs, enabling the wearer to take longer strides and making it easier to walk. The fabric used has been carefully designed to be thin, elastic, soft and breathable, with a similar texture to ordinary cloth underwear so that users can wear “Lifree Walking Assist Underwear” for everyday living activities without feeling uncomfortable. ■“Pelvic Support Fit®” structure By providing support to help people walk independently – which is the foundation for activities of daily living(ADL) – in addition to support for “autonomous excretion,” we aim to contribute towards the lengthening of healthy-life expectancy. 17 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy Working towards the building of a cohesive society in which people and pets can live harmoniously Unicharm has been working to enhance the quality of life of senior citizens so that they can continue to live an active lifestyle that suits their needs. At the same time, we have also been striving to improve the living environment for pets, through the development and sale of pet products such as pet foods and pet toiletry products, etc. One of our goals is to help to make it possible for people and pets to live together happily. For many people, having contact with animals can put a smile on their face and help to relieve stress. Furthermore, when senior citizens who are receiving care have contact with animals, this can help to strengthen their autonomy and improve their quality of life. As is outlined in more detail below, survey results have shown that, when opportunities for interaction with animals are provided in care facilities for senior citizens, this reduces the percentage of residents who are reluctant to get out of bed and increases the percentage of residents who feel able to chat cheerfully with others. At the same time, interacting with humans seems to have a positive impact on animals as well. With the aim of helping to build a cohesive society in which people and pets can live in harmony with one another, we are implementing “animal-assisted therapy” activities and other initiatives to demonstrate clearly the positive impact that people and animals can have on each other. Striving to pursue “comfort” for both people and animals through animal-assisted therapy Animal-assisted therapy is a treatment method that helps restore people to health through the psychological benefits including a reduction in stress and a greater sense of security that derive from having interaction with animals. Working in collaboration with the Japan Animal Hospital Association (JAHA) which visits senior citizen care facilities, hospitals, schools etc. to provide animal-assisted therapy under its Companion Animal Partnership Program (CAPP) Unicharm has since 2018 been using scientific analysis to verify the effectiveness of interaction between humans and animals in terms of enhancing feelings of “comfort.” We have been implementing animal-assisted therapy together with senior citizens living in hospitals and Special Nursing Homes who agreed to collaborate on our research. Saliva samples were taken, before and after the therapy, to test for hormone secretion, and a heart rate sensor was used to evaluate autonomic nerve function. In addition, during the therapy, video cameras were used to record the number of times that participants smiled and evaluate their expressions. The results obtained confirmed that interacting with animals was accompanied by an increase in happiness hormones, changes in the heart rate that indicated relaxation, and an increase in the frequency with which participants smiled. We were thus able to obtain scientific evidence demonstrating that interacting with therapy dogs can enable people to feel happiness and joy. We also measured the changes in hormone secretion and in heart rate in the therapy dogs and their owners. The results showed a clear increase in the secretion of happiness hormones in many of the therapy dogs and their owners. It was clear that it is not just senior citizens living in hospitals or Special Nursing Homes that benefit from interaction between humans and animals; interacting with senior citizens improved the mood of the therapy dogs and their owners and enabled them to feel happiness too. In November 2019, we conducted additional research in which we measured the changes in hormone secretion and heart rate of dog owners and their dogs when engaged in walking the dog. Participants learned the correct technique for dog-walking. The results demonstrated that there was an increase in the secretion of hormones denoting happiness for many of the participating people and their dogs and that they were able to get exercise at the target heart rate which maximizes the effectiveness of the exercise, after walking together for a distance of around 2 km. Responding to the increase in the number of older pets requiring care (resulting from the increase in average pet lifespan due to improvements in pet-food and in medical treatment for pets), Unicharm develops and markets a range of pet care products including pet care mats, pet toilet-care sheets with enhanced breathability, sanitary products for pets, etc. We will continue to develop and verify new products in the future, in line with our goal of building a cohesive society in which people and pets can live harmoniously. Animal-assisted therapy in action An aged dog with a member of the product development team 18 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women’s Independence and Improving Hygiene Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm has pursued manufacturing and selling of sanitary products and disposable diapers in the emerging markets in fast-growing Asia since the 1980s. Our never-changing hope is that we continue to deliver products and services to more women in the world that change their “discomfort” into “comfort.” We aim to make a contribution unique to Unicharm through helping women living in all regions to shine even more. Social issues recognized Social issues Our activities ・Hygiene problems in developing nations ・Reducing the burden of childcare by promoting the widespread use ・Loss of educational opportunities for of baby diapers schoolgirls due to constraints on school ・Organizing menarche and menstruation education activities to strengthen attendance affecting them during their periods knowledge and promote the widespread use of sanitary products, ・Economic stagnation due to restrictions on thereby encouraging women to become more active outside the home female employment opportunities ・Raising income levels by providing a good working environment for ・Work-life balance issues affecting women women Contributing to the realization of the SDGs Unicharm's “Supporting women's independence and improving hygiene” activities are in conformity with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) Goal-1 “End poverty in all its forms everywhere ”, Goal-3 “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”, Goal-4 “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”, Goal-5 “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”, Goal-8 “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all” and Goal-10 “Reduce inequality within and among countries”. In the future, we will continue to leverage our company's unique strengths with the aim of making an even greater contribution towards the solving of the world's shared problems. Unicharm Group's Key CSR Topics and Indicators (KPI) Social impact With regard to “Supporting women's independence and improving ■Social impact hygiene,” we are taking the number of participants in our “Menarche Number of people in emerging economies attending menarche education activities education in developing nations” classes, which are described below, as a “social impact” indicator. Since 2014, a total of 756,333 people have participated in our “Menarche education in developing nations” classes. Background Aiming to provide continued support for women's autonomy and to expand opportunities for them to develop their full potential. In South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa, women's opportunities to receive an education and to work are restricted because of cultural and social background. Although some progress has been made in this area in recent years, there are still many challenges affecting the social advancement of women. There are also some countries and 19 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene regions where women's activities are limited during their menstruation because of deeply-entrenched customs. Overcoming these issues in each country and region so that women can participate more actively in society is important not only from the perspective of achieving a gender equal society, but also in order to eliminate poverty and support regional economic development. Utilizing the know-how that we have accumulated in our business activities, we are pursuing various awarenessraising activities and the creation of work sites while expanding products and services suited to each country and region's characteristics, with the aim of helping women all over the world to enjoy more fulfilling lives. Our activities Launching the Sofy “#NoBagForMe” project to realize a world in which people can talk about menstruation and sanitary products without feeling uncomfortable When people are buying sanitary products, it has become the norm for the products to be handed over in a paper bag or dark-colored carrier bag so that the product packaging is not visible. This is because people throughout the world tend to think of menstruation as being “shameful” or as something that should be “kept hidden.” Unicharm launched the “#NoBagForMe” project in June 2019 with the aim of helping to ensure that as many women as possible are able to learn about and choose the type of sanitary care that is right for them. The project members include five women who are leaders in their respective fields and who support the project's goals. For the first project activity, which aims to cultivate an atmosphere in which it is possible to talk freely about menstruation as something that occurs naturally in the female body and to strengthen understanding The “#NoBagForMe” project logo of menstruation throughout the world, Unicharm has developed new packaging design which seeks to “eliminate the perceived need to secrete sanitary products in paper bags when buying them.” Following on from the project's initial kick-off meeting in June 2019, after intensive discussions and the implementation of consumer voting activities using social media and street interviews, in December 2019, Unicharm launched the new “#NoBagForMe limited-edition packaging design” for sanitary products, which has been introduced for three categories of sanitary products: tampons, sanitary napkins and pantyliners. Sofy “#NoBagForMe” limited-edition packaging design By implementing activities to enhance understanding of menstruation as something that occurs naturally in women's bodies, Unicharm aims to transform existing attitudes to menstruation and help build a society in which women can participate more fully and play a more active role. Menarche and maternity education in Myanmar In Myanmar, only around 46% of women are using hygienic sanitary products.* In rural areas, it is not uncommon for 20 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene women to use pieces of rag to absorb the flow of menstrual blood, which can lead to infection, sometimes with fatal consequences. Since 2017, Unicharm has been conducting menarche education activities at junior high schools in Myanmar. Working together with NGOs and local government agencies, Unicharm distributes pamphlets that provide information about menstruation and explain correct menstrual care methods and implements education that covers topics such as how to use sanitary napkins. When female students tell their mothers and friends about the knowledge that they have learned at school, the scope of the awareness-raising expands still further; this education also provides an important opportunity for female students to develop self-awareness of their own identity as a woman. In FY2019, this educational program was implemented at 203 schools. By providing consumers with “safety and peace of mind,” this program has helped to build ties between Unicharm and local communities. * Based on a survey conducted by Unicharm Unicharm has also visited around 150 hospitals in Myanmar to provide opportunities for expectant mothers to acquire useful knowledge relating to health management while pregnant and diaper use. The “MamyPoko” diapers that are sold in Myanmar are all imported and do not bear product-use explanations in local languages, so Unicharm has compiled explanatory pamphlets written in local languages. The pamphlets not only provide information about proper nutrition during pregnancy and explanations of how to choose the right diapers for children at different stages of growth and how to use them properly, but are also designed to keep a record of each child's growth, by including “parent and child health record” type content. In addition, following suggestions from expectant mothers, Unicharm is currently working on producing related video content. In the future, Unicharm will continue to expand the scope of these measures to contribute towards safeguarding the health of mothers and children in Myanmar. Progress on menarche and menstruation education in India Expanding the implementation of menarche education programs throughout India Unicharm's vision is that women throughout the world should be able to live happily, with pride and self-confidence, no matter what changes the future brings. We aim to help in making this vision a reality through our products and services. The ideal that our company seeks to live up to is that, by spreading awareness of knowledge relating to menstruation, which can be a major obstacle preventing women from realizing their dreams, we can provide support that enables all women to live life the way they want to. In India, most women in both urban and rural communities lack sufficient access to the information that they need to enable them to maintain a healthy lifestyle. A major focus of Unicharm's activities is on providing women with adequate information about health issues that can have a negative impact on their lives. Menstruation is an issue of direct personal relevance to women, and plays an important role in relation to women's ability to give birth. As a company that manufactures and sells feminine hygiene products and baby products, Unicharm hopes that women will be able to experience menstruation safely and with peace of mind. In 2013, in cooperation with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and local NGOs, Unicharm began promoting an educational program on the menstrual cycle mechanism and appropriate care in relation to the menstrual cycle called “Managing Menstruation: My Pride” for children, especially schoolgirls, in India. This program aims to help teenage girls in India maintain sanitary well-being and remain active with confidence during their menstrual cycle. In FY2019, the program was implemented at 1,021 schools in 15 regions, with a total of 129,671 school-girls aged 9 17 taking part. In addition, starting from FY2019, special sessions have been introduced at which mothers and daughters can learn together, with the aim of realizing more widespread diffusion of menarche education content. In FY2019, a total of five sessions were held in Delhi and Jaipur, with around 500 mother and daughter pairs taking part. 21 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene Comments from schoolchildren who received the menarche education included: “The content of the teaching was very good and a lot of useful information was presented. It brought home just how important it is to use sanitary pads. I want to try using Sofy sanitary pads.” Teachers commented that “This is an issue that we had not been addressing in schools. This kind of program offers great potential and is something that definitely needs doing.” Expanding the roll-out of menstruation education In 2019, in addition to our existing menarche education activities for schoolgirls, we also launched awareness-raising activities to spread correct knowledge about menstruation among women in rural areas. With “Sofy Sahayogi” ladies (“Sahayogi” means “ambassador”) who have been trained to act as sanitary product awareness-raisers playing a key role, a total of 96 menstruation education sessions have been held in 24 rural districts in regions that include Kolkata and Neemrana, with more than 5,000 women learning correct menstruation knowledge and being encouraged to use sanitary napkins. Expanding support for female employment in Saudi Arabia In the past, for cultural and religious reasons, women in Saudi Arabia were not permitted to be in the same room with, or speak to, men from outside their own family and there were many restrictions on women's activities, including their activities in the workplace. With the aim of providing women with employment opportunities while still respecting local cultural traditions, in May 2012, Unicharm established a women-only factory in Saudi Arabia which has been in full operation ever since. Unicharm has sought to create an environment which is convenient for the women working there; the plant features a day-care center, a first-aid room and a cafeteria and rest area, and there is also a production line optimized for people with disabilities to work on it. Currently, around 90 women are working at this factory. Since this factory was first established, opportunities for women's advancement have been expanding outside the factory as well. In June 2018, when the law in Saudi Arabia was changed so that women could obtain driver's licenses, Unicharm became one of the first companies to start employing female sales promoters to visit stores and retail outlets to give product presentations and provide product recommendations. In addition, the female marketers assigned to the sales planning team have been implementing product demonstrations for women of different generations with differing social backgrounds and speaking different languages, honing marketing skills through direct communication with customers and helping Unicharm to develop even better products. Currently, around half of the personnel working at Unicharm's product development division in Saudi Arabia are women. Working in collaboration with male employees, they are dedicated to the development of sanitary products and diapers that will benefit women and mothers in Saudi Arabia. In August 2019, a number of legal reforms were introduced in Saudi Arabia aimed at realizing greater equality between men and women, which have helped to expand the scope of women's rights. It can be anticipated that, in the future, women in Saudi Arabia will be able to participate even more actively in society. By promoting women's employment and improving the working environment for women, Unicharm is providing support for women to achieve greater autonomy and contributing towards the realization of the following United Nations Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs): Goal-4 “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”, Goal-5 “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls” and Goal-10 “Reduce inequality in and among countries.” 22 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene Baby diapers specially designed for underweight new-born babies, to help safeguard these tiny lives Japan's low birth rate is a matter of great concern. Currently, around one in ten of all babies born in Japan are underweight new-borns weighing less than 2,500g and the number of new-borns with a “very low birthweight(VLBW)” of less than 1,500g is rising. Babies who are born underweight can be cared for in incubators in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU); however, because babies this small should ideally have still been inside the mother's body, their health can be very delicate. When looking after underweight babies, the slightest shock can cause severe stress, so NICU personnel have to be very careful when providing care. Previously, there were no disposable diapers specially designed for use by babies smaller than regular newborns, so the staff at NICUs normally had the time-consuming task of either cutting regular diapers down to size or converting sanitary napkins for use as substitute diapers. One of the key concepts which Unicharm espouses is that of providing diapers appropriate to each growth stage that a child experiences. With the growth in the number of babies born underweight, Unicharm recognized the need to create disposable diapers that are just right for these babies and in 2015 Unicharm launched a new type of baby diapers specially designed for use on underweight new-born babies. It is vitally important for underweight new-borns that the environment inside an incubator resemble the inside of a mother's womb as much as possible, so the baby is kept curled up in the fetal position when providing medical treatment or changing diapers. To make it possible to change the diaper when the baby is in the fetal position, Unicharm's special baby diapers for underweight new-born babies have been designed with perforations on the side and are molded in a shape that fits snugly on the body of a baby in the fetal position, reflecting suggestions from medical professionals. Since this new diaper product was first launched, additional improvements have been made every year, taking into account recommendations from physicians, nurses and other medical professionals working in NICUs. In the future, Unicharm will continue to provide support to help safeguard these tiny lives, by providing even better products. The new diaper product has perforations Having perforations on the side means that The diaper has an indicator showing when that make it possible to change diapers the diaper can also be used as a pad. the baby has peed, which can reduce the when the baby is lying in the fetal position. frequency of unnecessary diaper changes. Tiny Lives Support Project The aim of the “Tiny Lives Support Project” that Unicharm has been promoting awareness of the issues affecting underweight new-born babies and to provide babies who need to be looked after in an NICU with the support they need. Customers who purchase Moony brand products and then register the purchase to collect points on Unicharm's “Babytown” website which provides support for “mothers and babies 365 days a year” have the option of clicking on a “Support this Project” button in which case 10 yen will be donated to the Project by Unicharm each time. These donations help to safeguard the tiny lives in NICUs. When the Tiny Lives Support Project was first implemented in August September 2018, it attracted widespread support; within the space of just two months, the Project collected 3,484,800 yen in donations. In the second round of implementation, November December 2019, a total of 4,333,090 yen was donated and 1,021 comments were received expressing support for the Project. Tiny Lives Support Project 23 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment Our basic approach and strategy As a manufacturer of disposable products such as diapers and sanitary products, Unicharm recognizes that the achievement of environmentally-friendly manufacturing is a vitally important issue that we cannot afford to neglect. Focusing on the utilization of paper pulp, which is made from wood, and on addressing the CO2 emissions associated with the disposal of used products by incineration, we are taking steps to realize a recycling system for diapers. By establishing a cyclical model that covers the entire product lifecycle, we are contributing towards the realization of a sustainable society that is able to maintain economic growth while also safeguarding the global environment. Social issues recognized Social issues Our activities ・Global warming and climate change resulting from increased CO 2 ・Development of disposable diaper recycling technology emissions ・Reduction of energy consumption and waste at our ・Resource depletion business locations ・Destruction of marine ecosystems by plastic waste in the oceans ・Development of environmentally-friendly products Contributing to the realization of the SDGs Unicharm's “Contributing to the Global Environment” activities are in conformity with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) Goal-2 “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”, Goal-7 “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all”, Goal-12 “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”, Goal-13 “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”, Goal-14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development” and Goal-15 “Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss”. In the future, we will continue to leverage our company's unique strengths with the aim of making an even greater contribution towards the solving of the world's shared problems. Unicharm's CSR Key Topics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Social impact With regard to “Contributing to the Global Environment,” we are ■Social impact implementing assessment of the extent to which we have succeeded in Change in the ratio of environmentallyfriendly products reducing the environmental burden over the entire product lifecycle (taking FY2005 as the baseline year), positioning products that embody enhanced environmental performance as “Environmentally-Friendly Products” and taking the percentage of all our products that are “Environmentally-Friendly Products”* as a “social impact” indicator. This percentage has been rising steadily and has now reached 89%. *The scope of calculation is limited to Unicharm products sold in Japan (with some catalog products, OEM products and imported products excluded). 24 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment Background Disposable diaper recycling is a responsibility that Unicharm is committed to fulfilling. With elderly people coming to account for an ever larger ■Change in the volume of CO2 emissions caused by share of the population, production of disposable adult incineration of disposable paper diapers incontinence diapers continues to increase. By volume, disposable diapers account for around 1/8th of total household waste. At the same time, the volume of used disposable diapers being disposed of by incineration is rising and its costs and the CO2 emissions are increasing as well. A further point is that disposable diapers are made from paper pulp which is made of wood as its raw material; rising pulp usage thus leads to the increased consumption of forest resources. Consequently, although the convenience of disposable diapers helps to make childcare and nursing care easier for many people, disposable diapers are also closely linked to various environmental issues, including the need to safeguard forest resources and the problem of global warming, etc. The European Union (EU) has set a target of increasing the percentage of urban waste that is recycled to 65% by 2030 and steps are already being taken to recycle used disposable diapers. Unicharm too is implementing initiatives aimed at realizing improvements in terms of reducing incineration costs and CO2 emissions and achieving more efficient utilization of resources, etc. Starting in 2015, Unicharm has been implementing a project to put the recycling of used diapers on a commercial footing. As a manufacturer of disposable diapers, we feel that we have a responsibility to undertake this series of measures and we are proceeding with related technology development and verification testing. The quantity of “plastic waste in the oceans” has been increasing steadily and, because this type of waste takes a long time to decompose, it is forecast that, by 2050, the combined weight of all the plastic waste in the sea will exceed the combined weight of all the fish living in the oceans. As a manufacturer that uses plastic in its packaging materials, Unicharm feels that it has a responsibility in this regard. With the aim of helping to address the global problem of plastic waste in the oceans, Unicharm supports the “Plastics Smart” campaign, which is being implemented in collaboration with organizations in many different sectors, and is working to reduce plastic usage at every stage from R&D onwards. Our activities Initiative No. 1: Activities aimed at promoting the recycling of disposable diapers Release of prototype products created using our own unique recycling system Unicharm launched its used disposable diaper recycling program in 2015. Previously, Unicharm had already been recycling some used disposable diapers as Refuse Paper and Plastic Fuel(RPF). The problem was that the economic value of the RPF was low while the processing costs were quite high. Under Unicharm's new recycling project for used disposable diapers, by making recycling processing more efficient and keeping processing fees down to the same level as the cost of incineration, we have succeeded in creating a recycling system which produces recycled pulp of the same quality as pulp made from virgin material. 25 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment ■Unicharm's recycling-oriented model for disposable diapers Our recycling system applies a unique ionization process to the pulp that we extract from used disposable diapers by means of cleaning and separation; the ionization process destroys the bacteria contained in the excretion. In this way, recycling is able to generate high-quality pulp that is just as hygienic and safe as virgin pulp. We also recycle the waste water generated in the cleaning and separation process, thereby making processing more efficient and also reducing the amount of waste water that needs to be discharged. In addition, we undertook collaborative research with Hiroshima University to develop technology for the generation of electricity using the purification of recycled, concentrated waste water; in 2017, Unicharm was awarded a core patent for microbial fuel cell (MFC) processing. By 2019, four years on from the start of the project, we were able to announce the successful creation of prototype disposable diapers made from recycling material. We have also been creating a number of other prototype products made using recycled material including toilet tissue, memo pads, file folders, etc. In addition, in October 2019, “Recycling Business Preparatory Office” was established within CSR Division (now the ESG Division) with the aim of commercializing our used disposable diaper recycling technology. ＜Pulp prior to ozone treatment＞ ＜Pulp after ozone treatment＞ Comparison of pulp made from used disposable diapers before and after ozone treatment Implementation of verification testing in collaboration with local government authorities, to help realize large-scale recycling In order to be able to realize the recycling of used disposable diapers, it is vitally important to arrange collaboration with local government authorities and recycling firms on the collection and recycling of used diapers. Starting in May 2016, Unicharm has been collaborating on used disposable diaper recycling system verification testing with Shibushi City, Kagoshima Prefecture. The goal is to achieve full-scale separated collection and recycling of used diapers in Shibushi City by 2020. Aiming to build a recycling system that can be adopted widely both within and outside Japan, besides fostering collaboration with other municipalities located near Shibushi City, we are also strengthening our efforts to realize the separated collection and recycling of used disposable diapers throughout Japan. Verifying the impact on the environment and hygienic safety We examined from multiple aspects what actual effects employing the recycling system would have. The results showed that the amount of greenhouse gases emitted could be reduced by 87%, compared to burning used 26 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment disposable diapers and creating new ones from virgin pulp. We were also able to confirm that the safety and sanitation level of recycled pulp was also maintained at a high level similar to that of virgin pulp. ■Greenhouse gas emission volume ■Bacteria count in each process ■Amount of residual proteins ○ Greenhouse gas emission volume ○ Bacteria count in each process and amount of residual proteins / Realizing the same (compared to incineration disposal) high quality and the same level of cleanliness and whiteness as with virgin pulp made * Including the substitution effect from from wood recycled product. If adult diapers from 100 users are recycled over a one-year period, this would reduce the quantity of waste generated by an amount approximately equivalent to the waste contained in 23 2-ton refuse collection vehicles and would save an amount of wood equivalent to 100 trees. (Based on a survey conducted by Unicharm) Successful implementation of SAP recycling Super Absorbent Polymer (SAP) is an important constituent material of disposable diapers which has the function of absorbing and retaining moisture. In order to recycle used disposable diapers, the moisture absorbed by the SAP must be completely expelled and the SAP returned to a state in which it can absorb moisture again. In the past, one known method for removing moisture from SAP was to use calcium, but because this method tended to leave traces of calcium inside the SAP, leading to deterioration in diaper quality, it was not suitable for recycling. Unicharm has been conducting research on how to return SAP to a reusable quality level in collaboration with Hokkaido University. The research results showed that if, rather than using calcium as in the past, the SAP is inactivated using an organic acid aqueous solution and neutralized, it can successfully be restored to the condition of SAP with outstanding absorbency. In verification testing, it was found that approximately 70% of the original material could be reused. ■SAP recycling Having succeeded in developing this fundamental SAP recycling technology(for which a patent application has already been made), we are now undertaking technology development aimed at its commercialization. 27 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment An expert's view The area of research on which I have been focusing involves studying how useful substances such as nitrogen and phosphorus can be recovered from effluent at sewage treatment plants and how they can be utilized. I first became involved in research on SAP in 2014. The technique of using calcium with SAP had been known since the 1980s, but no significant progress had been made in this area. It seems that no one had even considered the idea that used SAP could be reused. When Unicharm got in touch with us and told us that they wanted to be able to recycle and reuse all used disposable diapers, various different possibilities presented themselves and we embarked on a process of repeated trial and error. Once we arrived Mr. Ryusei Ito at the method of treating used SAP with an organic acid aqueous solution, it seemed Assistant Professor as though all the problems had been solved in one step. Water Reclamation Engineering Of course, when this technology is scaled up from the laboratory to the factory, there is Laboratory Sustainable Metabolic System the potential for all sorts of issues to arise that we in the laboratory cannot foresee, of Water and Waste Field such as issues relating to product uniformity, etc. When these problems arise, we can Division of Environmental tackle them one by one. In the future, I am looking forward to continued involvement in Engineering this very meaningful project for recycling used disposable diapers. Faculty of Engineering, Hokkaido University A responsible manager's view Unicharm had already begun implementing recycling initiatives around 20 years ago, and since then our company has promoted a wide range of recycling-related activities. I myself was given responsibility for developing technology for recycling used disposable diapers in 2015, making use of my prior experience in materials development. When SAP absorbs moisture, it can expand to around 40 times its original size. I must admit that I personally thought that it would probably be impossible to return used SAP to its original state and reuse it. However, with the benefit of advice etc. received from Mr. Ryusei Ito of Hokkaido University, after a process of repeated experimentation, we Koichi Yamaki were able to arrive at a method that utilizes an organic acid aqueous solution. Chief Technologist Recycling Business Preparatory Although we had to overcome a lot of challenges, as a researcher, being able to Office 1G achieve results in a field where many people felt that “there was little hope of success” ESG Division was really motivating. We have now reached a point where, in verification testing, we Unicharm Corporation have achieved a SAP recycling rate of over 70%. I hope that, in the future, I will be able to continue collaborating with Mr. Ito to make it possible for all used SAP to be recycled and reused. Initiative No. 2: Realizing the goal of “zero waste” by implementing thorough utilization and commercialization of waste During the process of manufacturing disposable diapers, various types of waste are generated that are difficult to recycle, including product loss generated during production and the paper tubes, pulp dust and paper dust, offcuts, etc.*2 that are disposed of as waste by factories. Unicharm undertook repeated studies to determine whether these types of waste could be repurposed. Building on the results obtained in these studies, in 2011, Unicharm launched “Deo-Sand® Scented Deodorizing Paper Litter®”, a cat excretion care product. Deo-Sand® makes effective use of the technology that Unicharm has built up through the development and manufacturing of disposable diapers to realize the efficient solidification of, and highly effective odor removal for, cat excreta, which tends to have a very strong odor. After use, this product can be disposed of as burnable waste. Subsequently, we have also been working on expanding the scope of application of this technology to include not only waste generated during the production process, but also other hard-to-recycle 28 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment materials that in the past have generally been incinerated, such as used tickets and used wallpaper, etc., thereby contributing towards ongoing improvement in the effective utilization of resources. *1: Based on final disposal in landfill. *2: See Figure “Waste generated in the disposable diaper production process.” ■Waste generated in the disposable diaper production process Deo-Sand®Scented Deodorizing Paper Litter® Wastes collected from Unicharm factories in and outside Japan are cut up finely together with waste paper and the polymer-based absorbent material in the diapers is separated out. The finely-cut material is solidified to create Cat Litter pellets and the colored pellets are then coated with polymer-based absorbent material and paper dust to make Deo-Sand® Paper Sand. When a pet urinates on this product, the part that was urinated on dries solid and this part (only) can then be disposed of easily as burnable waste, making this an environmentally-friendly product. Unicharm also sorts non-woven fabric and film offcuts(trim) from factory waste and recycles this material to make plastic pellets and plastic bags. Besides reducing the amount of waste that needs to be disposed of, this strategy also helps to reduce the amount of raw material needed for plastics manufacturing. Plastic pellets Plastic bags made from recycled material See also “Climate Change, Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization” See also “Climate Change [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, Categories 1, 4 and 12)” Key social issue: Contributing to reduction in food loss through tray-mats Japan has a low food self-sufficiency rate and is heavy dependent on imports for many types of food products. At the same time, however, huge quantities of edible food are thrown away as waste. According to statistics compiled by Japan's Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF), in 2016, the total amount of unnecessary food 29 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to Global Environment waste in Japan was approximately 6.43 million tons. This figure is substantially higher than the amount of food aid provided each year by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) which totaled around 3.8 million tons in 2017. At the UN “Sustainable Development Summit” in 2015, a target was decided on in relation to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Goal-12 “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns” of reducing per capita global food waste by half by 2030. With this global background, Japan's “Act on Promotion of Food Loss and Waste Reduction,” the first legislation of its kind in Japan, was enacted on May 31, 2019, and came into effect on October 1, 2019. Unicharm has, for over 40 years now, been manufacturing and selling the tray mats on which fresh fish and meat are placed for sale in supermarkets, etc. In 2001, we launched “Fresh Master”, a new product with functionality that goes beyond acting as just an ordinary moisture absorption sheet, so that food products retain the right amount of moisture and keep their freshness and flavor. Since then, we have continued to respond to current store needs and expectations by utilizing the non-woven fabric and absorbent material processing and forming technologies that we have developed over the years to make improvements to existing products that enhance their ability to keep food fresh, while also contributing to food loss reduction and making store stocking more efficient. Taking steps to keep perishable food fresh and extending the duration for which it can be consumed with the best possible flavor not only helps to address the various issues affecting the retail sector, it can also lead to a reduction in food loss which is a global problem. In the future, Unicharm will continue to contribute towards the realization of a sustainable society through the development of even better products in this area. Fresh Master helps fish display its red coloration to best effect, with little discoloration. 30 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm's approach to “contributing to society” aims to help solve social issues through business development. Besides striving to make a contribution on a global scale, Unicharm is also serious about tackling problems that affect local communities that have a close relationship with Unicharm's business activities; as a good corporate citizen, we aim to make a positive contribution to these communities by making effective use of our company's unique strengths. In addition, when the community is in a difficult situation due to sudden disasters etc., we would like to help in any way possible to support the minds and bodies of everyone who has been affected by the disaster. Many people have been affected by the serious damage due to the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011. More recently, in 2019, Japan was badly affected by Typhoon No. 15 (Typhoon Faxai), which caused particularly severe damage in Eastern Japan, as well as by Typhoon No. 19 (Typhoon Hagibis) and by torrential rains. We would like to express our sincere sympathy to those who have been affected and also wish for a swift recovery of the affected areas. Since immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, Unicharm has delivered supplies and continually used the Matching Fund, set up to receive charitable donations from employees, to provide relief support. Through these activities, we will continue to deepen our interaction with local residents and make contributions to local communities. Social issues recognized Social issues Our activities ・The need to provide continuing support for areas ・Activities to provide support for areas affected by natural disasters affected by natural disasters ・Activities that address the diverse issues affecting regional communities ・The need to provide support for community-building Contributing to the realization of the SDGs Unicharm's “Contributing to the Community” activities are in conformity with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Goal-3 “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”, Goal-5 “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”, Goal-8 “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”, Goal-11 “Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable” and Goal-13 “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”. In the future, we will continue to leverage our unique strengths with the aim of making an even greater contribution towards the solving of the world's shared problems. Unicharm Group's Key Topics and Indicators (KPI) Social impact With regard to “Contributing to the ■Social impact Community,” we are taking the number of Total number of persons participating in the Super Cool Biz and Super Warm Biz activities to provide continued support to disaster-affected areas participants in our “Super Cool Biz and Warm Biz” activities for continued support for areas affected by natural disasters, which are outlined below, as a “social impact” indicator. A total of 19,710 Unicharm employees have participated in the “Super Cool Biz and Warm Biz” activities. * In 2011, only the Super Cool Biz activity was implemented. 31 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community Our activities Activities to provide support for areas affected by natural disasters Continuing with our Matching Fund combing disaster relief support with electricity conservation Our “Matching Fund” and “Super Cool Biz and Warm Biz” employee dress code activities which were launched to provide “disaster relief assistance” and to “reduce the burden on the environment through eco-friendly activities that employees can undertake themselves and through electricity conservation” are now in their ninth year. The “Matching Fund” is an employee-participation type initiative that provides a matching donation equivalent to the price paid by Unicharm employees for original Unicharm polo shirts, jumpers etc. that can be worn at work; the money is used to provide support for areas affected by natural disasters. Donations made through the “Matching Fund” have been used to provide care products to hospitals and other facilities located in areas affected by natural disasters and also for donations to the “MICHINOKU Future Fund” which aims to help children orphaned by natural disasters to realize their dream of continuing with their studies, as well as for providing support to disaster-affected areas in the form of financial assistance and emergency supplies. In the future, we will continue to promote disaster area relief activities and activities aimed at reducing the burden on the environment in collaboration with our employees. ● Support for disaster-affected areas through product purchases Unicharm wanted to be able to provide additional support to disaster-affected areas by boosting consumption through the purchasing of goods produced in affected districts. With this aim in mind, in 2019, Unicharm began providing employees with the opportunity to purchase “Fukushima Shiome Brown Cotton Hand-towels” made by “Iwaki Otento SUN Enterprise Cooperative” in Iwaki City in Fukushima Prefecture, in association with Unicharm's “Super Cool Biz” initiative, with the Matching Fund providing donations that match the amount that employees pay for these goods. “Iwaki Otento SUN Enterprise Cooperative” launched the “Fukushima Organic Cotton Project” in the spring of 2012 with the aim of revitalizing agricultural land in the Fukushima region that had been left unused or gone out of cultivation; the area of such uncultivated land has been steadily increasing since the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Starting with the cultivation of organic cotton, which is highly resistant to salt damage, the Project involves the use of the harvested cotton to manufacture and sell textile products, with a portion of the resulting revenue being returned to the cotton producers. Through a series of initiatives, “Iwaki Otento SUN Enterprise Cooperative” has helped to revitalize the local community and create new employment opportunities, with the aim of making Fukushima a base for the development of new kinds of agriculture and textile industries. Domestically-produced cotton grown in Fukushima is used for part of the raw fabric utilized in the manufacturing of “Fukushima Shiome Brown Cotton Hand-towels” and the dyeing process takes place at a factory in Sukagawa City, Fukushima Prefecture. * In December 2019, organic cotton business of “Iwaki Otento SUN Enterprise Cooperative” was transferred to KiTEN Co., Ltd. “Fukushima Shiome Brown Cotton Cotton fields in Iwaki City Hand-towels” Support for areas affected by Typhoon No. 15 (Typhoon Faxai), Typhoon No. 19 (Typhoon Hagibis), and torrential rains Unicharm donated 5 million yen via local government authorities in affected districts to support emergency response and recovery efforts in areas affected by Typhoon No. 15 (Typhoon Faxai), Typhoon No. 19 (Typhoon Hagibis) and 32 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community torrential rains in 2019. These donations were made from the “Matching Fund” whereby Unicharm matches donations made by employees with an equivalent amount. We also provided emergency supplies for the disaster-affected areas, including baby diapers, adult diapers, sanitary products, wet wipes, masks, pet products, etc. A truck carrying loaded with emergency supplies to help people living in affected areas. Activities relating to regional revitalization Signing of a “Comprehensive Partnership Agreement” with Shibushi City, Kagoshima Prefecture in relation to community revitalization In November 2016, Unicharm began collaborating with Shibushi City, Kagoshima Prefecture, on environmental protection activities with the signing of an agreement to undertake verification testing using Unicharm's recycling technology for the reuse of pulp derived from used disposable diapers, the first technology of its kind in the world. This was followed in March 2019 by the signing of a “Comprehensive Partnership Agreement” and a “Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Cooperation with Provision of Supplies in the Event of a Disaster,” which covered the provision of support etc. in relation to seven areas, including disaster response measures, health promotion and childcare. Unicharm is the first private-sector company to sign an agreement of this type with Shibushi City following the establishment of the “System for the Proposal of Projects for Collaboration between Shibushi City and Privatesector Companies, etc.”* * The “System for the Proposal of Projects for Collaboration between Shibushi City and Private-sector Companies, etc.” is a new system that enables private-sector companies to submit proposals for collaborative projects in relation to measures being implemented by Shibushi City Government. The aim of the new system is to enable Shibushi City to access the vitality of the private sector, allow Shibushi City and private-sector companies to collaborate closely on policy implementation and contribute towards the revitalization of the local community and the enhancement of the services provided to local residents. ● The seven areas covered by the Comprehensive Partnership Agreement relating to community revitalization Unicharm is collaborating with Shibushi City on the following seven areas: (1) Matters relating to disaster response measures and disaster preparedness. (2) Matters relating to support for the cultivation of children and young people and childcare support. (3) Matters relating to health promotion. (4) Matters relating to environmental protection. (5) Matters relating to support for senior citizens and people with disabilities. (6) Matters relating to the promotion of women's empowerment. (7) Other matters relating to items necessary for the realization of the previous articles. As regards (1) “Matters relating to disaster response measures and disaster preparedness,” in the event of a natural disaster, Unicharm will, at the request of Shibushi City Government, provide emergency supplies in the form of disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, masks, pet products and other sanitary products. With regard to (2) “Matters relating to support for the cultivation of children and young people and childcare support,” when a newborn baby's birth is registered, Unicharm will provide babies' disposable diapers as a gift to celebrate the occasion. Regarding (3) “Matters relating to health promotion” and (5) “Matters relating to support for senior citizens,” Unicharm will provide proposals for measures to extend healthy life expectancy and also provide seminars on ways to avoid the need for care provision. As regards (4) “Matters relating to environmental protection”, Unicharm is aiming to put the recycling of used disposable diapers on a commercial footing. Through this agreement with Shibushi City, Unicharm aims to contribute towards solving the issues affecting the local community through our business operations and further strengthen mutual collaboration with Shibushi City thereby helping to realize the cohesive society. For more information about Unicharm's disposable diaper recycling initiative, see CSR Key Topic 3. For information about other Unicharm initiatives, see “Local Community.” 33 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management Environment Environmental Management Our basic approach and strategy Most of Unicharm's products are consumables essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle, which closely relates to the global environment through our use of resources and emission of waste. As we have expanded our operations globally centered on Asia in order to provide better products to consumers around the world, our role and responsibility for reducing our environmental impact has also increased with each passing year. All of our employees are committed to environmental activities following the Basic Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action Guidelines developed based on our corporate philosophical framework (Unicharm Ideals, “‘Beliefs and Pledges’ and Corporate Principles of Action”). We carefully monitor the impact our business activities have on the environment, and we are promoting initiatives to realize “Twin Eco Goals” by reducing our environmental impacts and improving our economic efficiency, with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. ■Basic Environmental Policy and Environmental Action Guidelines Unicharm Group Basic Environmental Policy: Unicharm Group Environmental Action Guidelines As a company that engages in the manufacture and sale Abide by all laws and regulations of disposable products, we recognize the extent of our Eliminate waste responsibility to the global environment. Through our Enhance productivity corporate activities we strive to create environmentallyReduce the use of natural resources friendly products so that we may in the future pass on a Make sound choices for the environment beautiful earth to future generations. Learn more about environmental issues We are committed to providing goods and services that Share efforts for helping to improve the environment bring comfort, excitement, and joy to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between environmental conservation and economic growth. Management structure Our environmental activities are collectively managed and overseen by the ESG Committee which is chaired by the Representative Director. The integrated implementation of ISO14001 and ISO9001, which is closely linked to our day-to-day operations, is promoted proactively by each business location with the implementation of gate-control based on pre-set management items and key performance indicators (KPIs) and of a PDCA cycle. The ESG Division handles monitoring etc. of environment-related activity status in the value chain as a whole and reports to the ESG Committee which meets four times a year. Unicharm's “Eco Plan 2020” which was formulated in 2016 is positioned as embodying the company's key environmental targets that are translated into the targets of each individual division and in turn provide a basis for more finely-tuned activities through linkage to targets set for individual employees and weekly action plans. As 2020 is the final year of implementation of “Eco Plan 2020”, Unicharm has formulated a new “Eco Plan 2030” which embodies the key environmental targets for the whole company. ■Environmental Management Structure 34 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management Environmental management in conformance with ISO In order to improve our environmental performance, Unicharm has introduced ISO14001. We have been promoting continuous improvement in accordance with Environmental Management System (EMS) activities. In order to further strengthen both our quality and environmental activities, in 2017, we merged our Quality and Environment management systems, reinforced our activities to improve quality and reduce our environmental impact and implemented environmental initiatives through our business activities. Furthermore, in addition to the non-woven fabric processing and absorbent materials aspects of the production of disposable diapers and sanitary products which had been the main focus of our environmental activities in the past, we have expanded the scope of application to include the pet care product category and also strengthened our activities aimed at achieving “Eco Plan 2020” which embodies our key environmental targets set by the group. ■ISO9001, ISO14001 and ISO13485 Certification at the Unicharm Group (certified unit) Certification status Name of unit obtaining certification ISO9001 ISO14001 ISO13485 Unicharm and Unicharm Products (Japan) ○ ○ ○* Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven (Japan) ○ ○ Cosmotec (Japan) ○ United Charm (Taiwan-Greater China) ○ ○ Uni-Charm (Thailand) (Thailand) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory1 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory2 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory3 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (China) (Shanghai, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (Jiangsu) (Jiangsu, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (Tianjin) (Tianjin, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries (Saudi Arabia) ○ ○ LG Unicharm (Korea) ○ ○ Unicharm India (India) ○ Unicharm Australasia (Australia) ○ Unicharm Middle East & North Africa Hygienic Industries (Egypt) ○ ○ Diana Unicharm (Vietnam) ○ DSG International (Thailand) (Thailand) ○ Disposable Soft Goods (M) (Malaysia) ○ * ISO13485 certification is applicable only to Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Environmental audits for risk management and enhancing performance Unicharm conducts three types of environmental audits in order to eliminate environmental risks and enhance environmental performance. These include target-focused audits such as: (1) Periodic audits in conformance with ISO14001-compliant environmental management systems; (2) Onsite confirmations at industrial waste processing partners; and (3) Confirmation of compliance with laws and regulations. In addition, operational audits performed by the Management Auditing Department confirm the status of waste treatment at sales offices that are not covered by an environmental management system. Results of Environmental Regulatory Audits It has been confirmed that in 2019 as well, surveys, data and documentation for submission to governments as required by environmental laws and regulations were submitted correctly. No fines have been incurred due to violations of environmental laws or regulations. Furthermore, there are no environmental matters pending. 35 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management Validation of environmental protection activities Our company identified materiality through meetings with investors and NGOs in 2016 and, based on these findings, drafted “Eco Plan 2020” as a set of medium-term environmental targets for 2020. In 2019, besides continuing to implement “Eco Plan 2020”, we also formulated “Eco Plan 2030”. ■Materiality which Unicharm identified ・Use of water resources ・Response to climate change ・Disclosure of environmental ・Treatment of drainage ・CO2 reduction targets with targets ・Management situation suppliers ・Increased waste ・Reduction of packaging materials ・Correlation with SDGs ・Recycling response ・Recycling ・Procurement of sustainable materials ・Proper management of hazardous ・Legally compliant processing of ・Supplier selection and substances waste assessment results ・Emissions of VOC gases ・Ratio of environmentally-friendly ・Collaboration with suppliers ・Labeling of carbon footprint products ・Promotion system and ・Scenarios for science-based governance targets ・Environmental impact studies of ・Emissions of NOx and SOx ・Accuracy of non-financial data plant sites ・Compliance with environmental ・Percentage of third party ・Protection and restoration of laws and regulations certification IUCN red list species ・Targets for renewable energy ■ Eco Plan 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Implementation items Evaluation results results results results targets results targets ■Recovery technologies for Starting with Cycle model Cycle model Established Cycle model Full-scale (1) used disposable diapers local Start testing operation operation ○ technologies establishment operations Reduction (Japan) governments start start of waste ■Recycling of product loss 4,000 2,000 tons 2,600 tons 2,600 tons 4,300 tons 4,000 tons 6,000 tons ○ (Overseas) tons ■Third party certification of paper and pulp suppliers 82% 80% 94% 95% 97% 95% × 100% (2) (Japan) Procurement ■Third party certification of of sustainable paper and pulp suppliers ― 84% 87% 90% 92% 95% ○ 100% materials (Overseas) ■Third party certification of Start of 0% Ascertained 2% 10% 31% ○ 100% palm oil suppliers (Japan) investigation ■Environmentally-Friendly 72% 78% 80% 86% 93% 89% × 100% Products (Japan) ■Products with the Eco 50% 56% 58% 66% 60% 66% ○ 60% Charming label (Japan) Operation ■Products with the Eco Understanding Operation Operation Operation 0% Survey Start ○ (3) Charming label (Overseas) Completion Start Start Start Delay Measures for climate ■CO2 emissions base unit change during manufacturing Base year -2.4% -4% -6% -8% -8% ○ -10% compared to 2015 (Japan) ■CO2 emissions base unit during manufacturing Base year ― -3% -6% -8% -8% ○ -10% compared to 2015 (Overseas) ■Collection of overseas site 73% 77% 81% 83% 85% 88% ○ 80% data (compared to sales) (1) Regarding reduction of waste, the above assessment was made because in 2019 we started verification testing and realized the planned implementation in the City of Shibushi and we were able to convert 6,000t/year of product loss generated during the manufacturing stage into cat continence care products, representing achievement of the planned goals. (2) Regarding procurement of sustainable materials, with respect to paper pulp within Japan, the percentage remained at around the same level as in the previous year representing a failure to achieve the planned target; overseas, however, switching over to sustainable paper pulp through collaboration with suppliers enabled us to achieve the planned target, bringing the percentage up to roughly the same level as in Japan. With regard to palm oil, the above assessment was made because of a successful switch over to using the Mass Balance (MB) model, with approximately 30% of all palm oil used being RSPO certified. 36 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management (3) Regarding measures against climate change, although production of environmentally-friendly products has increased, there were still some product items left with respect to which progress in switching over to environmentally-friendly product specifications has been limited, and the overall objectives have not yet been met. With regard to the percentage of Eco Charming products, within Japan, the plan had been realized as of 2018 ahead of schedule and related operations had already begun overseas so, overall, the plan had been successfully implemented. The above assessment was made because we had achieved our target of reducing CO2 emissions intensity at the manufacturing stage and production locations that have received third-party certification now account for 88% of the company's total sales. * With regard to those items where the target for 2020 has already been achieved (including product loss recycling amount, Eco Charming product ratio and sales ratio based on data collection at overseas production sites), we are continuing to promote further efforts to surpass the performance realized in 2019. Please see CSR Key Topic 3 for more details about our initiatives on recycling systems for disposable diapers. Meetings with stakeholders to exchange views during the implementation process of “Eco Plan 2030” Holding meetings to exchange opinions on environmental activities With the aim of correctly identifying key environmental issues and using this knowledge effectively in our business activities, in April 2019, we held a meeting to exchange ideas with WWF Japan. Four WWF Japan officials – Mr. Sadayoshi Tobai, Conservation Director; Mr. Yosuke Ikehara, Climate and Energy Project Leader, Mr. Yukihiro Misawa, Plastics Policy Manager with WWF Japan's Seafood Markets Group and Ms. Chiaki Furusawa of WWF Japan's Forest Program – attended the meeting, together with several managers from Unicharm's Marketing and CSR divisions. The meeting participants from WWF Japan noted that “before setting and disclosing environmental goals for 2030, it is important to first outline the company's vision for where it wants to be in 2050. After having established this ‘2050 Vision’, the company must then start to think about what it needs to achieve by 2030 in the process of realizing this overarching vision. In light of Unicharm's business areas, the three main issues that Unicharm ought to focus on would include: (1) plastic waste pollution, (2) response to climate change and (3) sustainable procurement of forest resources”. Following on from this suggestion, the WWF Japan officials pointed out some concrete steps that Unicharm could take to address these issues. Firstly, in regard to “plastic waste pollution,” the WWF Japan officials praised the “used disposable diaper recycling project” that Unicharm has been implementing. They also recommended that Unicharm should work to reduce the quantity of materials consumed and make effective use of recycled materials by following the “3Rs” (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) in the correct order when addressing the issue of plastic waste. In addition, they suggested that: “Unicharm could consider adopting the ‘5Rs’ by adding ‘Refuse’ and ‘Replace’ to the existing ‘3Rs’ and should work steadily to achieve progress in this area by focusing on what can be done now. Unicharm should also proactively disclose information that makes it possible to monitor the status of implementation of the measures taken by the company.” Secondly, in regard to measures taken to “respond to climate change”, the WWF Japan officials gave a positive evaluation of Unicharm's disclosure of Scope 3 CO2 emission data covering the entire supply chain which we have been undertaking for some years now and of us becoming the 17th company in Japan to establish certified “Science Based Targets (SBT)”, etc. They also put forward the following suggestions: “Over the last 20 years, the amount of economic damage caused by torrential rains, floods, droughts, etc. has doubled. Today, climate change is an issue that affects the whole of society. Given this situation, if every company announces initiatives aimed at helping to realize a “Net Zero CO2 Emissions Society by 2050” and lobbies government agencies and electric power providers to work towards this goal too, then this would speed up the creation of a “Renewable Energy Society” with dramatically reduced CO2 emissions. We hope that Unicharm will also take proactive steps in this regard.” Finally, in regard to “sustainable procurement of forest resources”, the WWF Japan officials praised Unicharm for switching over to the use of third-party certified forest products and palm oil and for implementing appropriate disclosure in relation to these activities. They also offered the following suggestions: “Even in the case of certified forest products, there may still be problems depending on exactly where the materials are produced. It would advisable to implement thorough surveys of producer areas along with disclosure of relevant information. We also hope that Unicharm can expand its utilization of certified materials by implementing activities that follow the guidelines relating not only to raw materials using in product manufacturing, but also those relating to forest products used in the manufacturing of office furniture, handout materials, etc.” 37 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management ■Environmental Materiality Identified by Unicharm in Relation to the Period Leading up to 2030 ・Effective utilization of water ・Effective utilization of forest ・Tackling the problem of plastic resources resources waste polluting the oceans ・Promotion of environmentally・Responding to climate change friendly products ・Responding to environmental air ・Promoting measures to safeguard ・Promoting the recycling society pollution marine resources ・Enhancing the quality of (NOx・SOx) information disclosure ・Compliance with laws and ・Promoting efficient production ・Appropriate management of regulations activities chemical substances ■Eco Plan 2030 Environmental Baseline 2030 2050 Implementation items issues year targets vision Reducing usage in relation to packaging Per unit of sales 2016 materials –30% Sale of products that contain no 10 stock-keeping units ― Responding to petroleum-derived plastic (SKU) or more sold Realizing a new society the problem of Raising awareness about proper disposal Rolled out at all local plastic waste ― with “zero” plastic waste of used products management units (LMU) In principle, reduced to Eliminating the use of plastic in sales ― zero at all local promotional items management units (LMU) Reducing CO2 emissions associated with Per unit of sales 2016 raw materials procurement –17% Responding to Per unit of sales Realizing a society with net Reducing CO2 emissions in manufacturing 2016 climate change –34% “zero” CO2 emissions Reducing CO2 emissions associated with Per unit of sales 2016 disposal of used products –26% Ensuring traceability to pulp and palm oil ― Completed Not production locations (country/region) contributing to Expanding the use of certified pulp (PEFC forest ― 100% Realizing a society with and CoC certified) “zero” forest destruction destruction Expanding the use of certified palm oil related to the purchasing of (response to ― 100% timber procurement(RSPO certified) related issues) Promoting the recycling of disposable Rolled out in at least 10 ― diapers municipalities (Unicharm's targets from a coordinated ESG perspective are scheduled to be announced in the autumn of 2020) Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective As a manufacturer of consumer products, our company uses resources in various aspects of its business activities. As a responsible manufacturer that utilizes resources and runs businesses, we engage in efforts to improve the environment at every stage of the supply chain through all of our business activities, from the procurement of materials to manufacturing, transport and disposal of products after use. Emissions from major production bases in Japan total 23,800 tons over 99% of which were recycled. 38 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Environmental Management ■Energy/material flow from a lifecycle perspective Third-party assurance In order to increase the reliability of non-financial data, we are receiving third-party assurance from PwC Sustainability LLC, based on ISAE3000/3410. ■ In the above diagram, the mark indicates locations with third-party assurance. Please see here regarding third-party assurance Sites receiving third-party assurance: (88% of sales) All business locations inside Japan (however, Headquarters, Sales Offices and Unicharm Mölnlycke have assurances only for fuel, electricity and CO2) Unicharm Corporation (Sales Offices, Development, Itami Factory, Mie Factory and Saitama Factory) Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. (Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, Shikoku Factory and Kyushu Factory) Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven (Manufacturing Group 1 and Manufacturing Group 2) Unicharm Mölnlycke, Uni Care, Peparlet Co., Ltd. and Kinsei Products Co., Ltd. Overseas manufacturing sites (manufacturing locations only) China: Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. (Shanghai Factory, Tianjin Factory and Jiangsu Factory), Unicharm Nonwoven Tianjin, Unicharm Packaging Materials (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Indonesia: PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Karawang Factory and Surabaya Factory), PT Uni-Charm Nonwoven Indonesia Thailand: Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Bangkok Factory) India: Unicharm India (Sri Factory, Ahmedabad Factory) Taiwan-Greater China: Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Junan Factory) Vietnam: Diana Unicharm Joint Stock Company Vietnam (Bac Ninh Factory) USA: The Hartz Mountain Corporation (Pleasant Plain manufacturing facility) Policies and standards: Aggregation based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information in accordance with relevant environmental laws and regulations including the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Notes: 1. CO2 emissions in Japan are calculated based on the 2018 emission factors under the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. The overseas portion is calculated based on the GHG Protocol Ver. 4.8. (0.734 for China, 0.809 for Indonesia, 0.500 for Thailand, 0.926 for India, 0.8 for Taiwan-Greater China, 0.351 for Vietnam) and the published factors disclosed on electricity company website for the U.S. In terms of shipping, we have statistics only for inside Japan. 2. Discharge includes industrial waste, general waste from offices, and recyclables. 3. Figures estimated from incinerator operations at the Fukushima Factory are used for the volume of thermal recycle of incinerated waste materials on premises. ■ 4. Scope 3 emissions third-party assurance within Japan is denoted using the symbol. For more information about Scope 3 emissions third-party assurance, see here. 39 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change Climate Change Our basic approach and strategy Background and approach of TCFD initiatives The impact of climate change which is increasing every year is becoming more serious and is being recognized as the biggest risk in human history by the international community. Under the Paris Agreement reached at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) in December 2015, it was agreed to keep the increase in global average temperature to well below 2℃ above the pre-Industrial Revolution level. The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) disclosed its final report in June 2017 as recommendations to encourage disclosure of climate-related financial information by corporations to allow investors to make appropriate investment decisions. The content of the report is globally recognized as an important framework for disclosure of information on climate change. Under TCFD, corporations need to consider the risks and opportunities of climate change and make disclosures in the areas of “Governance,” “Strategy,” “Risk Management,” and “Metrics and Targets.” “Strategy” also requires disclosure of results of analysis including climate scenarios that keep the increase in temperature to below 2℃. Unicharm recognizes that climate change is an issue to be worked on as a priority. Therefore, in order to contribute to achieving the 2℃ scenario in the Paris Agreement, we received certification under the Science-Based Targets (SBT) initiative for our CO2 reduction plans up to 2050 in June 2018. We also expressed our endorsement of TCFD in May 2019 and will continue to report in accordance with the TCFD framework going forward. To achieve a “zero-CO2 emissions society by 2050,” top management will take the lead on setting targets and managing progress which each and every member of the Group will pursue through business activities. As well as striving to reduce CO2 emissions associated with the diverse business activities of our own company, we will continue actively encouraging all those involved in the supply chain to reduce emissions throughout the product life cycle. We will also continue to pursue these activities in partnership with all stakeholders. Management structure Governance The Representative Director is responsible for evaluating risks and opportunities related to climate change and for setting and formulating CO2 reduction targets. The ESG Committee chaired by the Representative Director and with the inside directors and main executive officers as the members meets four times a year, once in each quarter, to report and deliberate on environmental activities overall including climate change, the response to social issues and the important issues for governance. Specific plans are reported based on “Eco Plan 2020” up until 2019 and “Eco Plan 2030” from 2020 under the recommendations of the TCFD. Strategy Unicharm regards risks and opportunities related to climate change as important elements in business strategy. In particular, researchers have pointed out that the Asian region, where our company focuses its business activities, will be affected most if climate change mitigation and adaptation measures are not implemented. In one example, a joint research team from Stanford University and the University of California in the United States pointed to this impact in a report of research results published in the “MIT Technology Review” in 2017. Given this, in 2018, Unicharm independently estimated the financial impact of energy based on the “450 Scenario” of the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the operational impact due to physical risk based on the “RCP2.6 Scenario” of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). When planning the scenarios, we selected two axes with high levels of uncertainty, “Relationships between nations” in which there is ongoing international cooperation or there is no international cooperation as each country follows its own country first policy “Policy and human awareness” in which people's environmental awareness increases with the impact of climate change and environmental policies are implemented or economic growth is prioritized over the environment in both people's awareness and policy and drew up four different scenarios (important driving forces considered to have a major impact on the scenarios are assumed to be women's participation, urban concentration, waste issues, ESG investment, use of renewable 40 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change energy, etc.) From these, we have selected three scenarios which are the “2℃ Scenario”, “Greater than 2℃ Scenario” and “Ego-System Economy First Scenario” and examined the challenges for 2030/2050 in each scenario. 2℃ Scenario Prices of forest-derived raw materials will rise moderately and energy prices will rise sharply. The GDP of the Asian region will grow moderately and Unicharm's ROE will stay at current position and we will be able to maintain CAGR 7%. Markets will also expand over the ultra-long term and our performance will also increase (sustainable growth and expansion outside of Asia). Greater than 2℃ Scenario: Prices of forest-derived raw materials will rise quickly, but increases in energy prices will be curbed. Costs will rise relatively, but GDP growth in the Asian region will also accelerate and Unicharm's ROE will also rise with upturn in CAGR 7%. Over the ultra-long term, the market will contract due to extreme weather (not sustainable). Ego-System Economy First Scenario: Climate change will be further amplified, so restrictions will be imposed on procurement of forest-derived raw materials. However, there will be economic development with increases in both sales prices and volumes. Over the ultra-long term, major revisions of business strategy will be required due to very extreme weather. Global warming not only impacts the global environment, but also deeply affects Unicharm's business. Unicharm will continue to work in partnership with diverse stakeholders to implement actions in compliance with the Paris Agreement. We believe that our “technology for recycling used disposable diapers” can be more widely used in the face of severer global warming. We will continue contributing to forest protection and decarbonization by means of this technology. Risk Management Unicharm has positioned appropriately identifying various risks, including climate change, and developing and operating a comprehensive management system for risks, including prevention of such risks, minimization of their impact and prevention of their recurrence, as an important management theme. Therefore, as well as developing and implementing a Group-wide risk management system, we continually review and improve the ESG system*. The Board of Directors regularly analyzes and evaluates the various risks surrounding the Group, gives directions within the company to take measures as necessary and supervises improvements. The ESG Committee also analyzes and examines various important risks and implements improvements in partnership with business and functional divisions. In particular, as it is necessary to understand climate change risks from a long-term perspective, we are working to enhance organizational capacity to deal with high levels of uncertainty including the scenario planning described previously. * Please see Governance ＞ Risk Management 41 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change Metrics and Targets As stated previously, with regard to the setting of CO2 reduction targets, Unicharm received certification under the Science-Based Targets (SBT) initiative for our reduction plans up to 2050 in June 2018. To this end, we set specific long-term reduction targets for both “Scope 1” (direct emissions: own plants, offices, vehicles, etc.) and “Scope 2” (indirect emissions from energy sources: energy consumed by the Group such as electricity). As our management indicators, we will aim for a 90% reduction to Scope 1 (direct emissions: own plants, offices, CO2 vehicles, etc.) and a 30% reduction to Scope 2 (indirect emissions from energy sources: energy consumed by the Emissions Group such as electricity), both compared to 2016 by 2030. Based on the goals for 2020 established in the “Eco Plan 2020”, which was instituted in 2016, we are promoting activities for achieving annual 2% reductions to Scope 1 and 2, and, for Scope 3, we are aiming in our supply chain to reduce environmental impacts within the life cycle compared to the baseline figures of 2005 and for a 100% introduction of upgraded environmentally-friendly products. The percentages of life cycle CO2 emissions come, in the order of, approximately 47% from purchased materials under Scope 3, approximately 33% from disposal of products after use and approximately 11% from the manufacturing stage under Scope 1 and 2 (and 9% from other transport and business activities) (all figures are for Japan). For Scope 1 and 2, we carry out energy reduction working activities with the EMS activity promoters at each location four times a year, implement annual plans and check progress to plan. Regarding CO2 emissions from materials, which make up the major part of Scope 3, LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) is calculated for each material from the design stage and product designers consider measures for climate change from the standpoint of product function and CO2 emissions in consultation with ESG Committee members. Furthermore, at the Quality Policy Briefing Session held with suppliers in November 2017, we explained our CO2 emissions status and its importance and requested their cooperation. Please see also Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products ■Eco Plan 2020, goals and results of measures against climate change (from “Eco Plan 2020”) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Implementation items Evaluation results results results results targets results targets ■Environmentally-Friendly 72% 78% 80% 86% 93% 89% × 100% Products (Japan) ■Products with the Eco 50% 56% 58% 66% 60% 66% ○ 60% Charming label (Japan) Operation ■Products with the Eco Understanding Operation Operation Operation 0% Survey Start ○ Charming label (Overseas) Completion Start Start Start (3) Delay Measures for ■CO2 emissions base unit climate change during manufacturing Base year -2.4% -4% -6% -8% -8% ○ -10% compared to 2015 (Japan) ■CO2 emissions base unit during manufacturing compared to Base year ― -3% -6% -8% -8% ○ -10% 2015 (Overseas) ■Collection of overseas site 73% 77% 81% 83% 85% 88% ○ 80% data (compared to sales) Third party assurance In order to increase the reliability of non-financial data, we are receiving Third party assurance from PwC Sustainability LLC, based on ISAE3000/3410. Please see Environmental Management＞Energy/material flow from a lifecycle perspective Please see here regarding Third party assurance [Japan] CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain (overall picture of Scope 1 3) Our company (in Japan) estimates its CO2 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol*, the standard for calculating greenhouse gases (GHG) most widely used in the world today. The results of calculations following this standard indicate that 47% of Unicharm's emissions are from materials procurement and 33% from the disposal of products after use. We will continue to carry out activities aimed at establishing a low-carbon society. 42 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change * In 1998, the GHG Protocol Initiative was established as a meeting for developing standards of calculating and reporting GHG primarily by the World Resources Institute (WRI), an environmental NGO based in the United States, and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, comprising 200 multinational corporations. In 2001, version one of the GHG Protocol was established and since then this approach to GHG calculation has become a worldwide standard. ■CO2 emissions by Scope (Japan) Emissions Scope Category (thousand tonsCO2) Scope 1 25 Scope 2 141 Purchased goods and 1 771 services 2 Capital goods 84 Fueland energy3 2.7 related activities Upstream 4 transportation and 48 distribution Waste generated in 5 1.1 operations 6 Business travel 0.4 7 Employee commuting 1.8 Upstream leased 8 1.1 assets Scope 3 Downstream 9 transportation and not applicable distribution Downstream10 processing of not applicable products sold 11 During product use not applicable 12 End-of-life treatment of products sold ■ 531 Downstream leased 13 not applicable assets 14 Franchises not applicable 15 Investment not applicable Scope 3 total: 1,441 Scope 1, 2 and 3 total: 1,607 * The range of non-financial audit was expanded from Scope 1 and 2 to Scope 3 in fiscal 2019. Category that has received third party assurance was Aggregation range for Scope 3 includes: ■ marked. (Scope 3, Category 12) All business sites in Japan (fuel, electricity and CO2 only for sales offices and Unicharm Molnlycke K.K.) Unicharm (Headquarters site, Sales Offices, Development, Itami Factory, Mie Factory, Saitama Factory) Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. (Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, Shikoku Factory) Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Co., Ltd. (No. 1 Manufacturing Group, No. 2 Manufacturing Group), Cosmotec Corporation, Unicharm Molnlycke K.K., Unicare Corporation, Peparlet Co., Ltd., Kinsei Products Co., Ltd. Please see Environmental Management for Scope 1 and 2. [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from corporate activities (Scope 1 and 2) In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions were 25,000 tons for Scope 1 and 447,000 tons for Scope 2. Going forward, we will promote activities to lower CO2 emissions in each country and region and work to lower base unit per net sales. Please see Eco Plan 2020 for detailed targets. 43 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change Reducing CO2 emissions In fiscal 2019, we did not add any new business sites to the data range for non-financial audit. As a result of these activities, we were able to lower the base per unit and reduce emissions in countries within the existing data range. In each country, the results reflected the accomplishments of energy conservation initiatives, but we are continuing to promote emissions reduction activities. * Scope 2 emissions for fiscal 2018 were revised due to the revision of the electricity emissions coefficient. [Overseas] Achieving 100% renewable energy use at Brazil Factory (Scope 2) At the Brazil Factory, renewable energy provides all the electricity and we are promoting activities to reduce CO2 emissions. [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, Categories 1, 4 and 12) Our company has set a target ratio for environmentally-friendly products as ■Framework of environmentallyfriendly products part of its environmental goal and is working on product development by having an environmentally-friendly mind. Products with improved environmental performance are defined as “environmentally-friendly products”* based on an evaluation of whether environmental impacts are successfully reduced within the life cycle from the baseline figures of FY2005. Certification is based the LCA(Life Cycle Assessment) CO2 volume calculated by the ESG Division which is independent from development departments. In 2019, we achieved our goal of 89% environmentally-friendly products. In 2020, we will work to further increase this percentage. Additionally, Eco Charming products are a further evolved version of environmentally-friendly products defined as top tier products that help contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. As of today, a total of 161 items fulfilled this definition (certification was extended to pet care products and institutional-use products in addition to personal care products starting in 2017). Going forward, we will continue to introduce environmentally-friendly products as a means to lowering CO2 emissions of procured materials and reducing CO2 emissions during product disposal after use. * The scope is products sold in Japan (excludes products listed in general catalogues, OEM products and imported products). Please see Eco Plan 2020 for detailed targets. 44 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change ■An example of Eco Charming products ■ Example Sanitary Product Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Best-Fit Slim, a newly released product from the Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep brand of nighttime feminine napkins, features two-thirds the thickness of the ordinary Sofy Ultra-Sound-Sleep Guard. This means the product weighs 84.0% of conventional products and as a result CO2 emissions from manufacturing and distribution processes are 82.4% of usual. [Japan] Sharing importance of measures against climate change with suppliers (Scope 3 Category 1) At the Quality Policy Briefing Session held with suppliers in November 2017, we presented “Eco Plan 2020” as support for procurement of sustainable materials. 70% of CO2 emissions comes from materials procurement and from disposal of products after use. Once again, we came to realize the importance of tackling these together with suppliers. Going forward, we will require cooperation in introducing environmentally-friendly products. [Japan and overseas] Initiatives to reduce waste at production sites (Scope 3 Category 5) At our overseas subsidiary in Thailand, we installed facilities to crush out-of-scope products from the production process, with more than 99% of the waste generated at the site being recycled. In conjunction with domestic recycling activities, we have achieved zero landfill waste. Please see CSR Key Topic 3 on “Commercializing waste from factories to achieve zero emissions.” 45 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 in distribution and retail (Scope 3 Category 4 and 9) Unicharm Products is actively promoting initiatives to build a sustainable distribution system. Specifically, it has been working with customers to shorten transportation distances, reduce the volume of movement between production sites or warehouses, promote modal shift and enhance loading efficiency by making corrugated cardboard sizes smaller and streamlining pallet modules as well as other measures. The aforementioned initiatives not only make distribution more efficient, but are also effective for reducing CO2. In fact, we achieved CO2 emissions in FY2019 that were 98% compared with those in FY2018 (a reduction of 1,091 ton-CO2). Going forward, we will continue promoting further initiatives aimed at building a sustainable distribution system and reducing our environmental impact. Submission of White Logistics Movement voluntary action declaration In September 2019, Unicharm endorsed the “White Logistics Movement” advocated by Japan's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and submitted a voluntary action declaration. The White Logistics Movement aims to enhance productivity in truck transportation and create greater logistics efficiency while also looking to realize a “white” labor environment that makes work easier for female drivers and those over the age of 60. At the Kyushu Factory and Logistics Center, the first new such facility for 26 years, we have introduced automated warehousing and container loading robots with an eye on “smart logistics.” We are achieving “people-friendly logistics with enhanced productivity” through “automation and labor saving.” ■Details of initiatives in Unicharm's voluntary action declaration Initiative item Initiative details When we receive a request or consultation on logistics improvement from a supplier or Logistics improvement proposals and logistics company, we respond to the discussion sincerely and also make positive cooperation proposals ourselves. We strive to reduce the burden of cargo handling work and shorten work time by using Use of pallets, etc. pallet transport. Advance provision of receiving and We work to increase ordering well in advance in partnership with suppliers. shipping information from shipper By promoting a shift from trucks to use of ferries, roll on/roll off ships and rail for long Modal shift to shipping and rail distance transportation, we are working to reduce environmental impact. Fuel surcharges We will continue operating fuel surcharges going forward. Expansion of production items between We are promoting the expansion of production items at each production site to reduce sites transportation between sites. Kyushu Factory and Logistics Center Acquisition of Eco Rail Mark Unicharm is promoting “modal shift” as an initiative to reduce CO2. As part of this, we have expanded environmentally-friendly rail transportation primarily for long-distance transport between Fukushima Factory and Shikoku Factory. In July 2019, we acquired the “Eco Rail Mark” corporate certification. Certification award ceremony Container bearing the logo mark 46 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change Received “Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award” at Green Logistics Partnership Conference, Excellent Logistics Commendation Program As an initiative to reduce CO2 by improving transportation efficiency, we are also promoting “collaboration with other companies” together with reducing the impact of retail store operations. In December 2019, the three-company initiative for the “joint delivery of storefront sales promotional materials” by Unicharm, Shiseido and Lion was recognized and received the “Minister of Economy, Trade & Industry Award,” the top award at “Green Logistics Partnership Conference, Excellent Logistics Commendation Program 2019” sponsored by Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport & Tourism and industry. Evaluated by CDP Japan 500* for disclosure of climate change information Unicharm cooperates with a survey of 500 companies selected for their inclusion in the FTSE Japan Index as part of its efforts to address CDP climate change. In fiscal 2019, Unicharm received a score of B. This indicates that the PDCA cycle for climate change is functioning at a high level to address our company's overall efforts. Unicharm was also recognized for moving forward with information disclosures to shareholders. Going forward, Unicharm will continue to carry out activities that are even more mindful of climate change. Please see also Supply Chain (Environment)＞Obtaining B rating in CDP forests program and Water Resources＞Obtaining Brating in CDP water program. * CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project): An international NGO that works to realize a sustainable society by conducting global surveys on the environment and by disclosing information Participation in Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) since its establishment The Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) was launched in Tokyo on July 6, 2018 and Unicharm has endorsed its declaration, “Joining the front line of the global push for decarbonization from Japan”, and has participated in the JCI. Unicharm will strive to achieve the COP21 Paris Agreement while collaborating with companies, local governments, organizations, NGOs and others that are working proactively on measures for climate change. [Japan] Utilization of SBT activities as a concrete climate change mitigation plan In order to draft concrete climate change mitigation plans, our company has endorsed SBT (Science-Based Targets), an international initiative, in May 2017 and uses the SDA tool (Ver. 8) to perform simulations up to 2050 and to draft reduction plans. In June 2018, in consultation with SBT, we received Japan's 17th certification for a plan that is aligned with the 2℃ target. [Japan] Commendation of initiatives aimed at establishing a low-carbon society “The Carbon-Free Challenge Cup” is a program for commending the daily activities of various organizations (schools, corporation, local governments, NPOs, etc.) for preventing global warming in an attempt to build a carbon-free society for the next generation. The program shares know-how and information about excellent initiatives taking place across Japan and fosters cooperation and motivation for further activities. The year 2020 marks the tenth year of the program. As a partner that advocates for the initiatives of “the Carbon-Free Challenge Cup,” in 2016, we established the “Unicharm Eco Charming Award for Excellence” to be presented to companies or organizations. 47 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Climate Change At “Carbon-Free Challenge Cup 2020,” after presentations by 28 finalists, the Unicharm Eco Charming Award was presented to “Realizing a Society that Builds a Rich Relationship between Humans and Nature” by Hyogo Prefectural Sumoto Industrial Senior High School. Hyogo Prefectural Sumoto Industrial Senior High School has been working on research into renewable energy utilization aimed at realizing a carbon-free society for nine years and striving to create sustainable systems. As part of the initiative, the school has installed 13 windmill-powered street lights and three water mill-powered street lights together with local residents. These activities have increased public awareness about the environment and Representative of Sumoto Industrial Senior High School presenting the activities report conserving energy. Unicharm selected the activities carried out by those at Hyogo Prefectural Sumoto Industrial Senior High School for the “Unicharm Eco Charming Award for Excellence” recognizing that they are contributing to the realization of a carbon-free society as well as providing a model case leading to the “realization of cohesive societies” for which Unicharm is working. The award winners from Sumoto Industrial Senior High School (center and right) [Japan] Introduction of SDGs-related activities at “EcoPro 2019” Unicharm exhibited at “EcoPro 2019” which was held at Tokyo Big Site from December 5 to 7, 2019 with the theme “Toward a Sustainable Society”. This year, we used the theme of “product life cycle with eco” for our exhibits and provided a summary of the environmental promotion activities in which the Unicharm Group engages alongside the product life cycle. We also featured individual panels for some of them. These included (1) the manufacturing method of Paper-sand®, (2) the use of renewable energy at the Jaguariuna Factory of Unicharm Do Brasil (Brazil), (3) tray mats that help to reduce food loss and (4) the recycling method for used disposable diapers. Unicharm Booth Thronged with many During the exhibition, more than 5,000 people, including children and Visitors students on their social studies field trips, visited Unicharm's booth to look at the panels and samples. Please see CSR Key Topic 3 for abovementioned exhibits (1), (3) and (4). 48 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization Our basic approach Many Unicharm products are consumables essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle. At the same time, our business development is closely related to the global environment through our use of natural resources and the generation of waste. Based on the above, we believe our role and responsibility in reducing environmental impact are significant and continue to expand with each passing year as our business grows. Therefore our company, in line with our Basic Environmental Policy and Eco Plan 2020, is striving for effective utilization of resources and to prevent pollution. The ESG Committee, chaired by the Representative Director, also meets four times a year to carry out PDCAs for achieving these goals by confirming progress on environmental activities, etc. Management structure Four times a year at the ESG Committee meeting chaired by the Representative Director, plans and progress on environmental activities, quality issues, social issues and other important governance matters are shared. Specific plans are reported using “Eco Plan 2020” as the baseline, in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) announced in June 2017. Pollution prevention activities and controls are carried out in accordance with environmental laws and regulations and ISO14001.Three types of environmental audits are implemented in order to maintain and improve the level and performance of activities and controls. (1) periodic audits in conformance with ISO14001-compliant environmental management systems; (2) Periodic audits focused on confirmation of compliance with laws and regulations (3) Onsite audits at industrial waste processing partners in order to confirm appropriate practices ■Eco Plan 2020, goals and results of reduction of waste (from “Eco Plan 2020”) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Implementation items Evaluation results results results results targets results targets Cycle Cycle ■Recovery technologies for Starting with Established Cycle model model model Full-scale (1) used disposable diapers local Start testing ○ technologies establishment operation operation operations Reduction (Japan) governments start start of waste ■Recycling of product loss 4,000 2,000 tons 2,600 tons 2,600 tons 4,300 tons 4,000 tons 6,000 tons ○ (Overseas) tons Waste disposal reduction and effective utilization of resources We promote waste disposal reduction and effective utilization of resources through activities focused on the following initiatives. ●Ongoing verification testing for recycling used disposable diapers Ongoing verification testing in the Shibushi City and Osaki Town, Kagoshima Prefecture ●Initiatives for not disposing of waste from factories externally, but to recycle it within the Unicharm Group Use of scraps produced during production of disposable diapers in Japan and overseas as the raw material for cat continence care products (Paper-sand®). 49 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization ●Aiming for achievement of zero emissions at the main production sites in Japan (four sites). We are contributing to CO2 reduction by reducing landfilling of industrial waste and shifting from thermal recycling to material recycling. Example: Reuse of paper tubes (paper cores from rolled materials) At the Unicharm Products Shikoku Chuo Factory, paper tubes were previously thermally recycled. We have achieved their reuse by returning them made of 100% paper to suppliers. We expect that 10 tons per year to be reused this way. ●For waste that absolutely must be discarded outside of the factories, search for waste processing suppliers who will practice the 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle) and will not place strain on the environment and consign the processing to them. Improve manufacturing quality and reduce waste generation Prioritize recycling over heat treatment Recycling rate In fiscal 2019, we continued to maintain the high recycling rate of over 99%.The number of other plants that have achieved zero emissions status by attaining a recycling rate of greater than 99% is also on the rise. Measures against airborne pollutants We are working to reduce NOx (nitrogen oxide) and SOx (sulfur oxide) emissions through means such as increasing operation efficiency for boilers and other equipment. 50 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization Protection of the ozone layer We manage CFCs in compliance with laws and regulations and conduct regular inspections in working to protect the ozone layer. ■Ozone depleting substances (Japan) Amount possessed Substance Business site Use (tons) Unicharm Products Shizuoka Factory 1.6 Halon Unicharm Products Shikoku Factories (Kagawa) 0.070 Fire retardant (Class 1) Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.00010 Unicharm Products Fukushima Factory 2.6 Unicharm Products Shizuoka Factory 3.6 Unicharm Products Kyushu Factory (Fukuoka) 2.3 HCFC Unicharm Products Shikoku Factories (Kagawa) 3.7 (Class 1) Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Co., Ltd. (Ehime/Kagawa) 0.65 Refrigerant Unicharm Pet Care Co., Ltd. (Hyogo/Mie/Saitama) 0.93 Peparlet Co., Ltd. (Shizuoka) 0.038 Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.86 CFC Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.0010 * Reported for company properties based on the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons [Korea] Introduction of biomass plastics in response to marine plastic problems Our local subsidiary in Korea, LG Unicharm, has begun an initiative to replace petrochemical plastics with biomass plastics for some sanitary napkin products with the aim of addressing plastic problems and reducing CO2 at disposal. These sanitary napkins use a bioresin backsheet film derived from sugar cane. By combining this backsheet with the organic cotton already being used, the amount of plantderived raw materials in these products has increased by 20%. [Japan] Participation in “Plastics Smart” Campaign organized by Ministry of the Environment of Japan Unicharm endorsed and participated in activities for the “Plastics Smart” campaign. The Ministry of the Environment of Japan launched the campaign in 2018 to support the implementation of initiatives through the cooperation of diverse bodies including corporations, local governments, individuals and NGOs aimed at solving the global problem of plastic pollution in the oceans. 51 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization [Japan] Introduction of activities to recycle plastic from factory waste Unicharm recycles plastic from the waste generated in our factories. We turn scraps (trim) generated in manufacturing processes into pellets for recycling* to promote the efficient use of plastic. * Please see CSR Key Topics 3 Initiative 2 Realizing the goal of “zero waste” by repurposing the waste generated by our factories on a commercial footing ■Introduction of “recycling factory waste into plastic,” Unicharm's initiative under the Plastics Smart campaign [Japan] Conclusion of an agreement with Ministry of the Environment of Japan as “Re-Style Partner Company” towards the building of a recycling-based society We have participated in the Ministry of the Environment of Japan-sponsored “Re-Style FES!” and endeavor to promote consumer “3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) activities” towards the building of a recycling-based society. Through these activities, we have signed an agreement as a “Re-Style Partner Company” and will continue to work with the Ministry of the The exhibition booth at the Participated in the 2019 Re-Style Environment of Japan to broader understanding and Ministry of the Environment of Partner Company signing ceremony the empathy of the public for “3R behaviors.” Japan-sponsored festival at in March 2019 Going forward, we will continue to work together AEON MALL Makuhari New City with the Ministry of the Environment of Japan to promote initiatives for building a recycling-based society. [Japan] Prevention of water pollution, soil contamination and offensive odor We strive to prevent pollution by management according to laws and regulations and voluntary standards. For water quality, we comply with the Water Quality Pollution Control Act and the Law Concerning Special Measures for Conservation of the Environment of Seto Inland Sea. To prevent soil contamination and offensive odor, we conduct periodic measurements according to voluntary standards. [Japan] Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemical substances (business waste) Unicharm has established measures to control its use of chemical substances that are harmful not only to people, but ecosystems as well. We have formulated guidelines and a dedicated department investigates toxicity and legal compliance. Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) storage situation A small amount of PCBs is stored at certain business sites awaiting processing for disposal. Compliance assessments on storage conditions are carried out regularly and no abnormalities were found. Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) substance management With regard to toluene, we ■PRTR substance management are gradually shifting to the Fiscal Toluene Ethylene oxide Dioxin use of toluene-free thinner. year (t/year) (kg/year) (mg-TEQ/year) 2017 281 4 0.0001 2018 283 4 0.0001 2019 272 4 0.0002 52 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Supply Chain (Environment) Supply Chain (Environment) Our basic approach and strategy Many of the products that Unicharm provides are consumables essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle which closely relates to the global environment through our use of resources and emission of waste. As we have expanded our operations globally centered on Asia, our role and responsibility for reducing our environmental impact has increased with each passing year. In addition, the paper and pulp which form the absorbent material contained in our mainstay products are produced from coniferous trees and the palm oil added in small quantities to pet food is produced in plantations in the tropics. For such forest-derived resources, we believe that it is important to use certified materials that take the needs of sustainability into account. Risk and Opportunity in the Supply Chain (Environment) We perceive that a risk for our company is reduced supply due to destruction of forests and depletion of water resources in the upstream processes of forest-derived resources (paper, pulp, palm oil, etc.). Therefore, we formulated the Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines in 2015 and the Sustainable Procurement Guidelines in 2017, and we are striving to reduce the risk by ensuring the implementation of these guidelines by our suppliers. On the other hand, we perceive that the opportunities for our company are reducing environmental impact and costs through low CO2 emission and energy-efficient resource procurement, reducing environmental impact and costs through reduction of waste and use of recycled resources and the marketing of products as environmentally-friendly to promote sales. We will not only promote in-house recycling but also improvements in the efficient use of resources and resource recycling in society as a whole. Management structure Four times a year at the ESG Committee meeting chaired by the Representative Director, plans and progress on environmental activities, quality issues, social issues and other important governance matters are shared. Specific plans are reported using “Eco Plan 2020” as the baseline, in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) announced in June 2017. Medium-Term Activity Targets We drafted Eco Plan 2020 in 2016 and, as a target for 2020, we have been implementing activities aimed at switching to certified sustainable materials for 100% of the paper and pulp we purchase in Japan and overseas and 100% of the palm oil we purchase for pet food. ■Eco Plan 2020, sustainable material procurement targets and results (from “Eco Plan 2020”) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Implementation items Evaluation results results results results targets results targets ■Third party certification of paper and pulp suppliers 82% 80% 94% 95% 97% 95% × 100% (2) (Japan) Procurement ■Third party certification of of sustainable paper and pulp suppliers ― 84% 87% 90% 92% 95% ○ 100% materials (Overseas) ■Third party certification of Start of 0% Ascertained 2% 10% 31% ○ 100% palm oil suppliers (Japan) investigation 53 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Supply Chain (Environment) Implementing environmental monitoring Evaluating new suppliers We conduct a questionnaire on the environment and supplier evaluations through the Procurement Department for new suppliers. In 2019, we evaluated two new suppliers. Evaluating existing suppliers We carry out evaluations from five points of view (consistency of quality, stable supply, safety, environmental impact and delivery) and, once every three years, give commendations based on the scorings for each of a supplier's activities. In 2019, we evaluated 16 suppliers and did not find any deviations from the guidelines. For the status of human rights and labor monitoring, please see Society > Supply Chain (Society) > Implementation of human rights and labor monitoring Formulating the Unicharm group sustainable procurement guidelines In October 2017, we formulated the Unicharm Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines setting out standards for environmental conservation with the aim of achieving sustainable procurement. Please see the Unicharm Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines for details. Providing suppliers with explanations of our policies In November 2017, we held a briefing session to disseminate our procurement policies and guidelines at the Quality Policy Briefing Session for 76 supplier companies. In addition to distributing and explaining guideline materials, we once again asked for compliance and called for cooperation with respect to the importance of responding to climate change, sustainable procurement and water risk throughout our entire supply chain. Please see Climate Change＞[Japan] Sharing the Importance of Climate Change Countermeasures with Suppliers (Scope 3 Category 1) Initiatives to promote “Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines” We formulated the Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines in July 2015. As a result of checks through questionnaires on the status of compliance distributed to 3 relevant suppliers in 2019, there were no companies in violation of the guidelines. Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines Introduction Recognizing the seriousness of the environmental issues that have emerged in recent years, including the impact of global warming and loss of biodiversity, etc., Unicharm Corporation aims to realize procurement of sustainable raw materials. Being fully aware that our business operations are dependent on natural resources, Unicharm supports procurement models that do not involve destruction of forests. We will also take an initiative for the current environmental issues as for plantation of palm oil. Strategy With climate change related risk having risen significantly in recent years, besides striving to reduce the burden placed on the environment, and to safeguard the environment, Unicharm is also making a serious effort to promote supply chain management that takes biodiversity into account, in line with the goal of building a sustainable society. Therefore, we are committed to environmental conservation through the operation of the Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines, which make the Basic Environmental Policy*1 and the Basic Policy of Procurement *2 more concrete with regards to biodiversity. 54 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Supply Chain (Environment) *1 Basic Environmental Policy: As a company that engages in the manufacture and sale of disposable products, we recognize the extent of our responsibility to the environment. Through our corporate activities we strive to create environmentally friendly products so that we may in the future pass on a beautiful earth to future generations. We are committed to providing goods and services that bring comfort, excitement, and joy to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between environmental conservation and economic growth. *2 Unicharm Basic Policy of Procurement (excerpt from environmental themes): (1) Value corporations which understand the importance of, and promote, environmental conservation in purchasing activities. (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in purchasing activities in an effort to achieve a recycling-oriented society. Objectives By 2020, Unicharm aims to be using raw materials that take the needs of sustainability into account, and recycled materials, for the paper and pulp used in the company's absorbent products. When using virgin pulp (as opposed to waste paper or recycled pulp), Unicharm will collaborate with suppliers to fully verify that no damage is caused to forest resources. Specifically, Unicharm will verify third-party certified raw materials, such as FSC and PEFC, and certificates of origin confirming that materials do not come from High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF) and High Carbon Stock Forests (HCSF). Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) activities, and is striving to promote the utilization of sustainable forest resources. Action Guideline 1. Giving priority to the use of waste paper, recycled pulp, and mill broke (paper trimmings and scrap generated during the paper manufacturing process). 2. Prioritizing the use of forest resources certified by reputable third parties such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC). 3. In the case of forest resources for which third-party certification is not available, certificates of origin, tags etc. are used to verify that the resources in question are not logged from High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF) or High Carbon Stock Forests (HCSF); Unicharm strives to promote the creation of supply chains which ensure that: (In regard to environmental issues): There is a guarantee that no damage is caused to forests; (In regard to social issues): The human rights of workers and indigenous residents are protected; (In regard to compliance): Local laws and regulations are respected and complied with. Terms FSC®：Forest Stewardship Council® https://jp.fsc.org/jp-jp PEFC：Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes http://www.sgec-pefcj.jp HCVF：High Conservation Value Forests HCSF：High Carbon Stock Forests JBIB：Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity http://jbib.org/ Promoting environmentally-friendly supply chain management Amid mounting climate change risk in recent years, Unicharm has been ■Percentage of Sustainable Materials striving to reduce its environmental impact and to conserve the environment Certified by Third-Parties including with the aim of building a sustainable society. We have also been promoting FSC® supply chain management that gives consideration to the needs of biodiversity. By 2020, Unicharm aims to switch to recycled paper or certified sustainable forest-derived products for the paper and pulp used in the company's absorbent products. We have also instructed our suppliers not to use raw materials sourced from High Conservation Value Forests (HCVFs), which have a significant impact on biodiversity, and High Carbon Stock Forests (HCSFs). Starting in 2016, we expanded the scope of activities for the procurement of sustainable materials to include local overseas suppliers. Please see Eco Plan 2020 for detailed targets 55 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Supply Chain (Environment) Also, we became a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil in 2017 and began collecting information and establishing traceability aimed at sustainable procurement given our focus on environmental issues directly related to palm oil. Please see Biodiversity > Usage of third-party certified sustainable palm oil for 2019 initiatives related to palm oil. Please see Unicharm's progress from the following URL. www.rspo.org Confirming the origin of paper and pulp Pulp, which is mainly used as an absorbent, is made of conifers in FM-certified forests native to North and South America. The tissue enclosing the absorbent is made of wood from FM-certified forests in North America, China and Indonesia. Vancouver declaration to promote the FSC® and SDGs Following multiple rounds of open discussion with FSC® Japan, Unicharm stated its endorsement of the Vancouver Declaration on October 12, 2017, and we are committed to the expansion of FSC®-certified materials. The logos of 57 companies (including 12 in Japan) that have endorsed the Vancouver Declaration can been seen at SUPPORTERS OF THE VANCOUVER DECLARATION Obtaining a B rating in CDP* forests program Unicharm supports efforts to address the CDP forests program and cooperates with a survey of companies. In 2019, Unicharm received a B rating. This indicates that the PDCA cycle for forest-derived resources is functioning at a high level company-wide and that Unicharm was recognized for moving forward with information disclosures to stakeholders. Going forward, Unicharm will continue to carry out activities that are even more mindful of biodiversity. Please see Climate Change＞Evaluated by CDP Japan 500 for disclosure of climate change information and Water Resources ＞ B-Rating in CDP Water Program * Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): An international NGO that works to realize a sustainable society by conducting global surveys on the environment and by disclosing information 56 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Biodiversity Biodiversity Our basic approach and strategy Many Unicharm products and services are essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle, but because providing them is closely related to the global environment through the use of resources and the generation of waste, we recognize that there is a strong connection to biodiversity. By understanding the effects of business activities on biodiversity, we strive to promote sustainable business development and resource use that leads to a “future society in harmony with nature.” Particularly for pulp and other forest resources which we use in large amounts, we procure materials from managed forests, eliminate the use of illegally logged timber and strive to protect the rights of local residents and workers to contribute to the “mainstreaming of biodiversity.” Risk and Opportunity in Biodiversity Our risks are (1) procurement of resources could become unstable and capacity utilization rate could decline or that procurement costs could become unstable due to negative impacts on biodiversity that occurs when procuring resources (particularly paper pulp, palm oil and agricultural products); and (2) the danger that due to the impact on biodiversity that occurs during operations at our sites, costs may be incurred and operations may be suspended for the restoration of sites to their original condition and consumers may be reluctant to buy our products. On the other hand, in terms of our opportunities, we expect that (1) the proactive utilization of certified sustainable materials will lead to stable supply of materials and reduction of costs; and (2) sales will expand due to the supply of products that take the needs of biodiversity into consideration in collaboration with retailers. Management structure Four times a year at the ESG Committee meeting chaired by the Representative Director, plans and progress on environmental activities, quality issues, social issues and other important governance matters are shared. Specific plans are reported using “Eco Plan 2020” as the baseline, in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) announced in June 2017. We identify and review biodiversity problems and materiality through exchanges of opinions with outside experts to formulate issues and set indicators for our activities. In Eco Plan 2020, we are promoting a switch to third-party certified raw materials the sustainability of which has been assured in collaboration between the ESG Department, the Global Research & Development Division, the Procurement Department and procurement at overseas sites. We report progress to the ESG Committee as well as implementing disclosure on our corporate website. ■Eco Plan 2020 Sustainable Material Procurement Targets and Results (Excerpt from Eco Plan 2020) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Implementation items Evaluation results results results results targets results targets ■Third party certification of paper and pulp suppliers 82% 80% 94% 95% 97% 95% × 100% (2) (Japan) Procurement ■Third party certification of of sustainable paper and pulp suppliers ― 84% 87% 90% 92% 95% ○ 100% materials (Overseas) ■Third party certification of Start of 0% Ascertained 2% 10% 31% ○ 100% palm oil suppliers (Japan) investigation We also verify the management of temporary industrial waste storage facilities and processors and measure emissions and wastewater in order to minimize the impact on manufacturing-based sites. 57 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Biodiversity Biodiversity initiatives Opinion Exchange Session with Experts In April 2019, we held a dialogue with WWF on important medium-to-long-term social issues faced by our company. We received extensive opinions on climate change (energy conservation, renewable energy, carbon pricing, etc.), plastics pollution as natural capital (the current situation and future development) and deforestation (the situation for paper/pulp, palm oil, etc. and future development). We have been making preparations to tie in these opinions to our medium-to-long-term goals. With regard to deforestation in particular, we received extensive opinions for preventing deforestation, such as expanding the scope of our policies and guidelines, and on the importance of investigating the origins of certified forest materials and disclosing the results. Opinion Exchange Sessions with Other Experts In 2018, Unicharm also held opinion exchange sessions with the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), an NGO; the Global Environmental Forum (GEF); and Amundi Japan, Ltd. and Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. in the Ministry of the Environment of Japan's Environmental Reporting Platform Development Pilot Project. As a company that uses forest resources, we will continue promoting highly transparent sustainable activities while obtaining information from NGOs and NPOs about local circumstances and forming partnerships to contribute to the achievement of targets. Initiatives of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) Unicharm supports the philosophy of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) (Chair: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company, Limited) and has participated as a member of the network since 2009. Promoting use of sustainable materials certified by third parties including the FSC® The percentage of sustainable paper pulp with certification by third parties, ■Percentage of Sustainable Materials including the FSC®, PEFC and SFI, out of the paper pulp used for Unicharm Certified by Third-Parties including FSC® products is as below. FSC®-certified paper initiative We have also introduced FSC®-certified products for some product cartons and cardboard. 58 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Biodiversity Initiatives to raise awareness of FSC® certification (support for Forest Week) Unicharm works with Forest Stewardship Council® Japan (FSC® Japan) to raise awareness of the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), an international forest certification system. We supported “FSC® Forest Week 2019 ‘Hug Forests!’” held July 20 – September 30, 2019. “FSC® Forest Week” is an awareness-raising campaign held by FSC® Japan. This campaign works to communicate the wise use of forest bounties and the importance of choosing FSC®-certified products to protect forests. The aim is to increase consumer awareness of FSC® certification and spread awareness that “choosing to select FSC®-certified products” is a method of forest conservation that everyone can do. Usage of third-party certified sustainable palm oil In 2019, Unicharm began expanding its use of RSPO-certified palm oil based on the mass-balance system*, under which we used 32.8 tons. Going forward, Unicharm will continue sustainable procurement activities while confirming quality and procurement routes to switch all our palm oil purchases to RSPO-certified oil. * Mass-balance system: A certification model in which certified oil produced at certified farms is mixed with other uncertified oil during the distribution process. Although the certified oil physically contains uncertified oil, the certified farms and the amount of certified oil purchased are guaranteed. Waste management Waste emissions volume is reported in the Preventing Pollution and Utilizing Resources section. Water system emission monitoring results There were no violations of laws and regulations or in-house standards. The measurement results for COD and BOD are reported in detail in the Site Data section. Atmospheric emission monitoring results Atmospheric emissions are reported in the Preventing Pollution and Effectively Utilizing Resources section. 59 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Water Resources Water Resources Our basic approach and strategy Many Unicharm products are consumables essential to a clean and healthy lifestyle. At the same time, our business development is closely related to the global environment through the use of natural resources and the generation of waste. Based on the above, we believe our role and responsibility in reducing environmental impact are significant and continue to expand with each passing year as our business grows. With regard to water usage, we believe that it is essential to properly understand the local situation where each of our production sites is located and utilize limited water resources as effectively as possible. We are also implementing efforts to reduce water usage by 1% on a yearly basis. Risk and Opportunity in Water Resources We perceive there is a risk of a decline in operating capacity due to a destabilization of supply of forest-derived resources (paper, pulp, etc.) resulting from the depletion of water resources. We conducted a medium-to-long term water risk assessment using the Aqueduct Overall Water Risk map (Aqueduct), a tool of the World Resources Institute (WRI), for suppliers operating in particularly high-risk river basins and requested them to thoroughly manage water resources and work to alleviate the risk. On the other hand, we perceive an opportunity for our company is the fact that our products do not use water at the time of use and disposal. The strengths of our products are demonstrated in areas with droughts and disaster areas where lifeline services have not been established. We will implement activities to promote purchases by actively engaging in such settings. Management structure Four times a year at the ESG Committee meeting chaired by the Representative Director, plans and progress on environmental activities, quality issues, social issues and other important governance matters are shared. Specific plans are reported using “Eco Plan 2020” as the baseline, in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) announced in June 2017. Identifying and Responding to Water Risk Using Aqueduct Unicharm's water usage for in-house processes consists of (1) approximately 60% in the manufacturing division for tissue which makes up absorbent materials (90% water recycling achieved in the applicable processes); and (2) approximately 25% in the pet food production division, with use of cooling water at other sites (all in Japan). A decline in operating capacity due to a shortage of water has not occurred at the aforementioned sites in the past 20 years. According to our Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) throughout the entire supply chain, water usage for the procurement of materials has increased. We recognize that it is important to assess water resource usage in collaboration with local areas to continue these businesses. Going forward, we will continue to implement medium-to-long term water risk analysis using Aqueduct from the perspectives of assessing the current risk and studying the future risk. The results of the analysis in 2017 showed that the current water risk is either medium – high (2 – 3) or low – medium (1 – 2). The results also showed that there is an extremely high possibility of water stress from 2030 onward. The Non-woven Fabric Manufacturing Division in Indonesia which has a medium-high (2 – 3) water risk achieved about 70% water circulation and regularly reports water discharge volume and quality (tested value) to the local government. 60 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Water Resources Reducing water usage We were able to achieve a year-on-year reduction of about 4% in fiscal 2019, exceeding our original target of 1% due to the results of reduction efforts at each site. ■Changes in water usage Unit: thousand tons 2018 results 2019 results 2020 targets Total water intake 6,008 5,768 5,710 Domestic (Japan) water intake 5,082 4,899 4,850 All regions 5,082 4,899 4,850 Surface water (rivers, lakes, 159 151 150 Water ponds) resource Groundwater 1,920 1,966 1,945 intake Other water 3,003 2,782 2,755 sources Of these, locations that have specified facilities under the 3,413 3,201 3,170 Water Pollution Prevention Act Surface water (rivers, lakes, 7 8 8 Water ponds) resource Groundwater 403 411 407 intake Other water 3,003 2,782 2,755 sources Overseas* water intake 926 869 860 Applicable regions 926 869 860 Surface water (rivers, lakes, 926 869 860 Water ponds) resource Groundwater 0 0 0 intake Other water 0 0 0 sources Of these, areas with high water 516 454 450 stress Surface water (rivers, lakes, 516 454 450 Water ponds) resource Groundwater 0 0 0 intake Other water 0 0 0 sources *The applicable scope of “overseas” here is Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and the United States. Water quality, soil contamination and offensive odor Water quality is evaluated regularly for conformity to Unicharm's proprietary standards and the provisions of relevant laws and regulations. In 2019, there were no violations of the company's proprietary standards or relevant laws and regulations. In addition, applicable factories are providing legally required reports to the government as required. There were no accidents linked to soil contamination or offensive odor. Details regarding biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) are reported in the Site Data section. 61 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Water Resources Wastewater and water usage Unicharm carries out tertiary treatment before discharging wastewater with the aim of improving water quality to meet government stipulated wastewater treatment standards (water quality at each site is stated in Site Data). We measure the volume of wastewater at some sites, and overall reporting consists of water withdrawal = wastewater volume + consumption volume + product consumption (GRI 303-4 and 5). Wastewater is primarily generated in the tissue manufacturing process and the pet food manufacturing process. Water usage is due to the paper sand® manufacturing process and evaporation of cooling water at factories. In 2019, the Unicharm Group generated 3.98 million tons of wastewater and steam. Obtaining a Brating in CDP* water program Unicharm supports CDP efforts for water conservation and cooperates with its survey. Five hundred companies selected from the FTSE Japan Index participate in this survey. In 2019, Unicharm received a Brating. This indicated that our company-wide management initiatives on water have been recognized. Going forward, Unicharm will use the rating to clarify issues and continue to carry out activities that are even more mindful of water resources. Please see Climate Change＞Evaluated by CDP Japan 500 for disclosure of climate change information and Supply Chain (Environment) ＞Obtaining a B Rating in CDP Forests Program. * Carbon Disclosure Project: An international NGO that works to realize a sustainable society by conducting global surveys on the environment and by disclosing information 62 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Activity Results Activity Results Addressing global warming and energy saving measures Energy saving measures In fiscal 2019, no new offices were added to the scope of non-financial audit data we disclose. Total energy usage increased in some countries (India, Indonesia). We were able to improve energy usage intensity. We will continue promoting energysaving measures and adding sites for which we disclose environmental information. Reducing CO2 emissions In fiscal 2019, no new offices were added to the scope of non-financial audit data we disclose. In terms of our activities, we were able to decrease our CO2 emissions intensity. The decrease is the result of energy conservation efforts in each country and region, and we will continue to promote activities to lower CO2 emissions. 63 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Activity Results Promoting the effective use of resources and recycling Reducing water usage We were able to achieve a year-onyear reduction of about 4% in fiscal 2019, exceeding our original target of 1% because of reduction efforts at each site. Waste disposal volume In fiscal 2019, no new offices were added to the scope of financial audit data we disclose. Our efforts mainly at overseas plants to utilize waste that used to be disposed of by external contractors as a material in cat excretion care products paid off and total waste disposal volume increased but waste intensity is on a downward trend. Recycling rate In fiscal 2019, we continued to maintain the high recycling rate of over 99%. The number of other plants that have achieved zero emissions status by attaining a recycling rate of greater than 99% is also on the rise. 64 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Activity Results Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemical substances Airborne pollutants We are working to reduce NOX (nitrogen oxide) and SOX (sulfur oxide) emissions through means such as increasing operation efficiency for boilers and other equipment. Ozone depleting substances (Japan) We manage CFCs in compliance with laws and regulations and conduct regular inspections in working to protect the ozone layer. Amount possessed Substance Business site Use (tons) Unicharm Products Shizuoka Factory 1.6 Halon Unicharm Products Shikoku Factories (Kagawa) 0.070 Fire retardant (Class 1) Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.00010 Unicharm Products Fukushima Factory 2.6 Unicharm Products Shizuoka Factory 3.6 Unicharm Products Kyushu Factory (Fukuoka) 2.3 HCFC Unicharm Products Shikoku Factories (Kagawa) 3.7 (Class 1) Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Co., Ltd. (Ehime/Kagawa) 0.65 Refrigerant Unicharm Pet Care Co., Ltd. (Hyogo/Mie/Saitama) 0.93 Peparlet Co., Ltd. (Shizuoka) 0.038 Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.86 CFC Unicharm (other development sites, etc. Kagawa) 0.0010 * Reported for company properties based on the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons 65 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Activity Results [Japan] Water quality, soil contamination and offensive odor Water quality is evaluated regularly for conformity to Unicharm's proprietary standards and the provisions of relevant laws and regulations. In 2019, there were no violations of the company's proprietary standards or relevant laws and regulations. In addition, there were no accidents linked to soil contamination or offensive odor. Details related to volume of BOD and COD are reported in the Site Data section. Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) storage situation Small amounts of PCBs are stored at certain business sites awaiting processing for disposal. Compliance assessments on storage conditions are carried out regularly and no abnormalities were found. Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) substances With regard to toluene, we are gradually shifting to the use of toluene-free thinner. Fiscal Toluene Ethylene oxide Dioxin year (tons/year) (kg/year) (mg-TEQ/year) 2017 281 4 0.0001 2018 283 4 0.0001 2019 272 4 0.0002 66 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data Site Data Environmental data show actual values for January – December 2019. Unicharm Corporation Head Office sites Addresses: Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg., West Wing, 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo Keikyu Second Bldg., 3-25-23 Takanawa, Minato-ku, Tokyo Business description: General head office operations (product planning and management, including baby-care related products, feminine hygiene products, adult incontinence products and cosmetic puffs, etc.) Water usage ton/year Electricity usage 1,188 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 94(9) tons/year Development site Address: 1531-7 Wadahama, Toyohama-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Research and development for paper products (diapers, sanitary napkins, liners, tampons, etc.) Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: 0.0 tons/year NOx emissions: 0.0 tons/year Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never Soil detected Water usage 7,902 tons/year Electricity usage 2,376 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 462(5) tons/year Unicharm Pet Care Manufacturing Division Mie Factory Address: 1319 Higashitawara, Nabari City, Mie Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of non-woven pet care products Date operations commenced: 1966 Site area: 19,134m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: No applicable facilities NOx emissions: No applicable facilities Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never Soil detected Water usage 1,415 tons/year Electricity usage 6,746 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 608(341) tons/year 67 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data Unicharm Pet Care Manufacturing Division Itami Factory Address: 9-67 Kita-Itami, Itami City, Hyogo Prefecture Business description: Research, development and manufacture of pet food Date operations commenced: August 1998 Site area: 12,692m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 0.4 tons/year Water quality BOD 8.4tons/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 1,237,011 tons/year Electricity usage 7,678 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 961(410) tons/year Unicharm Pet Care Manufacturing Division Saitama Factory Address: 1600-11 Oaza-Kami, Kamisato-machi, Kodama-gun, Saitama Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of pet food Date operations commenced: February 2011 Site area: 3,177m² As of 2020, this factory is considered a large-scale business establishment under the Saitama Prefecture Global Warming Strategy system and submits plans and status reports accordingly. Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 0.6 tons/year Water quality BOD 9.4tons/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 49,361 tons/year Electricity usage 4,311 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 586(8) tons/year Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Fukushima Factory Address: 26-1, Aza-Nakasedotsuzuki, Oaza-kanazawa-uchi, Tanagura-machi, Higashi-shirakawa-gun, Fukushima Prefecture Business description: Manufacture and distribution of adult and baby diapers, sanitary napkins, liners and tampons Date operations commenced: November 1994 Site area: 128,127m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: 0.000 ngTEQ/m³N Air SOx emissions: 3.0 tons/year NOx emissions: 6.4 tons/year Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 201,070 tons/year Electricity usage 70,204 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 4,198(117) tons/year 68 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data Shizuoka Factory Address: 5-6 Shinoba, Kakegawa-city, Shizuoka Prefecture Business description: Manufacture and distribution of adult and baby diapers, sanitary Date operations commenced: March 1988 Site area: 83,163m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 0.8 tons/year Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 48,767 tons/year Electricity usage 45,236 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 3,745(0) tons/year Shikoku-Chuo Area Business Location Address: 1496-1 Wadahama, Toyohama-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Manufacture and distribution of adult and baby diapers, sanitary napkins, liners, cosmetic puffs and non-woven fabric Date operations commenced: October 1983 Site area: 62,799m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: No applicable facilities NOx emissions: No applicable facilities Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 114,582 tons/year Electricity usage 53,055 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 4,317(33) tons/year Onohara Works Address: 4507 Onohara, Onohara-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of adult and baby diapers and liners Date operations commenced: October 1982 Site area: 24,839m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: No applicable facilities NOx emissions: No applicable facilities Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 3,861 tons/year Electricity usage 15,641 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 1,630(6) tons/year 69 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data Toyohama Works Address: 1531-16 Wadahama, Toyohama-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of wet wipes and tampons Date operations commenced: November 2002 Site area: 21,588m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: No applicable facilities NOx emissions: No applicable facilities Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Same site and data as for Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Co., Ltd. Water usage 6,360 tons/year Electricity usage 4,917 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 130(3) tons/year * Toyohama Works's wet wipe manufacturing equipment was transferred to No. 1 Manufacturing Group at Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Kyushu Factory Address: 13-3 Torigoe-cho, Kanda-machi, Miyako-gun, Fukuoka Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of disposable diapers (baby and adult), sanitary napkins, etc. Date operations commenced: March 2019 Site area: 160,215m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: No applicable facilities NOx emissions: No applicable facilities Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 1,582 tons/year Electricity usage 6,286 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 179(0) tons/year Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven Co., Ltd. No. 1 Manufacturing Group, Non-woven Manufacturing Team, Wet Wipes Manufacturing Team Address: 1531-15 Wadahama, Toyohama-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of non-woven fabric Date operations commenced: April 1993 Site area: 19,713m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: 0.8 tons/year NOx emissions: 1.5 tons/year Water quality COD 1.7 tons/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 413,288 tons/year Electricity usage 14,414 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 1,612(73) tons/year 70 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data No. 2 Manufacturing Group, Kawanoe Works Team Address: 4087-24 Kawanoe-cho, Shikokuchuo City, Ehime Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of non-woven fabric Date operations commenced: February 1979 Site area: 8,135m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: 1.1 tons/year NOx emissions: 1.1 tons/year Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 785 tons/year Electricity usage 5,738 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 505(2) tons/year No. 2 Manufacturing Group, Kokko Works Team Address: 834 Kawanoe-cho, Shikokuchuo City, Ehime Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of sanitary materials, food packaging materials, non-woven fabric and Paper-sand® Date operations commenced: October 1947 Site area: 10,225m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: 0.1 tons/year NOx emissions: 0.7 tons/year Water quality COD 20.7 tons/year Soil Soil contamination in excess of statutory standards never detected Water usage 2,787,630 tons/year Electricity usage 14,433 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 1,717(2) tons/year Cosmotec Corporation Address: 910 Hirota-cho, Zentsuji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Printing and processing for packaging Date operations commenced: March 1966 Site area: 23,799m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 0.0 ton/year Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Water usage 2,303 tons/year Electricity usage 5,340 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 1,670(43) tons/year 71 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Environment > Site Data Peparlet Co., Ltd Address: 422 Shimodoma, Fujieda City, Shizuoka Prefecture and others Business description: Manufacture and sale of pet excretion disposal material Date operations commenced: April 1975 Site area: 9,217m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 3.2 tons/year Water quality BOD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Water usage 18,394 tons/year Electricity usage 10,248 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 417(0) tons/year Kinsei Products Co., Ltd. Address: 2518-8 Minourakabuto, Toyohama-cho, Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture Business description: Manufacture of pet excretion disposal material Date operations commenced: May 2014 Site area: 3547.17m² Exhaust gas dioxin concentration: No applicable facilities Air SOx emissions: － ton/year NOx emissions: 0.4 tons/year Water quality COD 1.0 ＞ ton/year Water usage 4,379 tons/year Electricity usage 2,977 thousand kWh/year Waste emissions (of which waste disposed of by contractors) 420(0) tons/year 72 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Human Rights Human Rights Our basic approach and strategy Since the founding of Unicharm, we have always believed in respecting “human rights,” as seen in the prominent mention respect for human rights and a mutually respectful human perspective in The Unicharm Way Action Guidelines and our Human Resource Philosophy. Various human rights issues exist throughout the world and because special attention must be paid to protecting human rights in global business based on international human rights standards, we uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted in 1948 by the United Nations General Assembly, and in 2017 we enacted the Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights and demonstrate our continued efforts to fulfill our responsibility to respect human rights in all of our activities. Furthermore, we distribute our human rights policy to all Group employees as part of the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines. We will not tolerate child labor and forced or compulsive labor and we will never discriminate against people based on nationality, race, religion, gender, sexual preference, age, family background, disability or any other factors. We will guarantee freedom of association and freedom of collective bargaining and we confirm reduction of excessive work hours and uphold the right to minimum wages. ● Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights The corporate philosophy “NOLA & DOLA” of Unicharm Group (the “Group”) contains our hope that “Unicharm aims to provide all people, from newborn infants to the elderly, with products that gently support their mind and body for freeing them from various types of burdens to fulfill their dreams.” In accordance with this philosophy, the Group supports the realization of a society where human rights are respected as a fundamental right granted to all people. Based on this assumption, the Group will make efforts to fulfill its responsibility to respect human rights. 1. Background The Group has established the Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights (the “Policy”) by which it will promote efforts for the respect of human rights of all stakeholders including employees based on the following international human rights principles; the International Bill of Human Rights (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights), the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Policy complements the corporate philosophy and the action guidelines (The Unicharm Way) in which it clarifies how the Group will address the matters concerning human rights. 2. Scope of Application The Policy will apply to all executives and employees who work at the Group. The Group will also require its business partners and suppliers to support and comply with the Policy and work together with them to promote efforts for the respect of human rights. 3. Responsibility to Respect Human Rights The Group will fulfill its responsibility of respecting human rights by ensuring that its business activities do not result in human rights violations and by responding appropriately to correct any adverse human rights impact our business activities may cause. Furthermore, the Group will require its business partners and suppliers to respond appropriately to correct any adverse human rights impacts on them even if the Group does not directly contribute to those impacts. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations The Group will comply with the laws and regulations of each country or region where it conducts its business activities. Where there is a conflict between national or regional laws / regulations and international human rights standards, we will seek ways to honour international human rights standards. Human Rights Due Diligence The Group will establish a system of human rights due diligence in accordance with procedures based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights under which it will make efforts to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts. Remedy In the event the Group's business activities directly or indirectly result in adverse human rights impacts, it will provide a remedy through appropriate dialogue and procedures. 73 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Human Rights Education The Group will provide appropriate education to ensure effective implementation of the Policy by which it will be instilled inside and outside the company. Dialogue and Consultation The Group will engage sincerely in the meaningful consultation with people whom its business activities may cause impacts as a part of its efforts under the Policy. Reports The Group reports on its efforts related to human rights through its website, etc. Date of Establishment: October 25, 2017 Takahisa Takahara President & CEO Unicharm Corporation Management structure Since it is necessary to have a variety of departments involved in human rights, the Global Human Resources & Administration Division and the ESG Division take the lead, under the direction of the General Manager of the Global Human Resources & Administration Division (an executive-level officer and assigned responsibility for human rights), in promoting the initiatives of related departments such as the Procurement Department and Audit Department and those of related companies both in Japan and overseas, and in reporting to the ESG Committee. Meanwhile, our human rights initiatives in our supply chain are headed by our Procurement Department, which is the contact point for suppliers, which encourages suppliers' support for human rights, and which distributed the Basic Purchasing Policy and Sustainable Purchasing Guidelines, which were enacted in 2017, to our domestic suppliers. Unicharm Group's ESG Promotion Organization Please see Along with Our Business Partners for human rights initiatives in our supply chain (in society). Stakeholder engagement for human rights In 2018, we participated in Nippon CSR Consortium's stakeholder engagement programme(administered by CRT Japan), identifying important human rights issues by industry while referencing the human rights guidance tools formulated by the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI).* In 2019, we held a dialogue with global human rights experts at the Global Conference on Business and Human Rights in Tokyo (administered by CRT Japan) and received advice on how to proceed with human rights due diligence. We will make use of the opinions received in our future activities. Dialogue with global experts Initiatives in Thailand In October 2019, the Thai government was the first in Asia to take a cabinet decision to implement the National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights (NAP). Since Unicharm has a business presence in Thailand, we recognize there is need to determine the situation from a human rights due diligence perspective. We therefore participated in the 2019 Global Conference on Business and Human Rights in Thailand for stakeholder engagement(administered by CRT Japan with support from the Embassy of Japan in Thailand) and carried out a 74 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Human Rights dialogue with Thai NPOs, the Foundation for Consumers and others for addressing human rights issues such as human trafficking, migrant labor and forced labor. We also visited the Labour Protection Network, an NPO working to solve human trafficking in Thailand, to engage in understanding the status of human rights issues in the fishery industry. Accompanying officers from Thailand's Ministry of Labor during an unannounced inspection of a Bangkok Port facility, Unicharm observers were able to gain an understanding of the situation of onsite workers, such as how they offload catches. Visit to the Labour Protection Network NPO Unloading a catch at port Unloading a catch at port Initiatives in Australia The Modern Slavery Act(MSA) was passed in Australia in 2018 and came into effect on January 1, 2019. Under this Act, Australian subsidiaries of overseas corporations with annual sales of more than A$100 million are required to implement measures based on the UN Guiding Principles by 2021 and thereafter submit an annual modern slavery statement. In response to this requirement, Unicharm Australia first carried out a human rights impact assessment for employees at its factories regarding appropriate wages, appropriate working hours, workplace discrimination, forced labor and workplace health and safety as risk indicators. No significant risk situation was found this time, but we will continue to monitor and identify potential risks. 75 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers Responsibility to Our Customers Communicating with Customers Our basic approach and strategy In keeping with Unicharm's corporate philosophical framework (“Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action), we have always regarded customer satisfaction as a top priority and are committed to providing products and services that transform “discomfort” to “comfort.” As part of these efforts, the Customer Communication Center (CCC) works to sincerely respond in a prompt, fair and impartial manner to the valuable opinions we receive from our customers and have formulated our Customer Communication Center Vision based on the core idea of striving to enhance customer satisfaction. We have also established the Complaint Correspondence Policy that guides our efforts in communicating with customers. ■Customer Communication Center Vision We aim to have our customers progress from saying “I'm glad that I inquired and consulted with the Customer Communication Center” to “I'll purchase the Unicharm product because it's trustworthy and I know I can contact the Customer Communication Center.” To achieve this goal, we are committed to making sure that listening compassionately and conveying thoughtfully becomes second nature, to draw in others to ourselves and together solve the problem in front of us, giving our customers a helping hand to accomplish their child-raising and nursing care so they will say they want to purchase Unicharm products again and to deepen our bonds with customers in Asia and around the world. ■Complaint Correspondence Policy 1 Customer feedback will be centrally managed by the Company's Customer Communication Centers and addressed in a fair and impartial manner in accordance with the QMS (ISO 9001) complaint correspondence process manual and ISO 10002 complaint response process documentation. Information concerning defects in a product or service will be reported to the President & CEO and steps will be taken immediately to remedy the problem. 2 In the case customer feedback must be redressed, related departments will work together to immediately rectify the situation and prevent future reoccurrences in accordance with the QMS (ISO 9001) redress and preventive measure procedure manual. 3 We will strive to reflect the valuable feedback of customers in future products and services. We will take customer feedback seriously and exert our best efforts so that each department works together to ensure that customers are satisfied. Management structure Unicharm's Customer Communication Center, led by the Chief Quality Officer (CQO), works in coordination with related departments to gather customer opinions, enhance quality and safety and develop products tailored to our customers' needs. We have compiled concrete initiatives for customer response for the entire company and, together with our SelfDeclaration of Consumer-Oriented Company, we are building a response system that is compliant with the ISO 10002 complaint response MS. With regard to overseas operations, Unicharm also made a declaration of self-conformity with the ISO 10002 complaint response MS in July 2006 and is laterally extending Customer Communication Centers in China, TaiwanGreater China, Thailand, Indonesia, Australia, India, Vietnam and other countries; together with periodic auditing of overseas Customer Communication Centers and information-sharing, we are implementing efforts that will boost customer satisfaction across the Unicharm Group. 76 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers ■Self-Declaration of Consumer-Oriented Company Self-Declaration of Consumer-Oriented Company January 16, 2017 Takahisa Takahara President & CEO Unicharm Corporation [Philosophy] We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by offering only the finest products and services to the market and customers both in Japan and abroad. [Policy on Basic Initiatives] —Commitment of Top Management— Unicharm hereby declares that it will always respond to customer complaints and inquiries in an honest, swift and fair manner. I. All feedback received from customers is put together at Customer Communication Center (CCC) and addressed fairly and equally by CCC based on a QMS (ISO 9001) complaint correspondence process manual and ISO 10002 complaint correspondence process documents. Information concerning faulty products or services is swiftly reported to top management and necessary steps are taken to improve the situation. II. If the situation must be remedied, related departments work together following procedures on QMS (ISO 9001) rectification and prevention measures to swiftly remedy the problem and prevent future recurrences. III. Customer feedback is seriously reviewed and efforts are made toward improvements involving all relevant departments so as to ensure customer satisfaction.We strive so that precious customer feedback can be properly reflected in our improvement activities for products and services. [Specific Initiatives] I. Ensuring corporate governance — System for reporting customer feedback to top management without fail — We will carry out transparent corporate management and actively disclose information while working to fulfill the company's growth and development, employees' happiness and the company's social responsibilities. A time slot is set aside at executive meetings for reports from CCC for discussing and disseminating a correspondence policy based on the serious review of feedback received from customers. II. Proactive initiatives involving all employees — Fostering a corporate culture and employee mindset that is customer-oriented — In order to improve customer satisfaction, once every year, an occasion is set where all Unicharm Group employees including those from outside Japan come together to present on products and services as well as proposals for pleasing customers in an effort to learn about best practices. This will enable all Unicharm Group employees to share a customer-oriented mindset and strive for further improvement. III. Swift response through systematic collaboration between related departments — Initiatives for swift and honest responses — All feedback received from customers is put together at CCC and addressed fairly and equally by CCC based on a QMS (ISO 9001) complaint correspondence process manual and ISO 10002 complaint correspondence process documents. Information concerning faulty products or services is swiftly reported to top management and necessary steps are taken to improve the situation. If the situation must be remedied, related departments work together to swiftly remedy the problem and prevent future recurrences. IV. Enhanced information provision to consumers and two-way exchanges of information — Disseminating information for safe use — Frequently asked questions about product safety will be published on the company's website in an effort to widely disclose this information. We will provide information to customers in various means so that customers can use our products safely and effectively. These means include product packaging, user manuals, and advertisements to educate customer about the correct ways to use products, as well as through our corporate website, news releases and disseminations from CCC. V. Improvement and development based on consumer and social needs — Product creation making customer-oriented approaches and social responsibilities a reality — The entire company will work on activities for linking needs with commercialization of products after seriously reviewing feedback from customers. We will establish rigorous environmental standards for our products, take on the challenge of selecting product designs and raw materials and reducing waste in the production process to every extend possible and expand the number of products that can clear these standards and bear the Eco Charming label. The entire company will also work as one solid team toward mitigating environmental impacts including reducing waste in business activities. 77 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers Initiatives of the Customer Communication Center In 2019, the center received 47,000 calls. The feedback we received was in turn shared widely with related departments inside the company and used to help improve our products and services. Training sessions for factory workers by CCC staff using “feedback from customers” We conduct employee training at the CCC to reinforce quality and strengthen customer-oriented approaches. In 2019, CCC staff visited each factory in Japan, where they played recordings of customer (firsthand) “feedback” as part of a training session for listening skills. We will continue to enhance our customer-oriented approach on a company-wide level and supply products that truly satisfy our customers. At a factory training session on “customer feedback” ■Main Initiatives of the CCC Main initiatives Contents For staff who deal firsthand with inquiries from customers by phone, etc., we organize training 1. Responder programs to enhance our specialist knowledge, including sessions led by external instructors and training other informative workshops, in order to improve the “quality of our response.” We share customer feedback with related departments in a timely manner through weekly and monthly 2. Reflection in report. This feedback is used to improve existing products and develop new products, in order to products provide customers with products that are safe and convenient. Customer feedback is shared internally in real-time using our centralized customer information 3. Information management system, or the SMILE system. Report meetings with business departments and product dissemination package confirmation meetings (Communication Guarantee Meetings) are also held to ensure feedback is utilized to improve products from a customer standpoint. The R&D and Manufacturing departments organize training sessions for new employees and others 4. CCC training who wish to participate in order to reinforce their focus on the customer and quality. In FY2019, 933 employees took part in these training sessions. 5. Strengthen The initiatives of our CCCs located around the world are being shared to help improve customer collaboration satisfaction across the entire Unicharm Group, including its overseas subsidiaries. This information is with overseas also being used to improve our response skills based on ISO 10002 complaint response MS and to CCCs step up interoffice collaboration. The CCC is an independent department reporting directly to the Unicharm's President & CEO. At the annual Board of Directors meeting, it presents and answers questions about the customer response 6. Commitment policy for the next fiscal year. We have built and operate a system in which all executives can confirm progress towards goals and consider and give approval on whether consumer-oriented management is being promoted. 78 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers ● Example of Customer Feedback that has been reflected in products “For the Ultra-Comfort Mask for Women “I'd like to have sanitary napkins in a stylish (Pleats Type), please also make the regular design” size in pink” In response to customer requests for a stylishly Many customers told us that they regularly use the designed sanitary napkin including its individual masks, not just for colds, so they wanted the pink package, we developed and launched the mature version in a regular size(only a small size was and stylish “Center-in Compact 1/2 series.” manufactured at the time). In August 2019, we launched a “regular-size Ultra-Comfort Mask for Women(Pleats Type) in baby-pink”. Activities of overseas Customer Communication Centers In March 2014, the Indonesia CCC made a self-declaration of self-conformity with regard to the ISO 10002 complaint correspondence MS. Following the declaration, the Japan CCC audited the Indonesia CCC in 2019 and confirmed that their system was operating properly and that customer feedback and complaints were being addressed. It was also confirmed that the China CCC was operating in line with the ISO10002 complaint correspondence MS and that each customer was being responded to with sincerity. Indonesia Customer China Customer Communication Center Communication Center Expressions of thanks from consumers For “Sofy Hadaomoi Organic Cotton” For “Silcot Sponge-Touch Moisturizing I no longer worry about rashes or chafing. UruUru Cotton” I like this product very much, but I was really I was unhappy with the large amount of lotion my impressed with the simple package design. previous cotton puffs were absorbing and how the puffs felt on my skin. But the Sponge-Touch UruUru Cotton solved such problems. I was also amazed that I could easily separate such a thin puff in two. Skincare is now a kind of fun to me. For “Wave Floor Wiper” It's just simple and easy to use and I love that I can get it into narrow spaces. It easily slides into 2 cm gaps and grabs lots of dust. I really appreciate that I can clean the narrow space next to the wash basin, since it's too narrow for the vacuum. 79 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers Communication with customers using various media Unicharm works to provide information that contributes to solving social issues through our business to “realize a cohesive society” in which multiple generations can live in an enriched manner. In Japan, Unicharm provides information for incontinence care, first menstruation education and pet care. In 2019, Unicharm launched an online initiative via the Unicharm website called “My Style Bosai.” This microsite offers sanitary information about preparing for disasters in terms of babies, women, seniors and pets. Outside of Japan, Unicharm has also set up corporate websites and we are working to strengthen web communication in all our markets inside and outside the country. Launched “Navi for Adult Diapers” providing 24-hour support service As Japan transforms into a super-aging society, we are receiving an increasing number of inquiries each year about how to do eldercare and how to properly carry out incontinence care. In 2017, Unicharm became the first business in the adult diaper industry to introduce an AI-assisted chatbot* called “Navi for Adult Diapers,” which can respond to inquiries around the clock and all through the year. In 2019, the availability of this chatbot was extended into the LINE app. * “Chatbots” are programs (or the entire systems with such programs) that conduct conversations for an inquiry in place of a human operator. Lifree Navi for Adult Diapers (Website) Lifree Navi for Adult Diapers “Maki-san | Lifree” Unicharm (LINE) * Search “Maki-san Lifree” (in Japanese) on LINE. Providing information on First Menstruation Education First Body Navi offers young girls and their guardians information on how the female body works and how to deal with menstruation as well as how to choose female hygiene products to help foster a positive first experience with menstruation. For school teachers, we have made available a downloadable PDF with information about first menstruation which can also be used as an educational resource at schools. We also began offering a Sofy official app which helps young women having their first period manage their cycle and also lets mothers know when their daughters are menstruating so they can provide appropriate support. Sofy First Body Navi Sofy official app 80 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers Childrearing support “Baby Town” was created in collaboration with childrearing-related companies in support of parents and their babies by offering a community platform for searching information, consulting with others or discussing worries regarding pregnancy, child delivery and child care in accordance with their child's stage of development. The official “Moony Instagram” account has also received approx. 30,000 “Likes” in the one year since it was launched in 2019. Our well-received “Moony-chan and Toilet Training” app released in 2017 which provides support for toilet training has been downloaded some 60,000 times. Baby Town Moony on Facebook Moony on Instagram Moony-chan and Toilet Training Offering a web magazine for living happily with pets “Along with my pet, always and forever & ever!” provides helpful information for owners and their pets to live together a long, healthy and happy life. Available as a website or through Facebook. Along with my pet, always and forever & ever! “My Style Bosai” is a Unicharm microsite that offers sanitary information about preparing for disasters in terms of babies, women, seniors and pets. Many natural disasters have occurred in Japan in recent years. In addition to the damage from the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami, there have also been torrential rains, severe snowstorms, tornadoes and other catastrophes. The “My Style Bosai” microsite was launched in February 2019 with the aim of helping people reduce the hygiene risks that they, their family members and their pets are exposed to in such disasters. Through narratives of people's actual experiences, the site examines “various issues that arise during a disaster” based on the needs of different kinds of households. “My Style Bosai” offers the needed disaster preparedness and response information in terms of the following groups: (1) everyone, (2) babies, (3) women, (4) seniors, (5) persons requiring nursing care at home and (6) pets. My Style Bosai 81 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Communicating with Customers Strengthening information provision to overseas customers As Unicharm's popularity also grows in international markets, we are striving to enhance our customer service through the websites of our local subsidiaries by strengthening the delivery of information about our products and company. Corporate Site (Vietnam) Sofy Feminine Care Products Website (Egypt) Baby Diaper Brand Mamy Poko Website Lifree Adult Diaper Brand Website (Brazil) (Thailand) 82 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Responsibility to Our Customers ＞ Product Development and Marketing Product Development and Marketing Insight research closely in tune with the frontlines We practice a model of manufacturing that closely reflects customer needs by adhering to the motto “Maintain our No.1 position through continued and dedicated service” ingrained in our DNA. We thoroughly observe the lifestyle and consumption style of consumers and pursue the true needs that exist in their subconscious. We are committed to developing products that exceed customer expectations by leveraging our customer-oriented creativity. In order to promote a more extensive global reach, we are developing products localized to meet the needs of each region and market. While Unicharm products are considered daily necessities, there are some countries where paper diapers are regarded as a luxury or consumers are not accustomed to using paper diapers throughout the day. Taking each country's customs and needs into consideration, we are creating unprecedented new value in our products that balances function with cost, making these products more accessible to all. Our never-changing hope is that we continue to deliver products and services to more consumers around the world that change “discomfort” into “comfort.” We make a contribution that leverages Unicharm's unique strengths by helping people living in all regions to maximize their potential so that they can play an even bigger role in the development of their respective societies. We aim to continue developing products that suit the local needs of each region by combining the forces of product development and marketing. Monitoring survey Collaboration between product, technical and facilities development groups Using an organizational structure consisting of research, development, and engineering (R&D&E), Unicharm promotes product development in a crossdepartmental approach that encompasses five businesses. These departments work closely together in product development that provides new value to customers, development of novel materials and technologies needed for product development and the development of facilities to manufacture these products. This ensures that existing products are revamped and new products are developed. In addition, we have set up development remote centers in key geographic areas, creating an infrastructure capable of developing products that truly meet local needs. Product testing 83 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Quality Quality Our basic approach and strategy In keeping with Unicharm's corporate philosophical framework (“Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action), we always strive for continual improvement with customer-oriented ideas. Since many of our products come into direct contact with skin, we strive to enhance quality and safety and ensure proper labelling so that customers can use our products with confidence. Management structure As quality assurance is aligned to the quality policies in our mid-term management plan, the Chief Quality Officer (CQO) who is responsible for the conformity and effectiveness of the company's quality management system is assigned to promote internal and external audits mainly through the ESG Division and Global Quality Assurance Department. While taking corrective and preventive measures, the ESG Division periodically reports to the ESG Committee chaired by the president on quality management so that the entire company can carry out quality enhancement activities on an ongoing basis. All our business offices have obtained ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification, on which our quality management systems (QMS) and environmental management systems (EMS) are based. In 2017, the QMS and EMS were merged in hopes of strengthening the activities that encompass both quality and environmental managements. By integrating the operation of the two management systems, we are now addressing both quality and environmental tasks via a centralized structure. Outside Japan, in order to keep current with updated regulations in the countries of import and marketing, we are working to obtain certification in each country. We acquired ISO13485, the international standard of quality management system for medical equipment, in Indonesia and Thailand in 2014 followed by ISO9001 in India in 2016 and ISO14001 in Egypt in 2018. ■ISO9001, ISO14001 and ISO13485 Certification at the Unicharm Group (certified unit) Certification status Name of unit obtaining certification ISO9001 ISO14001 ISO13485 Unicharm and Unicharm Products (Japan) ○ ○ ○* Unicharm Kokko Non-Woven (Japan) ○ ○ Cosmotec (Japan) ○ United Charm (Taiwan-Greater China) ○ ○ Uni-Charm (Thailand) (Thailand) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory1 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory2 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ PT.UNI-CHARM INDONESIA Factory3 (Indonesia) ○ ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (China) (Shanghai, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (Jiangsu) (Jiangsu, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Consumer Products (Tianjin) (Tianjin, China) ○ ○ Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries (Saudi Arabia) ○ ○ LG Unicharm (Korea) ○ ○ Unicharm India (India) ○ Unicharm Australasia (Australia) ○ Unicharm Middle East & North Africa Hygienic Industries (Egypt) ○ ○ Diana Unicharm (Vietnam) ○ DSG International (Thailand) (Thailand) ○ Disposable Soft Goods (M) (Malaysia) ○ * ISO13485 certification is applicable only to Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. 84 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Quality Safety initiatives We carry out gate-checks in accordance with the Unicharm Management System Basic Regulations during every process, from materials procurement to product development, manufacturing, sales, and disposal so that customers can use products that directly contact their skin with greater peace of mind. The Safety Assessment Committee has established a gate function during the stage of product development to conduct risk assessment based on various product uses and disposal. Products for which safety is confirmed receive Safety Assessment Confirmation Sheet. In addition, we implement product use tests with products that use the safety-checked materials. Safety Assessment Confirmation Sheet Animal Testing Unicharm does not conduct experiments involving animals for its safety checks, including outsourced testing, nor will we in the future. (Not applicable in any cases where UC is held accountable toward society for safety issues or is met with demands from local administrations in certain countries.) ● Initiatives for Product Safety Obtained “STANDARD100 by OEKO-TEX®”, one of the world's best-known labels for textiles tested for harmful substances, for Disposable Baby Diaper “Natural Moony” In January 2020, Unicharm received “STANDARD100 by OEKO-TEX®”, a certification that is one of the world's best-known labels for textiles tested for harmful substances, for disposable baby diaper “Natural Moony”. We are now in the process of adding this label to the certified product. This marks the first time that a disposable baby diaper in Japan obtained this certification*1. “STANDARD100 by OEKO-TEX®” is an international safety certification for textile products given only to products that clear strict standards after analysis and testing for more than 350 types of harmful substances by authorized testing institutes*2 that belong to the international consortium called OEKO-TEX®. To use the STANDARD 100 label, a product has to clear the testing criteria for all of materials and chemical solutions it is made from. *1 Finding by Unicharm as of January 2020 *2 This product was certified by the Nissenken Quality Evaluation Center, the only OEKO-TEX® authorized testing institute located outside of Europe. 85 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Quality Management of chemical substances We strive to minimize any direct or indirect (environmental) impacts on people from chemical substances used in manufacturing diapers and sanitary pads using the Unicharm Material Safety Guideline. This forms part of our efforts to ultimately eliminate all harmful impacts found in the raw materials we use. To achieve this, we have defined harmful substances, developed a substance list of approximately 3,600 materials and determined target substances for reduction. At the same time, we receive disclosures from each supplier on the complete materials list and conduct toxicity risk assessment. In determining target substances for reduction, we strive to broadly collect the global information on harmful chemical substances and identify and manage the prohibited and restricted substances based on the reference literatures and standards. In addition, with the implementation of a management system for chemical substances contained in products or materials in 2017, we have been able to strengthen our collaboration with material suppliers in more efficiently managing chemical substances. Example of List of Target Reduction Substances Example of Toxicity Risk Evaluation Chemical Substances Information Management System (Image) Safety Check Workflow 86 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Quality Reference Information Example ECHA (European Chemicals Agency) EU DIRECTIVE2015/1221/EC SVHC（Substances of very high concern） DIRECTIVE 2009/48/EC（safety of toys） RoHS（Restriction of Hazardous Substances） POPs: Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants REACH Dioxin Regulation Act STANDARD100 by OEKO-TEX® Montreal Protocol Global safety initiatives Safety-related initiatives are necessary in all locations where Unicharm runs business, so we operate a global safetycheck framework. We have been operating a safety-check framework in each country of operation since April 2007. Currently, our local subsidiaries in China, Korea, Taiwan-Greater China, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam are spearheading efforts. We strive to share experiences and information through general meetings involving all persons in charge of safety, tele-conferences and regular individual meetings. In addition, we visit our suppliers, testing partners and government institutions in each country to step up communication in order to deliver safe and reliable products to our customers. Also, we steadily rolled out the chemical management system mentioned above at our overseas locations beginning in 2018. This rollout has been completed in five countries, including Japan, as of December 31, 2019. We will continue to roll out the system in 2020 as well to ensure a system is in place for local persons in charge of the growing volume of imports and exports are able to comply with the regulations of the country where products will be marketed, swiftly conduct investigations on chemicals used in products and deliver even greater peace of mind to customers. Quality management initiatives for manufacturing As an initiative for quality management, Unicharm Products uses the Unicharm Total Management Strategic System (UTMSS) at all its plants together with information from consumers relating to problems with products in order to make continuous improvements. Working together as a whole, we work to address customer feedback on problems with products which is essential to improving product quality and safety. UTMSS is used for “visual control” and “standardization” that allow us to provide our customers with products that are consistent and of high quality. All plants implement regular UTMSS activities (at least once per month) to continuously improve productivity and quality. As a specific example, by introducing the “workmanship management” framework, we have minimized individual variations in work, thereby realizing stable quality. UTMSS members at all plants worldwide gather in Japan twice per year for an all-company meeting. At this meeting, UTMSS members report on the results of their improvement activities and the seven plants that had the best results make a presentation to share/implement their efforts. With Japanese plants as a benchmark, plants outside Japan deploy these ideas in their own countries. We also promote a “mother plant system” between factories in Japan and other countries to transfer frameworks and success stories to overseas plants. Through such initiatives, we are promoting UTMSS improvement activities and passing on such frameworks to carry out productivity improvements and quality enhancement at plants outside Japan. At an all-company UTMSS gathering At an all-company UTMSS gathering 87 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Quality Initiative for appropriate product labeling Since 2010, Unicharm has continued to maintain its track record of zero product labelling issues based on its own consumer-oriented labelling code. In order to provide correct information to customers, our marketing communications (product packaging and advertising) are checked for compliance with applicable laws such as the Law for Ensuring the Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices, the Premiums and Representations Act and the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law and for compliance with industry standards set out by the Japan Hygiene Products Industry Association and our own proprietary evidence-based standards. We also confirm compliance from a customer perspective to ensure that the information provided does not invite false assumptions or mistaken use. In accordance with changes in the environment inside and outside the company including diversification of advertising medium, market changes and changes in consumer awareness, Unicharm updates its own standards and works thoroughly to ensure its application by providing trainings to the relevant divisions. Additionally, at the product design stage, we have established a Communication Guarantee Meeting as a gate-check on labelling that is based on scientific evidence. Members from the Customer Communication Center also participate in the package design to lend a customer-focused perspective so that the company as a whole provides labelling that is optimal and accurate. Communication Guarantee Meeting 88 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ View Concerning Human Resources Labor Standards View Concerning Human Resources Our basic approach and strategy We will never discriminate based on nationality, race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, family background, disability or any other factors. We also will not tolerate child labor or forced labor and we support the right to solidarity, collective bargaining and other group actions by guaranteeing the right to assemble and freedom of association. We will hire and evaluate people in a fair and equitable manner, respect the rights of each employee, create a workplace that makes the most of each person's individuality and abilities and strive to achieve happiness for our employees and their families. In order to ensure legal compliance Group-wide and promote understanding, we hold discussions with persons in charge of personnel matters at Group companies on revisions to labor laws and other topics on labor standards. In addition, as part of our work-style reforms, Unicharm encourages employees to take at least five days of paid vacation each year and monitors overtime work using a new attendance management system. In this manner, we are working toward changing the way our people think about work, promoting operational reforms and improving productivity. “Mission, Vision and Values” in the Unicharm Group's Global Human Resources Philosophy At Unicharm, we value the autonomy of each and every individual based on our “‘Beliefs & Pledges’ and Corporate Principles of Action”. We endeavor to provide fair opportunities for our employees to find fulfillment in their work and to create a corporate culture that fosters the development of confidence and pride. ■Unicharm Group's Global Human Resources Philosophy *1: A human resource system that promotes common skills development globally which is a digital tool for skills development by utilizing data on each employee's career, evaluation feedback and e-learning. *2: The three fulfillments include (1) fulfillment of aspiration, (2) fulfillment of economy and (3) fulfillment of mental and physical wellbeing. Unicharm's unique management method In order to realize the corporate philosophy, the industriousness of each and every employee becomes the epicenter of change, increasing the resonance of individuals who then reverberate together to effect change across the entire company and allow each employee to realize their vision. We call this business practice and creation of such corporate 89 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ View Concerning Human Resources ■Management with Resonance culture “Management with Resonance.” Through the implementation of this management method, we believe that management-level staff are able to come in firsthand contact with front-line information and share viewpoints. Meanwhile, through dialogue with management-level staff, front-line employees are able to learn “management viewpoints, standpoints and time horizons” to develop mutual understanding while still working to solving conflicts. In this way, both management and the front line work towards a shared goal, fostering a sense of comfortable unity even under strict conditions in the company. Daily ingenuity and wisdom therefore swings resonates between the front line and management like a “pendulum.” This is indeed the “Management with Resonance” in which the wisdom of the front line is utilized by management and the front line learns about management perspectives. Toward an organization that can respond to environmental changes quickly and flexibly using “OODA-Loop” Unicharm has set the medium-term targets based on underlying megatrends and translated action plans for achieving these targets into plans that employees on the frontlines of our operations can well be convinced. We then have turned PDCA cycle on a weekly basis to monitor progress of strategy. In recent years, however, a “new normal” has emerged where changes become the norm. In order to achieve sustainable growth in such circumstances, we need to establish a system that constantly reviews “approaches” and makes fundamental changes in order to catch the signs of change and to respond ad hoc to a constantly changing environment, without overly focusing on initial plans. As a result, we introduced “OODA-Loop,” a new management method that represents an evolution in our conventional “SAPS method” that focused on PDCA cycle. Our goal is to become an organization where “primary information” from the frontlines is used to understand the fundamental essence of individual situations so that individual employees use their own senses to harness past experiences and knowledge to determine the best course of action autonomously based on situational awareness. 90 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ View Concerning Human Resources Building a healthy and active workplace environment Unicharm is committed to be a company where employees can fully experience purpose in their work based on fulfilment in all aspects of their life including career, home life and health. Based on this commitment, we are working to usher in work-style reforms. We are promoting an active workplace environment where employees can be both physically and mentally healthy by using telework, communication considerate of others such as prohibiting work calls and emails on holidays and encouraging employees to take at least five days of paid leave systematically each year. The goal of this is to ensure all employees have the required at least eight hours off between shifts and a worklife balance where employees can satisfy their childcare or family care obligations. In addition, we are designing and building a fair compensation evaluation system so that our diverse workforce with its varied employment formats is highly motivated to play an active role at the company. Employee survey We conducted “employee surveys” twice a year at all group companies in Japan and overseas, in order to verify employees' satisfaction/fulfillment and sense of accomplishment. This sequential surveying enables us to implement various measures in management and human resources, and also encourages employees and organizational operations to be more proactive. ■Changes in results of employee awareness survey on “motivation at work” and “satisfaction” Employee survey * Average score on a scale of 5 91 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ Personnel Utilization and Training Personnel Utilization and Training Expansion of education and training programs We have a skill-enhancing program that consists of understanding our OODA-Loop methodology and practical skills improvement in order to develop human resources who will practice Management with Resonance. ■Skills-enhancing and Career Planning Support Programs (FY2019) *1 Shorthand for the “In-house Free Agent System” *2 Shorthand for the “Global 15 Project”. Participants are chosen from executive management candidates who will develop the direction of global strategy and establish a grand design. *3 Shorthand for “Middle Management Board of Directors”. A program aimed at cultivating Unicharm’s next generation of leaders. *4 Shorthand for “Team 63 Mutants”. A program for employees in millennial generation to take the lead in activities and make proposals that will bring about radical changes(mutations) in realizing cohesive societies. ■Our distinctive training programs (excerpt) Title Summary (1) Transitioning from student life to working life (change in mentality) (2) Deepening employees' understanding of “The Three DNAs,” which serve as guiding principles for our thoughts and actions and the corporate philosophy “NOLA & DOLA (Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities)” Training for new (3) First-hand experience and understanding of the three aspects of actual work sites (manufacture, purchase employees and use) and recognizing and persisting in developing a “consumer-oriented mindset” (4) Understanding of “Management with Resonance” (5) Experiencing the importance of working as an organization (team selling), and understanding Unicharm's persistent emphasis on “target oriented” and “target achievement” approaches (6) Creating your own “10-year career vision and plan” Training is carried out for people in keeping with their respective levels, ages and roles. All training is based Training at all levels, ages on understanding our “OODA loop methodology” and improving practical skills, providing opportunities and and roles places to enhance the ability to think and take action. Implemented targeting employees in their early 50's to promote accurate acknowledgment of environmental changes between today and their retirement age, define career goals that contribute to self-growth and Life & Career Redesign-1 benefit the company and provide an opportunity to consider and develop an action plan to realize these goals in five years. A program that provides opportunities to employees close to retirement to rethink their life and work styles in Life & Career Redesign-2 order to continually achieve personal growth both inside and outside the company regardless of age. Employees who are candidates for executive positions take turns to serve as the president's strategy Strategy Secretary to secretary during a two-month period. This program enables an employee to work closely and learn directly CEO from the president on management consideration and actions to develop leadership skills and achieve self-improvement. Provides employees with the tools and a system for designing and developing individualized 10-year career Ten-year career vision plans, and for completing their own action plans. The tools can also be used for communication with and plan management, in order to support each employee in achieving her/his own goals. 92 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ Personnel Utilization and Training A cooperative training program established by several companies for the purpose of allowing participants to Workplace Exchange enhance their own skills and improve their own issues & weaknesses. Interaction with participants from other Workshop companies is expected to provide all participants with inspiration and insights that may not be available within a single workplace. Training program for A training program which raises employees' awareness regarding cross-cultural communication, risk employees posted management, bribery, etc., and promotes their preparations for their post-overseas transfer so that they can overseas rapidly assume their duties in the new environment and achieve results. This program is aimed at nurturing executives in correct management behavior that respects people in terms Training for new leaders of their role in dealing with business performance, human relations issues, leadership and status assessment. Upon entering Unicharm, the first three years are considered a period for fostering a strong foundation. Brothers & Sisters Senior employees take part in this instructor training program to promote fostering the new employees to knowledge sharing develop their own knowledge and skills of Brothers & Sisters and enhance human skill while at the same time program respecting their basic human rights. Through e-learning on human rights and new leader training, employees learn about specific cases of Harassment training bullying and harassment along with how to prevent it and what to do in case it actually happens. In-house internship Employees experience work at a department of their choice to learn the necessary knowledge and skills program needed for achieving their own career vision and actualizing their career plan. Evaluations for career development Unicharm's personnel evaluations involve systematic implementation of the “three aspects of human resource development,” namely, evaluation, training, and treatment of employees. Specifically, “evaluation” is conducted for the purpose of “training” while “treatment” is determined in line with “evaluation”. Human resource development is carried out through such integrated implementation of these three elements. Our thinking about evaluation and training is that it is not only about results but also process-that is, requiring practices/behaviors that lead to results. To evaluate such behaviors, there is a need of practice to combine the thinking for our evaluation and training system with that for OODA loop methodology. All employees create their own career vision and plan and set semiannually as well as quarterly goals to achieve the plan with their superiors who check progress each quarter and provide support for the employees' career development by adjusting individual trajectories so their efforts will lead to good outcomes and successful experiences. 93 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ Respect for Diversity Respect for Diversity Various support systems We are committed to always improving our work environment so that each and every employee can work to the best of their abilities. As one of our work-style reforms, we began working interval program and telework program from 2017 and implemented the government's premium Friday program. We implemented the second job system from 2018. Moreover, from 2019, we introduced the Lifree Flexible Work Program and began allowing annual paid leave to be taken by the hour, as well as opened the Agile Special Area at Mita Headquarters. ■Various support systems to respect diversity (case study in Japan) System Eligible people Summary Moony Birth Support Employees who undergoing fertility treatment Leave for advanced fertility treatment (up to 1 year) Leave Program Moony Shortened For employees who have a child/children up to Work Hours System Working hours can be shortened to 5 hours a day the third year of elementary school for Childcare Moony Childcare For male employees who have a child/children up Can take up to 5 days off in order to be involved in Involvement Leave to eight weeks old childcare activities. For employees who have family member(s) in By application, up to 5 days leave/year is available for Lifree Nursing-Care need of continuous nursing care for more than 2 one family member, up to 10 days leave/year for 2 or Leave weeks as a result of injury, sicknesses, or physical more family members who require nursing-care. or mental disorders. Former Unicharm employees who worked for They are eligible for re-employment within a five-year more than 3 years and resigned from employment Career Recovery period (from time of resignation), provided that both the for various reasons such as marriage, pregnancy, System former employee and the company reach a certain childbirth, childrearing, nursing-care, or agreement. accompanying spouses on business transfers. Civic Duties Leave Those selected to serve a citizen judge or on a The required number of days leave to appear in court as System Committee for the Inquest of Prosecution a citizen-judge is available by application. Up to 7 business days leave per 1 donation of bone Bone Marrow Donor marrow available by application, for the procedures Employees who wish to donate their bone marrow System required for donation to a patient in the working country (except for donor registration). Once an employee finishes his/her work day, he/she will Working Interval All employees in principle have to have a rest period of 10-hours or Program more, with a minimum period set at eight hours. Employees can apply for permission to telework up to All employees four times a month. The telework for that day is done Telework Program *Excludes positions for which telework is not from home or any other environment that allows feasible concentration on work. Promotes the taking of planned annual leave for anniversaries or other days important to the individual. Anniversary Leave All employees We are working to improve the rate of annual leave taken. (Three days per six months/six days annually) Second jobs that will foster the advancement of one's skills or growth are permitted (provided it will not Second Job System For all employees impede one's primary work). This is applicable only to off-business hours and holidays. There is no upper limit in the frequency of use of the Lifree Flexible Work Full-time employees Telework Program which can also be used in Program *Excluding manufacturing sites such as plants conjunction with reduced working hours. Employment of people with disabilities We aim to proactively employ personnel with disabilities who are well motivated and provide them with a workplace where they are also able to fully exercise their abilities and promote their desire to grow. More than anything else, we expect proper outcomes from employees with disabilities by setting appropriate goals in accordance with their respective abilities and desires and promote a corporate cultural environment free of barriers in all respects for enjoying the feeling of accomplishment as a team. 94 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ Respect for Diversity Initiatives for balancing work and childcare Aiming to create an environment that supports both childcare and work, our childcare leave program allows employees to take up to two years of childcare leave. Childcare leave taken before and after pregnancy is treated as paid vacation, while employees with accumulated paid vacation days at the start of their childcare leave can use up to 15 of these days to receive their normal pay and help reduce their burden from birth and childcare. Moreover, “Moony Childcare Involvement Leave” was implemented in 2018 for all male employees that allows up to 5 days off to take care of their newborn babies within 8 weeks of their birth. This system was thoroughly promoted to every employee with individual information session provided for the employees and their supervisors. As a result, in 2019, the rate of employees utilizing Moony childcare involvement leave was 80.0%. At present, the average days of leave taken is 3.5 days. Going forward, we aim to continue to promote the program to encourage leave of five days. ● Voice from an employee who took childcare involvement leave I took five days of Moony Childcare Involvement Leave at the time of my second child's homecoming from the hospital. As I was experienced with this with my firstborn, I knew it was essential to take leave during the newborn stage when the baby's sleep schedule is not yet settled. This is why I wanted to take leave soon after my child was discharged from the hospital. I had discussed with my supervisor and colleagues about making adjustments to my workload ahead of time and was able to transition into my leave smoothly. While on leave, I cannot say for sure that I completely reduced the burden on my wife, but I was able to spend lots of time with my children through diaper changes, giving baths and reading together. It also gave me the opportunity to talk about raising children with my wife which had a positive influence on my involvement in childrearing Fumiaki Kondo Trademark & Label after the leave. Department Intellectual Property Division Unicharm Corporation Opening of the Agile Special Area at Mita Headquarters In 2019, the “Agile Special Area” was opened on the 25th floor at Mita Headquarters with the aim of “providing a space that promotes deep thinking and free imagination to speed up work processes.” There are four different areas set up on the floor that are for working independently or interacting with colleagues and those from outside the company to help generate ideas. The development of such a space for free imagination promotes the company's ideology of “Management with Resonance” and the “OODA-Loop” method. Booth-style focus area: utilized to Review Space: utilized as a space for encourage deep strategic planning and meeting and communication among a large “meditative thinking” group of people Unicharm Family Plant Visit Day and Family Day Unicharm holds Family Plant Visit Days at all of our plants both in Japan and overseas to welcome the families of employees for a tour of the plant. Family Day participants were surprised at how fast products were being made while we got to see children being impressed with seeing their parents in a professional capacity. 95 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Labor Standards ＞ Respect for Diversity Moreover, each year, local subsidiaries in China and Indonesia host the Family Day event where every employee and their families are invited. Those who have participated reflected on their appreciation for the opportunity to develop a sense of unity. Jiangsu Plant Shanghai Plant Shikoku Factory Jiangsu Plant Indonesia Implementing Second Job System The Second Job System was implemented from FY2018 with the aim of promoting further growth of each employee by enabling them to acquire skills or specialization in a different environment than at the company and expand their horizon through opportunities to exert on their capabilities and broaden their network. As of the end of FY2019, 24 employees have participated in the system while many reported having acquired tangible new skills. Dialogue between labor and management We place a great deal of value on mutual trust between labor and management, and hold regular monthly discussions between the company and labor union. Depending on the details of these discussions, we also hold irregular meetings in addition to monthly meetings. In FY2019, we held talks about work-style reforms, about reducing overtime work and about employee benefit programs and health management measures, among other issues, and continued with efforts to foster workplaces that can motivate and fulfill employees. 96 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Health and Safety Health and Safety Our basic approach and strategy As an occupational health and safety initiative, Unicharm Group strives to ensure health and safety management in the workplace through the Unicharm Group's “‘Beliefs and Pledges’ and Corporate Principles of Action*” in order to realize our “Pledge to Associates” to prevent workplace accidents and to ensure that our employees can work safely and securely. * We pledge to sincerely conduct our business activities in order to be a trusted partner to our customers, shareholders, business partners, employees and society, and have established the Unicharm Group “Corporate Principles of Action” to do so. Basic Policy for Health Management 1. Employees give priority to primary prevention and strive to improve lifestyle habits based on the idea of protecting one's health through one's own actions. 2. The company provides a safe and comfortable environment so that employees can enjoy a fulfilling workplace and fully exercise their abilities. 3. The Human Resources Division properly uses and manages personal information such as medical examination results and promotes health management with collaborators inside and outside the company. Being thorough with Workplace Safety and Industrial Health Management To prevent workplace accident and ensure that employees can work safely and comfortably, we strictly implement safety and health management in the workplace toward a goal of zero accident. At the same time, we give top priority to ensuring employing safety at all times, do not force employees into excessive labor or overtime and provide a work environment in which safety and health managers play a central role. Managers also confirm the mental and physical health of their subordinates and promptly respond when they find an issue. Management structure The Iki-Iki Health Promotion Office was opened in 2017 to assist employees with physical and mental health management. We have also implemented an occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS) focused on manufacturing in order to continuously maintain and improve our health and safety activities and have specified a PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) process to promote ongoing health and safety management on an autonomous basis that assists in preventing workplace accidents, promotes worker health, creates a comfortable work environment and improves our activities for enhancing safety and health standards. OSHMS operations ensure that all employees at manufacturing plants have set objectives for health and safety activities with clear roles and responsibilities. Along with regular checks by the plant manager, who is responsible for overall health and safety management at the plant, this system allows the identification of latent risks for occupational injuries and diseases and revision of health and safety activities. In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets out OSHMS guidelines. The International Labour Organization (ILO) has also sets out OSHMS guidelines as international standards. Japan's guidelines conform to the ILO standards. We also have third-party organizations monitor our manufacturing sites in and outside of Japan. This monitoring serves to identify issues with long working hours, occupational safety, wages and building safety so we can make improvements. In order to create a safe and comfortable workplace, we have established a Health and Safety Committee with selected employees, labor union representatives and occupational physicians. The committee meets once per month on matters such as activities to improve the workplace environment, prevention of workplace accidents and elimination of vehicle accidents. Important actions from a PDCA perspective are reported to the directors through the Health and Safety Committee office. Actions related to safety that have been approved by the directors are implemented as activities in each department. Progress is reported to the directors in the Health and Safety Committee and periodic reports with their decisions on actions and instructions for improvements being issued to implement the PDCA cycle for safety activities. 97 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Health and Safety Additionally, by using the company intranet, we post “Health Lab,” health promotion information, and “Overseas Support Information,” information on safety/security and health issues (e.g., HIV, AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria) in foreign countries, which is provided as needed to employees going on business trips to other countries. Objectives We are aiming for zero workplace accident and a five percent year-on-year increase in the rate of paid annual leave taken. With the aim of zero workplace accident, production-focused managers (including plant managers) visit sites and take necessary measures to promote PDCA for occupational health and safety. In FY2019, both the workplace accident frequency rate and the workplace accident severity rate fell once again, bringing Unicharm below the industry average. Please see Human Resources Data for the workplace accident frequency rate and the workplace accident severity rate. With telework and working interval programs, a monthly no-overtime day and premium Friday across the entire company, Unicharm Corporation is realizing the creation of well-balanced way to work. We have also clarified priorities, with employees thoroughly managing their actions by creating weekly plans for effective use of work time in order to promote reductions in working hours and the creation of a meaningful working environment. Company-wide safety conference We hold company-wide safety conference as part of our efforts to ensure employee safety. As one example, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd., which manufactures products in Japan, held its 17th company-wide safety conference on April 17, 2019 at the Central Plant, Shikoku Factory. Unicharm Products President & CEO, Eiji Ishikawa, who is also a Director and Vice President at Unicharm Corporation, reaffirmed the company's commitment to safety, noting that “we can prevent all accidents and injuries.” Toward this end, he strongly declared that senior executives would take the initiative to create a “safe and comfortable workplace” based on a philosophy of “safety as an asset” and “safety taking precedence overall.” The 17th Company-wide Safety Conference Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Health and Safety Committee Unicharm's “Health and Safety Committee” consists of industrial doctors and elected commissioners from the company and the labor union. The Committee implements various activities once a month, including activities related to improving the working environment and preventing work-related accidents, as well as carrying out campaigns to eliminate vehicle accidents. We have also implemented workplace improvement activities and promotion activities for new 2019 Japanese regulations that require the consumption of a minimum number of paid holidays and implemented telework and working interval programs, a monthly no-overtime day and premium Friday to create a well-balanced way to work. We have also clarified priorities, with Health and Safety Committee employees thoroughly managing their actions by creating weekly plans for effective use of work time in order to promote reductions in working hours and the creation of a worthwhile working environment. 98 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Health and Safety Promoting employee health In order to make it possible for employees to be both healthy in body and mind and highly productive, we have implemented ongoing health and safety activities and improved facilities so that in FY2019, there were no fatal workplace accidents. Active promotion of annual health checkups also resulted in a 100 percent uptake rate at Unicharm Corporation in FY2019, the tenth consecutive year since 2009 that the uptake rate was 100 percent. As an early prevention measure for female breast cancer and cervical cancer, all female employees of Unicharm Corporation, regardless of age, are required to have a breast and gynecological checkup, the costs of which are fully paid by the company. With October designated as Pink Ribbon Month, we gave out pink ribbon badges and educational books to employees, providing our employees, their families and people close to them with the opportunity to think about breast cancer. For our Pink Ribbon activities, please see Making Contributions to Society through Business Development. Body Composition Measurement Event To shift health management practices from treatment to prevention, we began administering a stress check in FY2016 and promptly directing those with high stress for health consultations with health nurses and industrial physicians. Health nurses also publish the monthly Healthy Lab Newsletter as a health awareness-raising activity and hold body composition measurement and health-themed discussion events to provide advice for improving the everyday life of employees. Additional initiatives aimed at conveying the importance of improving lifestyle habits from an early stage and being more health-conscious include introducing the company's internal consultation desk to new employees, providing health management training sessions for employees in their 30s and offering individual consultation on Tuesdays and Thursdays regarding protection against infectious diseases such as influenza. Furthermore, Unicharm Corporation has had a company-wide ban on smoking in the workplace since January 1, 2016. Health consultations We also introduced an employee support program by which our employees and their families can consult with external counselors about their worries and troubles, in order to facilitate their realization of fulfilling and healthy lives without worries. In FY2019, we introduced an app “Oshikko Check” in Mita-area for making lifestyle improvements based on changes in urine pH. We also conducted various kinds of training and education, such as lifesaving training for emergencies, for 2,363 people. In recognition of these efforts, since 2018 Unicharm has been recognized for three consecutive years as a Certified Health and Productivity Management Outstanding Organization White 500. Health discussion roundtable Urine check app “Oshikko Check ”(in Japanese) Human Resources Data Please see Human Resources Data for health and safety performance. 99 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Human Resources Data Human Resources Data ■Human Resources Data 2018 2019 Unit Total Males Females Total Males Females Number of permanent employees (consolidated) Persons 16,207 10,081 6,126 16,304 10,190 6,114 Percentage of permanent employees (consolidated) % 53.5 58 47.5 52.6 58.8 44.7 Number of permanent employees (Japan) Persons 3,200 2,606 594 3,244 2,642 602 Number of permanent employees (other than Japan) Persons 13,007 7,475 5,532 13,060 7,548 5,512 ① Number of contract employees (consolidated) Persons 14,082 7,313 6,769 14,709 7,134 7,575 Percentage of contract employees (consolidated) % 46.5 42 52.5 47.4 41.2 55.3 Number of contract employees (Japan) Persons 1,418 689 729 1,552 788 764 Number of contract employees (other than Japan) Persons 12,664 6,624 6,040 13,157 6,346 6,811 Employment rate of persons with disabilities (annual ② % 2.13 ― ― 1.90 ― ― average) ③ Rehiring rate of retired employees % 89.4 ― ― 92.3 ― ― ④ Employee turnover rate % 2.7 ― ― 2.9 ― ― ⑤ Average age of employees Age 41.7 42.6 38.5 41.7 42.6 38.6 ⑥ Average length of service Years 17.4 18.4 13.1 17.1 18.2 13.2 ⑦ Number of employees who are new graduates Persons 52 42 10 51 35 16 Turnover rate of employees with less than 3 years of ⑧ % 20.8 18.1 26.7 3.6 2.7 5.6 service who started as new graduates Number of managerial employees (Japan) Persons 618 536 82 596 517 79 ⑨ Number of managerial employees (other than Japan) Persons 692 520 172 778 587 191 ⑩ Percentage of available annual leave taken % 58 ― ― 62.46 ― ― ⑪ Per-person overall working hours Hours 1,993.50 ― ― 1,936.25 ― ― ⑫ Use of childcare leave system Persons 107 48 59 91 31 60 ⑬ Percentage of available childcare leave taken % 87.7 76.2 100 87.5 70.5 100 ⑭ Number returning to work after childcare leave Persons 105 48 57 91 31 60 ⑮ Return/retention rate for pregnancy and childcare leave % 98.1 100 96.6 100 100 100 ⑯ Use of nursing-care leave system Persons 4 0 4 5 3 2 ⑰ Use of shortened work hours system for childcare Persons 52 0 52 44 0 44 ⑱ Use of flextime system for personal lifestyle support Persons 68 17 51 62 12 50 ⑲ Health check-up rate % 100 ― ― 100 ― ― ⑳ Number of persons on mental health leave Persons 3 ― ― 2 ― ― Manufacturing industry average 2017 2018 2019 (2018) ㉑ Workplace accident frequency rate 1.20 0.33 0.23 0.24 ㉒ Workplace accident severity rate 0.10 0 0 0 2018 2019 Percentage of employees covered by Percentage of employees covered by Number of union ㉓ 1,490 the Labor Law 1,391 the Labor Law members 100% 100% 2018 2019 Master's degree University degree Master's degree University degree ㉔ Starting salary Yen 226,000 210,000 226,000 210,000 ①⑨: Total group, ⑫ ⑰: employees on the payroll of Unicharm or Unicharm Products. Others: employees on the payroll of Unicharm *1 Based on numbers as of December 31. *2 ⑫ ⑰: permanent and contract employees. Others permanent employees. *3 ③ Rehiring rate of retired employees = Number of rehired employees / Number of retired employees (at mandatory retirement age) *4 ④  Employee turnover rate = Number of terminated employees (except for retirement at mandatory retirement age, death, promotion to board members or transfer within the group) / Number of employees at the end of each fiscal year *5 ㉑ Workplace accident frequency rate = Number of workplace accident occurrences / Total number of working hours × 1 million hours *6 ㉒ Workplace accident severity rate = Number of lost working days / Total working hours × 1,000 hours 100 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Our Attitude toward Social Contribution and its Structures Local Community Our Attitude toward Social Contribution and its Structures Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm believes that its business activities have a highly positive impact on society. We feel a strong sense of pride and joy in providing comfort, emotion and pleasure to people not only in Japan, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. By making a positive contribution in terms of addressing a wide range of societal issues and creating employment opportunities, through expanded provision of products and services suited to the unique characteristics of each country and region, we are working to become a company that is welcomed and trusted by people in these societies. Management structure In Japan, each division conducts autonomous activities to fulfill our corporate social responsibility, with the ESG Division playing a central role. Overseas, local subsidiaries in each country lead community-focused social contribution activities. Making Contributions to Society through Business Development Efforts to lengthen healthy life expectancy through seminar on “Caring for urine leakage and continence” Unicharm continues to provide ■Seminar on “Caring for urine leakage and continence” by Continence Care appropriate continence support and Research Center nursing know-how in cooperation General elderly Caretaking and nursing Target At-home care specialists students with educational institutions and population (of vocational schools) local communities so that we can Caretaking prevention help the elderly live with being Theme Continence care Continence care (urinary incontinence) themselves forever. Tailoring themes Number of and programs to suit participants, presentations 21 14 30 we are presenting useful knowledge in 2019 and skills for care workers so they We introduce prevention We introduce how to We teach from the basics and improvement, and lessen the burden of of the role and knowledge can provide a high level of care and finally, how to best live continence care which is of the experts in the a comfortable life for the elderly. with urine leakage under a large issue in at-home context of elderly the theme, “Preventing assisted care through continence care for the See “Continence Care Navi” for knowledge and self-care of urine introducing appropriate future experts of and ideas about comfortable excretion leakage,” which is ways of choosing and medicine and elderly care important to care using (or putting on) who will become care. prevention. diapers. caretakers for the elderly. Contents Scenes from the day Scenes from the day Scenes from the day 101 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Making Contributions to Society through Business Development Initiatives via Unicharm Corporation's “flat-rate disposable baby diaper service” At most Japanese daycares, parents are responsible for supplying their own child's diapers. Beginning in July 2019, Unicharm Corporation has partnered with BABY JOB Co., Ltd., a childcare worker staffing service, to offer a flat-rate disposable baby diaper service for daycares in order to ease the burden on parents and daycare staff and make child-raising full of smiles. Ongoing participation in Pink Ribbon activities in Japan and overseas Pink Ribbon activities help to raise awareness around the world about the early detection, early diagnosis and early treatment of breast cancer and Unicharm assists with these activities in Japan, China and Taiwan-Greater China. Unicharm is now in its 12th year of supporting Pink Ribbon activities in Japan. A total of 65 people, including employees and their families, took part in the Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Event held in October 2019 to communicate the Pink Ribbon message. In order to foster correct understanding about Pink Ribbon activities, we provide information on basic knowledge on breast cancer and self-check methods for early detection through a special website and with limited-edition packaging for “Sofy” sanitary napkins. Part of the proceeds from the sale of these limited-edition package products was donated to relevant organizations in conjunction with the “#Sofy Pink Feather fund-raising campaign” on Twitter and Instagram. In addition, Unicharm raised money at the “2019 Childcare Festa” and the “Paper Festival”, both held in Shikokuchuo City, Ehime Prefecture, with donations provided to all relevant organizations. In addition, to enable employees to be both mentally and physically healthy and to engage in highly productive activities, we designated October as Pink Ribbon Month and gave out pink ribbon badges and educational books to employees, providing our employees, their families and people close to them with the opportunity to think about breast cancer. Active promotion of annual health checkups resulted in a 100% uptake rate in FY2019. As an early prevention measure for female breast cancer and cervical cancer, it is essential for all female employees, regardless of age, to receive gynecological checkups the costs of which are fully paid by the company. Our subsidiary in Taiwan-Greater China sponsored the 2019 “Pink Ribbon Walk Event” held by the Formosa Cancer Foundation in May 2019. This was the eighth year we supported this event, in which 30 employees and their family members participated in order to raise awareness about the importance of breast cancer screening. Our local subsidiary in China sponsored a running event “Pink Line” in Macao in November 2019 aimed at raising awareness of breast cancer. ■Pink Ribbon activities in each region Japan Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Pink Ribbon limited-edition products Taiwan-Greater China Pink Ribbon Walk Event 102 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Making Contributions to Society through Business Development Participated in a gender equality exhibition We participated in the exhibition “Too little, too late to ask ‘What is Gender Equality?’” organized by JICA(Japan International Cooperation Agency) Yokohama which was a photo and video retrospective of gender inequality issues around the world and the various efforts made to address them. We held our first menstruation education in Myanmar which we carried out in cooperation with the Myanmar government and the NPO Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning(JOICFP). Please see CSR Key Topic 2 for information on our initiatives in Myanmar Activities in cooperation with consumers to consider small things that lead to better futures for children We supported and co-sponsored Toyoshima & Co., Ltd.'s the “Orgabits Project” through “Natural Moony ,” our diaper with an organic cotton surface sheet. The Orgabits Project began with the idea of contributing to the global environment through increasing the use of organic cotton “bit” by bit. By increasing the number of people who use organic cotton, organic cultivation and the number of organic cotton field increase, improving the global environment and helping the children of the future to smile. A portion of purchase price for eligible purchased boxes of “Natural Moony” are donated to the PEACE BY PEACE COTTON PROJECT (run by the PEACE BY PEACE COTTON Foundation) through Toyoshima & Co., Ltd. The collected donations are used in India to support organic cotton farmers, encourage the spread of organic cotton use and support school attendance by the children of cotton organic farmers. Supporting the “Panel for Life” project for the happy life of rescue dogs and cats From October 2019, we have carried out a campaign to support “Panel for Life”, an initiative by the Christel Vie Ensemble, which is a foundation that wishes for the happiness of all pets and works to realize a society in which all living things are valued. The “Panel for Life” project installs life-sized dog and cat panels in various locations to increase awareness of the existence of rescue dogs and cats and to help those animals find their forever home. 103 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Sponsored program to gift disposable diapers upon birth registration in Kakegawa City Since 2016, we have had a program of gifting disposable diapers for newborn babies upon birth registration in Kakegawa City, Shizuoka Prefecture, where our Shizuoka Factory is located, with the goal of promoting healthy growth of children, reducing financial burdens on childraising families and contributing to the local region. Sponsored program to gift disposable diapers upon birth registration in Shibushi City and Osaki Town In November 2018, the Presentation Ceremony for Newborn Gifts at Birth Registration was held in Shibushi, Kagoshima. This is an initiative to congratulate and support child-raising families through gifting of diapers for newborns in Kagoshima Prefecture's Shibushi City and Osaki Town. These two municipalities are working with Unicharm to develop disposable diaper recycling technologies, which are essential to the future of our children. Please see CSR Key Topic 3 for information on initiatives of disposable diaper recycling. Sponsored program to provide disposable diapers to Shikokuchuo City Shikoku-Chuo City is considered to be one of Japan's largest paper producing areas. Unicharm is helping to sponsor local initiatives to assist children here as part of a public-private partnership initiated by the city government. Through this initiative, families in the city raising a child below the age of one receive a childcare support voucher they can use to redeem for MamyPoko and Moony products free of charge. Unicharm actively supports the city's efforts to promote the local production and local consumption of paper products as a means to easing the burden placed on child-raising families and encouraging the healthy development of children. Child-raising support voucher Participation in the Childcare Festa 2019 in Shikoku-Chuo City We participated in “Childcare Festa 2019,” a child raising festival held in the city of Shikoku-Chuo in October 2019. In keeping with the city's slogan, “The Best Place to Raise a Child in Shikoku,” this event provides an opportunity for parents and children to interact with one another and to promote a good childcare environment. We displayed products, operated a miniature steam locomotive, carried out awareness-raising activities for the early detection of breast cancer and raised money for the Pink Ribbon Campaign. 104 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Supported the “Smiling Face of Ehime Child Raising Support Project” in Ehime Prefecture With Ehime being home to many leading paper manufacturers in Japan, we are sponsoring the “Smiling Face of Ehime Child Raising Support Project,” a collaboration between the prefectural and local governments and disposable diaper manufacturers in the prefecture to support families with young children. This project offers support to families with two or more children by providing coupons valid for diaper purchases in order to reduce their economic burden. Sponsored the ITF Unicharm Trophy EHIME International Open Tennis As a company originating in Ehime Prefecture, since 2018 we have sponsored the ITF Unicharm Trophy EHIME International Open Tennis, a men's tennis competition recognized by the International Tennis Federation (ITF), with the aim of contributing to regional revitalization. We also provide support to junior tennis athletes reaching for the world stage through kids tennis classes taught by former professional tennis player Ms. Kimiko Date and Japan Tennis Association (JTA)-certified coaches. Sponsored the Malaysian Badminton Team Camp in Ehime Given that Ehime was chosen as the official training camp for the Malaysian Badminton Team in preparation for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games and considering that Unicharm is a company originating in Ehime Prefecture and further developing its business in Malaysia, we have been sponsoring the “Malaysian Badminton Team Camp in Ehime” since August 2018. Donated wheelchairs to Sapporo City Council of Social Welfare Since 2000, we have annually donated wheelchairs to the Sapporo City Council of Social Welfare in collaboration with Tsuruha Holdings, Inc. In recognition of these efforts, we were presented with a letter of appreciation in July 2019 at the “42nd Sapporo City Social Welfare Convention.” In October 2019, we donated another 20 wheelchairs for a cumulative total of 220 wheelchairs. The donated wheelchairs are being used by many facilities for the elderly in Sapporo as rental wheelchairs and for transportation services. Products chosen as thank you gifts for making Hometown tax contributions In collaboration with local municipal governments where our manufacturing plants reside with the hopes of revitalizing the local regions, Unicharm products have been adopted as thank you gifts to taxpayers making Hometown tax contributions in Kakegawa City, Shizuoka Prefecture; Kanonji City, Kagawa Prefecture; Tanagura Town, Fukushima Prefecture; Itami City, Hyogo Prefecture; Nabari City, Mie Prefecture and other municipalities. 105 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Japan) Established a scholarship foundation for the development of children leading the next generation Unicharm's President & CEO Takahisa Takahara established the Unicharm Resonance Fund in 2017 for the purpose of the development of university students and graduate students leading the next generation, particularly students interested in manufacturing, welfare and globalism, in order to achieve cohesive societies of people and pets. The foundation provides scholarships for students enrolled at universities and graduate schools in Japan for the purpose of supporting the development of human resources that will contribute to society. Unicharm Resonance Fund website 106 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [Vietnam] Maternal & Child Health Handbook promotion activities Our local subsidiary in Vietnam collaborated with the Ministry of Health to raise the awareness of mother and child on health insurance by distributing 200,000 copies of the Maternal & Child Health Handbook in nine cities and prefectures. [Vietnam] Provision of disposable diapers to vaccination centers in Vietnam From July to December 2019, our local subsidiary in Vietnam provided 36,000 disposable diapers for babies to the visitors in the diaper changing room at the vaccination centers in Vietnam. [Thailand] Disability support project As a project to help people with disabilities earn income, our local subsidiary in Thailand provides a space where they can sell products. [India] Support for women affected by major cyclone In May 2019, a large cyclone named “Fani” made landfall in the eastern Indian state of Odisha at Puri City. The severe cyclone caused serious damages including power and water outages and communication interruptions. At the request of the Odisha State Government, our local subsidiary in India delivered 214,560 sanitary napkins to 53,640 women as relief supplies. 107 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [India] Educational activities for disposable diaper use Getting enough sleep is vitally important for the healthy growth of babies. Unicharm is conducting the Namaste Poko Chan Event to highlight the importance of providing an environment where babies can sleep soundly and hygienic excretion care in some cities and rural areas of India where the use of disposable diapers is still low. The event is held using a specially designed truck in open spaces in local communities to help promote awareness. With cooperation from local public health nurses, many mothers came to these events where, through short movies and interactive programs, they were able to hear explanations on the importance of sleep for mothers and babies, learn about hygienic baby care and excretion care and see how to properly use disposable diapers and absorption experiments. In 2019, several of these special trucks were used for 960 events over 240 days, with some 50,000 people attending. [Indonesia] Educational activities for river cleanups and proper waste disposal To solve the problem of garbage being dumped in rivers in the suburbs, our local subsidiary in Indonesia has been carrying out river cleanup activities since March 2019 in collaboration with local environmental bureaus and NGOs. Along with a donation of 20 trash cans and 20 signs noting that dumping in the river is illegal, we are raising citizen awareness about proper waste disposal and supporting the development of a waste collection system by the local government. As a manufacturer of disposable diapers, we also carry out educational activities on their proper use, such as printing instructions for appropriate disposal methods on diaper packages and carrying out education in rural areas about proper disposal. [Indonesia] Visit to orphanages In August 2019, employees at our local subsidiary in Indonesia visited two orphanages. The visit has been held as a part of the annual company founding commemoration event for the local subsidiary, with the goal of providing social assistance to orphaned children and promoting mutual interaction. In addition to providing a donation of disposable diapers, wet wipes and sanitary napkins, an educational event was held for girls near the age of first menstruation. 108 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [Indonesia] Excretion care seminar for nursing care trainees In October 2019, our local subsidiary in Indonesia conducted a joint training course for nursing care trainees on excretion care for the elderly together with OS Selnajaya Indonesia. Twenty-six trainees learned about Japanesestyle excretion care, including how to use disposable diapers and how to attend to persons using them in accordance with activities of daily living (ADL) for the elderly. [Malaysia] Donations for social welfare groups through a purchasing campaign Our local subsidiary in Malaysia conducted a campaign with 99 Speedmart(a Malaysian retailer) to donate one ringgit to social welfare organizations for each target product sold during the campaign period. [Taiwan-Greater China] Sponsored a senior stage show In November 2019, our local subsidiary in Taiwan-Greater China held a stage show for seniors sponsored by Hondao Senior Citizen's Welfare Foundation to promote social participation by seniors and help them realize a healthy and enjoyable life as they continue to grow older. An amount of 65,000 RMB was donated to “Xian Jiao Bai Lao Hui 8 (仙角百老匯 8)” for the show and “Lifree Sawayaka Pads” and “Lifree Slim-fit Style Underwear” were also distributed at the venue on the day of the show. [Taiwan-Greater China] Sponsored the Infant and Children Support Bazaar In May 2019, our local subsidiary in Taiwan-Greater China provided products in support of a bazaar hosted by The Garden of Hope Foundation, a welfare group which fosters infants and children, and baby goods specialty store KODOMO. Ten percent of the bazaar sales and donations collected from participants will fund the living and medical expenses of these children. 109 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Local Community > Community-based Social Contribution Activities (Overseas) [China] Visited welfare facilities In August 2019, our local subsidiary in China visited an elderly welfare facility in Shanghai and communicated with facility residents. An explanation of adult diapers was provided and adult diapers and daily necessities were donated. This visit has been made annually since 2011 as one of the subsidiary's local contributions in cooperation with the neighborhood association. [China] Exhibited at the “Children Baby Maternity EXPO China” In July 2019, our local subsidiary in China exhibited at the “CBME (Children Baby Maternity EXPO) China” in Shanghai, the largest exhibition of babyrelated products in China. This was our fifth year participation and we exhibited and provided samples of our newly released 0.2 cm thin disposable diapers. [Korea] Carried out the “SHARE PAD Campaign” Our local subsidiary in Korea, in collaboration with the Korea Single Parent Family Welfare Facility Association, held the “SHARE PAD Campaign” to donate 1,964,252 packs of sanitary napkins and panty liners to single-parent families. [Korea] Campaign to support low birthweight babies In collaboration with Samsung Card's Baby Story, our local subsidiary in Korea provided 83,000 diapers for 3,000 low birthweight babies and also held a class for parents of such babies where childcare information was presented by the experts. [USA] Exhibited at “Global Pet Expo 2019” In March 2019, our local subsidiary in the US exhibited products with demonstrations at “Global Pet Expo 2019” in Florida which is the largest pet goods exhibition in the US. This annual exhibition showcases more than 1,000 companies from countries around the world and introduces over 3,000 new products. In 2019, a record-high 1,174 companies exhibited. 110 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Our Basic Approach and Strategy Supply Chain (Society) Our Basic Approach and Strategy Approach to materials procurement Unicharm has operated the business in line with the Unicharm Group CSR Procurement Guidelines which were established in 2009 for the purpose of maintaining fair and impartial relationships with all suppliers. The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, environment and product safety such as “the abolition of child labor,” “the elimination of discrimination” and “the promotion of measures against global warming” as stated in the U.N. Global Compact. By working closely together through mutual communication with suppliers, we are sharing and establishing an understanding of Unicharm's responsible procurement approach, philosophy, specific activities and requests for cooperation towards safety and the environment. At our overseas locations, only rolling out best practices from Japan is not sufficient given more dramatic changes in awareness and regulations on safety and the environment. So we are also gathering information from the local market and promoting materials procurement closely in tune with local market conditions as well, and thus aiming to build business relationships that fulfill the quality, functionality, safety, environmental and service requirements of product lines in overseas markets. In addition, we are promoting procurement activities with a particular emphasis on crisis management. When starting new business transactions overseas, we make efforts to establish a sound understanding and dissemination of Unicharm's stance and approach toward procurement including compliance with laws and social imperatives and due consideration to human rights and labor and thus call for the cooperation of the partners in environmental and ethical areas. In October 2017, we established the Basic Policy of Procurement promoted from the Unicharm Group CSR Procurement Guidelines in response to increased expectations towards the sustainability initiatives of global companies and to prevent human rights and labor problems throughout the supply chain. At the same time, the Unicharm Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines were established as a subdivision of this Basic Policy of Procurement to express our intentions towards the prevention of child labor and forced labor, the prohibition of discrimination, the right to the freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, reductions in excessive working hours, minimum wages, health and safety standards and the prevention of corruption. These policy and guidelines cover all business partners that conduct business with the Unicharm Group around the world, and we have worked to ensure awareness, primarily through the International Labor Standards (ILS) Promotion Group established at production subsidiary Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. However, this group changed its name to the ESG Promotion Group in 2019 with the aim of including all social difficulty issues, including the environment, and will continue promoting initiatives so that social responsibilities can be fulfilled throughout the supply chain. We will work towards safe and secure procurement based on legal compliance going forwards so that suppliers can understand the intent of these policy and guidelines. ■Basic Policy of Procurement Basic Policy of Procurement The Unicharm Group will make efforts to fulfill its corporate social responsibility and implement its fair and equitable corporate activities. 1. Compliance with Laws and Regulations, and Social Norms （１）Comply with related laws and regulations, and social norms, in purchasing activities. （２）Provide business partners with fair and equitable opportunities for competition in purchasing activities, regardless of nationality, size, or track record. （３）Require business partners to implement appropriate management of information obtained in purchasing activities. 111 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Our Basic Approach and Strategy 2. Giving Due Consideration to Human Rights and Labor （１）Engage in purchasing activities with corporations which place importance on respect for human rights. （２）Engage in purchasing activities with corporations which give due consideration to the appropriateness of labor practices. （３）Respect the importance of engaging in purchasing activities with corporations which promote appropriate employment practices. 3. Environmental Responsibility （１）Value corporations which understand the importance of, and promote, environmental conservation in purchasing activities. （２）Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in purchasing activities in an effort to achieve a recyclingoriented society. 4. Procurement of Safe and Secure Products and Materials that Provide Peace of Mind （１）Choose products and materials for which safety has been confirmed in purchasing activities. （２）Choose economical and high quality materials and products in purchasing activities. （３）Emphasize the ability to manufacture and supply products that meet requirements in purchasing activities. 5. Development of Relationships of Mutual Trust （１）Cultivate a relationship and trust with business partners within the scope of social norms. （２）Strive to enhance business performance mutually through exchange of essential information with business partners. ■Sustainable Procurement Guidelines Unicharm Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines These guidelines define the ethical standards that Unicharm wants all of its suppliers to adhere to, in order to help realize sustainable procurement. We expect all of our suppliers to understand and comply with the intent of these guidelines. 1． Compliance with laws and social imperatives １）Legal compliance ■Comply with laws and regulations (antitrust laws, personal information protection laws, subcontracting laws, etc.), as well as social imperatives related to individual country and region. ２）Fairness in transactions and prohibition of bribery ■Comply with laws related to fair trading, fair competition and antitrust. ■Prohibit all stakeholders from offering or accepting bribes (monetary or non-monetary benefits) and from abusing superior bargaining position. ３）Management and protection of information ■Comprehensively manage and protect confidential information and build a structure that prevents information leakage. ■Use suppliers' intellectual property rights only after concluding appropriate contracts and do not use them illegally. ■Properly handle personal information. 2． Giving due consideration to human rights and labor (Refer to the Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights.) １）Respecting the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) declaration ■Respect the International Bill of Human Rights (the Universal Declaration of Human rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ２）Respecting human rights ①Prohibition of child labor ■Do not employ children who do not meet the minimum age requirement.(A child is defined as any person younger than 16 years of age, unless local minimum age law stipulates a higher age for work or mandatory schooling in which case the higher age requirement applies.) ②Prohibition of forced labor ■Do not employ any form of forced or inhumane labor, hold a person in slavery or servitude or engage in human trafficking. ■Employ only people who voluntarily wish to be employed and do not restrict their rights to freely leave their jobs. ③Prohibition of discrimination ■In recruitment and employment, do not discriminate on the basis of race, national origin, ethnicity, gender, religion, physical impairment, etc. ３）Prohibition of inhumane treatment ■Respect the human rights of employees and do not subject them to inhumane treatment such as physical abuse, physical punishment, harassment, physical oppression or sexual abuse. 112 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Our Basic Approach and Strategy ４）Fair employment ①Working hours ■Comply with the working hours set forth by the local laws and regulations of individual country and region (excluding crises and emergency situations). ②Proper compensation ■Pay employees in compliance with local compensation-related laws and regulations on minimum wage, overtime work, piecework pay, etc. ■For overtime work, pay a wage premium in accordance with the local laws and regulations of the individual country and region. ③Ensuring health and safety ■Clearly identify potentially dangerous locations related to work and take preventive actions and implement workplace safety measures. ■To prepare for emergencies, take steps such as confirming the reporting requirements in the event of an emergency, establishing rules for notifying employees and installing fire detectors. ④Respecting freedom of unionization and the right to collective bargaining ■Do not, in any way, obstruct employees' right to form a labor union using legal and peaceful means in accordance with applicable laws. 3． Responsibility to the environment １）Environmental conservation ①Legal compliance ■Comply with the environment-related laws and regulations of the individual country and region. ■In accordance with local laws and regulations, submit the required administrative reports when necessary and retain records. ②Control of substances that are harmful to the environment ■Control discharge of harmful substances that can cause air pollution, water quality degradation, etc. ■Control discharge of harmful substances that can cause soil contamination. ■Control discharge of waste generated during manufacturing, product usage and end-of-life disposal. ③Promotion of resource conservation and recycling ■Strive to conserve resources, manage waste and promote recycling. ■Improve usage efficiency of energy (such as electricity and fuel). ■Strive to consume sustainable resources such as alternative energy sources. ④Promotion of global warming countermeasures ■Identify substances that contribute to global warming, assess their emissions and retain records. ■Control discharge of substances that contribute to global warming. ２）Promoting procurement of sustainable raw materials (Refer to the Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines.) ■Prohibit use of illegally logged lumber. ■Do not consume natural-resource-derived raw materials such as lumber and water excessively but utilize resources in step with the cycling speed at which nature recovers. 4． Procurement of safe and secure products and materials (Refer to the Unicharm Group Materials Safety Guidelines.) １）Supplying safe materials ■Report component composition including the content of chemical substances deemed harmful by the Unicharm Group. ２）Supplying materials that are high in quality and for which the supplier has large supply capacity ■Submit safety data sheets (SDS) for materials. 113 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Management Structure Management Structure Although Unicharm avoids various risks by closely communicating with business partners, it also implements procurement activities with a focus on crisis management in addition to communication in supply chains throughout the world in response to dramatic changes in awareness and regulations relating to human rights and the environment. In addition, Unicharm conducts a supplier risk assessment when starting new business transactions overseas to determine in advance whether it is an appropriate business partner. While regularly monitoring labor environment after business transactions are commenced, we are ready to establish a sound understanding and dissemination of Unicharm's stance and approach toward procurement including compliance with laws and social imperatives and due consideration to human rights and labor and thus call for the cooperation of the partners in environmental and ethical areas. Moreover, the Unicharm Group aims to build a sustainable supply chain based on the “Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights” and the “Sustainable Procurement Guidelines”. In May 2018, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd., a production subsidiary in Japan, as well as local subsidiaries in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan-Greater China, China, India, Saudi Arabia, Brazil and South Korea began taking part in Sedex. Sedex provides the world's biggest platform for managing risks related to labor practices (labor standards, health and safety, environment and business ethics). In July 2020, the Group as a whole will join Sedex with plans to operate the platform throughout the Unicharm Group. Ahead of joining Sedex, we have implemented regular SMETA audits* (an audit scheme provided by Sedex) at our own production sites and that of some suppliers in efforts to respect the human rights of employees and improve the working environment. * SMETA(Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) is an audit scheme formulated with the aim of improving corporate ethics in global supply chains with the participation of leading global retailers and food companies. Supplier risk assessment For new suppliers, we ask that suppliers understand the Unicharm Group Policy on Human Rights and the Sustainable Procurement Guidelines and conduct a risk assessment using the independently developed new supplier risk assessment table. In high risk regions, we also monitor the labor environment in advance together with assessing risk. For existing suppliers, we conduct a regular supplier assessment in accordance with the annual plan. We have established the regular Unicharm Supplier Award that commends suppliers based on the results of these assessments and the explanation of the assessment items and standards at the awards ceremony also boosts the awareness of improvements by all suppliers. Initiatives aimed at education and penetration The Sustainable Procurement Guidelines are distributed to suppliers and the intent of these guidelines is explained in an aim to achieve a sustainable society throughout the supply chain. We held seminars on procurement at distribution warehouses and the factories of suppliers in addition to our plants in 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019 for the education and penetration of the guidelines and the sharing of health and safety in the workplace. Seminars were held in nine countries (China, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, India, Brazil, South Korea, Japan and Malaysia; 17 of our own plants) at 52 supplier factories for a total of 527 Seminar people. Labor environment monitoring initiatives Unicharm conducts monitoring of the labor environment while cooperating with our own plants and supplier factories. Through this monitoring, it is possible to identify issues related to long working hours, occupational safety, wages and building safety and encourage efforts towards improvement. Addressing issues of long working hours at factories, if a point to note related to long working hours is discovered, the details of that point are verified and appropriate measures are taken in cooperation with factories. In particular, monitoring of the labor environment is 114 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Management Structure essential for achieving improvements in productivity and quality in an environment where the human rights of employees are respected and the safety of employees is protected.* Unicharm works towards these goals through strong partnerships with suppliers. Monitoring is regularly conducted by external organizations before new transactions and after the commencement of transactions. This monitoring program was consolidated into the SMETA from October 2017, under which monitoring is conducted based on global standards for effective risk management. * Please see Initiatives for details. Regular monitoring External auditors visit our own plants and supplier factories that Unicharm has a direct contract with, and conduct monitoring. Monitoring starts with an opening meeting and includes observation of related facilities such as the factory, cafeteria and dormitory, interviews with factory employees and the employees of associate companies on the premises, meetings with management and checks on the required documents. Lastly, a closing meeting is held and points to note confirmed in the monitoring are explained to management. At a later date, management will be requested to create an improvement report and commit to improvement. The monitoring results are scored on a 5-level ranking from A to E. If a point to note is confirmed when the rank is B to E through monitoring, Unicharm will conduct an analysis on the root cause of the problem, encourage the formulation of an appropriate improvement plan and provide support for resolution of the problem. If improvements at the factory are not made within the prescribed deadline, a visit is made to the factory and instructions are provided so that a rank of B or above can be acquired. If a point to note is detected through monitoring, efforts are made to improve together with the factory. Instructions in the field ■Monitoring assessment framework 115 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Initiatives Initiatives Implementation of human rights and labor monitoring The Unicharm Group regularly conducts monitoring on suppliers regarding ESG using the Sustainable Procurement Guidelines for the purpose of identifying risks. It assesses the status of compliance, the labor environment (safety and health, fire safety, harassment, and discrimination), working hours, wages and employment, child labor, and environmental protection. Improvement activities are conducted together with suppliers if any risks are identified. In fiscal 2019, the Group conducted monitoring at 74 supplier plants (100% of the target). We also conducted monitoring at 12 of our own plants and associate companies on the premises of our own plants in seven countries (Japan, China, Thailand, Indonesia, India, Brazil and Vietnam). We commenced monitoring in Japan as well in fiscal 2018, and monitored three of our own plants, as well as seven supplier plants. ■Examples of observations at time of monitoring (supplier plants in China and India, own plant in Brazil) Applicable Evaluation Non-complying item Rectification guidance Improvement results countries results Inadequate attendance Onsite guidance for improvements in Confirmation of improvement China D records and fire safety accordance with laws and regulations through second follow up audit Brazil B Eye washers not installed Guidance to install Confirmation of installation Installation of insufficient Guidance for installation of number in India B Confirmation of installation fire extinguishers accordance with laws and regulations Among these, an overview of the monitoring conducted in China is as follows. We requested the monitor target company to improve discovered contents that should be improved through onsite guidance and confirmed the results. Case of supplier facilities in China, rank D ・Regular monitoring: December 2018, rank D Improvement request: As working hours and salary details could not be confirmed due to lack of attendance records, record using time cards was requested. Also improvement requested as inadequate fire safety was confirmed(narrow evacuation routes, locked emergency exits, some emergency lights not installed, some evacuation lights not installed). ・Follow-up monitoring: April 2019, rank D ・Onsite guidance: May and July 2019 Improvement request: As manager punched time cards and there were discrepancies between time card records and content of interviews with employees, working hours and salary details could not be confirmed, so biometric time card record that does not allow attendance record by proxy requested. Also improvement requested as inadequate fire safety confirmed again(some emergency lights not installed) ・Second follow-up monitoring: October 2019, rank B For environmental monitoring, also see Environment ＞ Supply Chain (Environment) ＞ Environmental Monitoring Implementation of Quality Policy Briefing Session The Quality Policy Briefing Session that is regularly held for suppliers was held in November 2017.This 12th Quality Policy Briefing Session was held to provide explanations on Unicharm's management philosophy, the approach towards CSR efforts, materials quality and materials distribution, safety, environmental consideration, the approach towards supply chain management, the revised Basic Policy of Procurement and Sustainable Procurement Guidelines and the newly established Policy on Human Rights in order to share information in an aim to foster a mutual understanding of sustainable procurement and strengthen cooperative efforts. Additionally, we are promoting quality improvement activities together with our local suppliers related to a broad range of themes involving materials through meetings with overseas subsidiaries and suppliers from various countries, including the 3rd Quality Policy Briefing Session held in China in September 2014. 116 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Supply Chain (Society) > Initiatives Quality Policy Briefing Session in Japan Quality Policy Briefing Session in China Initiatives to improve quality A “Supplier Award” has been set at the Quality Policy Briefing Session to raise the motivation of suppliers towards improvement, under which suppliers are evaluated from five perspectives (stable quality, stable supply, safety, environmental burden and deliveries) and recognized for their outstanding contributions. For the stability of materials quality, we narrow down priority themes and conduct intensive improvement with suppliers, resulting in acceleration of improvements. We will expand these efforts going forward as we work towards even further improvements in materials quality. In addition, we regularly conduct quality audits on suppliers. In the audits, we confirm whether suppliers are in compliance with our requirements in all processes from raw materials management to shipment. If a non-complying item is discovered, we ask for the proposal of a rectification method, confirm the contents of the proposal and implementation of improvements and confirm the instilling of improvements in the next audit. We will make ongoing quality improvements in materials by repeating this cycle from auditing to the instilling of improvements. 117 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Shareholders and Investors > Our Basic Policy on Profit Returns to Our Shareholders Shareholders and Investors Our Basic Policy on Profit Returns to Our Shareholders Our basic approach and strategy The “‘Beliefs and Pledges’ and Corporate Principles of ■Dividend payout amounts Action” outlined in the Unicharm Group's Action Guidelines constitute our pledge to our shareholders which clearly state that “We pledge to distribute industryleading returns to shareholders.” The basic guidelines for shareholder returns based upon these principles emphasize two points; investment to support business expansion in the med-long term and the continuation and stability of dividend payouts. As a result, in the fiscal year ending December 2019, the company paid an annual dividend of 28.0 yen per share, continuing to increase dividends for 18 consecutive years. Additionally, we have bought back some 4.24 million shares worth approximately 15 billion yen in an effort to enhance the total return of shareholders. We will continuously view shareholder return as an important management agenda and will strive to realize the distribution of industry-leading returns with continuous improvement of our business performance. Information Disclosure for Our Investors Information disclosure for our investors We opened investor relations pages on our websites to post disclosure information including brief notes on the settlement of accounts and financial statements. At the same time, we disclose information for our overseas investors by posting important information on our English site. Starting in FY2015, Unicharm's integrated report was published on this website in order to introduce useful information about the company to investors in a concise and easy-to-understand manner. We also position result briefings and overseas IR roadshow as important venues for dialogue among company executives and our investors, and strive to improve the disclosure of information in order to help investors to better understand our business activities. President Takahisa Takahara visits corporate investors in Europe and North America on an annual overseas IR roadshow where he makes an appeal for future growth by directly referencing the security of the company's stable domestic profits in Japan and details Unicharm's medium-to-long-term global growth potential. Furthermore, we continue to promote dialogue through individual meetings for institutional investors and securities analysts and hold IR events such as tours of our new Kyushu factory(completed in 2019) and lectures about our ESG activities to foster greater engagement. Information for investors on our website 118 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Shareholders and Investors > Status of Inclusion in ESG Indexes Results briefing Overseas IR roadshow Lectures on ESG activities Status of Inclusion in ESG Indexes Status of inclusion in ESG indexes Unicharm is included in all four ESG indexes selected by Japan's Government Pension Investment Fund(GPIF) for Japanese stocks. For continued inclusion in major ESG indexes in the future, Unicharm will promote proper management that brings value to all stakeholders through its business activities and strive for the consistent improvement of corporate value by communicating appropriate business information. 119 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Corporate Governance Governance Corporate Governance Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm believes that working towards sustainable growth and creation of medium-to-long term corporate value through efforts to cooperate appropriately with stakeholders and become a company supported and trusted by society leads to the “promotion of sound corporate management” through the Unicharm Ideals. In order to achieve these targets, the basic policy towards corporate governance is to achieve transparent, fair, prompt and bold management through frank and proactive engagement that will gain the support of various stakeholders, initiatives in response to ESG issues and the further development of an environment that enables appropriate decision-making by directors without missing an opportunity. Report on Corporate Governance Management structure In May 2015, we moved to a “company with audit and supervisory committee governance structure” to meet the expectations of all our stakeholders in Japan and overseas from a global perspective by strengthening the oversight function of the Board of Directors toward management and bringing outside directors into the management process to increase transparency and efficiency. Members of the independent Audit and Supervisory Committee have voting rights on the Board of Directors and the committee actively uses the Company's internal control system to carry out audits. This has helped to create a corporate culture and spirit based on compliance, appropriate collaborative relationships with stakeholders and sound business ethics. ■Corporate Governance Structure (as of January 1, 2020) ESG Promotion Structure of the Unicharm Group 120 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Corporate Governance Development of our internal control system Unicharm formulated its Basic Policy for Establishing an Internal Control System in accordance with the Companies Act and established an Internal Control Committee to respond to the Internal Control and Reporting System (J-SOX) of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. The Internal Control Committee conducts an annual reassessment of risks for each Unicharm Group company, reviews target countries for J-SOX assessment and revises the scope of business processes requiring evaluation. At the same time, the committee works to improve the reliability of financial reporting by promoting the establishment and operation of an internal control system and effective assessments. We are making ongoing improvements to this internal control system from a global perspective by taking into account regulatory developments in countries overseas where the Group operates. Directors' remuneration For information on directors' remuneration, please see Unicharm's Report on Corporate Governance. Implementation status of the Board of Directors and Committees In FY2019, the Board of Directors met 10 times and the Audit & Supervisory Committee met 13 times. The attendance rate was 98.6% for meetings of the Board of Directors and 100% for meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. The attendance rate for Outside Board Directors and for Outside Audit & Supervisory Committee Members was 100% in both cases. Selection Standards for Independent Directors The selection standards for Independent Directors are indicated below. Selection Standards for Independent Directors 121 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Compliance Compliance Our basic approach and strategy Our attitude towards compliance Our management policy is expressed in the Unicharm Ideals which state “we strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulfillment of our social responsibilities”. Unicharm has created a booklet called The Unicharm Way which includes the Group's Code of Conduct and other important compliance documents. Having been approved by the Board of Directors, The Unicharm Way has been distributed to and shared with everyone working at Unicharm Group companies, both within and outside Japan. It forms the basis of our compliance system and is designed to remind all directors and employees to hold themselves to the highest ethical standards and comply with all rules and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation. In addition, Unicharm works to prevent acts that would lead to corruption including bribery, excessive entertainment and gifts through corporate activities, improper political contributions and insider trading, and to ensure compliance with labor standards. The President & CEO and executives continue to communicate the spirit set forth in The Unicharm Way to employees around the world in an effort to improve and instill an awareness of corporate ethics and ensure that all corporate activities are based on compliance. Management structure The “CSR Committee,” established by Unicharm in 2005 for the purpose of monitoring all activities related to social responsibility centered around a framework of quality, safety and the environment, has been restructured and renamed the “ESG Committee” as of January 2020. The “ESG Committee” ensures the legality, fairness and soundness of corporate activities. The “Compliance Hotline” has been established as a consultation and whistleblowing contact point for violations of laws and regulations, internal regulations and major corporate ethics while the “Ring-Ring Employee Hotline” has been established for problems in the workplace such as internal harassment acts and human relationship issues as part of efforts to develop and enhance the compliance structure. A Corporate Ethics Office has been established within the ESG Division as the contact point for the management of these bodies and, when a serious problem occurs, the Representative Director who serves as the chairman convenes a “Corporate Ethics Committee” with the standing members of the deputy chairman(Director & Vice President) and members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee to resolve the issue; the “Corporate Ethics Committee” reports annually to the Board of Directors on the action that it has taken and the Committee's effectiveness is periodically assessed. In addition, in order to conduct audits on whether business execution in each division is being conducted appropriately in accordance with laws, regulations, etc. and to provide advice as necessary, an Internal Audit Division that is independent from each business execution division and directly supervised by the President & CEO has been established and it conducts internal audits on all Group companies. In addition, the Board of Directors has established policies and is promoting efforts to prevent all forms of corruption including demands and bribery and such efforts are also being conducted at related departments. In addition, the Sustainable Procurement Guidelines that aim to maintain fair relationships and prevent acts of corruption in transactions with suppliers clearly indicate the necessity of compliance with laws, regulations and social norms and fair trade as well as the prohibition of bribery and kickbacks, and promote the comprehensive prevention of corruption in transactions. Whistle-blowing system The “Compliance Hotline” has been established for Group employees, both within and outside Japan, including contract employees, as a consultation and whistle-blowing contact point in anonymity for violation of laws and regulations, violation of internal regulations and acts of corruption such as the taking and receiving of bribes etc. or major corporate ethics violations, while the “Ring-Ring Employee Hotline” has been established for problems in the workplace such as internal harassment acts and human relationship issues. Unicharm has also put in place a system that makes it easy for employees and their families to consult with external organizations. The privacy of employees who use this system is respected and every effort possible is made to ensure that whistle-blowers are protected from harm; in addition, if it becomes necessary to involve a third party, the whistle-blower's consent to this will be sought. 51 consultations (none of these related to compliance violations; there were four consultations regarding labor standards) were responded to in FY2019. We also set up and operate similar hotlines at our local subsidiaries in China and Thailand. 122 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Compliance Initiatives to raise compliance awareness The Unicharm Group Action Guidelines in The Unicharm Way that is distributed to all Group employee states the laws and regulations that should be taken into consideration in order to achieve our pledge to each stakeholder and aims to improve awareness of compliance in relation to issues such as corruption prevention. In addition, monitoring is conducted every year through an employee awareness survey. ● From the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines To achieve our pledge to business partners (excerpt) Prevention of unfair competition We will always respond sincerely to business partners as we cooperate towards mutual growth in mutually prosperous relationships with them. 1. We will not acquire or use the business secrets of other companies through unauthorized methods for whatever reason. 2. In addition to not using any slanderous or fictitious expressions towards competitors, we will not use any expressions that could cause a misunderstanding. 3. We will provide entertainment and gifts to business partners within the scope of the general common sense. Entertainment and gifts will not be provided to any public officials or equivalent parties. We will not provide payments (facilitating payments) to facilitate public procedures. In addition, an ESG executive responsible for legal affairs will be specified at the insider information management administrator in the Insider Trading Prevention Regulations in an effort to prevent illegal acts. Transactions with a high level of risk that are similar to insider trading are prohibited as a general rule. In addition, it is obligatory to submit a trade notice for Unicharm's shares, etc. every time treasury shares are sold and cautionary information is released as appropriate that sets specific limits on trades of Unicharm's shares in consideration of circumstances including the positions and departments of executives and employees. Compliance training and education In order to raise the awareness of executives and employees towards compliance with laws and regulations, etc. and prevent the occurrence of compliance problems, compliance themes are incorporated into the learning curriculum in trainings for new employees and employees posted overseas and the Legal Department and Accounting Control & Finance Division hold compliance study session for directors and executive officers several times a year. Through this training, efforts are made to thoroughly instill awareness on matters such as prohibitions on the taking and receiving of bribes and facilitating payments to public officials and the importance of compliance with antitrust laws. In addition, compliance-related courses have been incorporated into e-learning targeting all employees. The status of participation in these courses is monitored in an effort to ensure participation and instill understanding. Furthermore, quizzes related to legal knowledge are regularly posted on the internal intranet in an effort to spread awareness to ensure that employees do not unintentionally violate the law by introducing cases that can lead to misunderstandings. 123 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Risk Management Risk Management Our basic approach and strategy Unicharm pledges to continuously improve corporate value through global business activities and to sincerely conduct business activities in order to gain the trust of all stakeholders including customers, shareholders, business partners and local communities. In order to achieve this, Unicharm has established the Unicharm Ideals, the Five Great Pillars and Associate Principles of Action, the Beliefs and Pledges and Corporate Principles of Action and the Unicharm Group's Action Guidelines. Gaining an appropriate understanding of the various risks that could have an effect to the realization of these objectives and preventing and minimizing the impact of such risks when they occur are positioned as important management issues. The Group has established a risk management system for the entire group that is implemented while continuously reviewing and improving ESG risk management. In addition to overseeing the code of conduct and code of ethics, the Board of Directors also analyzes and evaluates major ESG risks that are reported from each unit leader in order to deliberate and decide on improvement measures, while members on the Audit and Supervisory Committee fulfill their roles by implementing various audits during their statutory term of office. In addition, the ESG Committee learns about the importance of crisis management based on the theme of risk management. The main items that could become a business risk have been defined as follows and are deliberated by the ESG Committee. Major risks of ESG ■Risk Management 1. Risks related to the sales environment in conditions of intense competition 2. Risks related to the population structure 3. Overseas business risk 4. Raw materials price fluctuation risks 5. Risks related to the reliability of products 6. Risks relating to legal compliance violations 7. Risks related to intellectual property including patents and trademarks 8. Risks related to environmental problems 9. Risks related to climate change 10. Risks related to disasters and accidents 11. Risks related to acquisition, partnership, business consolidation, etc. 12. Information leakage risks For the management of these risks, Unicharm uses the ISO framework that also incorporates quality and environmental risks as important business risks as a manufacturer. In addition, individual management is conducted for risks including business continuity at the time of disasters. Primary reference frameworks ・COSO ・ISO9001 ・ISO14001 ・ISO10002 ・ISO13485 ・ISO14971 Management structure Chaired by the Representative Director and the Director & Vice President acting as deputy chair, the “ESG Committee” is a cross-functional organization which considers sharing risk management issues and measures to be one of the important themes that need to be addressed. The themes deliberated by the ESG Committee and their results are reported to the Board of Directors by the head of the ESG Division, while supervision of risk management is implemented by directors and members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee. In addition, the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines have been established as action guidelines for actions by employees in recognition of major risks including the prohibition of insider trading, compliance with antitrust laws, the elimination of child labor and forced labor and the protection of personal information. In response to risks of corruption that have a high probability of occurring in society including insider trading and bribery, efforts are made 124 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Risk Management to prevent corruption that include the provision of cautionary information to employees on insider trading using the internal intranet, training for employees posted overseas and the provision of cautionary information through e-learning as strengthened compliance training for employees engaged in operations in regional business activities are conducted, as well as the implementation of internal audits. ESG Promotion Structure of the Unicharm Group Response to the occurrence of ESG risks If a major crisis occurs, a Crisis Management Response ■Diagram of structure in response to occurrence of a crisis Committee will be established and endeavor to respond quickly and appropriately and achieve a prompt recovery based on the Crisis Communication Manual established as a regulation related to crisis management. An emergency in which the above risks are realized is considered a crisis and Unicharm positions the 12 items below as major crises. When such a crisis occurs, Unicharm fulfills its social responsibility by assessing the situation swiftly and accurately in accordance with the Crisis Communication Manual, working to prevent the expansion of damage and communicating appropriately with stakeholders. A handy manual has been distributed to every employee for the purpose of responding promptly when an ESG risk has emerged and a crisis has occurred. In addition, a structure has been established to respond to risks by the Crisis Management Response Committee in cooperation with internal related departments. Major crises 1. Quality 2. Environment 3. Representations 4. Occupational safety 5. Human rights  6. Supplier/vendor related 7. Top/executives related 8. Disaster 9. Information accidents  10. Reputational damage 11 Pandemics 12. Disputes/political changes Rigorous information security To ensure rigorous information security, Unicharm has set out information security principles and procedures such as the Information Security Policy and the Information Management Security Rules. We also have Personal Information Protection Rules and Specific Personal Information Handling Rules in place to safeguard personal information provided by our customers and we strictly manage this information and take precautions to prevent information leaks. To ensure these rules are strictly observed and to prevent information leaks, Unicharm has established an Information Management Security Committee which develops groupwide information management security initiatives and carries out employee education and ongoing monitoring. One day every month has been earmarked as an information management day when we highlight a different security topic each month to remind employees about the risk of specific information leaks. Meanwhile, as a physical measure to prevent against information leaks through the loss or theft of devices, we completed the adoption of PCs that cannot store data, the development of a cloud environment in which data and systems can only be used on a server and the creation of an environment in which systems can be used anywhere, at any time, without needing to take office PCs out of company premises, thereby making it possible to impose restrictions on taking office PCs out of the office. Protecting intellectual property The Intellectual Property Division centralizes the management of the Unicharm Group's intellectual property assets and formulates and executes intellectual property strategies linked to Unicharm's business and development strategies in an aim to put in practice an IP landscape in which intellectual property is useful for management decision making. As a patent application strategy, we intend to protect and utilize business and development results, along with 125 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Risk Management reinforcing overseas patent applications in line with the global development of our business. As a result, we have captured a top-class share in the industry with the application rate for global patents at 72.3%(2016) and the registration rate for Japanese patents at 96.8%(2018) (data taken from the “Patent Administration's Annual Report 2019”). In addition, as Unicharm is focusing on the development of environment-friendly products and technologies, we have acquired patents related to technologies for ozone treatment in obtaining sanitary and safe high-quality pulp from used disposable diapers and patents related to treatment for cleaning used disposable diapers in reducing environmental impact in FY2019. Going forward, Unicharm will work to protect and use intellectual property at the same time as the development of technologies for practical application. Meanwhile, Unicharm has applied for and secured trademarks that protect the Group's brands in more than 160 countries around the world and we are also protecting our rights to proprietary packaging. As part of our efforts to build and strengthen our intellectual property portfolio in Japan and overseas, we actively use the Japan Patent Office's “Patent Prosecution Highway Program” in order to raise the quality of our intellectual property rights, as well as work on acquiring rights such as sound trademarks in China, Taiwan-Greater China, Korea and Thailand. Unicharm also takes a firm stance on protecting its intellectual property rights, including filing lawsuits against their infringements or unauthorized use. Its IP division closely cooperates with business and product development divisions as well as overseas subsidiaries and works with local governments to eliminate unauthorized and counterfeit products in Japan and overseas such as Asia, the Middle East and Africa and online in e-commerce. Unicharm is committed to cultivating a corporate culture that promotes the respect and protection of intellectual property rights of Unicharm and other companies, as articulated in the Unicharm Action Guidelines, by conducting employee training through a combination of on-the-job training, off-the job training and e-learning to ensure that employees in Japan and overseas are fully aware of internal compliance issues related to such things as patents, trademarks and misleading representations, etc. As part of our public activities, we seek to provide advice on and influence international policy with respect to intellectual property by actively exchanging opinions with patent offices in Japan and Asia. Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) Unicharm has been strengthening risk management since fiscal 2005. We have formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) to help us prepare for a major emergency that could occur in Japan such as an earthquake directly underneath Tokyo or a large-scale interconnected earthquake involving the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai plates. We have assumed the scenario of an earthquake (intensity of approximately upper 6) with an epicenter under the Tokyo metropolitan area in an area that includes the head office, adjacent plants and sales offices, and we have prepared impact assessments and damage assumptions, etc., considered alternative measures and established organization structures and backup structures to ensure the safety of employees and their families and continue business if an actual emergency occurs, and conducted ongoing evacuation drills assuming the occurrence of such an emergency based on this scenario. Main overview of the business continuity plan (BCP) (1) Basic requirements ・Basic policy Disaster response pocket ・Assumed risks manual ・Impact assessment ・Assumed damage ・Main elements (2) Confirmation of safety and well-being of employees and their family members ・Ensuring and saving lives (3) Concrete measures for business continuity ・Organizational structure and command structure ・Securing important bases ・External information dissemination and information sharing ・Backup ・Provision of products and services (4) Important items that should be supported along with business continuity ・Cooperation with and contributing to the community 126 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Risk Management (5) Measures necessary for implementing the business continuity plan (BCP) ・Education and training ・Inspections, corrective action and reviews Our BCP Manual describes steps to ensure the safety of our employees and their families, deliver Unicharm products that are necessities for daily living to people in disaster-affected areas as well as to those people who require them as soon as possible and recover important corporate operations of Unicharm, particularly head office functions. We are working to further enhance workplace safety through various initiatives. Specifically, we conduct e-learning sessions for all employees to raise awareness and encourage proactive responses and we distribute a disaster response pocket manual for immediate reference during an emergency to all employees. We have put systems in place that allow us to contact employees using smartphones, which they must carry at all times, to help us to confirm their safety and maintain business continuity during emergencies. In addition, we conduct disaster training drills at each business site, hold basic survival courses and provide training that is tailored to the function of each division and we carry out first response drills with an emphasis on confirming employee safety and the capabilities of disaster response headquarters including checking the safety of all Unicharm employees in Japan. Since 2017, we have conducted ongoing training and drills including drills assuming the nighttime evacuation of production bases. Going forward, we will develop systems for responding to all incidents that can be assumed by strengthening risk countermeasures on a global level that incorporate risks such as uprisings or terrorism overseas. * BCP: Plan for the continued operation and rapid recovery of core business activities after an emergency Crisis response training Drills assuming the nighttime evacuation Survival course at the head office (Shizuoka Plant) Operation of a smart factory in Kyushu that aims to effectively integrate people, knowhow and equipment In March 2019, the Group's first smart factory, Kyushu Plant began operation. The plant, designed to integrate “people, knowhow and equipment”, adopts Internet of Things(IoT) technology that permits communication of factory on-site data in a timely manner, which is capable of enhanced levels of safety and productivity. In terms of environmental protection, the new plant features over 70 energy-saving machines that help to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. With regard to reducing water consumption, by switching over from water-cooled equipment to aircooled equipment for the plant's ancillary equipment, the plant has succeeded in reducing the amount of waste water discharged to zero. In addition, by adopting driverless transporter vehicles and robots, we have “autonomated”* the movement of heavy items within the plant and related materials supply operations, thereby reducing the amount of effort that workers need to exert and enhancing efficiency. We have secured a supply system in addressing potential risks associated as Unicharm's main production facilities in Japan are located in Fukushima, Shizuoka and Shikoku, which means that they are at risk of being damaged in the event of a major earthquake occurring in the Nankai Trough(it is anticipated that an earthquake of this type could cause serious damage in Western Honshu and in the Chubu region). In the future, we will move ahead with ways to extend the adoption of smart technologies to our existing plants and realize effective business continuity planning(BCP) through our new production system which effectively diversifies risks. * “Autonomation” is a form of automation that aims to integrate the expert skills and knowhow that human workers possess with digital technology. 127 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Governance > Risk Management Risk management information website In FY2017, we added a Risk Management Information Website to our corporate Intranet, focused on potential risks to the lives of Unicharm employees working within and outside Japan. The site specifies clear guidelines and criteria for responding to natural disasters, pandemics, occupational accidents, large-scale equipment-related accidents (all of the above are defined as safety risks), kidnapping, intrusion into and damaging of company facilities, terrorist attacks, riots, coups d'état and civil war. Information provided by Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan and by a risk management company that we have contracted with for this service is updated on a daily basis and, in FY2019, we compiled “Domestic Natural Disaster Response Manual” and “Headquarters Special Organized Crime Response Manual” and added pages to the various manuals included in our corporate Intranet as we continue to strive to keep up with current environmental changes and information concerning safety. Tax Compliance Basic approach and policy The Unicharm Group recognizes the appropriate payment of taxes in compliance with the tax laws of each country and region around the world as its basic policy. Based on this recognition, the Unicharm Group has established the “Unicharm Group Tax Regulations” which aims to establish a balanced, company-wide tax management system as well as maintain and enhance our tax compliance with the following efforts in place. 1. Compliance with tax laws The Unicharm Group complies with applicable laws, files tax returns and pays taxes appropriately in the countries and regions where we conduct business. To ensure the appropriateness of subsequent tax management, decisions on important transactions inside and outside of Japan are made based on approval after consultation with the director in charge of accounting following confirmation of treatment in tax law. Moreover, the Unicharm Group has established, developed and appropriately implemented an internal control system that can ensure appropriate accounting treatment and financial reports. The effectiveness of this system is evaluated and confirmed through audits by the accounting auditor and the Audit and Supervisory Committee. In addition, we use expert third-party tax advisors effectively and efficiently to maintain tax compliance. During tax inquiries, the director in charge of accounting reports progress and results to the Representative Director & President along with the Audit & Supervisory Committee as needed, in an effort to enhance the entire Group's tax compliance. 2. Relationships with tax authorities Tax information, etc. is provided in an appropriate and timely manner to tax authorities and efforts are made to improve transparency through advance queries on tax processing as necessary, to create sincere and positive trust relationships with tax authorities and to reduce tax risk. We also aim to provide top priority cooperation when it comes to tax inquiries through open and honest correspondence with inspectors in facilitating the process. 3. Support for the BEPS project Recognizing the purpose of the BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) Project by the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development), the Unicharm Group pays special attention to ensure transactions are conducted for legitimate business purpose and real business activities and ensures that appropriate taxes are paid in the appropriate region in order to prevent the transfer of tax sources to so-called tax havens(countries or regions with no taxes or low taxes) for the purpose of excess tax savings. In addition, “transfer pricing regulations” have been established for the Unicharm Group in order to comply with the tax laws of each country and the OECD Guidelines on transactions between the Group companies and, based on Arm's Length Principle, we work to achieve an appropriate allocation of global income in accordance with the contribution of each Group company while taking into consideration arm's length prices. Moreover, we apply, as necessary, for qualification for bilateral Advance Pricing Agreements in order to prevent dual taxation as a result of the transfer pricing regulation. 128 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > Third Party Assurance Report Third Party Assurance Report We obtained third party assurance of Unicharm's “Sustainability Report 2020”. The details are found below. 129 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2019 List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2019 A list of recognition from third parties we received in 2019: Implementing Month and year Name and description Recipient organization January 2019 Received Excellence Award in 7th “Corporate Value Improvement Award” Tokyo Stock Exchange Unicharm Corporation Mother & Baby Magazine, Received Gold Award in disposable diaper division of “Mother & Baby Award Unicharm India Private Ltd. January 2019 a monthly magazine in 2018” with “MamyPoko Pants” for third year in a row (India) India Received “Goods of the Topic Award” with “Sophy Center-in Happy Catch” at the February 2019 Drug Magazine Co., Ltd. Unicharm Corporation “31st Goods of the Big-Hit & Topic Awards” Ministry of Economy, Recognized under 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding February 2019 Trade and Industry and Unicharm Corporation Organizations Recognition Program (White 500) Nippon Kenko Kaigi the Association of Received “Consumer-Oriented Activities Award” in recognition of the “Tiny Lives February 2019 Consumer Affairs Unicharm Corporation Support Project” at the 4th ACAP “Consumer-Oriented Activities Awards” Professionals (ACAP) February 2019 “Japan's Best Global Brands 2019”, Brand Value Ranking: 22nd Interbrand Unicharm Corporation February 2019 Toyo Keizai “13th CSR Company Rankings 2019”: 54th Toyo Keizai Inc Unicharm Corporation Shanghai, Qingpu Uni-Charm Consumer February 2019 Fiscal 2018 Top 100 Company in Shanghai Qingpu Municipal People's Product (China) Co., Ltd. Government (China) Shanghai Qingpu Uni-Charm Consumer February 2019 Fiscal 2018 Top 20 Tax Paying Company in Shanghai Qingpu Industrial Park Product (China) Co., Ltd. Management Committee (China) Ranked first in Word of Mouth Grand Prize for “Silcot Antibacterial Wet Tissues Non-Alcohol” in the antibacterial sheet category, “MoonyMan Air Fit” in the March 2019 Mamari Unicharm Corporation disposable baby pant-type diaper category and “Moony Baby Wipes Soft” in the baby wipes category at the “Mamari Word of Mouth Award 2019 Spring” Received first place for “MoonyMan Air Fit” in the disposable baby diaper division, March 2019 Benesse Corporation Unicharm Corporation pants-type diapers in the “10th Tamahiyo Baby Goods Awards 2019” Industrial Estate Authority Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., March 2019 Received “Environmental Governance Award 2018” of Thailand Ltd. (Thailand) Ministry of Economy, April 2019 Selected for “2019 Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection” Trade and Industry/Tokyo Unicharm Corporation Stock Exchange Received “BEST BRAND of FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) 2018” at Diana Unicharm Joint Stock May 2019 Shopee “Shopee Conference 2019” Company (Vietnam) Received award for “Mamy Poko” in the disposable baby diaper category and for Uni-Charm Malaysia June 2019 Motherhood “Sofy” in the sanitary goods category at the “Motherhood Choice Award 2019” (Malaysia) Received letter of appreciation for continued donation of wheelchairs at the “42nd TSURUHA Holdings, Inc. July 2019 Sapporo City Sapporo City Social Welfare Conference” Unicharm Corporation Keizai Koho Center, Japan President Takahisa Takahara received “Corporate Communication Management August 2019 Institute for Social and Unicharm Corporation Award” at the 35th Corporate Communication Awards Economic Affairs Received “Gold Class” in the general category at the “SUSTAINA ESG AWARDS August 2019 SUSTAINA JAPAN Inc. Unicharm Corporation 2019” Ranked first in the “litter tray manufacturer and litter manufacturer categories” in August 2019 Benesse Corporation Unicharm Corporation the Cats' Feelings: Users' Choice Rankings for Popular Items 2019” Former director and founder the late Keiichiro Takahara received a “Special Sports September 2019 Service Award” at the Ehime Culture & Sports with Smile Awards in honor of Ehime Prefecture Unicharm Corporation service in contributing to the development of sport in Ehime Prefecture Ranked first in Word of Mouth Grand Prize for “MoonyMan Air Fit” in the pant-type October 2019 Mamari Unicharm Corporation disposable diaper category at the “Mamari Word of Mouth Award 2019 Fall” Japan Institute of Design October 2019 Received “Good Design Award 2019” for “Natural Moony” and “Moony Air Fit” Unicharm Corporation Promotion Received a “Mamatas Award” for “Wave” in the convenient housework category at October 2019 Mamatas Unicharm Corporation the “Mamatas Awards 2019 Fall” Received a “Reader's Choice Award” for “MamyPoko” in the best baby diaper “Mother & Baby Magazine PT Uni-Charm Indonesia October 2019 category at “Mother & Baby Fair” Indonesia” (Indonesia) President Takahisa Takahara ranked 72nd in The CEO 100, “The Best-Performing “Harvard Business October 2019 CEOs in the World 2020” and 10th in the daily commodity industry in the “Harvard Review”, a U.S. business Unicharm Corporation Business Review” management journal Received “Best Partner Award” in “Mother & Baby Category 2019” at “11.11 Mega Diana Unicharm Joint Stock November 2019 Lazada Seller Conference” for fourth year in a row Company (Vietnam) December 2019 Received four-stars in the 1st “Nikkei SDGs Management Survey” Nihon Keizai Shimbun Unicharm Corporation Shiseido Company, Jointly received the “Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award” in Limited, Lion Corporation, recognition of reducing impact of environment and retail store operations through December 2019 Ministry of Economy, Trancom Co., Ltd., Hitachi joint delivery of storefront sales promotional materials at the “Green Logistics Distribution Software Co., Partnership Conference, Excellent Logistics Commendation Program 2019” Ltd., Unicharm Corporation 130 unicharm sustainability report 2020 Sustainability > List of contents List of contents Web PDF Web PDF Chapter Title Topic version version Chapter Title Topic version version Company Profile ● Quality ● ● Primary Consolidated View Concerning Human Overview of ● ● ● Subsidiaries and Affiliates Resources Unicharm Group Labor Standards Production and Sales Areas ● Personnel Utilization and Training ● ● Main Business Indicators ● Respect for Diversity ● ● Editorial Policy/ Editorial Policy ● ● Health and Safety ● ● Contents Contents ● ● Human Resources Data ● ● Message from the President ● ● Our Attitude toward Social ● ● Our basic approach and strategy ● ● Contribution and its Structures Management Structure ● ● Making Contributions to Society Unicharm ● ● Reference Framework for Local through Business Development Group's ● ● Unicharm's CSR strategy Communities Community-based Social Sustainability ● ● Communicating with Contribution Activities (Japan) ● ● Stakeholders Community-based Social ● ● 1. Lengthening Healthy Life Contribution Activities (Overseas) ● ● Expectancy Our basic approach and strategy ● ● Supply Chain 2. Supporting Women's Management Structure ● ● (Society) Independence and Improving ● ● Initiatives ● ● CSR Key Topics Hygiene Our Basic Policy on Profit Returns ● ● 3. Contributing to Global to Our Shareholders ● ● Environment Shareholders Information Disclosure for Our ● ● 4. Contributing to the Community ● ● and Investors Investors Environmental Management ● ● Status of Inclusion in ESG ● ● Climate Change ● ● Indexes Pollution Prevention and Corporate Governance ● ● ● ● Resource Utilization Compliance ● ● Governance Environment Supply Chain (Environment) ● ● Risk Management ● ● Biodiversity ● ● Tax Compliance ● ● Water Resources ● ● Third Party Assurance Report ● ● Activity Results ● ● List of Awards and Commendations Received in ● ● Site Data ● ● Fiscal 2019 Human Rights ● ● GRI Standards Comparison Table ● ● Communicating with Customers ● ● Responsibility to Product Development and Customers ● ● Marketing 131 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Standard Comparison Table This cross-referencing table shows how the content of the 2018 CSR Report corresponds to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and also shows where individual items are located within the company's website. GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer GRI102: General Disclosures 2016 1. Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Company Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Integrated Report 2019: Unicharm's Business Development 102-3 Location of headquarters Company Profile Overseas Operations 102-4 Location of operations Offices and Group Companies 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Profile Overseas Operations 102-6 Markets served Offices and Group Companies Financial Data 102-7 Scale of the organization Human Resources Data Offices and Group Companies 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Human Resources Data Supply Chain (Society) 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain (Environment) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable Business Continuity Plan Pollution Prevention and Resource Utilization Forest-derived Raw Materials Procurement Guidelines 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Approach to Materials Procurement Climate Change ＞ Our basic approach and strategy ＞ Background and approach of TCFD initiatives Reference framework for Unicharm's CSR strategy Initiatives of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) 102-12 External initiatives Promoting Environmentally-Friendly Supply Chain Management Climate Change ＞ Our basic approach and strategy ＞ Background and approach of TCFD initiatives Reference framework for Unicharm's CSR strategy 102-13 Membership of associations Initiatives of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) Promoting Environmentally-Friendly Supply Chain Management 2. Strategy Message from the President 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from Management Risk Management Unicharm Group's Sustainability CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving Hygiene CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to the Global Environment CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community 3. Ethics and integrity Unicharm Group's Sustainability View Concerning Human Resources 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Human rights Compliance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance 4. Governance Corporate Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Report ESG promotional structure ESG promotional structure 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance＞Management structure Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, ESG promotional structure 102-20 and social topics Corporate Governance＞Management structure Unicharm Group's Sustainability Communicating with stakeholders Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and Meetings with stakeholders to exchange views during the formulation 102-21 social topics process of “Environmental Goals 2030” Initiatives to expand FSC certification (co-sponsoring Forest Week) Engaging with stakeholders on human rights 132 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer Corporate Governance Composition of the highest governance body and its 102-22 Corporate Governance Report committees ESG promotional structure 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Corporate Governance 102-26 and strategy ESG promotional structure Corporate Governance 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body ESG promotional structure 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance ESG promotional structure Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 102-29 Unicharm Group's Sustainability social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes ESG promotional structure 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics ESG promotional structure 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting ESG promotional structure ESG promotional structure 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Response to the occurrence of ESG risks 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Not applicable 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Report 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration ― 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio ― 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio ― 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Communicating with stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Resources Data 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Communicating with stakeholders Communicating with stakeholders Meetings with stakeholders to exchange views during the formulation 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement process of “Environmental Goals 2030” Engaging with stakeholders on human rights Unicharm Group's Sustainability Meetings with stakeholders to exchange views during the formulation 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised process of “Environmental Goals 2030” Biodiversity Initiatives 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Contents 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Contents 102-47 List of material topics CSR Key Topics 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable 102-50 Reporting period Contents 102-51 Date of most recent report Contents 102-52 Reporting cycle Contents 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report For more information about our activities report, please contact: 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI Standard Comparison Table 102-55 GRI content index GRI Standard Comparison Table 102-56 External assurance Third Party Assurance Report GRI103: Management Approach 2016 Unicharm Group's Sustainability CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Hygiene CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to the Global Environment CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community Environmental Management Message from Management Unicharm Group's CSR Key Topics and Indicators (KPI) CSR Key Topic 1: Lengthening Healthy Life Expectancy CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving 103-2 The management approach and its components Hygiene CSR Key Topic 3: Contributing to the Global Environment CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community Environmental Management ESG promotional structure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Validation of Environmental Protection Activities 133 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer GRI201: Economic Performance 2016 Financial Data 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Presentation Materials for Investors Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due Climate Change 201-2 to climate change Risk Management 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Presentation Materials for Investors 201-4 Financial assistance received from government ― GRI202：Market Presence 2016 Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-1 ― local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 Human Resources Data community GRI203：Indirect Economic Impact 2016 CSR Key Topic 2: Supporting Women's Independence and Improving 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Hygiene CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Communicating with stakeholders GRI204：Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Confidential information not disclosed GRI205：Anti-corruption 2016 Core themes and categories of ESG Committee initiatives 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Risk Management Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Core themes and categories of ESG Committee initiatives 205-2 and procedures Compliance 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Whistle-Blowing System GRI206：Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 206-1 Whistle-Blowing System monopoly practices GRI207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax Tax compliance 207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management Tax compliance Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns 207-3 Tax compliance related to tax 207-4 Country-by-country reporting ― GRI301: Materials 2016 Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Activities towards recycling disposable diapers 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Waste disposal reduction and effective utilization of resources Eco Plan 2020 Sustainable Material Procurement Targets and Results (Excerpt from Eco Plan 2020) Prioritizing the use of waste paper in cardboard of R70 or above in carton 301-2 Recycled input materials used packaging materials Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Activities towards recycling disposable diapers 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Recycling rate [Japan and overseas]Initiatives to reduce waste at production sites (Scope 3 Category 5) GRI302：Energy 2016 Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Addressing global warming and energy saving measures [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from business activities (Scope 1 and 2) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, Categories 1, 4 and 12) [Japan and overseas] Initiatives to reduce waste at production sites (Scope 3, Category 5) Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from corporate activities (Scope 1 and 2) Addressing global warming and energy saving measures 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization [Japan] Sharing importance of climate change measures with suppliers (Scope 3, Category 1) [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 in distribution and retail (Scope 3, Categories 4 and 9) 302-3 Energy intensity Addressing global warming and energy saving measures 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Addressing global warming and energy saving measures [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, Categories 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 1, 4 and 12) 134 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer GRI303：Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water discharge and water consumption Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective 303-3 Water withdrawal Reducing water usage Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective 303-4 Water discharge Water discharge and water consumption 303-5 Water consumption ― GRI304：Biodiversity 2016 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Factories are located in industrial parks, and protected areas and 304-1 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside adjacent areas are avoided protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 304-2 Biodiversity biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored No applicable activities are conducted IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 304-4 Not applicable for the scope of business activities with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI305：Emissions 2016 [Japan] CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain (overall picture of Scope 1 3) [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from corporate activities 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Addressing global warming and energy saving measures Ozone depleting substances (Japan) [Japan] CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain (overall picture of Scope 1 3) [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from corporate activities 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Addressing global warming and energy saving measures [Japan] CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain (overall picture of Scope 1 3) [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, Categories 1, 4 and 12) [Japan] Sharing importance of climate change measures with 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions suppliers (Scope 3 Category 1) [Japan and overseas] Initiatives to reduce waste at production sites (Scope 3 Category 5) Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective Addressing global warming and energy saving measures 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing CO2 emissions [Japan] CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain (overall picture of Scope 1 3) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions [Japan and overseas] CO2 emissions from corporate activities (Scope 1 and 2) Reducing CO2 emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ozone depleting substances (Japan) Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 305-7 Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemical substances significant air emissions GRI306：Effluents and Waste 2016 Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Site Data Energy/material flow from the entire lifecycle perspective [Japan] Reducing water usage 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste disposal reduction and effective utilization of resources Waste disposal volume 306-3 Significant spills [Japan] Water quality, soil contamination and offensive odor [Japan] Initiatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemical 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste substances (business waste) There were no hazardous wastes that was transported domestically 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Seto Inland Sea, Ina River system GRI307：Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental audits for risk management and enhancing performance GRI308：Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 Evaluating New Suppliers criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-2 Evaluating Existing Suppliers actions taken 135 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer GRI401：Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Human Resources Data Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 Human Resources Data provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Human Resources Data GRI402：Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Dialogue between labor and management GRI403：Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and safety Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident 403-2 Health and safety investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Group safety conference Worker participation, consultation and communication on 403-4 Group safety conference health and safety Group safety conference 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Health & Safety Committee Group safety conference 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health & Safety Committee Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety Group safety conference 403-7 impacts directly linked by business relationships Health & Safety Committee Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 403-8 Human Resources Data management system 403-9 Work-related injuries Human Resources Data 403-10 Work-related ill health Human Resources Data GRI404：Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Expansion of education and training programs Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 Expansion of education and training programs assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 Evaluations for career development and career development reviews GRI405：Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Human Resources Data Ratio of basic salary and total remuneration of women to 405-2 Human Resources Data men GRI406：Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Compliance GRI407：Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Supply Chain (Society) 407-1 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Human rights GRI408：Child labor 2016 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Supply Chain (Society) 408-1 of child labor Human rights GRI409：Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Supply Chain (Society) 409-1 of forced or compulsory labor Human rights GRI410：Security Practices 2016 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 410-1 ― procedures GRI411：Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 411-1 No incident peoples GRI412：Human Rights Assessment 2016 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Supply Chain (Society)＞Management Structure 412-1 or impact assessments Supply Chain (Society)＞Initiatives Initiatives aimed at education and penetration 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Our distinctive training programs (excerpt) Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Supply Chain (Society)＞Management Structure 412-3 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supply Chain (Society)＞Initiatives GRI413：Local Communities 2016 Operations with local community engagement, impact CSR Key Topic 4: Contributing to the Community 413-1 assessments, and development programs Communicating with stakeholders Operations with significant actual and potential negative Overseas Operations 413-2 impacts on local communities Offices and Group Companies GRI414：Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain (Society)＞Our basic approach and strategy Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 414-2 Implementation of human rights and labor monitoring taken 136 unicharm sustainability report 2020 GRI Items Contents of GRI Index Page to Refer GRI415：Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions 320,000 yen (Japan) GRI416：Customer Health and Safety 2016 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 416-1 Safety Initiatives service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 Initiative for appropriate product labeling safety impacts of products and services GRI417：Marketing and Labeling 2016 Requirements for product and service information and [Japan] Initiatives to reduce CO2 through products (Scope 3, 417-1 labeling Initiative for appropriate product labeling Categories 1, 4 and 12) Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 Initiative for appropriate product labeling information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 Initiative for appropriate product labeling communications GRI418：Customer Privacy 2016 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 Communicating with customers privacy and losses of customer data GRI419：Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 Compliance economic area 137 unicharm sustainability report 2020
