2019 Sustainability report Contents 01 — Introduction 4 03 — Our progress – People 30 CEO statement 5 Our people 31 Sustainability policy 9 Spotlight on our people 34 Our sustainability approach 10 The road to diversity at leadership level 38 Code of Conduct 40 02 — About Mölnlycke® 11 Health and safety 42 About the company 12 Corporate social responsibility 46 Responsibility for our products 20 Changing lives with Operation Smile 48 Reducing pain and trauma for patients 22 Managing sustainability risks 24 04 — Our progress – Nature 52 Working with suppliers 27 Environmental impact 53 Proactively managing our suppliers 28 Five ways we’re working to reduce our impact 62 05 — Our sales offices 65 2 About the report The report covers Mölnlycke´s main operations around the world and our market sites between January and December 2019. Our previous sustainability report covered the 2018 calendar year, and our report is issued annually. We take inspiration from the approach, performance and risk Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) assessments. While we are ahead guidelines to structure our report. in some areas, we recognise we The content for 2019 has been have work to do in others. gathered from different internal specialists and approved by the We will strive to review the board. We have also carried out scope of our reporting over time analyses of our sustainability to continuously improve our impact, preventative work, and performance – while leveraging the the areas in which we need to value creation opportunities that a improve. sustainable perspective gives. We have assurance processes to We encourage feedback from our ensure our sustainability reporting stakeholders to help us improve is transparent and reliable. our sustainability work as well as to improve the report. If you We have set out to be as have any comments or feedback, transparent as we can in please email us at: disclosing information. This corporate.communication@ report intends to give readers molnlycke.com a picture of our sustainability 3 Mölnlycke® is a market-leading supplier of wound care and surgical products, and a trusted partner to healthcare professionals around the world. Our purpose is to advance performance in healthcare across the world, and we aspire to equip everybody in healthcare with solutions to achieve the best outcomes. 01 — Introduction 4 CEO statement A purpose-driven company We live in a time of global transformation. As people live longer and enjoy higher standards of living, they are demanding more from their healthcare – increasing the pressure on already burdened systems. Our purpose There are examples within our surgical portfolio too. As a purpose-driven Mölnlycke® procedure organisation, we have trays are recognised a key responsibility for improving to help providers efficiency in the worldwide meet operating room by this demand reducing surgery in a way that’s preparation sustainable time by 40% over the long – and thereby term. Through increasing advances in the number of wound care and surgeries that can surgical solutions take place. and strong clinical evidence to support By improving decision-making, health and health we aim to empower economic outcomes, healthcare professionals we do everything we can to deliver better care for to contribute to the UN’s more people. Our goal is global sustainability goal #3: to increase the overall health ‘Good health and well-being for economic value of our solutions for society all’. We are aware that the populations of while reducing patient suffering. some countries don’t have access to our world-leading solutions for political and economic reasons. We are working to increase availability through NGOs and Better care for more people other partners around the world. Mölnlycke’s focus on chronic wounds, such as diabetic foot ulcers, is an example of this. Today diabetic foot Implementing ethical standards ulcers have a higher mortality rate than both breast and prostate cancer. Mepilex® Border Flex, which is Mölnlycke is 99% owned by Investor AB. For Investor, now available in more than 30 markets, promotes as for us, sustainability is fundamental to business undisturbed healing of foot ulcers and other chronic success and a vital part of our Swedish heritage. We wounds. This creates great conditions for healing and work together to strengthen our sustainability approach wound closure and has a positive impact on health and advance our performance. Our goal is to act in a economics by freeing up staff time. socially responsible and ethical way over the long term 5 ‘As a responsible company, we are never complacent. Our goal is to continuously improve so that we can create long-term value for all our stakeholders.’ – not just with our customers and patients, but also Every year, we conduct a culture survey of our towards the environment, our people, our suppliers and employees. Levels of engagement are consistently at or the communities we serve. higher than benchmarked results at similar companies. At a time when our glove competitors are under fire We feel a strong sense of responsibility towards our because of forced labour at their factories, we are very suppliers and the people who work there. Where we proud that engagement levels among employees in can, we use our partnership with suppliers as a lever production at Mölnlycke’s Malaysian glove factories were to drive high ethical standards. Mölnlycke has robust 89% in 2019. programmes to ensure fair working practices and health and safety at our suppliers’ work places – as well as anti-bribery and anti-corruption, quality and high High quality standards environmental standards. We take product responsibility very seriously. We’re We have Codes of Conduct setting out what we expect passionate about developing strong clinical and from ourselves and our suppliers. During 2019, we healthcare economic evidence to demonstrate how our updated our Code of Conduct for employees to ensure solutions help healthcare professionals achieve the we continue to stay compliant and ahead of changing best outcomes. societal expectations; we will roll out a new Supplier Code of Conduct during 2020. We carry out regular Our standards are underpinned by rigorous compliance audits of our performance to ensure we live up to with the laws and regulations applicable to the regions the spirit and letter of the code and follow up if we’ve where our products are sold, including the FDA Quality fallen short in any area. We have an established System Regulation, and the EU 93/42/EEC and 2007/47 whistleblowing helpline that our employees and EC Medical Devices Directive, with transition in 2020 to suppliers can use if they spot bad practice in any of our the EU Medical Device Regulation. We also meet key operations. And if we find incidents, or if incidents are industry standards such as the quality management reported, we follow up with appropriate actions. systems ISO 9001, the Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP), ISO14001 for environmental management, ISO13485 for medical devices, and A responsible employer Occupational Health and Safety Standard (OHSAS) 18001 for health and safety. Our approach relates to the UN’s global sustainability goal #8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’. We aim to provide the best working environment, with safe and Continuously improving what we do fair working conditions, where we show respect for every individual and do not discriminate on any basis. As a responsible company, we are never complacent. We make sure that everyone has the chance to develop Our goal is to continuously improve so that we can their potential and give them the pay, working conditions create long-term value for all our stakeholders. We and support they need to improve. We also focus on constantly evaluate our procedures, looking for new increasing diversity throughout the organisation, with a and better ways to do things. We also seek to become particular emphasis on growing the number of female more rigorous about measuring and following senior leader. up opportunities for improvement using the most appropriate tools. 6 We are investing to improve our production and Doing more for our communities distribution facilities, create efficiencies and ensure quality for customers and patients. In 2019, our Our company and our people always strive to do better state-of-the-art quality system, Master Control, went live. for the communities we serve. We have made longterm commitments to support our charity partners Efficiency is key to our business. We strive to become Operation Smile and Debra, which represent some more efficient and less wasteful every year. This also of our core patient groups. During 2019, our efforts favours our customers, as the increasing demand on resulted in a total donation of EUR 190,000 to both healthcare organisations means they operate in a costcharities – from fundraising efforts by colleagues, constrained environment. matched by donations from the company. We donate products and time to these causes and have provided volunteers for Operation Smile’s surgical missions Reducing our environmental impact in developing countries over many years. Through professional education, we also share our knowledge As a growing business, we are aware that, to be about EB (Epidermolysis bullosa) to help improve sustainable, we need to minimise the impact of our outcomes for this devastating condition. activities on the environment. We constantly look for ways to reduce our consumption of materials and As a purpose-driven organisation, sustainability is resources, avoiding waste wherever possible, as well a core part of our business approach and key to our as driving down CO2e emissions in our operations and continued success. We are committed to acting in from our transportation network (see page 53-64). a socially responsible way that benefits customers, patients and society over the long term. We set targets for improvement and, if we miss them, we investigate the reasons, so that we can implement corrective actions. While we made progress in some aspects in 2019, we recognise there is more work to be done. We are introducing new targets and our environmental impact will be an area of ongoing focus for 2020 and beyond (see page 53-60). Richard Twomey Chief Executive Officer 7 8 Introduction Sustainability policy Mölnlycke is a world-leading medical solutions company. Our purpose is to advance performance in healthcare across the world. We want our business to be conducted in a long-term sustainable way. In the short and long term, we take responsibility for ethics and the environment as well as social and economic issues. We constantly monitor and refine our actions to meet relevant needs of our stakeholders. Every Mölnlycke employee shares ownership and business practices based on internationally maintains the effectiveness of our management accepted standards and guidelines as reflected system. We strive for continuous improvement, in the UN Human Rights Declaration, UN maintain and encourage a company culture that Convention on the Rights of the Child, applicable promotes proactive change. ILO Conventions and the UN Global Compact. We expect our suppliers to have respective adapted goals, action plans, routines and monitoring Mölnlycke will contribute to systems to meet these requirements. sustainable development by: • In accordance with the Global Compact’s tenth principle of anti-corruption, requiring our suppliers • Providing product solutions to achieve the best to maintain high ethical standards and good outcomes for increased public health through our business practices – and ensuring that no form of commitment to patient safety and fulfilment of our corruption, bribery, money laundering or illegal compliance obligations. restriction of competition occurs in our or their • Conducting our business activities to minimise activities. our impact on the planet and its natural resources. • Conducting our business taking into account We strive for continuous reduction of the everyone’s health and well-being regardless of environmental impact caused by our business. whether they are our employees, subcontractors’ We run a business characterised by sustainable employees, customers or anyone else affected by resource optimisation. We use environmental our activities. resources as effectively as possible and strive to minimise use of substances and materials that are • Systematically working to improve diversity, harmful to humans and our environment. gender equality and skills development for our employees. Our greatest asset is our employees. • Managing our financial resources properly so as We care about our employees. We want them to to secure our company’s long-term future while be engaged, motivated, successful, enjoy coming taking into account stakeholders’ expectations and to work every day, be inspired by who we are and requirements. what we do. • Taking into account shortand long-term • Aiming for a safe, accident-free and healthy working sustainability impacts in our decisions about environment characterised by respect and trust for investments and suppliers. our employees and visitors to our premises. • Building robust, sustainable, long-term By acting according to this policy and actively relationships with our suppliers and making sure communicating it, our employees, business partners that our supply chain is resource-effective. and customers can with good conscience take part in • Setting requirements on our suppliers regarding our business and contribute to our common pursuit to environmental issues, labour rights and ethical create a sustainable society. 9 Introduction Our sustainability approach In 2015, countries within the UN adopted a set of 17 sustainable development goals to be achieved by 2030. Companies and other organisations, including our customers, are driving sustainability through procurement practices, by ensuring that the companies they use take responsibility for their people, suppliers, the environment and the communities where they operate. In today´s world, it´s essential for Mölnlycke to have well-being for all’ and #8: ‘Decent work and economic a sustainable long-term vision – and to constantly growth’ as we believe that this is where we can monitor and refine our actions and strategies to meet create the most value. In 2020 we plan to increase our the needs of all our stakeholders. focus areas. As a healthcare company and a significant employer Our executive leadership team have further focused and user of suppliers, we have chosen to focus on UN on six strategic priorities, after assessing how we can sustainable development goals ‘#3: ‘Good health and create most value from a sustainability perspective and after reviewing, together with internal specialists, where the company and our solutions can have the greatest impact. These priorities have also been informed by materiality assessment reviews, the policy of our owners, Investor AB, requirements from EU directives, legal reporting and public tender requirements. Our strategic priorities 9 Product quality 9 Minimising environmental impact 9 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 9 Sustainable supply chains and supply chain resilience 9 Health and safety 9 People diversity and equality 10 Our goal is to equip everyone in healthcare – from clinicians to procurement managers – to perform at their best. We do it through innovation, education and building strong and lasting relationships with our customers. 02 — About Mölnlycke 11 About Mölnlycke About the 99% owned by Investor AB company (remainder by management) Mölnlycke® is a market-leading 1,542 Annual global sales (million EUR) supplier of wound care and surgical products, and a trusted partner to healthcare professionals around the world. 7,800 employees worldwide Our products Our surgical products are marketed to hospitals and healthcare providers in the acute sector, while our wound care and pressure ulcer prevention products are aimed at both the acute and the community healthcare sectors. In many markets, tenders are used to procure our solutions. We also sell some of our wound care products directly to patients through pharmacies. Wound Care Surgical Solutions Our goal is simple – to further the science and practice We believe that successful surgery is about everyone of wound care to reduce pain and suffering for patients. and everything performing to the highest standard; not We insist on excellence at every step, from the just in the operating room but before, during and after construction of a dressing to the way we interact with surgery takes place. our customers. As a trusted partner to surgical teams, we understand From specialists to generalists, we equip healthcare the pressure they work under, and equip them to professionals with the tools, training and expertise to perform at their best. accurately assess a range of wound types, including: Whether that’s putting precision tools in the hands • Diabetic foot ulcers • Burns of the operation room team, helping find operational • Venus leg ulcers • Post op wounds efficiencies or preventing post-surgical complications. • Skin tears • Pressure ulcers 12 Our main brands Wound Care Surgical Solutions Mepilex®. A wide range of dressings for acute and BARRIER® staff clothing. A wide range of protective chronic wounds. clothing for the safety and comfort of healthcare professionals and patients. Mepilex® Border. Prophylactic dressings for targeted areas of the body such as the sacrum BARRIER® drapes. A range of drapes specifically and heel. designed for different types of surgical procedures. Exufiber®. A gelling fibre dressing to manage the Biogel® surgical gloves. For protection and doublechallenges of highly exuding wounds. gloving, featuring a puncture indication system. Also the preferred choice for fit, feel and comfort. Mepitel®. A gentle, effective wound contact layer. Mölnlycke® surgical instruments. A wide Granulox®. Topical haemoglobin spray for wound assortment of single-use instruments, including oxygenation. trocars, for minimally invasive surgery. Granudacyn®. Irrigation solution and gel for cleaning, Mölnlycke® procedure trays. All the single-use moistening and rinsing acute and chronic wounds. items needed for a specific surgical intervention, conveniently assembled in a sterile pack to give Mölnlycke® Z-Flo™ Fluidised positioner. Positioners healthcare professionals a truly customised and that conform to the body and remain in place. complete solution. Mölnlycke® Tortoise™ Turning and positioning Hibi® antiseptics. Solutions for preventing infection system. A support surface making it easier include hand hygiene, disinfectant and pre-surgery for caregivers to reposition patients and whole body wash. redistribute pressure. 13 15 manufacturing sites in eight countries Our business model Research and development Our R&D team is responsible for developing and We offer around 20,000 different stock items to our upgrading our products and solutions in consultation customers around the world. While we manufacture with our manufacturing, procurement, regulatory and the large majority of them, we buy in raw materials commercial teams. We also collaborate with external and components. We use around 40 contract partners to strengthen our in-house R&D resources. manufacturers and 350 suppliers to our production Our R&D function is based at our HQ. sites. In 2019, there were over 600,000 deliveries to 15,000 partners worldwide. Supply chain planning, manufacturing and procurement Commercial Supply Chain Planning is responsible for the Our Commercial strategy function is based at our management of supply planning, inventory planning headquarters (HQ) in Gothenburg, Sweden. They map and replenishment. market and customer needs in order to determine how we can best assist our customers to deliver their We have 15 manufacturing sites around the world: objectives, and which markets and product segments in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, to expand. This work is supported by our Research and Malaysia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the US. Development (R&D) function. We produce some of the components for our products in-house, such as the hydrophilic polyurethane foam Within Commercial, our sales and marketing teams for our wound treatment solutions. We also buy in are responsible for identifying, targeting and engaging from around 40 contract manufacturing suppliers. Our with our customers around the world. Our global sales procurement teams support our manufacturing team and marketing teams set strategies and are based at and are responsible for the identification and selection our HQ. Our sales and marketing operations are carried of suppliers of raw materials, components and out with regional setups in the US, Asia Pacific (APAC) services as well as contract negotiations and supplier and emerging markets in Europe, the Middle East, Latin relationship management. America and Africa. UK, France, Germany/Austria and Region North are also managed directly. In 2019, there Distribution, logistics and customer care were 38 sales offices around the world and our products Our distribution and logistics teams are responsible were available in over 100 countries. for warehousing and distributing our solutions. We distribute both directly to customers and to third parties, such as distributors and logistics partners. 14 Our supply chain is complex. It varies depending We use third-party suppliers to move raw materials, on the different products that are produced, the components and finished solutions, by sea, air and customers and countries delivered to, and the kind road. We strive to keep the number of journeys of healthcare system in the country we are delivering our solutions take throughout the supply chain to a to. Finished goods are usually shipped to our eight minimum. Where possible, we move goods by sea, but distribution centres: as they near their destination, we rely more heavily on road. Very occasionally, we use air freight when • two in the US: Anderson, South Carolina; and customers have an urgent need for our solutions. Sparks, Nevada • five in Europe: Waremme, Belgium; Lyon, France; Our customer care team is responsible for afterSouth Normanton, UK; Landskrona, Sweden; and sales activities, such as order management, order Sosnowiec, Poland processing, reverse logistics, post-sales follow-up, complaints handling and product recall management. • one in Asia Pacific: Johor Baharu, Malaysia They also provide customer analytical support to our sales and marketing teams. Our five European distribution centres serve directly our customers in Europe and our eight European Ownership local and Canada warehouses. Our APAC distribution Mölnlycke Health Care AB is a limited liability company centre serves our ten local warehouses in Japan, China, and was acquired by Investor AB in January 2007. Australia and New-Zealand. Our two US distribution Today, Investor AB owns 99% of the company, with the centres serve directly our customers in US, distributors remaining minority share owned by management. and local warehouse in Brazil. Investor´s sustainability guidelines As a long-term, responsible and active owner, Investor AB sets out sustainability guidelines for their holdings, which we follow. These consists of the ten expectations shown below. 9 Ensure that sustainability is integrated into 9 Analyse risks and opportunities and the business formulate relevant measurable targets 9 Comply with local and national legislation in 9 Continuously improve social, environmental each country of operation and economic impact with a special focus on innovation, climate, diversity and inclusion 9 Regularly assess material sustainability topics and have an active dialog with stakeholders 9 Have adequate processes and resources to manage and monitor sustainability 9 Sign and adhere to the UN Global Compact, performance commit to UN Sustainable Development Goals, support the ILO conventions, Universal 9 Have a secure reporting channel for Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the whistleblowing in place OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 9 Transparently report on the sustainability 9 Have implemented policies and Code of development Conduct that address relevant sustainability areas including business ethics Investor has defined three focus areas and related long-term targets based on their impact as a company and owner – Business Ethics & Governance, Climate & Resource Efficiency and Diversity & Inclusion. Read more at www.investorab.com/sustainability/ 15 Our structure, history and performance The executive leadership team In 2019 the Mölnlycke executive leadership team had Core and support functions day-to-day responsibility for the operational parts of Our core functions include Commercial, Operations, the business: Marketing and Research and Development. These are backed by a wide range of support functions including • CEO: overall corporate responsibility Regulatory, Quality Assurance, Environment, Health • EVP Commercial International: global sales and Safety, Finance, IT, Legal & Compliance, Human except US, commercial excellence Resources, Corporate Communications, Corporate Strategy and Business Development. • EVP Commercial US: US sales, US commercial excellence History • EVP Marketing and Wound Care: global Mölnlycke was founded in 1849 in Sweden as a marketing, marketing communications and textile manufacturer and pioneered the industrial branding, Wound Care and corporate social manufacture of wound dressings. Since then, the responsibility (CSR) company has grown through innovation and acquisition • EVP Operations and RQA: global end-to-end into the global company we are today. supply chain process, Mölnlycke Business Model (MBM) process, lean standardised manufacturing, Our name, Mölnlycke (pronounced ‘Monlicka’), reflects procurement, distribution, logistics, customer care, the town of Mölnlycke, which grew up around the quality assurance, environment, health and safety company. We are now based nearby in the city (EHS), quality and regulatory affairs of Gothenburg. • EVP Antiseptics, Gloves. Global R&D: Antiseptics, gloves, R&D, portfolio Financial performance management, medical and economic affairs (M&E) In 2019 consolidated net sales grew by 6.2% to EUR 1,542 million and operating profit increased 3.0% to • CFO, EVP Finance, IT and Business EUR 369 million, which corresponds to 24.0% of net Development: sales. Shareholder equity at year-end amounted to finance business partners, EUR 1,948 million, corresponding to an equity/assets finance expertise teams, ratio of 45%. In 2019 Mölnlycke distributed EUR 425 transactional finance teams, million to the Investor AB Group and paid taxes of IT and business development EUR 67 million. • EVP Legal and General Counsel: take over There were no financial implications due to climate affairs, compliance, intellectual change activities, nor did the company receive any property and trademarks direct financial assistance from governments. • EVP Human Resources and Corporate Communications: HR business partners, HR expertise Our governance teams, working environment and internal and external corporate The board communication In 2019 the company operated under an eleven• EVP Operating Room (OR) member board of directors, comprising seven Solutions: full organisational independent members, our CEO, one member from responsibility for the product Investor AB and two employee representatives. The areas of Mölnlycke® procedure chairman is one of the independent board members. trays, staff clothing and drapes In 2019 the board held seven meetings. When determining the composition of the highest governance body and its committees, an adequate mix of qualifications, genders and nationalities is considered. 16 Compliance Dealing with complaints, accusations The Global Compliance Committee (GCC) consists of and concerns the CEO (chairman of the committee), the EVPs and There are multiple mechanisms that allow employees the Chief Compliance Officer. The GCC defines our (who may also be shareholders) to report concerns compliance programme framework and related related to legal, financial, environmental ethical and principles as promulgated in our Code of Conduct, social issues: the compliance committees, the CSR policies and procedures. The GCC is complemented by panel, our local environment, health and safety (EHS) regional as well as local affiliate compliance committees. teams and our global EHS team in Gothenburg. The compliance committees promote a compliant culture and maintain the standard of compliance We also deploy a helpline through which employees governance across Mölnlycke. This ensures compliance and suppliers around the world can anonymously with all applicable laws and regulations and industry report any incidents of corruption, illegal or unethical standards where Mölnlycke does business. behaviour whenever they occur in local language. The helpline connects to a team consisting of the Chief Corporate governance Compliance Officer, the EVP Human Resources and We comply with Swedish company law. We ensure the General Counsel. This team decides on what our employees and shareholders have a say in department is most appropriate to investigate and decision-making at the highest level of governance escalate each incident. We investigate reported in accordance with Swedish law. We employ staff to incidents and take appropriate disciplinary action guarantee that we meet all the necessary rules in following defined procedures and follow-up measures areas such as employment and environmental impact. where necessary. 1 Global HQ and R&D Gothenburg, Sweden 38 Countries with sales and marketing offices 15 Manufacturing sites in eight countries Countries with sales through distributors 17 Our relationships with others Understanding our stakeholders In several of our markets, important stakeholders – Our stakeholders such as healthcare organisations, hospital purchasers, We define a stakeholder as anyone who has an healthcare professionals and patients – have high interest in or interaction with Mölnlycke. We have expectations of the environmental, ethical and social conducted extensive stakeholder analysis to define our standards of their suppliers. We are continuously stakeholders and our obligations to them. conducting market research projects to gain a greater understanding of their challenges and needs. We are committed to doing business in a sustainable manner to benefit stakeholders: our customers, At Mölnlycke, we are dedicated not only to living consumers, employees, suppliers, authorities, nonup to, but also to exceeding the expectations of our governmental organisations (NGOs), the media, and stakeholders. Therefore, we engage in written and oral the local communities where we operate. communication, advisory panels and surveys in order to get a better understanding of issues that are most We are committed to comply with applicable laws, important so that we can take appropriate action. While regulations and standards around the world. The we still have some way to go in reaching some of our safety of the people who use our products is targets, we are, and always will be, transparent in paramount and we comply with inter alia, local laws our reporting. and regulations, the EU 93/42/EEC and 2007/47 EC Medical Devices Directive, with transition in 2020 to Engaging in public policy the EU Medical Device Regulation as well as other We take an active role in promoting good practice standards relating to product responsibility. We also within the medical supply and healthcare industries set objectives and target our efforts to prevent harm through engagement with public policy. We to employees and others who come on to develop public policy positions and take part our sites. Our community support in responsible lobbying, principally approach is designed to benefit through our membership of both communities worldwide medical device or technology and local communities in industry associations, such the places where we as MedTech Europe, which do business. represents the medical technology industry in Strategic the EU. partnerships We have always had strong relationships with our suppliers. As a large medtech company, we are also in a position to strengthen our innovation offer through external strategic agreements. 18 +100 countries where we help patients and healthcare professionals 19 About Mölnlycke Responsibility for our products The high quality and safety of our products are core to our business, which we ensure through compliance and our process-based quality management system. We constantly analyse and review quality throughout the product life cycle. We seek to continuously improve everything we do. Our quality management system Quality – monitoring performance Mölnlycke has established, documented, and To continuously deliver customer improvements and implemented a process-based quality management benefits, we focus on the following: system (QMS). We are committed to maintaining the QMS effectiveness and driving continual improvement. Design controls The quality system is defined and managed as a series During product design, we follow a product of interlinked processes based on: development process to ensure that our ideas meet customers’ needs and also satisfy safety standards. All ideas are thoroughly assessed; those that receive • identifying the inputs and outputs positive evaluation continue to the development required at each step in the phase, where potential design hazards are identified process and risks are eliminated or minimised. We conduct clinical trials to test our product solutions and follow • determining what activities are all applicable regulations and standards. We restrict needed to get from input to the use of animal testing in clinical trials and work output actively to develop alternative test methods. We only test our products and materials on animals when this • defining roles and responsibilities is required by law. for each step of the process Quality control Mölnlycke production facilities operate an effective quality system including quality control (QC) processes. The quality teams operate under stringent controls The systematic approach gives a high level of and proactively look for opportunities to improve. They transparency, which allows us to view and analyse continuously monitor processes and products during the way we work to ensure expectations are met. This the production phase to make sure our products meet provides a solid foundation for continuous improvement. quality specifications. Mölnlycke operates a global quality system from its Corrective action and preventive action headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden. Our various We drive continuous improvements via our corrective sites around the world have complementary local and preventive action (CAPA) process. We conduct root quality systems and staff who are responsible for local cause investigations of any identified issue to find its quality management and compliance. cause. This is followed by corrective action to resolve it and prevent the problem recurring. 20 Audits Managing our products’ life cycle We verify compliance and conformance of the quality We take a 360-degree approach to product system through our internal audit process. We also manufacture. We consider our customers’ health host many external audits, which also help us identify and safety as well as our environmental impact at and drive improvements. every stage of the product life cycle. We have internal processes that govern how we develop, manufacture Management review and supply our products to minimise risk to users and Management reviews start at the executive level patients in accordance with ISO 14971. and extend through our manufacturing sites and distribution centres. The management In production review process analyses the health and Our certifications During implementation, we set up effectiveness of the quality management systems for the supply of materials, include system. We identify quality issues production and distribution of and take action when we do not meet the product. We consistently look established quality requirements. for opportunities to reduce our environmental impact and to reduce Managing suppliers any waste generated. All our suppliers are assessed to ensure they meet our quality requirements. We Labelling and marketing conduct onsite audits where necessary The labelling of our products follows all based on risk management. We require ISO applicable regulations to the regions all suppliers to accept and comply with 9001 where our products are sold. Our our Mölnlycke supplier standard. Our Quality marketing material undergoes a review Management suppliers’ manufacturing sites are process including approval by our legal required to provide a safe working and regulatory departments. environment and comply with local laws ISO such as fair remuneration, minimum 14001 Professional sponsorships age of employees and working hours. Environmental Sponsorships and interactions with We visit suppliers to ensure that the Management healthcare professionals are governed materials and products we purchase by our Compliance Programme from them are being produced in a way OHSAS policies and procedures. The Corporate that provides dignity and respect for 18001 Compliance Committee (made up of our workers in the supply chain. Occupational executive leadership team and Chief Health and Safety Compliance Officer), are responsible Customer feedback Management for approving and implementing the We consider all customer complaints Compliance Programme policies and related to our products. We review, procedures. evaluate, investigate, and take ISO corrective and preventive actions 13485 Promoting industry standards Quality where necessary. And we periodically Management Mölnlycke has a strong track record of System measure customer satisfaction through Medical Devices helping to develop industry standards surveys to make sure we continue to and awareness. In the 1980s, we meet customer expectations. worked to establish Eucomed, the MDSAP trade association for medical device Post-production surveillance manufacturers in the EU. Mölnlycke After product launch, we monitor continues to contribute to developing and products through our post-clinical raising industry standards, especially follow-up, product risk management, and within wound care and surgical post-market surveillance processes. We equipment. review product use to determine if it meets customer needs and quality standards. We use this feedback and Certification and compliance the insight it generates to adapt and improve the Our quality and environment, health and safety systems product design. are certified to standards applicable to the products we manufacture. As a global company, Mölnlycke complies with the regulations applicable to the regions where our products are sold. 21 About Mölnlycke Focus on our products Reducing pain and trauma for patients Since we launched the world’s first gently adhering silicone dressing in 1989, Mölnlycke has helped to relieve pain and suffering for millions of patients around the world. Today, we continue to innovate, with dressings that stay on longer and enable patients to move more easily, for added comfort and enhanced healing. R elieving pain at ‘It comes from listening to clinicians a specialist area of focus for us,’ dressing change and patients, understanding their Magnus explains. ‘Every November, It was the sight of patients with needs and requirements, and using we take part in International Stop chronic wounds crying out in pain that knowledge as the foundation for Pressure Ulcer Day, and we recently that first led inventor Thomas Fabo new technologies and practices.’ held a series of webinars with to look for an alternative to traditional Customers told Mölnlycke that leading experts offering practical dressings,’ explains Global Marketing they needed dressings that could stay guidance on how to prevent them.’ Manager Magnus Enerbäck. on difficult areas of the body such as Mölnlycke has also developed a ‘Through trial and error, his research the armpit or the knee. ‘We used that partnership with Debra, the charity eventually led to Mepitel®, the world’s insight to develop Flex® technology, that supports people affected by the first gently adhering silicone contact which enables dressings to stay on rare skin condition Epidermolysis layer. We call the adhesive technology longer,’ says Magnus. ‘Flex moves bullosa (EB). ‘They call EB the Safetac® and in the 30 years since, with the body, enabling patients to worst condition you’ve never heard Mölnlycke has sold over four billion move normally through everyday of,’ says Magnus, ‘And it is. We dressings with Safetac.’ activities without worrying whether supported Debra’s activities during Dressings with Safetac® don’t stick their dressing might come off.’ EB Awareness week and also ran a to the wound or damage skin, so they series of roadshows in Saudi Arabia minimise pain at dressing change Supporting awareness to help clinicians there understand for people with wounds which can be and education how to manage the condition.’ slow to heal and highly sensitive. As part of our continuing Mölnlycke is committed to commitment to improving health reducing pain and trauma into the Listening to clinicians outcomes, we support clinicians future. As we move into 2020 and and patients with professional education, helping beyond, we will continue to look ‘Making products that improve quality to ensure they have the knowledge for new solutions that help our of life for patients informs everything and skills to deliver patient-centred customers provide good health for we do in wound management,’ says wound care. all patients with wounds – and new Magnus. ‘Pressure ulcers are one of the solutions to prevent wounds from most common and distressing occurring. hospital-acquired conditions and 22 ‘Dressings with Safetac® don’t stick to the wound or damage skin so they minimise pain at dressing change.’ 23 About Mölnlycke Managing sustainability risks Our executive leadership team has overall responsibility for establishing a system to manage business risk and for reviewing and measuring its effectiveness. Mölnlycke managers have day-to-day responsibility for implementing it. Our risk management systems Sustainability risks in focus We’ve designed a risk management system to identify, Anti-bribery and anti-corruption assess and manage the most material risks for our short We have identified bribery and corruption as one of our main and long-term business sustainability. The risks are divided sustainability risks. We dedicate considerable resources to into four categories: financial, strategic, regulatory and legal managing this risk, including business ethics assessments and operational risk. The risks identified include, of our suppliers. If we find that one of our employees or but are not limited to, sustainability risks, suppliers has failed to live up to our standards, such as bribery and corruption and we take immediate action. This can include other risks relating to our Code of terminating contracts. Conduct. Sustainable supply chain In addition to this, we have and supply chain resilience tools, procedures and We ask our primary suppliers to sign policies to help us manage up to our Supplier Code of Conduct identified risks – and and Supplier Standard and to set we also run mandatory similar standards among their training courses to supply chains. To mitigate the risk educate key stakeholders of our suppliers falling short, we about the behaviours we monitor, assess and follow up our expect. Our ambition is to suppliers’ actions. minimise the risk of noncompliance by embedding We understand that our suppliers a culture of risk awareness in some markets may be at risk of and quality focus throughout our violating human rights. To reduce this risk, operations and the supply chain. Our our Supplier Code of Conduct specifies that procedures and training courses are suppliers must protect human rights. Our CEO and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are executive leadership team have signed a statement against always aligned to our evolving ambition. modern slavery, child labour and human trafficking. To test the effectiveness of compliance controls, we In order to increase resilience in our supply chain, we build regularly review our operations and those of our suppliers. long-term relationships with our suppliers, We have a whistleblowing helpline where employees and based on fairness, collaboration, transparency and open suppliers can report any concerns. And if we find incidents, communication. or if incidents are reported, we follow up with appropriate actions. Every concern is handled with strict confidentiality, investigated efficiently and adequately remediated. 24 Health and safety For our products, the most significant identified Our employees are exposed daily to the risk of various environmental risks include: types of accident – particularly in our factories. These risks increase in line with production growth, changes • our CO2 footprint at our manufacturing sites and in production methods or working environment in transport: we continuously work to optimise conditions and with the recruitment of new employees. manufacturing lines, transport ways and proximity In order to further improve our safety performance, to suppliers; leadership and communication, we established our • the origin, consumption and supplier footprint comprehensive Go for Zero programme in 2017, with relating to raw materials: we are continuing to the vision of building a strong culture of preventing investigate this; work-related accidents. Every year, the programme • waste management of single-use products: we has different focus areas, depending on the needs of have started to explore the replacement of material our business. deriving from fossil fuels. People, diversity and equality Product quality We have identified equality and diversity as an To manage product risk, both within our operations and important factor in our ability to understand the whole within those of our suppliers, we have robust policies of society, and thereby our sustainability as a business. and processes, and we continuously review them To manage the risk of lack of diversity and equality, in regularly. To further ensure our product quality, we 2018 we introduced a gender diversity charter, with have a state-of-the-art quality system, Master Control, the ambition of women making up 40% of our senior which enables all Mölnlycke employees to access all leaders by 2023. quality system documents. We follow regulations, local best practice and have a Reputational risk Code of Conduct and other human resources policies in We understand that a crisis or major incident of some place to manage other risks relating to people. kind could affect the long-term sustainability of our business. We conduct media monitoring and maintain Environmental our crisis preparedness in order to reduce the risk of Environmental risks at our sites are continuously an incident damaging our company’s reputation. identified and evaluated. The highest environmental risks relate to fire, flooding, chemical pollution and emissions to air, soil and water. All identified risks are handled in a structured way in accordance with our certified environmental management system. 25 ‘We lead by example, building long-term relationships with our suppliers, based on fairness, collaboration, transparency and open communication.’ 26 About Mölnlycke Working with suppliers We aim to ensure ethical practices throughout our supply chain. We require our primary suppliers to meet our Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Standard and to apply similar Codes of Conduct among their own partners and suppliers. We expect our suppliers, through the Supplier Code of us to refer to local laws and regulations in a stringent Conduct, to demonstrate that they: way, while continuously improving our knowledge and ways of working. • provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees We lead by example, building long-term relationships • ban all forms of child labour, forced labour and with our suppliers, based on fairness, collaboration, compulsory labour transparency and open communication. • respect their employees’ rights to freedom of association Performance 2019 • don’t discriminate by gender, age, sexual orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnicity, social The supplier base remains stable, with no major origin, disability or political opinion changes implemented, other than those outlined below. • comply with local laws on working hours pay a living During the year we passed several customer audits in wage that meets their employees’ basic needs. the areas of labour standards, sustainable supply chain and supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers passed all We also expect them to follow our Supplier Standard. planned on-site Code of Conduct reviews. During the This sets out our basic requirements for quality, year, we developed a new Supplier Code of Conduct sustainability and the environment. We require them policy, which is also a part of our new revision of to manage their impact on the environment in line with supplier standards. These documents will be rolled out ISO 14001 and to continually work to reduce it. to the supplier base during 2020. Our approach Notable changes during 2019 Before we accept a primary supplier, we carry out a We acquired one of our former materials suppliers for detailed assessment process to ensure that their practices woundcare, M&J Airlaid Products, at the beginning fit with our expectations. We then ask them to sign off our of the year and they are now integrated within our Supplier Standard and/or our Supplier Code of Conduct. business. We appointed a new contract manufacturer for surgical products in Morocco, close to our European If we identify risks, we carry out supplier assessments markets. Additionally, using the expertise of our to check if any incidents have taken place and put strategic polymerfilm and nonwoven suppliers, we corrective actions in place if necessary. have initiated work to introduce more sustainable materials into our future material platforms. We also use the support of third-party assessments – especially for our contract manufacturers. This allows 27 About Mölnlycke Focus on supply chain resilience Proactively managing our suppliers With around 40 contract manufacturers and 350 suppliers to our production sites, Mölnlycke supports the employment of significant numbers of people through our suppliers around the world. We have robust programmes to ensure fair working practices and health and safety, as well as quality. Two leaders from our procurement team explain how we work to ensure ethical practices at our suppliers’ sites. ‘W ‘ e use companies in China, involving several audits. Contract issues and they are willing to work Southeast Asia and North Manufacturing Manager Gerallt with us to improve, we’ll move Africa as well as the US Thomas explains: ‘We look at forward and develop the relationship. and Europe,’ says Mölnlycke’s Viceeverything from people’s payslips ’Gerallt gives an example: ‘Last year, I President of Global Procurement, to the security guards to how they was looking at a supplier in Southeast AnnChristine Strigén. ‘We feel a handle their waste disposal – crossAsia. We had questions over how they sense of responsibility towards our checking our findings by interviewing checked the ages of their employees. suppliers and the people who work They had no intention of using child there. So we have high expectations labour, but the identity documentation of them and we work proactively to ‘If we see minor issues people were supplying could be easily ensure that they meet our standards. and they are willing to forged. So we pushed them to liaise Long-term partnerships are key to work with us to improve, with schools and village leaders to get Mölnlycke’s approach. ‘The majority additional information to corroborate of our materials suppliers have been we’ll move forward that potential employees were over with us for more than ten years,’ and develop the 18.’ By partnering with businesses in she says. ‘That’s good for supply this way, Mölnlycke can help them chain resilience, because the longer relationship.’ improve procedures over time and the relationship, the better their drive ethical practices. resources and knowledge. It also employees, selected at random. Often, AnnChristine explains another means we have been able to work we use a third party with expertise in area in which we experience with them to drive up standards over local laws and the language to help challenges: ‘Workers in certain the years.’ us make an in-depth assessment.’ countries and districts often want to Mölnlycke does take on new ‘If potential suppliers are too far work more than the maximum time suppliers, but they undergo a from our aspirations, we will walk allowed in a month,’ she says. ‘We very rigorous selection process, away,’ he says. ‘But if we see minor have partnered with their employers 28 (our suppliers) to reduce the amount ‘The best we can do is be proactive. influence the rest of the supply chain of time required to do a job – perhaps We are introducing a new Supplier by asking them to get their suppliers by introducing automation – so they Code of Conduct addressing bribery to sign similar codes.’ are more productive and can earn and corruption, as well as working more within their existing hours.’ conditions and health and safety. All What next for Mölnlycke’s supplier suppliers will have to agree to our management? ‘There will always be Supplier Standard and new Code progress to make,’ says AnnChristine, of Conduct. We’ll also be trying to 29 As a Swedish company, responsibility for our employees is second nature. 03 — Our progress – People We employ almost 8,000 people around the world, with significant employee numbers in Malaysia, Thailand, the Czech Republic, Sweden and Finland. 30 Our progress – People Our people All of our employees worldwide have fundamental human rights with regard to their employment, no matter where in the world they work. Our goal is to create an environment where they feel empowered to grow and develop to their full potential. Our philosophy Social conditions and human rights – our approach It is Mölnlycke’s policy to support and respect the To help ensure that human and social rights are protection of internationally proclaimed human rights respected, we have a whistleblowing helpline available and make sure that the company is not complicit in to our employees in local languages. human rights abuses. Complaints are promptly investigated, and appropriate To this end, Mölnlycke is committed in its global corrective action is taken. business practices to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, Overall responsibility for setting the effective abolition of child appropriate anti-slavery and human labour, and the elimination of trafficking policies sits with discrimination in respect the Global Compliance of employment Committee (GCC). and occupation. Human rights – our performance 2019 Social conditions None of our operations and human rights were subject to a human rights review or impact Workers’ rights are set out assessment. We conducted in our Code of Conduct and human rights training in our Modern slavery statement: high-risk markets, as well as within our manufacturing, legal, • Employment should be procurement and regulatory freely chosen, and no individual teams. should be subject to forced, bonded or compulsory labour. Social conditions – our performance 2019 • No form of child labour under 15 years We follow employer regulations and local laws in all is accepted. countries. We act as a responsible employer and have salaries and benefits that correspond to market levels. • Employees should not be prevented from In factories where there are unions, we have collective associating freely. bargaining agreements and as applicable by country, • Working conditions should be safe and hygienic. we have work councils. • Wages and working hours should meet national legal standards. • Discrimination is prohibited. 31 Diversity Our four leadership capabilities are: With almost 8,000 employees spread across the 9 Set direction world in a wide variety of jobs, we are a diverse, 9 Motivate and inspire multicultural organisation. We believe our diversity enables us to truly understand and deliver what 9 Be authentic healthcare professionals and patients need around 9 Develop talent and capabilities the world. When we enter new markets, we invest in local employees to ensure a full understanding of local market conditions. This is balanced with the Talent development multicultural ambition of our company to promote a mix Part of our HR strategic focus on capabilities and of people of different cultures, ages, gender, religions, leadership excellence is to identify, recognise, develop working patterns, and abilities to facilitate innovation and and promote internal talent. Developing leaders and out-ofthe-box thinking. employees with top class capabilities is crucial for Mölnlycke to stay competitive in a demanding global In 2019, women made up 65% of our staff, were strongly environment. We have set an aspirational target for represented in our factories and performed 47% of 70% of our director level and above positions to be filled our middle-management roles, however they made with internal talent by 2023. This represents a healthy up 35% of our senior leaders. We therefore recognised ratio of internal versus external recruitment. There that we still need to take action on gender diversity, will always be a need to attract talent from outside particularly at a senior leadership level. We continue to Mölnlycke to stay abreast of external market dynamics hold ourselves against our gender diversity charter. Our and acquire new capabilities where necessary. ambition is for women to make up 40% of our senior leaders (director level and above) by 2023. 36% of director-level positions recruited in 2019 were filled with internal candidates. Of our current employees at director level, 55% of them were Learning and development promoted from inside the company (this was 60% in 2018 and 50% in 2017). To drive our business forward, we have four high-performance behaviours we expect of all our Talent acquisition employees, and that we use to recruit and manage To support our growth and deliver on our strategy, them: Customer at heart; Own the outcome; Mölnlycke continues to build a diverse, multi-cultural Appropriate urgency; and Teamwork. global workforce. As the talent market remains competitive and Generation Z enter the labour market, Leadership capabilities we look for new ways to attract talent to our business Four leadership capabilities have been developed, and ensure we deliver the right recruitment experience. expected from all managers of people. As of 2019 these are being used to assess our future leaders if it comes At the beginning of 2019, we launched a new state to external recruitment and promotions and to develop of-the-art recruiting portal where we now advertise all their leadership capabilities in a consistent way. vacancies globally, as well as using other common recruitment channels. Applicants can quickly apply for 32 ‘We still need to take action on gender diversity, particularly at a senior level’ vacancies and receive updates on the process through and willingness to do more by supporting their the portal. development through global leadership programmes. They can also join our Talent Community; creating Learning and development – our performance 2019 profiles and email alerts to be informed when the right We are on a journey to build a global learning vacancy arises. This has improved our candidate reach organisation by investing in our employees through and enhanced the recruitment experience. skill development. All our sales associates engage in active learning from their first day in the company, and We also have a dedicated recruitment team, who we also provide extensive training in other functions work across 24 countries globally. They partner such as Quality or Finance. Leadership development with our hiring managers and using our employer is a particular area of focus, where foundational value proposition they source and attract people programmes are coupled with Leadership Acceleration with the right skills and capabilities, who would programmes such as GROW & GLDP (both run enjoy Mölnlycke’s culture and share our ambition of annually). For the training that is deemed mandatory advancing performance in healthcare. we constantly push for full compliance, reaching a 96% compliance rate of our Global Mandatory trainings at Learning and development – our approach the end of 2019. Our learning philosophy is based on the 70–20–10 principle that states learning is gained: Employee surveys • 70% from on-the-job experiences • 20% from coaching and feedback We perform regular employee surveys to understand the level of engagement employees have with the • 10% from instructor-led courses or company and the drivers affecting that engagement. e-learning courses The information collected in the surveys is extremely valuable to support the sustainable development of our Some of the learning available includes: company, our culture and our employees. • mandatory e-learning courses for all employees, covering topics such as our quality and information In autumn 2019, we conducted a survey among security policies 2,925 field and office employees and 4,046 employees • e-learning and instructor-led courses offering in production across the globe, and 95% of our training in topics such as IT knowledge and employees responded. The next survey will take place soft skills in autumn 2020. • instructor-led and e-learning courses that relate to Engagement Index employees’ specific jobs such as health and safety, In the 2019 employee survey, we achieved an sales management and product launch training Engagement Index (a composite of four engagementprogrammes. related questions) of 76 for sales and office-based We train our employees regularly to ensure that they employees. This was an increase by two points are aware of our Code of Conduct, our Global Code compared to last year and is above the norm. Our of Ethics and Integrity and what is required of them. employees in production, answering the survey for the We further invest in those who have the potential first time since 2014, reached an engagement index of 71. 33 Spotlight on our people 7,798 employees worldwide Our locations We are currently 7,798 employees worldwide , of which 10% work in the Americas, while the remaining 90% are split equally between Asia Pacific and EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa). 45% 45% Mölnlycke worldwide Europe, Middle East/Africa 10% Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Americas Asia Pacific Czech Republic 1,019 Poland 44 United States 673 Malaysia 2,087 Sweden 555 Denmark 27 Brazil 46 Thailand 1,106 Finland 553 Norway 27 Canada 17 China 129 Belgium 371 Switzerland 24 Australia 56 United Kingdom 317 Austria 23 Japan 53 Germany 156 Hungary 23 Singapore 46 France 149 Netherlands 23 India 25 Spain 97 United Arab Emirates 19 Republic of Korea 12 Italy 63 Saudi Arabia 11 Other 10 Other 37 Total 3,538 Total 736 Total 3,524 34 Our functions Around 84% of our employees work in Operations, OR Solutions and Commercial: (Shown in green in the pie chart below.) Operations 2923 OR Solutions 2182 Commercial 1494 QA & RA 389 R&D 256 Finance 238 37% HR & Communication & Exec 158 19% IT 96 Wound Care & Marketing 48 Legal / Compliance 10 Corporate Strategy & 28% Business Development 4 Total 7,798 Operations OR Solutions Commercial QA R&D Finance HR & Communication & Exec IT Wound Care & Marketing Legal / Compliance Corporate Strategy & Business Development Our job types Our blue collar work force is mainly located in Asia/Pacific where our largest factories are situated. Asia/Pacific Europe Americans 41% 559% Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Americas Mölnlycke worldwide Blue collar 2,873 82% Blue collar 1,523 43% Blue collar 178 24% Blue collar White collar 651 18% White collar 2,015 57% White collar 558 76% White collar Total 3,524 100% Total 3,538 100% Total 736 100% 7% Our contracts of employment In Asia/Pacific and the Americas, 99% of us have permanent contracts of 93% employment. In EMEA, over 86% of us are permanent, while 13.5% are temporary. Americas Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Mölnlycke worldwide Permanent 729 99% Permanent 3,503 99% Permanent 3,059 86% Permanent Temporary 7 1.0% Temporary 21 0.6% Temporary 479 14% Temporary Total 736 100% Total 3,524 100% Total 3,538 100% For the purpose of this report, the number of employees is our headcount: all employees, including temporary employees, with an employment contract with Mölnlycke, who are also paid through the company pay-roll. 35 Female / males worldwide Gender diversity Mölnlycke is generally a company where more women than men work. The most 35% difference is seen in Asia/Pacific where 72% of the employees are women. But in the Americas, females make up less than half (45%) of all employees. 65% Americas Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Female 333 45% Female 2,517 71% Female 2,248 64% Male 403 55% Male 1,007 29% Male 1,290 36% Mölnlycke worldwide Female Total 736 100% Total 3,524 100% Total 3,538 100% Male Board of directors Gunnar Brock Christian Cederholm John Hepburn Clare Hollingsworth Chairman of the Board Board member Board Member Board member Born 1950 Born 1978 Born 1949 Born 1960 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Canadian Nationality: British Sharon James Johan Malmquist David Perez Karl-Henrik Sundström Board member Board member Board member Board member Born 1961 Born 1961 Born 1959 Born 1960 Nationality: British Nationality: Swedish Nationality: American Nationality: Swedish Member age distribution 8 6 4 Number of members Richard Twomey Carolin Jakobsen David Valham 2 Board member Employee representative Employee representative Born 1964 Born 1983 Born 1974 Nationality: British. Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish 0 0–30 30–50 50+ Age 36 Leadership diversity Mölnlycke strives for equal career opportunities and over the last year a slight improvement has been seen related to the distribution of women in leadership roles. We are moving in the right direction. Today approximately 35% (34% last year) of our most senior leaders (director and above) are women. Leaders (director level and up) Female 56 35% Male 102 65% Total 158 100% Executive leadership team Richard Twomey Anders Andersson Cathy Dalene Kristin Hedlund CEO EVP OR Solutions EVP Wound Care & Marketing EVP Legal & General Counsel Born 1964 Born 1971 Born 1974 Born 1968 Nationality: British Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Norwegian Nationality: Swedish Eric de Kesel Martin Lexa Barry McBride Raphael Pascaud EVP Operations & RQA EVP HR & Corporate EVP Antiseptics, Gloves. EVP Commercial International Born 1965 Communications Global R&D Born 1971 Nationality: Belgian Born 1965 Born 1965 Nationality: French Nationality: German Nationality: British Member age distribution 6 4 Number of members Rob Claypoole 2 EVP Commercial US Born 1971 Nationality: American 0 0–30 30–50 50+ Age On 1 March 2020 Susanne Larsson will take up the role as CFO and EVP Finance. 37 Our progress – People Focus on diversity The road to diversity at leadership level We are taking action to improve gender diversity, particularly at a senior leadership level. Regional Vice-President for APAC, Katriina Öberg, and Vice-President for Commercial Excellence in the US, Cece Berger-Sharp, share their perspectives about Mölnlycke’s culture and how we are progressing on gender diversity. I ’m where I am today because development. Since joining Mölnlycke Mentoring of the opportunities I’ve had as Nordic Brand Manager in 1999, Mentoring has also been key to for development,’ says Katriina. Katriina has changed jobs almost Cece’s success. ‘It’s incredibly ‘People around me have believed in every three years, both learning on important because it supports you me and offered me chances to grow. the job and benefiting from external to grow and develop. My manager But I’ve also been lucky enough to training. A highlight was the Women has acted as a mentor – giving be surrounded by people I can learn Leaders Up course in 2015. Senior me detailed regular ideas for from – senior to me, junior to me and female leaders from a range of improvement, and presenting me my peers. Mölnlycke has a genuine companies across Sweden spent a with challenges that enabled me to learning culture, where everyone is year exploring and developing their advance in my career.’ open to growth.’ leadership skills. Nowadays, she has a mentee of Cece agrees: ‘When I joined two Katriina’s working group from her own. ‘We meet monthly to talk years ago, I could have been seen the course still meet every quarter to about both her career and life in as an outsider, but my ideas were share experiences and support and general. I believe my role is not to listened to and embraced. Now challenge each other: ‘It is almost like give her advice but offer a perspective. I encourage my teams to try new mentoring programme now,’ says My experience is one input out of things, assess them and learn from Katriina. ‘In the same way, I’ve been many that will help her make better their mistakes to get better. And a mentor on Mölnlycke’s in-house decisions.’ that’s exciting because we are always leadership course and I strive to learning.’ support the people in my teams with Workplace flexibility the right kind of feedback.’ Cece considers it important for the Formal and informal company to be flexible and support development women – and men – when it comes Both women are advocates to work-life balance. ‘Nobody should of informal as well as formal feel that they can’t be there for vital 38 moments in their families’ lives,’ she more conscious of the importance of the right person to the job – man or says. ‘When our work and personal diversity. ‘The comfortable thing is to woman,’ says Katriina. ‘But the pool of lives don’t match up, the key is to recruit in your own image. I myself candidates you start with needs to be proactively find solutions that are have to be careful not only to recruit broad enough.’ good for the business and allow you passionate, extrovert people just like Katriina believes that Mölnlycke to prioritise those special personal me! But I recognise the need for other is making progress. ‘A few years moments.’ strengths and qualities. We make ago the company had no women Cece herself once chose to stay better decisions when our teams are on the executive leadership team; home for her daughter’s fifth-grade more diverse.’ from 1 March 2020 there will be graduation instead of going on a What of the future for female three. But diversity is about so much week-long work trip. ‘My solution leaders at Mölnlycke? ‘With more than that. It’s about bringing was to send one of my team in my the company’s growth comes different talents together to ensure place. She benefited hugely from the responsibility,’ says Katriina. Last that Mölnlycke continues to think opportunity – which was great for her, year, Mölnlycke adopted a gender ahead of the curve and make the right great for me and great for Mölnlycke.’ diversity charter, and now ensures decisions for sustainable growth.’ that female candidates are presented says Katriina. The value of gender diversity as well as men for senior positions. Over the last 20 years, Katriina has As she explains, the policy is not seen the company become much about tokenism: ‘You have to appoint ‘Diversity is about bringing different talents together and ensuring we can make the right decisions for sustainable growth’ Cece Berger-Sharp and Katriina Öberg. 39 Our progress – People Code of Conduct We work in a very complex legal and regulatory environment with high expectations from our stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct outlines the principles and standards – and sets the tone – of how we do things at Mölnlycke. It also serves as a reference guide on specific issues or situations. Our objective is to ensure compliance with all As a multinational company and purchaser, we believe applicable laws, regulations and industry standards that we are in a position to impact ethical and social where Mölnlycke does business. We also seek to go conduct associated with human rights, the workplace beyond this where appropriate to meet our own high and working conditions, gender and race equality, fair expectations and those of our stakeholders. competition and anti-bribery and anti-corruption in a positive way among our suppliers. Therefore, we The board of directors has adopted the Code of Conduct also have a Supplier Code of Conduct that specifically to govern the behaviour of permanent and temporary targets issues and conduct applicable to them. employees, temporary workers and consultants (collectively ‘Mölnlycke personnel’). There is also a global helpline that we ask Mölnlycke personnel or business partners to use if there is a Everyone who represents Mölnlycke has a concern relating to a potential violation of our Code of responsibility to be familiar with and comply with Conduct, any policies, procedures or applicable laws our Code of Conduct. Mölnlycke managers have an and regulations. additional responsibility to promote compliance with the Code of Conduct among their teams. Failure Page 41 contains more detail on anti-bribery and antito comply with laws, regulations or our principles, corruption, which is one of our strategic priority areas. policies, or procedures may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Our Code of Conduct addresses the following 14 areas and you can find more details in the Code of Conduct document on our homepage: 1. Avoiding bribery and corruption 8. Insider trading 2. Accounting and finance 9. IT security 3. Conflict of interest 10. Quality and regulatory affairs 4. Sanctions, export controls and customs 11. Workplace 5. Data protection 12. Intellectual property rights (IPRs) 6. Fair competition and anti-trust 13. Fraud 7. Health care compliance 14. Media communications 40 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption advantage (e.g., regulatory approvals, prescriptions, tender awards, business leads, etc.). Mölnlycke also We have interactions on a daily basis with public prohibits the receipt of anything of value by a Mölnlycke hospitals, government authorities and healthcare employee from suppliers, vendors or others who professionals, who are typically considered as may seek thereby to influence any act or decision of government or public employees; it is an intrinsic part the employee. of our work at various levels and all across the globe. It is vital that we protect Mölnlycke, its employees and Mölnlycke prohibits facilitation payments, such as our stakeholders from being implicated in any conflict small, unofficial payments made to secure or expedite of interest. We understand our responsibilities and a routine government action by a government official, how we can deliver them. irrespective of whether local laws permit them. Our policy Our Avoiding Bribery & Corruption Policy specifically Mölnlycke is committed to conducting business addresses the following areas of concern: worldwide in an ethical way. Mölnlycke and Mölnlycke employees are subject to various anti-bribery and anti• Dealing with government officials & corruption laws around the world. healthcare professionals • Relationship with other third parties Mölnlycke prohibits all forms of bribery and corruption at our business or the business of third parties that • Political and charitable contributions work on our behalf: Avoiding Bribery & Corruption We prohibit any offer, payment, promise of payment or – Our performance 2019 authorisation of the payment of any money, gifts, loans In 2019 we revised our policy – which we refer to as our or anything of value, whether given directly or indirectly, ABC-Policy (Avoiding Bribery & Corruption). We to any person, including any government official or trained 96% of white-collar people on the new policy private person, in order to influence any act or decision during Q4 2019. to obtain or retain business or gain any business 41 Our progress – People Health and safety Mölnlycke aims to provide a safe, accident-free and healthy environment characterised by respect and trust for our employees, suppliers and visitors at all of our sites around the world. Under guidance of our Sustainability policy, we proactively assess health and safety risks as well as opportunities for improvement in each of our locations and work with local teams to implement suitable actions. We continuously monitor and evaluate our safety performance and fulfil our compliance obligations wherever we operate. Our mindset meet regularly to consider health and safety issues and recommend actions to prevent injuries. We want our business to be conducted in a long-term sustainable way. In the short and long term, we take We collaborate between our sites, so that we can share responsibility for health, safety and well-being and best practice and achieve improvements across the contribute to sustainable development by: whole company. Environmental, health and safety (EHS) representatives from each manufacturing site • our commitment to fulfilment of our meet monthly with regional and global compliance obligations EHS management to discuss issues and share experiences and ideas. • conducting our business by taking into account ‘We work The corporate EHS team also people’s expectations and requirements regarding continuously meets at an annual global EHS conference, held at a Mölnlycke health and well-being, regardless of whether to improve health site, for professional training, workshops and discussion of they are our employees, and safety by taking current topics, to improve our our subcontractors’ skills and knowledge. employees, customers or proactive measures other people affected by Our health and safety our company’s activities to prevent management system • ensuring a safe, accidentfree and healthy working accidents.’ Mölnlycke has established, documented, and implemented a environment characterised by health and safety management system respect and trust for our employees which is integrated with our environmental and visitors to our premises and quality management system. This system provides a structure for maintaining effectiveness, • setting and continuously monitoring suitable continuous proactive change and improvement. health and safety objectives Mölnlycke operates a high-level management system at • striving for continuous improvement of our a global level. In addition, each of our operational sites health and safety performance, maintaining and has a local system in place. encouraging a health and safety management system which promotes proactive change. How we monitor performance Health and safety management To continuously improve our health and safety – our approach performance, we focus on the following: We work continuously to improve health and safety Training by taking proactive measures to prevent accidents at We have programmes of regular and ad hoc health all of our operating sites and fulfilling our compliance and safety training for employees, subcontractors and obligations. Each of our factories has a health and safety visitors at our sites. team made up of a cross-section of employees who 42 Corrective action and preventive action Certification and compliance We drive continuous improvement through our As a global company, Mölnlycke complies with local as corrective and preventive action (CAPA) process. We well as relevant global regulations. Two-thirds of our conduct root cause investigations of non-conformances OSHAS 18001-certified manufacturing sites achieved with our management system requirements, followed ISO 45001 certificates in 2019; Mölnlycke plans to by corrective actions to resolve the issue and prevent achieve a global multisite certificate for ISO 45001 the problem recurring. in 2020. Accident investigation Legal compliance We conduct root cause investigations of all accidents As part of our performance review, we monitor any and high potential near misses at our sites, followed legal proceedings against us in the area of health by corrective actions to resolve the root causes and and safety. prevent them from happening again. Experiences from these investigations are shared between our sites in Reporting the global EHS team. Our health and safety performance is monitored systematically and measured on a monthly basis at Audits our manufacturing sites, the Anderson distribution We carry out audits to verify the effectiveness of our centre in the US and our HQ. The results are presented health and safety management system and our ability in a global report and evaluated with regard to set to fulfil compliance obligations. objectives and targets, including observations, near misses, high potential near misses, lost time accidents, Management review lost time days, and management health and safety Mölnlycke management undertakes regularly walks. About 50% of the accidents are related to thorough reviews of health and safety, starting at the ergonomics and manual handling in our factories. corporate and executive level and extending through our manufacturing sites. We document and escalate In order to mitigate the risk of work injuries related identified issues, as appropriate. to manual handling tasks we continued to implement our special manual lifting training programme at our In production manufacturing sites in the US and Finland in 2019 All of our manufacturing sites have regular health and (see page 45). safety inspections, discuss health and safety issues daily in different forums, measure safety-related parameters and inspect and monitor safety equipment. 43 ‘In order to mitigate the risk of work injuries related to manual handling tasks we continued to implement our special manual lifting training programme.’ 44 Control of hazardous chemicals LTAs and LTDs A very small number of our workers are involved in The number of LTAs per LTA: occupational activities with a high risk of injury or million working hours any workplace accident exposure to specific chemicals. These include use of was 1.6, down from 2.1 or injury that causes an the organic compound toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in in 2018. employee to miss their next the manufacture of negative pressure wound therapy scheduled work day or shift. products and ethylene oxide (EtO) used as part of our Our LTA rate has sterilisation processes. We did not receive any reports continuously decreased LTD: of health-related issues in the factories where these during the last few years. an ordinary work day substances are used. or shift lost due As part of our drive for to an LTA. continuous improvement, our Health and safety – our objectives EHS programme set the ambitious target of reducing the number of accidents to 1.5 LTAs We set appropriate health and safety objectives and per one million working hours in 2019. Our achieved LTA targets on a yearly basis covering both leading and rate for 2019 is slightly above this target, but the total lagging indicators. There were three key objectives number of accidents came down by 30%, from 30 in for 2019: 2018 to 21 in 2019. Globally we had two LTA-free months. • By focusing on prevention, continuously: The number of LTDs per million working hours was − Increase the number of observations (to 28.5, down from 38.4 in 2018. prevent unsafe acts/situations/behaviour) The total number of LTDs has been continuously − Increase the number of management health reduced during the last few years. In 2019, we had 165 and safety walks fewer LTDs than in 2018. − Increase the number of approved accident LTA per million LTDs per million investigation reports working hours working hours − Reduce the rate of lost time accidents and lost 2.5 40 time days 2 30 • Start the global certification process for ISO 45001 1.5 Goal 2019 • No legal proceedings for health and safety 20 1 occurrences. 10 0.5 Health and safety 0 2018 2019 0 2018 2019 – our performance 2019 • The ratio of performed vs. planned management Go for Zero programme health and safety walks was 94%. In 2017, we started our comprehensive Go for Zero • The number of reported safety observations was programme for all manufacturing sites, which 5092, the same level as 2018 and almost on our has been intensively implemented since then. The target for 2019 (5,500). programme contains several activities to align and • The total number of near misses came down by improve the safety standard at our manufacturing sites. 22%, from 256 in 2018 to 199 in 2019. The year 2019 was dedicated to standardising the usage of safety moments and toolbox talks globally at all of • 93% of these near misses were corrected, slightly our factories. below our 2019 target of 95%. • The number of reported high potential near misses Another major initiative was the enhancement of the was 36, the same level as 2018. implementation of special manual lifting techniques at our sites in Finland and the US in order to further significantly reduce the risk of work injuries related to manual handling tasks. The first training course took place at our factory in Oldham, UK, in 2017 where the results have been significant and a 69% reduction in manual handling accidents was achieved over two years. The Go for Zero programme will be continued in 2020. 45 Our progress – People Corporate social responsibility Mölnlycke feels a strong sense of commitment to both the medical profession and patients receiving treatment. Through our global and local charity partners, we seek to have a long-term positive impact. We also invest in the communities where we operate so we remain a trusted partner over the long term. Our policy Global community support in 2019 Our community support policy is designed to help Since 2017 we have supported two organisations us play an active role in the community. By donating representing key patient groups as our official global time, products and funds, we help improve the lives of charity partners: patients and support those who care for them. Working within the community in this way also enables • Debra, a worldwide network of national groups our business and the organisations we support to that strives to improve quality of life for people remain sustainable. with the rare genetic skin disease, Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) We receive many requests for donations to good causes • Operation Smile, a medical volunteer organisation that at a local level and we cannot support all of them. provides free reconstructive surgery for children born with facial deformities such as cleft lip and cleft palate. We have guidelines that ensure our community support is appropriate. The organisations we support should: By walking, baking, running and more Mölnlycke employees managed to raise EUR 70,000. The company • be in the medical field added another EUR 120,000 to the fundraising campaign, • work to improve patients’ lives, to improve meaning a total of EUR 190,000 was donated to Debra medical staff protection, or to increase the level and Operation Smile. of knowledge in the medical field • provide credible and measurable results. The initiatives we support must also be in line with AdvaMed or Eucomed guidelines. 46 Mölnlycke supports a range of global and local Since 2004, we’ve donated nearly 1.4 million pairs of fundraising initiatives for the charity. In 2019, we Biogel® surgical gloves to Operation Smile – as well as supported EB week activities to help raise awareness funds and the expertise and time of our people. To date of this devastating condition. the value of Mölnlycke´s cash and in-kind investments stands at nearly USD 5 million. In the US, we support a range of initiatives including Debra monthly Wound Care Clearinghouse, which Through the Mölnlycke Operation Smile Volunteer distributes essential wound care supplies to people in Programme, our employees can join Operation financial difficulty, and the charity’s Family Crisis Fund. Smile missions – accompanying doctors and nurses for several days as they provide free surgeries in developing countries. During 2019, four employees took part in a mission to Bhubaneswar, India. 47 Our progress – People FOCUS ON CSR Changing lives with Operation Smile Mölnlycke and its employees feel a strong sense of commitment to the medical profession and patients receiving treatment. The company has two global charity partners: Operation Smile and Debra – and donated EUR 70,000 in 2019 from employee fundraising, matched by the company. ‘W O peration Smile and Debra and helped the medical teams with time and expertise and contribute were chosen as our two important administrative tasks.’ to fundraisers.’ global charity partners The company has worked At Mölnlycke, when colleagues because we share common with Debra even longer, helping raise funds for our global charities, ambitions and areas of expertise to fund both research and their the company matches them. There with them,’ explains Global programmes around the world. is also a fundraising app to keep Marketing Manager for Acute ‘Since 1999, we have donated USD track of everyone’s activities and Wound Care and CSR Project donations in real time. Lead, Audrey Mioche. ‘Operation ‘Whenever I need a lift,’ says Smile carries out cleft lip and cleft Audrey, ‘I look through all the palate surgeries for children in quirky and innovative activities that developing countries, while Mölnlycke individuals and teams Debra is the charity for people have come up with to raise with funds for our global charities. the devastating skin disease I find them incredibly epidermolysis bullosa (EB). inspiring, and they really They represent two sides of build a sense our business: Surgical of team.’ Solutions and Wound Care.’ Mölnlycke’s 2019 Mölnlycke has partnered fundraising campaign ‘Let’s with Operation Smile for 15 change lives together’ was a years. In that time, we have competition, with prizes for the donated funds and surgical gloves largest team, most globally diverse worth around USD 5 million to team, the most successful event support the charity’s surgeries – and a special ‘Employee choice’ around the world. ‘People also award. ‘If only everybody could win,’ volunteer to join Operation Smile 900,000 to Debra plus more than says Audrey. ‘The winners will have missions’, explains Audrey. ‘Last USD 1 million worth of dressings the chance to take part in Operation year, four colleagues took part in a and other products,’ says Audrey. Smile missions in 2020. I’m really mission to India. They supported the ‘Our staff are also big supporters excited for them.’ children and their families from of their national chapters. We pre-surgery through to recovery participate in events, share our 48 From pre-surgery to recovery. Our colleagues supported the children and their families, and helped the medical teams with important administrative tasks. 49 Six fundraising highlights from around the world Mölnlycke’s got talent Teams of employees from across the globe send in videos showing off their talent. Location: Global Fika fundraiser UK employees enjoy Swedish coffee and cake every month. Location: UK HQ Sawadee cup Colleagues from our Thai factory give and receive drinks from the famous sawadee cup. Location: Thai factory Farmer’s market Malaysian colleagues buy Changing Lives US colleague whose son themed mugs. had a cleft palate, grows Location: and sells plants. Malaysian factory Location: US HQ Brave the shave Three brave colleagues shave their heads for sponsorship. Location: Australia HQ 50 Manisha Palsana, Heléne Österman, Sandra Van Bergen and Kristen Digiovanni from Mölnlycke took part in a mission to India. 51 Being market leaders comes with a responsibility, not just to our customers but to the wider world. 04 — Our progress – Nature We monitor and measure our environmental performance and strive to minimise our impact on the planet and its natural resources. 52 Our progress – Nature Minimising environmental impact Mölnlycke continuously works to prevent harm to the environment by adopting and implementing best practice through our supply chain. As a result of this, we have held global ISO 14001 certification for environmental management since 2002. We continuously monitor our environmental performance and compliance with relevant laws and regulations wherever we operate. system which promotes proactive change Our mindset and setting relevant objectives and monitor their outcome. We want our business to be conducted in a longterm sustainable way and we take Environmental responsibility for the environmental management impact and pollution caused by our activities, products and – our approach services. We contribute to sustainable ‘We want our Environmental development by: business to be management is a part of our corporate • our commitment to fulfilment conducted in a longmanagement system. At a global level, we of compliance term sustainable way develop strategies, policies and objectives obligations; • conducting our and we take responsibility to ensure the fulfilment of our compliance business activities in such a way as for the environmental obligations and stakeholder expectations. to minimise our environmental impact impact’ At a local level, our sites on the planet and its are responsible for complying natural resources; using with local environmental them as effectively as possible legislation, implementing our and working to minimise the global Sustainability policy and meeting use of substances and materials with their environmental objectives and targets. the potential to be harmful to humans or our At all of our manufacturing sites and certified offices environment; we have systems and procedures in place to monitor • securing our company’s future and business environmental performance. position in the best way by taking into account our stakeholders’ expectations and requirements; Climate impact • Energy consumption • striving for continuous improvement of our We are committed to reducing our climate impact. environmental performance, maintaining and To achieve this, we are taking steps to reduce the encouraging an environmental management 53 consumption of fossil fuels across our operations. and we can never endanger the health outcomes of At our production sites, we are acting to minimise patients only to minimise environmental impact. As an the energy required to run equipment as well example, the process we use to sterilise our products as to heat, cool and light our sites. We measure may lead to small increases in our use of chemicals and monitor our consumption of energy and our and electricity – but it is essential to guarantee patient CO2e emissions. Some of the processes required safety. This means that we have to be cautious about to produce high-quality, sterile medical and the primary purpose of our products when looking at surgical products are energy-intensive and we new chemicals, materials or products. are constantly evaluating how we can make these processes more energy efficient and make use of We assess new materials and chemicals to ensure renewable energy technology. that we comply with the regulations and directives that • Transport apply to our products, such as REACH – Registration, We are working to reduce air freight, to optimise Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, the fill rate of trucks and to optimise transport Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), and the routes and deliveries to our customers, so Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) fewer product transport journeys are needed. In directive. During product development we evaluate collaboration with our transportation partners, we the materials and products against these and measure the climate impact of the transport of other relevant environmental regulations, external raw materials to our factories, semi-finished and stakeholder expectations as well as towards our own finished goods sent between our factories – and internal objectives and demands. Our manufacturing finished goods going to our distribution centres. sites continuously monitor the amount of chemicals used on site in order to minimise their consumption. Water consumption We work continuously to reduce the amount of water we use for our production processes. We monitor and Our environmental measure the amount of water we use and where it management system comes from. Mölnlycke has established, documented, and Waste management implemented a process-based environmental We seek to use materials more efficiently. This not management system which is integrated with our only reduces pressure on natural resources but also quality management system. This system provides a reduces the amount of waste we generate at our structure for maintaining effectiveness, continuous production sites and the waste generated when the proactive change and improvement. Mölnlycke products and their packaging have been used. operates a high-level management system at a global level and, in addition, our operational sites also have Since the majority of our products are single use and local systems. must be burnt to prevent the spread of infections and bacteria, it is often not possible for our clients to recycle the used products. We are, however, committed to Environment – how we monitor and good recycling practices in our factories and have improve our performance targets and actions in place to reduce waste. To continuously improve our environmental We recommend our customers recycle packaging performance, we focus on: materials such as plastics, cardboard and corrugated board. We take responsibility for the electronic waste Corrective action and preventive action generated from our products and we make use of We drive continuous improvement through our national systems for the collection of waste electronics corrective and preventive action (CAPA) process. We and used batteries. We monitor and measure the conduct root cause investigations of any process issues, amount of waste we generate at our sites and the waste followed by corrective actions to resolve the issue and handling method used. prevent the problem from recurring. Materials and chemicals Accident investigation We actively work to remove potentially hazardous We conduct root cause investigations of all chemicals from our manufacturing processes and environment-related accidents and spills at our sites, our products and replace them with less harmful followed by corrective actions to resolve root causes chemicals and solutions. The primary purpose of our and prevent them from recurring. Experiences from products is to heal wounds, prevent medical conditions, accidents are shared between our sites through the or enable improved results in the operating room global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team. 54 Audits Reporting We carry out internal and external audits to verify Our environmental performance is monitored the effectiveness of our environmental management systematically and measured at our manufacturing system and our ability to fulfil compliance obligations. sites, distribution centres operated by us and our certified offices. The results are presented in a global report and Management review evaluated with regard to set objectives and targets. Mölnlycke’s management conducts reviews of our environmental performance regularly, starting at Training the executive level, throughout the organisation, to We have programmes of regular and ad-hoc the manufacturing sites. We document and escalate environmental training courses for employees, identified issues, as appropriate. subcontractors and visitors at our sites. In production Compliance and certification Environmental performance is regularly followed up Mölnlycke is globally certified as fulfilling ISO and discussed in our factories. For example, we conduct 14001:2015 standard requirements and, as such, inspections of all our manufacturing sites, we discuss complies with local regulations as well as relevant environmental issues in different forums, we measure global frameworks and international agreements. environment-related parameters and we ensure our We have policies, processes and procedures in place environmental protection equipment is sufficient. to assure legal compliance and these are regularly checked and updated when necessary. Environment – our objectives For 2019 we set ourselves six objectives: • No legal proceedings for environmental related • Reduce emissions from product transport issues; related carbon dioxide by working internally and with our external partners to drive efficiency • No accidents resulting in external environmental throughout the entire supply chain; pollution; • Strive to remove hazardous chemicals from all • Improve utilisation of working materials, areas of the business and replace them with thereby continuously reducing manufacturing chemicals less hazardous to the environment; waste, manufacturing emissions harmful to the atmosphere, water or land and use of • Get all relevant manufacturing sites certified for environmental resources; ISO 14001 by end 2019. 55 How we performed: CO2e emissions CO2e emissions from energy consumption (Scope 1 and 2) Our energy consumption in 2019 amounted to a total Relative CO2e emissions were 1.73 tonnes per produced of 97 939 tonnes CO2e compared to 91 792 tonnes in tonne of finished product, which is an increase of 7% 2018. This includes CO2e emissions generated at our compared to 1.62 tonnes in 2018. manufacturing sites from fuel combustion (scope 1) and emissions generated elsewhere to provide us with energy (scope 2). Total CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Relative CO2e emissions Energy CO2e CO2e source tonnes difference 2018 1.62 2019 2018 Tonnes % Natural gas 30 367 27 638 2 729 10 8 914 2019 1.73 Scope 1 Light fuel oil 10 505 1 591 18 Propane 1 272 1 136 136 12 Electricity 51 101 49 426 1 675 3 0 0,5 1 1,5 2 Scope 2 District heating 4 694 4 680 14 0 & steam CO2e emissions (tonnes) per produced tonne of finished product Total 97 939 91 792 6 147 7 The main contributors to the increase of CO2e Several initiatives were conducted to reduce emissions were two of our manufacturing sites in CO2e emissions from energy consumption at our Malaysia, where Biogel® gloves are produced. The manufacturing sites. For example, our factory in production processes for gloves are significantly more Karvina, Czech Republic decreased its CO2e emissions energy demanding than the processes required to (scope 2) by approximately 204 tonnes even though manufacture others of our products. As a result, 91% production increased. This was mainly due to activities of Mölnlycke’s total scope 1 emissions and 48% of the that reduced the base load on the building, such as the scope 2 emissions came from these two manufacturing upgrade of building management system, installing sites. The increases were mainly caused by higher UV film on window panes to reduce cooling needs and production volumes of 6% in Kulim and 11% in Batang replacing LED lighting. Kali. In Kulim, scope 1 emissions of natural gas increased by 2,871 tonnes and scope 2 emissions of Note: We calculate our Scope 2 emissions using a location-based method. We have introduced changes to the method in 2019, including updating our electricity went up by 861 tonnes. In Batang Kali, scope emission factors and correcting errors in calculations previously used at 1 emissions of light fuel oil increased by 1,601 tonnes and one of the manufacturing sites when converting electricity consumption scope 2 emissions of electricity went up by 476 tonnes. from kWh to GJ. Corrections have been made in 2019 and all previously reported data has been updated in this report. CO2e emissions from product-related transport (Scope 3) CO2e emissions from product-related transportation Total CO2e emissions (Scope 3) amounted to a total of 22 104 tonnes in 2019. This is similar to 2018, as were relative emissions Transport CO2e tonnes CO2e difference (tonnes CO2e per produced tonne of finished product). method 2019 2018 Tonnes % Air 889 1 001 -112 -11 Our target was to reduce CO2e emissions from productBoat 9 847 9 663 184 2 related transportation by 2% in relation to the produced Truck 11 367 11 460 114 -1 weight of finished goods. Total 22 104 22 124 -20 0 56 cont. CO2e emissions from product-related transport (Scope 3) Relative CO2e emissions In 2018-2019, we implemented a number of improvements at our distribution centres, which will reduce our transport-related emissions in the coming 2018 0.39 years. Examples are: • Change of transport routes: sending finished goods 2019 0.39 directly from our manufacturing sites in Mikkeli, Finland and Havirov, Czech Republic to our new distribution central in Malaysia instead of sending 0 0,5 1 goods via Waremme, Belgium. CO2e emissions (tonnes) per produced tonne of • Change of transport modality: switching from finished product truck to intermodal rail and motor transport between our distribution centres in Waremme, Belgium and Landskrona, Sweden. Since In 2019, we worked actively to reduce our use of air outbound logistics from distribution centres freight, which resulted in a 11% reduction of CO2e are not included in the measuring scope, these emissions compared to 2018. This was mainly due to results are not reflected in the reported results for the introduction of dual sourcing, in order to reduce environmental impact for 2019. risks relating to access to raw materials and the • Change of contract manufacturer: certain items unplanned need for air freight. However, introduction intended for the European market are now of new transport routes via dual sourcing may manufactured in Morocco, rather than Cambodia. occasionally contribute to increased CO2e emissions compared to single sourcing according to plan. Note: We measure transport in tonnes per km, and report on the transport of raw materials to our factories, semi-finished and finished goods sent between our factories – and finished goods going to our distribution centres. The CO2e reporting coefficients are mainly based on Greenhouse gas Protocol – Mobile Guide (03/21/05) v 1.3 and tank-to-wheel principles. Total CO2 emissions Relative CO2e emissions In total, we generated 120 043 tonnes of CO2e emissions from energy consumed at Mölnlyckeowned manufacturing sites and from transportation. 2018 0.66 0.95 0.39 Our relative CO2e emissions were 2.12 tonnes per produced tonne of finished product, which is 5.4% more than 2018 (2.01 tonnes). 2019 0.74 0.98 0.39 We will continue in 2020 to improve the methods used to measure our emissions and to focus our efforts on 0 0,5 1 1,5 2 2,5 the factors which contribute most to our CO2e emissions, both on a global and local level. New specific objectives, Scope 1 – at our sites Scope 2 – elsewhere to provide us with energy targets and improvement plans will be developed during Scope 3 – from bought transports the year in order to minimise our CO2e emissions. CO2e emissions (tonnes) generated per produced tonne of finished product 57 How we performed: Energy consumption Our total energy consumption 2019 was 1 120 TJ, We consumed 19.73 GJ of energy per tonne of finished compared to 1 038 TJ in 2018. No energy was sold. goods in 2019. Our relative energy consumption has This chart shows a breakdown by energy type. therefore increased by 8% since 2018. Total energy consumption (TJ) Relative energy consumption Total energy consumption (TJ) 2018 18.29 2019 19.73 0 5 10 15 20 Energy consumed in gigajoules per produced tonne of finished product Electricity (Scope 2) District heating (Scope 2) Steam (Scope 2) Natural gas (Scope 1) Propane (Scope 1) Light fuel oil (Scope 1) Natural gas 535 Electricity 369 Propane 20 District heating 24 Light fuel oil 132 Steam 39 Approximately 68% of Mölnlycke’s total energy Several initiatives were conducted to reduce the consumption from manufacturing in 2019 occurred at CO2e emissions from energy consumption at our two of our manufacturing sites in Malaysia: Kulim and manufacturing sites. One example is our factory in Batang Kali. The increase in production of our Biogel® Karvina, as described in previous section, which gloves at these sites was responsible for approximately decreased energy consumption by 1 333 GJ, even 95% of the total increase in energy consumption. In though production increased by 65%. Kulim, total energy consumption increased by 55 190 GJ and relative energy consumption by 4%. In Batang Note: In previous years, there were errors when converting electricity consumption from kWh to GJ at one of our sites. This has now been Kali, total energy consumption increased by 22 744 GJ corrected and all previously reported data has been updated in this report. and relative energy consumption by 5%. 58 How we performed: Water Our total water consumption in 2019 was 2 081 946 m3, manufacturing sites in Malaysia (Kulim and Batang an increase of 6% compared to 2018. This increase was Kali), which together account for 91% of our total mainly caused by the increased production at our two water consumption. Total water consumption Source m3 Difference 2019 2018 m3 % Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, 1 110 989 1 058 638 52 351 5 lakes and oceans Ground water 360 683 344 245 16 438 5 Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organisation 0 0 0 0 Waste water from another organisation 0 0 0 0 Municipal water supplies or other water utilities 610 274 569 589 40 685 7 Total 2 081 946 1 972 472 109 474 6 Relative water consumption Relative water consumption increased from 34.8 to 36.7 2018 34.8 m3 per produced tonne of finished product. No water sources were significantly affected by withdrawal for our operations. 2019 36.7 0 10 20 30 40 Water consumption (m3) per produced tonne of finished product 59 How we performed: Waste management In total, we generated 13 413 tons of waste in 2019. Our target is to reduce the total amount of waste Relative waste discharge (waste generated per generated at our sites by 2% and achieve a rate of produced tonne finished goods) 2019 was 236 kg, which recycling and energy recovery of 85%. is a 5% increase from 2018. Total waste generation Tonnes Difference Class Method used 2019 2018 Tonnes % Non-hazardous Composting 10 4 6 127% Destruction, including incineration without Non-hazardous 64 88 -25 -28% energy recovery Non-hazardous Incineration with energy recovery 4 895 4 861 34 1% Non-hazardous Landfill 2 323 2 230 93 4% Non-hazardous Recycling 3 715 3 699 16 0% Non-hazardous Reuse 738 683 55 8% Destruction, including incineration without Hazardous 76 65 11 17% energy recovery Hazardous Incineration with energy recovery 15 18 -2 -12% Hazardous Landfill 617 376 241 64% Hazardous Recycling 960 772 188 24% Total 13 413 12 795 618 5% Relative waste discharge 2018 0.23 2019 0.24 0 0,05 0,1 0,15 0,2 0,25 Waste discharge (tonnes) per produced tonne of finished product The figure for our relative waste generation increased discharge of 11%, which was mainly due to high by 5% in 2019 compared to 2018. Kulim increased waste percentage on new production lines introduced relative waste discharge by 28%, mainly due to a in 2019. In Mikkeli, the main contributors to the sludge dryer not functioning efficiently when removing increased relative waste generation were energy waste water from wet sludge (waste handling method: (incineration with energy recovery) and PE-paper waste landfill). Mikkeli saw an increase in relative waste (recycling). 60 Several initiatives were conducted to reduce the total went down by 27%, due to reduced liquid waste from a amount of waste at our manufacturing sites. specific production line. Additionally, one waste fraction which was previously sent to landfill, is now sent for Karvina saw a decrease in its relative waste discharge energy recovery instead. of 41%, thanks to an increase in production, while waste amounts remained the same. In Oldham, waste Note: We have corrected the figures for 2018, due to errors in the data 2018 38% 22% 40% reported previously. Approximately 1,000 tonnes of waste (waste handling method: landfill) have been added. 2019 40% 37% 23% 0 25 50 75 100 Recycling and reuse Composting and incineration with energy recovery Landfill and destruction In 2019 the rate of recycling, reuse, composting and energy recovery was 77% compared to 78% in 2018. 23% of all waste was sent to landfill or to be destroyed, compared to 22% in 2018. How we performed: Materials and chemicals The use of silver sulphate in some of our advanced So far, no other antimicrobial agent has proven to be wound care dressing products is accurately monitored as effective as silver, which is why we are continuing and processed in order to minimise its waste. When to use it in our products. We do, however, offer a wide this waste occur, most of the silver sulphate is recycled. range of other advanced wound care dressings without Silver is a well-known antimicrobial substance that silver which can be widely used. manages bioburden levels in the wound, reducing the risk of wound infection. The use of antimicrobial wound care products also helps to reduce the risk of inappropriate use of antibiotics. 61 Our progress – Nature Focus on the environment Five ways we’re working to reduce our impact For decades, we’ve been working to increase the sustainability of our solutions. This is both because it’s the right thing to do and to support our customers – many of whom, such as the Southern District Health Board in New Zealand, now calculate their carbon footprint. As their partners, we contribute to that. We are as transparent as we can be; sharing our sustainability approach and targets and being open about where we still need to make progress. A cross the business, there are numerous projects to minimise our impact on the environment. We put the spotlight on five things we’ve been doing to help make our solutions more sustainable in 2019. 1 Clean energy in manufacturing We installed 2,600 photovoltaic panels on the roof of our manufacturing facility in Kuala Ketil, Malaysia, which manufactures Biogel® gloves. The installation of the 914 kWp photovoltaic system is expected to generate approximately 23,400 MWh of clean energy over the long term – preventing the release of 16,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. 62 2 Recycled raw materials Key functionality in the Mölnlycke® Z-Flex™ Fluidized Heel Boot will be made of recycled polyurethane from Q1 2020. The air chamber in HeelBoot helps to prevent pressure ulcers by redistributing pressure from the heel and Achilles tendon to the whole lower leg. To help reduce our environmental impact, our product development teams worked with our polyurethane suppliers to test recycled alternatives. In user tests, the air chamber made of recycled polyurethane performs exactly as the air chamber made of non-recycled materials. 3 Smaller packing boxes In 2019, we introduced a new, smaller packing box for our procedure trays – bringing a number of environmental benefits. The new boxes, which are 80 mm lower than the old ones, take up less space, meaning each truck can carry on average 200 more trays than before, reducing our use of road transport. We’re also able to reduce our use of the chemical EtO during sterilisation – as 5% more boxes can be sterilised at one time. The new smaller boxes require less material to produce and mean less packaging waste for healthcare facilities. By the end of the year, around 30% of our trays were being packed in smaller boxes. 63 4 Recycling waste materials from manufacturing Small amounts of silver are used in the foam layer of our Ag dressings as a fast-acting anti-bacterial for acute burns and highly infected wounds. Since 2009, our factory in Wiscasset, Maine, has been reclaiming the silver waste from foam scrap. We recently identified how to capture the microscopic amounts of silver left in wastewater, preventing it from entering the sewage system and causing a hazard. Thanks to the project – a collaboration between Mölnlycke, the Wiscasset sewage department and the Maine Department of Environmental Protection – 100% of silver waste is now recycled. We were proud to receive the Governor’s Award for Environmental Excellence for Sustainability as a result. 5 Reducing freight volume through efficient logistics Every year, we ship 15,000 boxes of drapes and gowns from our manufacturing facility in Thailand to our factories in the Czech Republic by sea freight. Until this year, each 40-foot container carried 72 boxes. Our logistics teams knew there was wasted space in the containers – and identified a novel solution: using slip sheet technology to change the way boxes were loaded into the container. Each container can now transport a total of 120 boxes of drapes and gowns, reducing the number of containers we require. These are just a few examples of the numerous Zealand says, ‘We know Mölnlycke is careful to projects within Mölnlycke to reduce our environmental minimise waste in packaging: we don’t look very impact. As Jayne Ladbrook, Procurement Manager positively on suppliers who ship large cardboard boxes from the Southern District Health Board in New full of fresh air around the world.’ 64 05 — Our sales offices 65 Our sales offices Mölnlycke HQ Chile Estonia Mölnlycke Health Care AB Mölnlycke Health Care Chile Mölnlycke Health Care OÜ Box 13080 Av. Presidente Kennedy, Vabaõhumuuseumitee 4-67 SE-402 52 Gothenburg 4420-2 Oficina 5-114 EE-13522 Tallinn Sweden Vitacura Estonia ADDRESS Gamlestadsvägen 3C Santiago TEL +372 671 1520 TEL +46 31 722 30 00 Chile EMAIL info.ee@molnlycke.com EMAIL info.se@molnlycke.com EMAIL csc.chile@molnlycke.com WEBSITE www.molnlycke.com Finland China Mölnlycke Health Care Oy Australia Mölnlycke Health Care Pitäjänmäentie 14, 3rd floor Mölnlycke Health Care Pty Ltd Room 301, Building H FI-00380 Helsinki Level 4 Beijing Phoenix Plaza Finland 12 Narabang Way Belrose No. 5A Shuguangxili TEL +358 201 622 300 NSW 2085 Chaoyang District EMAIL info.fi@molnlycke.com Australia 100028 Beijing China TEL +61 2 897 721 44 France EMAIL info.au@molnlycke.com TEL +86 10 512 88 571 Laboratoire Pharmaceutique EMAIL info.cn@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Austria 13 Allée du Chateau Blanc Mölnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care GmbH 59290 Wasquehal Room 407 Wagenseilgasse 14 France No. 108 Yuyuan Road AT-1120 Vienna TEL +33 320 122 555 Jing’an District Austria EMAIL info.fr@molnlycke.com 200040 Shanghai TEL +43 1 278 85 42 China EMAIL info.at@molnlycke.com Germany TEL +86 10 512 88 571 EMAIL info.cn@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care GmbH Belgium Grafenberger Allee 297 Mölnlycke Health Care NV/SA DE-40237 Düsseldorf Croatia Berchemstadionstraat 72, bus 2 Germany Mölnlycke Health Care Adria d.o.o B-2600 Berchem (Antwerp) TEL +49 211 92 08 80 Trg brace Mazuranic 5 Belgium EMAIL info.de@molnlycke.com HR-10 000 Zagreb TEL +32 3 286 8950 Croatia EMAIL info.be@molnlycke.com Hong Kong TEL +385 91 488 88 22 EMAIL marta.cavlek@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Brazil 7/F, DCH Building Mölnlycke Health Care de Produtos 20 Kai Cheung Road Czech Republic Médicos Ltda. Kowloon Bay, Kowloon Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.o Rua Castilho, 392 Cj. 122 Hong Kong Hájkova 2747 / 22 Brooklin Paulista TEL +852 2300 2076 130 00 Prague 3 04568-010 São Paulo-SP CZ-Czech Republic Brazil TEL +420 221 890 517 Hungary TEL +55 11 3016 8900 Mölnlycke Health Care Kft EMAIL info.cz@molnlycke.com EMAIL vendas.curativos@molnlycke.com Dévai u. 26-28 III. Em. HU-1134 Budapest Denmark Canada Hungary Mölnlycke Health Care ApS Mölnlycke Health Care Inc. TEL +36 1 477 3080 Gydevang 33 2010 Winston Part Drive EMAIL info.hu@molnlycke.com DK-3450 Allerød Suite 100 Denmark Oakville Ontario L6H 5R7 Canada TEL +45 48 16 82 68 EMAIL info.dk@molnlycke.com TEL +1 905 829 1502 EMAIL info.ca@molnlycke.com 66 India Latvia Poland Mölnlycke Health Care India Pvt Ltd Mölnlycke Health Care OÜ Mölnlycke Health Care Polska Universal Business Centre Vabaõhumuuseumitee 4-67 Sp z.o.o 2nd floor, EE-13522 Tallinn ul. Przasnyska 6 B (Wejście C) II piȩtro Universal Trade Tower Estonia 01-756 Warszawa Sector 49, Gurgaon Sohna Road TEL +372 671 1520 Poland Gurgaon 122 018 EMAIL info.lv@molnlycke.com TEL +48 22 350 5280 Haryana EMAIL biuro@molnlycke.com India Lithuania TEL +91 124 469 6008 Mölnlycke Health Care UAB Portugal EMAIL contact.india@molnlycke.com J Galvydzio g. 3 Mölnlycke Health Care LDA 08236 Vilnius Rua Brito Capelo, n° 807 Ireland Lithuania 4450-068 Matosinhos, Oporto Mölnlycke Health Care TEL +370 5 274 5837 Portugal Unity House EMAIL info.lt@molnlycke.com TEL +351 808 919 960 Medlock Street EMAIL info.pt@molnlycke.com Oldham, Lancashire Malaysia OL1 3HS Mölnlycke Health Care Russia United Kingdom First Subang Mölnlycke Health Care TEL +44 161 621 3900 Suite 1108, South Tower, 10/3 B. Toulskaya Str EMAIL info.uk@molnlycke.com Jalan SS15/4G Moscow 115191 47500 Subang Jaya Russia Italy Selangor TEL +7 495 232 26 64 Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.l Malaysia EMAIL info.ru@molnlycke.com Via Marsala 40/C TEL +60 3 5612 2926 I-21013 Gallarate (VA) EMAIL info.my@molnlycke.com Saudi Arabia Italy Mölnlycke Health Care TEL +39 0331 714 011 Netherlands Jameel Square, Office 208 EMAIL csc.it@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care B.V. Tahliya Street van Deventerlaan 31-51 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Japan 3528 AG Utrecht TEL +966540931409 Mölnlycke Health Care K.K Netherlands EMAIL waleed.mohamed@molnlycke.com 4F Concieria Nishi-Shinjuku Tower’s TEL +31 76 521 9663 West EMAIL info.nl@molnlycke.com Singapore 6-20-7 Nishi-Shinjuku Mölnlycke Health Care Shinjuku-ku Asia-Pacific Pte Ltd New Zealand Tokyo 160-0023 298 Tiong Bahru Road Mölnlycke Health Care Pty Ltd Japan #07-03 Central Plaza Level 4 TEL +81 3 6914 5004 12 Narabang Way Belrose Singapore 168730 EMAIL info.jp@molnlycke.com NSW 2085 TEL +65 6438 4008 Australia EMAIL info.ap@molnlycke.com Korea TEL +61 2 897 721 44 Mölnlycke Health Care Korea Co. Ltd EMAIL info.nz@molnlycke.com Slovakia 2nd floor, Hansol Richville Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.o 46 Wiryeseong-daero Hájkova 2747 / 22 Norway Songpa-gu 130 00 Prague 3 Mölnlycke Health Care AS Seoul 05627 CZ-Czech Republic Postboks 6229 Etterstad Korea NO-0603 Oslo TEL +420 221 890 517 TEL +82 2 3789 1402 Norway EMAIL info.cz@molnlycke.com EMAIL info.kr@molnlycke.com TEL +47 22 70 63 70 EMAIL info.no@molnlycke.com 67 South Africa Switzerland United Kingdom Molnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care AG Mölnlycke Health Care Limited South Africa (Pty) Ltd Brandstrasse 24 Unity House MSI Business Park CH-8952 Schlieren Medlock Street 68 Rigger Road Switzerland Oldham, Lancashire OL1 3HS Spartan TEL +41 44 744 54 00 TEL +44 161 621 3900 South Africa 1619 EMAIL info.ch@molnlycke.com TEL +27 11 975 0633 USA EMAIL lurlene.battrick@molnlycke.com Thailand Mölnlycke Health Care US, LLC DKSH (Thailand) Limited 5550 Peachtree Parkway Spain Division of Mölnlycke Health Care Suite 500 Mölnlycke Health Care S.L. Mezzanine Floor Norcross, GA 30092 Avda. de la Vega, Edif. 3 2106 Sukhumvit Road USA 3a Planta Bangchak, Phrakhanong TEL +1 678 250 7900 ES-28108 Alcobendas (Madrid) Bangkok 10260 Spain Thailand TEL +34 91 484 13 20 TEL +66 2 220 9000 EMAIL info.spain@molnlycke.com United Arab Emirates Sweden Mölnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care AB Unit No 603 Box 13080 Jumeirah Business Center 1 SE-402 52 Gothenburg Plot No. G2 Sweden Jumeirah Lakes Towers TEL +46 31 722 30 00 Dubai, UAE EMAIL info.se@molnlycke.com TEL +971 4 554 7317 EMAIL info.ae@molnlycke.com 68 69 Above all, our job is to provide the best products, people, tools and training to continue the great work our customers do; to equip them to take healthcare to the next level and face the challenges of the future with confidence. Find out more at www.molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care AB, P.O. Box 13080, Gamlestadsvägen 3 C, SE-402 52 Göteborg, Sweden. Phone + 46 31 722 30 00 The Mölnlycke, name and logo are registered globally to one or more of the Mölnlycke Health Care Group of Companies. ©2020 Mölnlycke Health Care AB. All rights reserved.
