United Nations Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress Keurig Dr Pepper has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004. With this Communication on Progress, we reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. This update also serves as our communication on progress for the CEO Water Mandate. To download our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, visit https://www.keurigdrpepper.com/en/our-company/corporate-responsibility UNGC Principle Report Section HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Code of Conduct, support and respect Source Responsibly and Respect Human the protection of rights, page 18 (view here) internationally proclaimed human Keurig Dr Pepper Supplier Code of rights. Conduct (view here) 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR STANDARDS 3 Business should Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Code of Conduct uphold the freedom (view here) of association and effective recognition GRI Index (view here) of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Business should uphold the Keurig Dr Pepper: Supplier Code of elimination of all Conduct, Labor and Human Rights, page 2 forms of forced and (view here) compulsory labor. 5 Businesses should GRI Index (view here) uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6 Businesses should Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Code of Conduct, uphold the Our Workplace, page 8 (view here) elimination of discrimination GRI Index (view here) in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate 8 Businesses should Responsibility Report, Environment, page 7 undertake initiative to (view here) promote greater environmental GRI Index (view here) responsibility. 9 Businesses should 2019 Stakeholder Engagement (view here) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Code of Conduct, work against Our Customer, Suppliers & Competitors, corruption in all its Bribery, page 11 (view here) forms, including extortion and bribery. CEO Water Mandate REPORT SECTION Commitment Area 1 Direct Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Operations Environment, page 7 (view here) 2 Supply Chain Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Supply & Watershed Chain, page 18 (view here) Management Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Environment, page 7 (view here) 3 Collective Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Supply Action Chain, page 18 (view here) Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Environment, page 7 (view here) 2019 Stakeholder Engagement (view here) 4 Public Policy Keurig Water Policy (view here) 2019 Stakeholder Engagement (view here) 5 Community Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Engagement Communities, page 26 (view here) 2019 Stakeholder Engagement (view here) 6 Transparency Keurig Dr Pepper: 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, Environment, page 7 (view here) 2019 Stakeholder Engagement (view here) GRI Index (view here) 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Executive Letter We compile this report to reflect on our progress toward our corporate responsibility goals amidst an extraordinary global health crisis and as our nation tackles issues of equality and justice. During these tumultuous times we reaffirm our commitment to listening, learning, revising and responding to the changing needs of the many stakeholders across our value chain. Against this backdrop, we are proud of how We are also focused on reducing our carbon quickly and effectively our 26,000 employees footprint. New to our corporate responsibility have united to keep each other safe and healthy, platform this year is the unveiling of our deliver for our customers and consumers and science-based carbon-reduction goals. The new provide for our communities. Our response commitments have been validated by the Science reflects our commitment to harness the collective Based Targets initiative, ensuring that we are power of our business to make a positive impact doing our part to mitigate climate change by in the lives we touch. reducing carbon emissions across our value chain. In 2019, we introduced our new corporate During this past year we became inaugural responsibility platform, Drink Well. Do Good. members of Business For Inclusive Growth Through this platform we established multi(B4IG), a coalition of 40 leading international year goals and initiatives for our supply chain, companies committed to business action to the environment, health and wellbeing and advance human rights, build inclusive workplaces our communities. To meet these ambitious and strengthen inclusion across company value commitments, we designed a comprehensive and chains. We also launched our new Keurig Dr flexible program, allowing us to direct resources Pepper values, uniting all of our employees under toward opportunities that are meaningful to our one common culture and fostering a strong, planet, our business and our people. cohesive environment in which everyone operates with shared purpose and common goals. These The challenge of eliminating waste impacts us values are at the heart of everything we do and all—so we’re focused on ensuring our packaging were developed with significant employee input. is recycled and repurposed to remain in use and out of the environment. At the close of 2019, we We know that unpredictable challenges lie ahead, forged a partnership with the American Beverage which will require resiliency, adaptability and Association and industry peers to launch the Every empathy—all strengths of our Keurig Dr Pepper Bottle Back initiative, backed by a $100 million team. We will continue to prioritize societal industry-led investment in recycling infrastructure and environmental health alongside our own Bob Gamgort and consumer education. We will continue to business prosperity, and we will continue to Chairman & Chief Executive Officer invest in partnerships that amplify our individual pursue cross-industry partnerships with the belief actions, including our most recent effort as a that collective action positions us all for greater, founding sponsor and largest funder of The shared success. Recycling Partnership’s Polypropylene Recycling Coalition, an industry collaboration designed to increase and improve the recovery and recycling of Monique Oxender this valuable plastic in the U.S. Chief Sustainability Officer 2 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Contents Overview 2 • Executive Letter • About KDP • Goals ABOUT THIS REPORT • 2019 Progress Highlights Keurig Dr Pepper (KDP) has reported on its Corporate Responsibility (CR) program since the Company was formed in July 2018. This progress report focuses on the goals, programs and initiatives that encompass our key CR efforts for 2019. As part of our commitment to Environment 7 transparency, we have also included links and references to data and information not requiring an • Packaging update from our 2018 report. In addition, we have created a data appendix, which can be found at the end of this report. • Waste • Water Stewardship Unless otherwise noted, this report covers • Climate data and activities for calendar year 2019 from Keurig Dr Pepper’s wholly owned Supply Chain 18 operations, which are primarily located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The content • Responsible Supply Chain Management covers the parts of our business in which • Coffee we have operational control and does • Appliances not include joint ventures, franchised or • Partnerships outsourced operations, except where noted. Selected data and information on our global supply chain activities are also Health & Wellbeing 24 included. All data is as of December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated. Communities 26 To provide additional confidence in the data for our stakeholders, select • Corporate Philanthropy environmental data in this report has • Charitable Employee Engagement been independently verified by ERM • Community Relations Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS). The assured data points are flagged in the report and data appendix. To view the assurance statement, please visit here. Our Workplace 30 • Culture This report was created in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core • Health & Safety option. To view our GRI Index, please visit: www.keurigdrpepper.com/CR. • Governance & Compliance Data Appendix 37 3 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing About KDP Keurig Dr Pepper is a leading producer and distributor of hot and cold beverages with a vision to provide a beverage for every need, anytime and anywhere. We will continue to seek opportunities across our portfolio, operations and innovation priorities to ensure we are moving forward as a purposeful and responsible company in key areas of impact. 7th nearly 125+ 100+ 32 largest food and beverage company 26,000 owned, licensed and partner principal warehouses/ active production $11bn+ employees sites; 3 under in net sales in the U.S. brands distribution construction centers 4 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Corporate Responsibility Goals At Keurig Dr Pepper, our corporate responsibility commitments aim to ensure our beverages make a positive impact with every drink. Our broad portfolio of products and nearly 26,000 employees give us many opportunities to drive change and be a catalyst for good. We take a strategic approach to channeling our energy and resources into those opportunities where we can have the greatest impact. ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN PACKAGING Responsibly source 100% of our Make all K-Cup® pods in the U.S. recyclable by 2020 coffee and brewers by 2020 Convert 100% of packaging to be recyclable or Engage one million people in compostable by 2025 our supply chain to significantly improve Use 30% post-consumer recycled (PCR) content their lives by 2020 across our packaging portfolio by 2025 WASTE HEALTH & WELLBEING Send zero waste to landfill across our operations by 2025 Partner with leading organizations to accelerate portfolio innovation WATER and transparency Partner with our highest water-risk operating for health and wellbeing communities to replenish 100% of water used for our beverages in those communities by 2025 Improve our water use efficiency by 20% by 2025 COMMUNITIES CLIMATE Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources Provide play opportunities to by 2025 13.5 million children and Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% by 2030 families by 2020 Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select categories 15% NEW by 2030 GOALS Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to set a science-based target by 2024 5 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing 2019: A Year of Momentum 2019 was our first full year operating as one Keurig Dr Pepper team, and we delivered progress against all areas of focus within our corporate responsibility platform, Drink Well. Do Good. As we move through 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic is having an impact across all industries, and we are leveraging our flexibility and resilience to advance our work. Set new science-based emission reduction targets to help address climate change and build climate resilience Obtained 47% of our energy through renewable sources Reached recyclability for 87% of our packaging ENVIRONMENT Used 20% post-consumer recycled (PCR) content in our packaging Converted 100% of our pod manufacturing lines for recyclable K-Cup® pods Launched the industry-wide Every Bottle Back initiative with our beverage peers, led by the American Beverage Association, to ensure more PET plastic gets recycled and reused Achieved zero waste to landfill in our hot beverage network Responsibly sourced 65% of our coffee SUPPLY CHAIN Responsibly sourced 63% of our brewers Engaged over 783,000 people in our supply chain to improve their lives since 2014 HEALTH & Added 7 new low-calorie flavors and extensions to our beverage lines WELLBEING Exceeded our Communities goal by providing 14.2 million children and families with play opportunities since 2011 COMMUNITIES Funded $3.5 million in Let’s Play initiatives Funded $1 million in tuition grants OUR Established new KDP Values through a collaborative effort with employees WORKPLACE Joined B4IG, a new coalition of multinational companies supported by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), aimed at fighting inequalities in companies and global supply chains 6 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible 2019 Employee Source Trip in Brazil MAXIMIZING OUR EFFORT, MINIMIZING OUR FOOTPRINT Reduce, reuse, recycle, rethink. It takes all four— across all parts of our business—to move toward positive environmental impact. So we continue to look for new solutions and partnerships that accelerate change. This past year, we activated plans and projects to reduce our virgin plastic footprint, our emissions and our energy use. IN THIS SECTION: Packaging Waste Water Climate Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Packaging: Thinking Circular in All We Do Keurig Dr Pepper’s broad portfolio of products requires a range of packaging materials, and we are focused on enabling a second life for all of them. We know driving demand for pleased to report progress in all compatible with recycling processes recycled plastics by increasing our three areas during 2019. and helps to produce a higher quality use of PCR content is critical to end product, increasing its likelihood supporting the broader circular Design of reuse by KDP and others. economy, in addition to reducing We are continually innovating our our use of virgin plastic and our own To ensure our packaging is packaging designs and processes carbon footprint. optimally designed to be recovered to reduce our total material usage and incorporate materials that are by recyclers, we adhere to the Therefore, circular solutions are Association of Plastic Recyclers accepted for recycling and highly at the heart of our sustainable (APR) guidelines. We also use valued as PCR content, in order to packaging efforts, and we continue lifecycle assessment (LCA) tools to eliminate unnecessary plastics. For to focus on three priority areas: better understand the environmental example, in 2019, we transitioned innovative design, increased recovery performance of our packaging our A&W Root Beer bottles from and use of recycled materials. We’re throughout its lifecycle. dark to clear plastic, which is more KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 PACKAGING MIX (PERCENT) 26 25 22 11 5 4 3 2 2 PET Bottles Non-Refillable Glass Paper/ Bottles Cardboard Aluminum and Steel Polypropylene Polystyrene* Other Flex Refillable Packaging Glass Bottles * Polystyrene will be phased out by end of 2020 8 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing We continue to use a variety of launched our sustainable packaging sustainable packaging options engagement strategy in 2014, as an across our portfolio, such as initial investor in the Closed Loop recyclable aluminum cans. Deja Blue Infrastructure Fund and supporter was the first water brand available, of community projects led by The over 10 years ago, in recyclable Recycling Partnership in the U.S. aluminum cans, and many of our We are now mobilizing on materialnew brand partners like Adrenaline specific, regional collaborations Shoc® (A-Shoc®) and Limitless® with the same two leading are sold exclusively in recyclable environmental organizations, as aluminum can formats. well as the World Wildlife Fund, to provide expertise and rigorous In 2019, with 87% of our packaging reporting and to help direct now recyclable, we are well on our investments to where they can have way to achieving our goal of 100% the greatest impact. recyclable or compostable packaging by 2025. Earlier this year, we co-founded the Every Bottle Back initiative with our In addition, we continue to innovate industry peers, led by the American package-free options for consumers, Beverage Association, to ensure such as batch-brewed coffee our bottles stay out of our oceans and fountain drinks, that can be and waterways and become new consumed in reusable glassware or bottles or other everyday products. reusable glass bottles. In addition Together, we’re working to increase to significant volumes of refillable plastic bottle recycling through beverage servings, new options and a $100 million industry-funded investment in reuse infrastructure investment program. These funds are critical. In 2018, KDP invested will help recycling facilities across in LifeFuels, Inc., to accelerate the the U.S. make critical infrastructure commercialization of their reusable, improvements as well as increase portable drink maker. consumer education on “recycle right” behavior—all with the goal of Recovery getting more bottles back so they Through partnership and can be reused again and again. investment, KDP is working to In 2019, recover more of our packaging In July 2020, KDP announced our 87% materials and affect needed founding sponsorship and status change in recycling behaviors and of lead funder for The Recycling infrastructure in North America. We Partnership’s Polypropylene of our packaging was recyclable 9 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Recycling Coalition, dedicated Circular opportunities exist to increasing the quantity and across our business and via our quality of polypropylene plastic partnerships. For example, we recycling in the U.S. and solidifying incorporated recycled content its status as a standard curbside into materials for our Let’s Play recyclable material nationwide. playground builds for the first Similarly, and in order to optimize time in 2019—using an average plastics recycling in Canada, KDP of 46% recycled content in 11 co-founded the Circular Plastics new playgrounds. Task Force with several other companies. The Task Force aims to identify and trial concrete solutions to align market needs with the AMPLIFYING OUR IMPACT plastics recycling value chain and THROUGH COLLECTIVE ACTION to build a circular plastics economy in that country. Overall, KDP has committed over $30 million since 2014 in collaborative projects and partnerships in North America to encourage the circular economy. Recycled materials To build a more circular economy, we’re working to use more PCR content, including glass, metal, paper and plastic, in our packaging and products and items used to support our business and partnerships. In 2019, we manufactured our first brewers made in part with PCR plastic and are exploring ways to In 2019, increase its use across our brewer portfolio. In 2019, 20% of our overall 20% packaging was PCR, and we are investing in initiatives to increase the quantity and quality of recycling of our packaging as we march toward our goal to contained postuse 30% PCR content across our consumer recycled portfolio by 2025. content 10 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing GOING 100% IN ON RECYCLABLE years. Keurig Canada launched K-CUP® PODS their own program in January 2019 Making 100% of our K-Cup® pods with recycling partner Emterra recyclable continues to be a priority Environmental and has since made packaging goal. Our recyclable pods it available across the country. In are made of #5 polypropylene, a 2019, both programs combined kept material that is high-value, versatile over 1.4M pounds of material out of and currently in high demand as landfills. a recycled material. We hit that milestone in Canada in 2018, and we’re on track to meet this goal in the U.S. by the end of this year. All of our packaging lines across our manufacturing network in the U.S. and Canada are now ready to produce the new recyclable K-Cup® pods. This required transforming more than 100 diverse packaging lines to properly manage the newly designed pods. We also worked with our raw material partners to support them in making the appropriate changes to their products. As we near the 100% transition for all pods, our work carries on. We will continue to work with recyclers and communities to improve sortation and processing for polypropylene so it can be reused in future packaging. GIVING OUR PODS NEW PURPOSE K-Cycle™ (formerly Grounds to Grow On®), our workplace recycling service for customers and our own facilities, grew significantly in 2019. Renewed focus and education around the program led to an almost 300% increase in volume in the last four 11 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Waste: Zeroing In On Our Goal In 2019, we achieved zero waste in our hot beverage manufacturing network, enabled by projects including recycling our burlap coffee bean bags and composting coffee grounds. In 2019, Across our hot and cold beverage production sites, we kept 88% of our total waste out of landfills. We are on track to meet our goal of zero waste to landfill by 2025, while building a zero-waste culture across our business. 88% of total waste was kept out of landfills SUSTAINABLE FROM THE START IN SPARTANBURG In 2019, we continued construction on our new Spartanburg, South Carolina, K-Cup® pod manufacturing site, which will be our first site designed from the ground up for zero waste and increased energy efficiency. In July 2020, the Spartanburg facility was named the largest industrial manufacturing facility certified under LEEDv4 BD+C in North America. The highly automated production process for all of our manufacturing lines at the site was designed to eliminate waste. Specific separation of materials for compost, recycling and reuse ensures all materials are put to highest value use. The plant will have a best-in-class waste baler for paper and cardboard, and will use shipping trays made from recycled plastic that will be returned to our supplier for Our Sustainability Room reuse, completely in the new Spartanburg eliminating that facility moves all waste cardboard waste from production to stream. be recycled, reused, repurposed or converted to energy. 12 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing SHINING A LIGHT ON ALL-IN IN ALLENTOWN SUSTAINABILITY AT THE STAR KDP’s new Allentown cold beverage At KDP’s new Texas headquarters production facility is being designed under construction in a growing area and built to enable product benefits just north of Dallas, our sustainability like recyclability and significant commitments will be brought to operational efficiencies. A few key life for employees and visitors as features minimize the impact of we implement actions aimed transporting materials to the site. at reducing the building’s Bottle preforms will be delivered environmental impact. The from a local supplier and blown into facility is targeting a highbottles on-site, reducing the volume level LEED certification (for of shipments otherwise required. A Commercial Interiors) and rail spur is being added for access to will integrate recycled the site so that in the future, other material, including materials can be shipped in by rail, a recycled KDP packaging, lower emissions transportation mode into furniture and than over the road. In addition, the surfaces throughout site has access to public transport the space. Inspirational services, so employees will have a signage and branding lower carbon footprint option for their in all areas of the new commutes. facility will inform and educate our teams and guests about our sustainability journey and commitments. KDP’s new Texas headquarters is targeting a high LEED certification and will integrate recycled material, including recycled KDP packaging, into furniture and surfaces throughout the space. 13 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Water Stewardship: Making Every Drop Matter Water is a precious natural resource that is the essence of our business. Because it’s the primary ingredient in most of our beverages, we have a particular responsibility to be good stewards of water use in our operations and in the communities in which we operate. In 2019, we set a new stewardship direction for KDP. This started with a new corporate water policy, stronger governance processes and enhanced transparency, including reporting to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Water. These reports are publicly available here and include additional detail on water-related risks and opportunities. SETTING A HIGH BAR FOR HIGH-RISK COMMUNITIES To refine our understanding of challenges for our high water-risk sites, we are assessing the water management and operation of each site in the context of the surrounding watershed, the local water issues and other local entities’ interest and perspective on those issues. We’re also working with The Nature Conservancy to ensure our efforts in these communities are comprehensive, grounded in scientific understanding and locally relevant. Since 2014, we have replenished 73% of the water used for our coffee beverages and for cold beverage production in our highest water-risk manufacturing locations. 14 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing TAKING VITAL STEPS FOR A VITAL RESOURCE In 2019, we chartered a water optimization team to create an even OUR WATER FOOTPRINT greater appreciation for water use in our business and to develop comprehensive Green Water Footprint = volume of rainwater water management practices that consumed (e.g., for growing crops) improve our usage and performance. The team prioritized operating sites to assess Blue Water Footprint = volume of surface or three key areas: water reduction and groundwater consumed (e.g., irrigation water for crops, efficiency, stewardship in the surrounding or process water in operations) communities in which we operate, and focused attention on emerging trends and issues for water quality. BLUE WATER: 279 Billion Liters We continue to track our water usage ratio and establish visibility of this important metric. Overall, in 2019, we improved our water use efficiency by 4.4% from our baseline. Some of our bottling plants did particularly well, achieving water use ratios (liters of water required to make a liter of product) below 1.60 for the year. OUR WATER FOOTPRINT AND RISK ASSESSMENT GREEN WATER : 1,805 Billion Liters To understand the different causes and magnitude of our water impacts, we BREAKDOWN ACROSS VALUE CHAIN assess our water footprint across our full value chain. The largest portion of our STAGE GREEN BLUE footprint comes from indirect water use Raw materials 97% 91% consumed when growing agricultural raw materials. We analyzed the water risk Processing 0% 2% for our top two raw materials—coffee Packaging 3% 1% and corn—across quantity, quality and Photo by Oscar Energy 0% 5% climatic trends. We’re managing these Leiva/Silverlight Use/Consumption 0% 1% for Catholic Relief risks through our Supplier Code of Conduct, product-specific standards and Services. Total 100% 100% water stewardship projects within our supply chain. 15 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Climate: New Goals, New Momentum We’re pushing harder than ever to tackle climate change and build the resilience of our business and supply chain. In 2019, we laid the groundwork for important new climate goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the 2018 baseline developed for our newly merged company. This foundation included a corporate policy, governance structures and greater transparency, including reporting to CDP Climate. That report is publicly available here and includes additional detail on climate-related risks and opportunities. WE COMMIT TO: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 Reduce absolute Scope 3 Ensure our suppliers GHG emissions by emissions in select categories by and bottlers representing 30% 15% 50% by 2030. by 2030. of our emissions will have Science Based Targets by 2024. These targets have been approved by the Science Based ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN Targets initiative (SBTi) and are in line with the reductions that are required to meet the Paris Agreement on climate change goal of keeping global warming below 2 degrees Celsius. Our new climate goals SOURCING PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION USE/CONSUMPTION POST-CONSUMER provide a clear path for us to Investing in Reducing our CO2 Replacing older Improving the energy Using 30% postreduce our share of greenhouse agricultural research emissions from our vehicles in our fleet efficiency of our consumer recycled gas emissions through to help produce operations. We exceeded with newer, more brewer systems by content across our continuation of existing efforts climate-resilient our 2019 energy reduction efficient models, shipping all brewers packaging portfolio and the development of new coffee varietals, as targets in Mexico and while exploring and with an Auto-Off by 2025 to reduce focus areas, such as packaging a founding member improved roasting energy evaluating new feature already our carbon emissions improvements and value chain of World Coffee intensity by 2% across ways to deliver to enabled, using 75% related to virgin engagement. Research. our coffee roasting our customers with less energy than material production. operations, contributing fewer emissions. before, as well as to a lifetime roasting beginning to use more energy efficiency efficient heating improvement of 32%. technology. 16 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing DRIVING DOWN FLEET EMISSIONS To ensure our beverages are delivered where and when our customers want them, we have more than 7,500 TAKING STEPS TO REDUCE OUR GHG FOOTPRINT vehicles in the U.S. and Mexico and Our footprint outlines the emissions impacts of our full value chain. over 300 in Canada. We continue to explore new ways to improve our fleet’s efficiency, while continuing to deliver what our customers need. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, 2019 (Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) In 2019, we replaced older vehicles with more efficient ones. This is just the beginning of the potential for SCOPE 1 our fleet’s efficiency. We continue to reduce miles traveled by our fleet, 268,712* 3% starting with over 30,000 miles Emissions eliminated in 2019. from direct operations SCOPE 1 + In Mexico, we converted 90% of our SCOPE 3 SCOPE 2 car fleet to liquefied petroleum gas. 8,749,723 This change in fuel type resulted 366,057 Emissions from in an estimated 23% reduction in SCOPE 2 all activities greenhouse gases and 85% reduction 1% outside of direct in carbon monoxide for this fleet. 97,345* control (i.e., Emissions suppliers, thirdIn 2019, we completed switching to from party transport, electric forklifts in our Jacksonville, purchased appliance usage) Florida, regional distribution center electricity (RDC), following our 2018 conversion (marketof our Dallas RDC. In total, in 2019, based) we procured 12 electric forklifts and 96% will continue to evaluate adding more to our facilities. We also converted four propane scrubbers to electric scrubbers. *Data assured by ERM CVS. ERM CVS additionally assured the emissions figures for location-based Scope 2 and employee commuting within Scope 3. See Data Appendix for full detail. See full assurance statement here. 17 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Supply Chain: Good from the Start RESPONSIBLY RESILIENT, Photo by SUSTAINABLY STRONG Root Capital Keurig Dr Pepper is committed to addressing social, environmental and business challenges throughout our complex and varied global supply chains—from farms producing coffee, corn and apples to the facilities that process those raw materials and the factories that build our appliances. Responsible Supply IN THIS SECTION: Chain Management Coffee Appliances Partnerships 18 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Responsible Supply Chain Management Over the past year, we rolled out the new KDP Supplier Code of Conduct to our suppliers and trained our procurement team on its requirements and their key role in implementing it throughout our supply chains. The Code sets out universal requirements applicable to suppliers from any part of the world and for any product supplied to KDP. The Supplier Code of Conduct is KDP’s Supplier Performance reviewed and approved annually Management (SPM) program creates by KDP’s Executive Policy Review focused and impactful category Group (EPRG). This group ensures strategies, manages and improves consistency across and integration supplier performance and proactively of all KDP corporate policies and assesses and mitigates supplier risk. is made up of KDP’s Chief Legal The program scope includes Tier 1 and Officer, Chief Human Resources selected Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers. Officer, Chief Supply Chain Officer, To administer the SPM program, SVP Corporate Controller and cross-functional teams coordinate Senior Corporate Counsel. to ensure strategies are aligned and business requirements are met. Social For our most important supply and environmental considerations are chains, we go further by specifying an important part of this program product-specific standards such and are integrated into the tools and as independent raw material processes used. Suppliers undergo certifications and manufacturing performance reviews against our SPM standards. The intent behind this scorecard, our tool that measures approach is to not only ensure a set indicators such as quality, service of clear expectations applying to all and engagement, cost transparency, KDP’s suppliers, but also recognize supply chain sustainability and that the diversity of our supply innovation. This work ensures that chains demands more detailed KDP is playing a proactive role where and tailored standards. Last year its influence is strongest—with our we also developed a rigorous set direct suppliers. of requirements for acceptance of product-specific standards across KDP’s supply chains. 19 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Coffee Keurig Dr Pepper is committed to finding holistic solutions to ensure the long-term success of coffee. As one of the largest global purchasers of coffee, we embrace both our ability and responsibility to support farmers throughout our supply chain in partnership with industry associations, governments and NGOs. RESPONSIBLY SOURCED COFFEE We’ve continued to work closely KDP has high standards for social with our suppliers over the past and environmental practices at year, and our efforts and impact the farm level—which is where our around responsible coffee sourcing product-specific standards come continue to grow. into play. To us, responsibly sourced coffee is coffee grown and sold in Today, the majority of the coffee adherence to a credible, sustainable we purchase is responsibly sourced, sourcing program that aligns with and we pay a corresponding our KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. premium over the base commodity To date, these programs have price. In fact, in 2019, for the tenth included Fairtrade International, consecutive year, Keurig Dr Pepper Fair Trade USA, Rainforest was named the largest buyer of Fair Alliance and Utz. We recognize the Trade coffee in the world, through investments farmers have already purchases for our own brands made in committing to sustainable and our partner brands. These production via these programs, purchasing practices, coupled with which is why we have chosen to our farmer support programs, help partner with them. build sustainable supply chains for our business. 65% 97% responsibly sourced coffee traceable to exporter, mill, farm group or farm level $96M paid as Fair Trade community development premiums since 2001 20 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing FARMER SUPPORT Our social impact investment for coffee farmers and their critical advisory services to the We have a deep-rooted commitment program has existed since 2003 and communities—from climate change organizations that small farmers rely to engaging with our coffee supply has invested more than $63 million to income diversification. on to market and sell their coffee to chain on complex, long-term issues toward improving the livelihoods of buyers like KDP. impacting farming families, such as coffee farmers. In 2019, we managed Our work with Blue Harvest has low productivity, climate change, a portfolio of 17 investment projects contributed to efforts that protect As a co-founder of World Coffee price volatility, food insecurity and globally. and restore water sources, improve Research (WCR), we have lack of access to credit and farming coffee productivity with waterinvested in agricultural research materials. We’re on track to meet No single company working alone smart practices, increase market and development to make coffee our 2020 goal of engaging one can solve the complex challenges access and strengthen local water farming more profitable and resilient million people in our supply chain to facing the global coffee sector. KDP resource management in Central to a changing climate. This work not significantly improve their lives. Since has been recognized in the industry America. only focuses on developing future 2014, we have positively impacted as a forward-thinking leader that coffee tree varietals, but also on drives for impact and collaboration, Our partnership with Root Capital, ensuring they get into the hands of more than 783,000 people. seeking out innovative partnerships a nonprofit agricultural lender, the farmers that need them. to address the greatest challenges supports financial training and Fortifying Farmers Building Capacity Safeguarding Coffee’s Future IMPACT OF BLUE HARVEST AND KDP IMPACT OF ROOT CAPITAL AND KDP1 IMPACT OF WORLD COFFEE (SINCE 2014) (SINCE 2017) RESEARCH AND KDP (IN 2019) 3,111 farmers trained 170 co-ops received loans and/or financial training— representing 310,494 farmers Completed the first production harvest of climate resilient coffee 78,863 people have improved varieties water quality 62 co-ops received a high-additionality loan, meaning no other financier would have made the loan Completed breakthrough research on 119,997,501 liters of water saved through water on the same terms coffee leaf rust genetics critical for the long-term fight against crop damage systems repair and new water 26 co-ops showed significant improvement in their financial management capacities, which requires major changes Expanded the global network of farmer field trials dedicated to stewardship practices to their usual way of operating. As a result, they are now improving farmer profitability to 294 (roughly 48 Olympicbetter positioned to be profitable and resilient trials in 15 countries sized swimming pools) 31 co-ops have implemented digital data management systems to support decision-making 1 A  ll data points are related to the Feed the Future Partnership for Sustainable Coffee, which was co-funded by KDP and the 21 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT U.S. Agency for International Development. Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Appliances When it comes to sourcing our Keurig brewers, we work closely with suppliers to meet our standards and ensure we can seamlessly and continuously deliver our products to customers and consumers. Our brewers are made of various materials and components from all over the world and are manufactured in China, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia and Thailand. We’ve expanded our manufacturing locations in the past few years to support innovation and ensure continuous supply as market conditions shift. RESPONSIBLY SOURCED addition of new suppliers to support BREWERS product innovation and enable the We are members of the Responsible accelerated geo-diversification of Business Alliance (RBA), the world’s our supply base. We will continue largest industry coalition focused to strive for responsibly sourced on corporate social responsibility in brewers, ensuring coverage of both global supply chains. RBA members new and existing suppliers over time. commit to a common code of social, environmental and ethical industry We are also committed to the ethical standards. We assess suppliers sourcing of conflict minerals in our against the RBA Code of Conduct products and conduct annual due using the RBA’s Validated Assessment diligence in our supply chain, with the Program (VAP), and we work closely aspiration to source from conflict-free with them to make improvements sources. These measures and results as needed. For more information are available on our website and in on our methodology, please see the our SEC filings. 2018 Drink Well. Do Good. corporate responsibility report. At the end of 2019, we considered 63% of our in-scope suppliers to be At the end of 2019, responsibly sourced and continued to make progress toward our goal of 100% of in-scope suppliers considered responsibly sourced by 63% 2020. As we look ahead to the end of our in-scope of this year, our journey does not suppliers are end. Our dynamic brewer supply responsibly sourced chain has evolved significantly in the past several years, with the 22 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Partnerships At KDP, we understand that meaningful change can only happen through the power of collaboration. That’s why we’re committed to achieving greater impact via our partner ecosystem. B4IG BUSINESS FOR INCLUSIVE SUSTAINABLE COFFEE SUSTAINABLE FOOD LAB GROWTH (B4IG) CHALLENGE (SCC) (SFL) In 2019, we joined B4IG, a new KDP is a founding partner and KDP holds a board seat on coalition of multinational companies a member of the SCC advisory this nonprofit organization coordinated by the OECD and council. In 2019, KDP and other that is helping to improve launched at the G7 Leaders’ Summit SCC members contributed to mainstream food systems in Biarritz, France. The coalition aims the Plant Trees Save Coffee worldwide. Through our SFL to accelerate concrete projects to campaign. The campaign membership, we engage with fight inequalities in companies and supports coffee tree renovation peer companies to measure global supply chains. We are excited and reforestation on coffee sustainability performance that KDP’s social impact investment farms and meaningfully engaged and promote climate change project—the Partnership for both coffee consumers and KDP resilience. Sustainable Coffee implemented by employees to build awareness Root Capital—was one of the projects and support for the cause. chosen to be a part of this accelerator work. We look forward to working with our global colleagues to drive and implement meaningful change in these critical areas. 23 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Health & Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives POURING OUR EFFORTS INTO HEALTHY OPTIONS As consumers hit the beverage aisle, they’re moving toward selecting lowor zero-calorie beverage choices. And we’re moving right along with them. In 2019, we expanded our portfolio with seven new low-calorie flavors and variety extensions to our lines and continued our work with industry partners to provide consumers choice and help them balance what they eat and drink. 24 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Health & Wellbeing QUENCHING A THIRST FOR added more flavors to our popular Non-Communicable Diseases and HEALTHY BEVERAGES enhanced water line, Bai®, which has demonstrate specific recommended Our portfolio is well balanced, with antioxidants and just five calories, actions around clear labeling, access to beverages with less sugar as well as introducing new Bai® responsible marketing and reduction and smaller proportions. We currently lemonade with just one gram of of added sugars. have a wide range of beverage sugar. And we added Adrenaline options, with around 75 ready-toShoc™ energy drink, which has zero We continue to be active partners drink beverages with zero calories. In sugar and calories and no artificial with the American Beverage fact, most of our full-calorie beverage colors or chemical preservatives, to Association and the Alliance for a varieties offer a zero-, lowor midour partner portfolio. Healthier Generation on the Balance calorie option, and we continue to Calories Initiative (BCI). This voluntary offer smaller portion sizes of our We also introduced three new effort is on track to meet a goal of most popular drinks. Mott’s 100% juice varieties with no reducing beverage calories consumed sugar added and converted Mr. and per person nationally by 20% by 2025. But we continue to do even more to Mrs. T® mixers to natural, non-GMO KDP efforts include overall product provide our consumers with unique sugar cane instead of high fructose transparency with front-of-pack and refreshing beverages that corn syrup. calorie labeling, as well as ingredient support their personal wellness and descriptions, calorie information and nutritional goals. Our research & development teams helpful comparisons to other offerings are continuously working to develop on our website. In 2019, we expanded options within new product innovations with reduced our CORE® Hydration line, including sugar or sugar alternatives. This year, MORE THAN RESPONSIBLE broadening varieties in our fruitthe team made exciting progress MARKETING infused CORE® Organics beverages, with introducing new zero-calorie KDP is committed to advertising our which have 10 calories or less, one and plant-based sweeteners into our products in a responsible and truthful or zero grams of sugar and added portfolio of ingredients, providing manner. While we already had strict zinc for daily immunity support. We more options to complement a advertising standards, in 2019, we balanced lifestyle with no compromise formally joined the Children’s Food in flavor. and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) and pledged to not advertise PARTNERS FOR PROGRESS products to children under 12 unless Our health and wellness efforts they meet CFBAI’s nutrition criteria. Around are informed by the World Health Going a step further, in 2019, KDP did 75 ready-to-drink Organization’s Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of not advertise any products to children, regardless of their nutrition profile. beverages with zero calories 25 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors GIVING BACK, IMPROVING LIVES KDP is committed to enriching our communities through philanthropic efforts, community relations and charitable employee engagement. In 2019, we exceeded our goal to provide play opportunities to 13.5 million children by more than 5%, through building new playgrounds, awarding playground construction grants, and providing sports equipment grants to youth-serving organizations. Corporate Charitable Employee Community IN THIS SECTION: Philanthropy Engagement Relations 26 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Corporate Philanthropy Again named as an honoree to the Points KDP’s philanthropic efforts allow us to make a difference in key areas of Light The Civic 50, important to our business, while enriching our communities and recognizing us as one of amplifying the charitable interests of our employees. the 50 most communityminded companies ACTIVE KIDS, HEALTHIER brand-new sports equipment in America COMMUNITIES to 242 deserving youth-serving KDP’s Let’s Play initiative continued organizations in 2019. From to positively impact children and discretionary youth sports grants to families across North America. In fun field day events, we positively 2019, we built 12 playgrounds and impacted the lives of more than 1.1 offered 61 playground construction million kids during the year. grants in partnership with national nonprofit KABOOM! Together For the third year in a row, with Keep America Beautiful, 10 high schools across the nation of those playgrounds incorporated participated in the Let’s Play recycling bins and recycling-themed High School Equipment Makeover imagery, which was a new aspect Challenge. Central High School in of our program. The aim is to build Tulsa, Oklahoma, won the grand awareness among children about prize and received a $100,000 grant the importance of taking care of the for equipment and uniforms needed environment. to re-introduce girls’ volleyball and soccer. The grant also funded In partnership with Good Sports, upgraded equipment for several a national nonprofit, we awarded other sports teams, the physical more than $1.3 million worth of education program, weight room and athletic training room. 2019 IMPACT SNAPSHOT LIFETIME* SNAPSHOT 1.3M+ kids served 14.2M+ kids served Provided play 12 playspaces built 103 playspaces built opportunities to 252 grants awarded 4,528 grants awarded Invested 14.2M $38.5M+ $3.5M+ invested $38.5M+ invested children and families *2011-2019 in Let’s Play since 2011 27 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Charitable Employee Engagement Our employees are our best ambassadors, and we want to provide them with opportunities to support the organizations they love. In 2019, we launched two new employee engagement programs, Dollars for Doers and Engage for Good. DOLLARS FOR DOERS In September 2019, KDP launched our Dollars for Doers volunteer program, which encourages employees to support their communities by volunteering, allowing them to earn financial grants for nonprofits of their choice. Employees can earn grants of $100 for every 10 hours volunteered, up to 30 hours per year. ENGAGE FOR GOOD In 2019, KDP supported 736 nonprofit organizations through Engage for Good, our company match program. Of those, 36% aligned with key KDP focus areas of health and wellbeing, environment and disaster relief. KDP employees across 118 locations participated. 28 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Community Relations KDP supports families and communities in need, as well as causes in our hometowns. In 2019, we contributed to a variety of worthy organizations and causes and, in early 2020, we rallied our organization around supporting frontline hospital workers during the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. SUPPORTING STUDENTS IN NEED CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES For 11 years running, the Dr Pepper From tropical depressions and Tuition Giveaway Program has tornadoes to hurricanes and water awarded millions of dollars to crises, KDP has been there to deserving students. Students submit provide relief to areas impacted videos explaining how the award by disasters in our hometowns. In would help them make the world a 2019, we provided both hot and As this report is being issued, the COVID-19 pandemic continues better place. In 2019, we awarded $1 cold beverages to the communities million in tuition to students chosen affected by Tropical Storm Imelda, to impact our communities. When the outbreak began, we to participate in the giveaway during Hurricane Dorian, Tropical Storm created our Fueling the Frontline program to support the the College Football Conference Nestor and the Newark Water Crisis, healthcare heroes working on the frontlines. Since the beginning Championship. to name a few. of the pandemic, Fueling the Frontline has donated more than 3,000,000 cups of coffee and cold beverages to 438 hospitals across 35 states, providing 3,400 breakrooms with coffee stations. MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN MEXICO KDP strives to positively impact communities around the world. In 2019, Grupo Peñafiel—our Keurig Dr Pepper operations in Mexico—was recognized by several organizations for their outstanding community support efforts across the country. 2019 Distinctive ESR® (Socially Responsible Company) Award (14 Consecutive Years) Ranked one of the Best Socially Responsible Companies in Mexico by TOPS México 29 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Our Workplace: Empowering Our People ENGAGING EMPLOYEES FOR A BETTER WORKPLACE One of Keurig Dr Pepper’s greatest strengths is our team of nearly 26,000 employees across the globe, who are our best ambassadors and amplify our positive impact in the communities we serve. At KDP, we are building a culture that is our competitive advantage—one that is growth-focused, collaborative, innovative, nimble, accountable and inclusive. IN THIS SECTION: Culture Health & Safety Governance & Compliance 30 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Culture EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT that our employees have shown in Engagement is bringing your whole our first two years as a company, heart and mind to work. It’s the and we continue to strive to improve individual commitment each of engagement through their feedback. us has to the organization. We take every opportunity to gather The survey data is a basis for our employee feedback and, even more leaders and managers to have open, importantly, use that feedback honest conversations with their to make our workplace better. teams about results and to work We utilize regular touchpoints of together to take action to build communication to ensure employees’ an even better work environment. needs and opinions are being heard. This connection not only boosts engagement—it brings forward new After joining two great companies thoughts and ideas that make KDP to form Keurig Dr Pepper in July a better company. Everyone’s voice 2018, we conducted our first matters. employee engagement survey as a combined company in early 2019, CRAFTING EMPLOYEE-DRIVEN inviting all employees to share CORE VALUES their feedback on a wide array of In 2019, we invited all KDP employees elements related to culture and work to participate in creating our KDP environment. We had 65% of our core values to ensure those values employees respond to the survey, reflect both who we are as KDP and which provided a starting point for who we aspire to be. turning information into action. Overall, the data defined 60% of Through surveys, focus groups our employees as engaged. In our and discussions, team members second survey, conducted early in shared what attributes are most 2020, we increased our participation meaningful to them. From their to 85%, and our overall engagement direct feedback and words, we increased slightly to 62%. Our created our new values, which external survey partner benchmarks we’ve brought to life in our facilities, the national average engagement processes, recognition programs and at 65%. We are proud of the communications. resilience, capabilities and passion 31 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Our values define how we work DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION together and are the cornerstone At KDP, we’re dedicated to building of our culture. They are a unifying and fostering a diverse team and force for our team and will guide our an inclusive workplace. We believe actions, each and every day. that every team member has an important role to play and an important voice to share. We know KDP CORE VALUES that when all of these voices are welcomed and heard, we are able to achieve better TEAM FIRST outcomes. Consistent with Win together. Be the kind our newly created values, of person you want on we assume good intent your team. always and aim to tackle issues, share opinions, DELIVER BIG listen and disagree in Achieve our commitments. a respectful, fair and Then push beyond the fearless way. expected. In 2019, we focused on building the foundation THINK BOLD of our culture as a Challenge the usual. Dare newly formed KDP to to try something new. help us move toward our vision for a more diverse and inclusive workplace. BE FEARLESS We benchmarked our AND FAIR workforce demographics Tell the truth with and our employee-focused courage. Listen and act activities, both internally and with respect. externally. This work helped EMPLOYER AWARDS 32 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing determine priority focus areas, including demonstrating leadership commitment, fostering connection and community, enhancing talent acquisition processes and augmenting talent development programs. In 2020, we are taking several specific steps and making organizational commitments to amplify support for diversity and inclusion. These include the formation of a Diversity & Inclusion Leadership Team comprised of committed leaders from across KDP to help set priorities and lead two-way dialogue throughout the organization, launching Employee Resource Groups, and incorporating professional external advice and a broad range of employee perspectives every step of the way. LIVE WELL AT KDP KDP offers benefits and resources to support the wellbeing of our teams— including health and wellness, financial saving, family benefits, education and more. In 2019, we launched the KDP Wellness program, which educates employees about the importance of preventive care More than and encourage them to be proactive 70% about their health. The program is fueled by a third-party wellness vendor, and employees can log on of eligible employees to the website or app any time of received their annual day and engage in activities and biometric challenges focused on all aspects of living well—from physical and mental screening health to supporting the health of our planet. 33 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Since we launched the program, almost 50% of our 21,000+ eligible “Working in marketing, we U.S. KDP employees logged on to the often talk about the quality of our app, and more than 2,600 employees coffee, but this trip absolutely gave earned prizes by participating in that word a new meaning. Watching our activities and challenges. One of the local coffee partners manually sort coffee, most popular team challenges, the bean-by-bean to check for quality defects was Team Step Challenge, encouraged incredibly eye-opening.” teams to take more steps while exercising and by switching up their — Susie Siegel everyday routines. Our Wellness Brand Manager, program also sponsors KDP’s annual Coffee Portfolio, KDP health screening process so that (Brazil targeted learning employees can get a health check, source trip participant) which reduces their monthly health insurance premiums, and take steps toward living healthier lives. In response to COVID-19, we’ve also provided employees with expanded back-up care benefits and a variety of resources through our Employee Assistance Program. TRAVELING TO ORIGIN: EMPLOYEE SOURCE TRIPS Each year, we give employees from across the company the opportunity to connect firsthand with the people and places where our coffee is grown. They have the opportunity to meet the farmers and families who grow our coffee, understand what they do, and see the impact of our work and relationships at the source of our coffee products. This is truly an experience of a lifetime for participants in the program. In 2019, 70 employees traveled on six trips to our top coffee sourcing origins— Colombia and Brazil. 34 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Employee Health & Safety KDP uses a wide variety of strategies and programs to support the health and safety of our employees. From training on risks from non-routine tasks, such as unexpected maintenance on equipment, to installing automated systems to prevent trailers from shifting during loading and unloading, our Environmental Health & Safety team looks at all aspects of what our employees may encounter and works to minimize risk. Key to these efforts are data and In response to the COVID-19 preventive actions. KDP measures pandemic, we’ve implemented Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), a extraordinary safety procedures 6 1 true indication of Total Recordable to keep our employees safe and Injuries Rate (TRIR) severity, and healthy. These procedures include uses a risk reduction process that temperature checks and health NEW SANITATION thoroughly analyzes injuries and screenings, extensive sanitization LOCAL CASE STANDARDS near misses. With this information practices, required face coverings MANAGEMENT at hand, sites are supplied targeted and mandated social distancing areas to evaluate for such issues as protocols. Additionally, employees trips, slips and falls and provided across our organization have action plans to implement. This continued to develop creative ways method has produced risk reduction to protect our team. For example, rates as much as 60% across a our supply chain and R&D teams EMPLOYEE variety of our sites. created in-house capability to SCREENING self-manufacture hand sanitizer; 5 2 Our TRIR remained flat through a fleet manager in Los Angeles TEAM/WORK 6 POINT EMPLOYEE 2019. Our LTIR increased in 2019, built a barrier prototype to aid SEGMENTATION SAFETY PROGRAM partly due to the addition of three in protecting workers during new logistics sites not counted in temperature checks; and, our 2018. We are well below benchmark manufacturing team in Sumner, rates for soft drink and coffee Washington, transformed one manufacturing, as reported by the break room into three and outfitted Bureau of Labor Statistics. We several conference and training INCREASED remain committed to improving our rooms to give employees enough EMPLOYEE SITE EMPLOYEE safety performance every year and, room to take a break safely. Through PREPARATION HYGIENE as a result, have seen improvements a constant drive to zero incidents, of our LTIR and TRIR throughout the training, teamwork and enhanced first half of 2020. safety measures, we are dedicated to reducing risk and improving 4 3 operations to create the safest environment possible for our team. 35 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Governance & Compliance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE functional executive leadership team Guided by our values, ethics and members, which monitors progress integrity, our governance and and ensures our projects and key management systems ensure initiatives align with the long-term that we operate our business and objectives of the business. conduct ourselves with the highest level of accountability. As a publicly See our website for our Governance Guidelines and related materials. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals were developed to traded company, the KDP Board of address the global challenges facing our current world and represent Directors oversees KDP’s corporate the transformative power of collective action. KDP has aligned with responsibility (CR) strategy ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE several of these important initiatives as we work toward achieving our and progress, receives regular Anchoring our ethics and compliance own goals. updates and approves long-term program is the KDP Code of Conduct sustainability goals. which can be found on our website along with our Respectful Workplace Development of vision and strategy and Anti-Harassment Policies, is led by our Chief Corporate Affairs Supplier Code of Conduct, Conflict Officer, our Chief Sustainability Minerals Reports, Modern Slavery Officer and our Vice President, Statements and Environmental Corporate Communications, Policies. Philanthropy & Community Relations, as well as members of STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT the broader organization. They We support our commitments to regularly collaborate with a crossresponsible business practices across functional team of employees across our portfolio through engagement the organization, including from in both the political process and such areas as procurement, supply public policy development. More chain, research and development, information on our political quality, facilities, human resources contribution and engagement and legal, to drive execution and policies can be found on our measurement of CR strategy. The website. Additional information on Chief Sustainability Officer convenes our approach can be found in our the Sustainability Governance stakeholder engagement document Committee, comprised of key here. 36 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing Data Appendix DRINK WELL. DO GOOD. GOALS Goals Key Performance Indicators 2018 2019 By 2025: Recyclable (%) 86% 87% PACKAGING 100% of packaging will be recyclable or compostable 30% PCR across KDP portfolio Recycled content (%) 20% 20% By 2025: Renewable energy (%) 28% 47% 100% renewable energy Engage suppliers and bottlers representing 50% of our Scope 3 Emissions coverage by supplier ENERGY & N/A 32% emissions to set their own targets* and bottler goals (%) EMISSIONS By 2030: N/A 11% Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 30% Emissions reduction (%) Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions in select categories by 15% N/A 0% By 2025: Partner with highest water risk operating communities to replenish Water restored (%) 73% 73% WATER 100% of water used for our beverages Improve our water use efficiency by 20% Efficiency improvement (%) 3% 4% By 2025: WASTE Diversion rate (%) 86% 88% Send zero waste to landfill across our operations By 2020: Responsibly sourced coffee (%) 31% 65% SUPPLY CHAIN 100% responsibly sourced coffee and brewers Responsibly sourced brewers (%) 50% 63% 1M people engaged in our supply chain to significantly improve their lives People engaged 630K 783K By 2020: COMMUNITIES Number of children and families 12.9M 14.2M Provide play opportunities to 13.5 million children and families *By end of 2024 37 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing SAFETY RECORD* 2019 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY 2018† 2019 % of U.S. % of % of Ethnicity* Age Group Gender Employees Employees Employees Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.18 0.24 Non-minority 53 18-19 1 Male 82 Workplace Fatalities 0 0 Minority 47 20-29 21 Female 18 Total Recordable Injury Rate 1.22 1.22 (TRIR) *Employee ethnicity data is self30-39 29 reported. Due to post-merger systems Note: Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 integration, data may not reflect the 40-49 24 employees actual demographics of KDP employees. *This data is pertinent to only owned and operated In 2020, we are working to improve 50-59 18 manufacturing facilities. our self-reporting structure in order to †2018 data revised due to incidents turning recordable after more accurately represent our employee end of calendar year. population. 60 and over 7 WATER 2017 2018 2019 Total Withdrawal (Million Liters) 13,112 13,132* 12,653† % Withdrawal, Municipal 74 74* 74† % Withdrawal, Groundwater 26 26* 26† Total Consumption (Million Liters) 7,259 7,559* 7,290† Total Discharge (Million Liters) 5,848 5,573* 5,363† % Discharge to Municipal 68 66* 66† % Discharge to Waterbody 32 34* 34† Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2.05 1.99* 1.96† Liters of water required to make one liter of product *A correction to our 2018 water withdrawal data resulted in a revision to these figures. The changes were not material (<1%), but we are revising the figures as it affects our Water Use Ratio. †Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. Statement available on our reporting website here. WASTE 2018 2019 Waste diverted from landfill (%) 86* 88† Total waste generated (short tons) 72,096* 72,407† 38 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Communities Our Workplace Data Appendix Wellbeing GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS & ENERGY 2018 2019 SCOPE 1: Direct Emissions (MtCO²e) 273,576 268,712* PACKAGING Stationary 116,495 116,081* % of % of Mobile 157,081 152,631* Total Total Material Weight Weight SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions, purchased energy (MtCO²e) (2018) (2019) Market-based 137,560 97,345* PET Bottles 25.3 26.0 Location-based 166,484 162,746* Paper/ SCOPE 3: Indirect emissions, value chain† (MtCO²e) 8,712,903 8,749,723 27.5 25.4 Cardboard Category breakdown: NonPurchased goods and services 3,963,399 4,048,579 Refillable 23.9 21.9 Capital goods 35,627 34,831 Glass Bottles Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 97,291 93,618 Aluminum & Upstream transportation and distribution 385,283 380,842 10.2 10.5 Steel Waste generated in operations 797 6,120 Business travel 8,324 9,335 Polypropylene 2.7 5.5 Employee commuting 52,644 53,681* Polystyrene 5.5 3.7 Downstream transportation and distribution 1,007,135 960,902 Other 1.3 3.4 Processing of sold products 2,632,469 2,648,284 Use of sold products 390,703 381,773 Flexible 1.5 1.9 Packaging End-of-life treatment of sold products 138,531 131,058 Downstream leased assets 700 700 Refillable 2.1 1.7 Glass Bottles Total Energy Use (MWh) 1,637,400 1,687,239* Total direct energy usage (MWh) 1,211,103 1,248,290* Total purchased electricity use (MWh) 426,297 438,949* Renewable Energy (%) 28 47† *Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. Statement available on our reporting website here. †In 2019, we refined our Scope 3 accounting and added additional categories. These improvements are reflected in both the 2018 and 2019 emissions data. 39 | KEURIG DR PEPPER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
