eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 eGISS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 INTRODUCTION eGISS (Group) A/S is a global IT hardware reseller and logistics partner to international customers with global presence and a strong focus on IT standardization, consolidation, and globalization. From multiple OEMs and vendors eGISS (Group) A/S delivers IT devices; • That are configured and ready-to-use • To all our customers’ locations around the world • At the same global price including freight • Without hidden or surprising costs • Based on our customers’ negotiated OEM prices or negotiated by eGISS • Within a few days from receiving the orders • Invoiced in major global currencies Or in other words One Partner – One Contract – One Price Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 Quick Facts In order to support our business and have a more sustainable supply chain eGISS (Group) A/S has expanded its presence and has sales offices and warehouses in 6 countries around the world. Since the establishment in 2013 eGISS (Group) A/S has grown from 3 to 56 employees, 49 of them working in Denmark. As the business expands the plan is to open more warehouses abroad – South America is next in line. eGISS (Group) A/S has an Employee Policy stipulating conditions, rights and guidelines for working for eGISS (Group) A/S. It is imperative to eGISS (Group) A/S that all employees have the best possible conditions regardless of where they work, and that national laws and regulations are followed. A Working Environment Group consisting of 3 employees meet at regular intervals and once a year with the management group to review and set out the strategies for securing a good and healthy working environment. eGISS (Group) A/S works in close cooperation with both the manufacturers, freight partners and customers in fulfilling our contracts – and we are subject to heavy scrutinizing from our partners in order to meet their high standards of doing business and have a mutually understanding of a responsible code of conduct. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 eGISS (Group) A/S is committed to sustainability. This includes respect for universally recognized principles on human rights including labor rights, anti-corruption, and the environment. Our Code of Conduct defines our guidelines for meeting our aspirations and is inspired by and built on the Ten UN Global Compact Principles. eGISS (Group) A/S is still a relatively young company, and focus has mainly been on expanding the business. As the company matures and gets a more dominant position in the market, focus will be on developing more stringent processes with regards to implementing principles-based actions and integrate the SDGS in the business strategy. CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As Group CEO I am pleased to confirm that eGISS (Group) A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Jesper Ravn eGISS Group CEO Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 COP 2020 This COP covers the period from November 2019 until November 2020. The period started on the background of a satisfying 2019 financial result, and the financial prospects and aspirations for 2020 were promising. Unfortunately, business came to an abrupt stop in March as covid-19 hit Denmark and the rest of the world, and our business was faced with a new and challenging reality with customers worldwide revising their IT plans, closing offices and production sites, and sending employees to work from home. As a consequence 2020 has turned out to be very different than anticipated – employees working from home, customers having new needs and requests for their IT infrastructure, new rules for sending goods across borders and a worldwide uncertainty as to when this situation will end. In order to become better and more professional in implementing the UN Global Compact Principles and the 17 SDGS, we have participated in different workshops and has sought inspiration among peers. We have also enrolled in a network under the Danish Industry organization focusing on the SDGS. Further, a revision of our Code of Conduct and an Anti-bribery policy have been initiated. In the period covered by this COP the following principles-based actions have been taken: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. • Policy o eGISS (Group) A/S supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and will not do business with neither partners nor customers violating the fundamental human rights. • Focus o Securing and complying with the right of data privacy as set out in the GDPR law. • Results o Our GDPR policies and guidelines have been revised according to current legislation, and guidelines for new hires have been formulated and implemented. • Significant Risks o Data breach resulting in leaks of private data. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 • Opportunities o No specific opportunities have been identified. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Policy o eGISS (Group) A/S supports and respects the fundamental principles and rights at work as set out by the LLO and national laws. We make sure that all eGISS (Group) A/S employees have contracts, and we have an Employee Policy that clearly states their rights, compensations, and benefits. Further, the Management Group and the statutory Working Environment Group meet once a year to review and set out the policies governing the working environment. • Focus o Securing the working environment when working at home is mandatory because of the covid-19 situation. o Securing the working environment for the employees who cannot work from home. • Results o All employees have been offered the possibility of bringing home the necessary working equipment – pcs, monitors, chairs etc. Also, in Denmark it has been possible to use our insurance for covid-19 related issues. o At the offices and warehouses all necessary precautions have been taken – masks, hand disinfection and social distance. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 • Significant Risks o Stress and loneliness working alone from home. o Employees getting covid-19. • Opportunities o Trying out new ways of organizing the work with employees working both from the offices and from home offices. o New meeting formats. o Work-life balance. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Policy o eGISS (Group) A/S seeks to reduce and minimize the environmental impact of our business activities. We work on our internal processes – garbage, recycling, electricity, reduce waste of food etc., and on our impact sending goods around the world. We seek partnership wherever possible with manufacturers, customers, and freight partners. • Focus o Recycling of material and garbage from our premises in Denmark – and a continuous effort to reduce the amount of waste. o Energy efficiency at our premises in Denmark – reducing the use of electricity and heating. o Buying bio-products whenever possible and reducing food-waste. o Carbon footprint when sending goods. • Results o We recycle about 95% of the plastic, cardboard/paper used as well as electronics – using the recycling stations close to our premises. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 o Our premises in Denmark are not very energy efficient, and despite renovations we can still make improvements. o About 50% of the products we buy are ecologically produced. Food-waste is at a minimum – leftovers from lunch are packed to be taken home by the employees. o We have not yet been able to find a good model that can help us measure, document and monitor our carbon footprint when sending goods around. We have initiated a dialogue with our freight partners on how to measure and report the carbon footprint, and we also work with the manufacturers on how to measure the full carbon footprint in our supply chain. We have not reached any measurable results, so this will have a stronger focus in the future. • Significant Risks o Energy and electricity consumption gets too high due to the old premises and renovating the premises does not pay off in terms of heating and electricity consumption. o Not having a business model to measure carbon footprint can exclude us from future tenders. • Opportunities o When documenting our carbon footprint, we can initiate new partnerships and projects on carbon footprint off-set. o Knowing our carbon footprint can help qualify our assessment of where to establish new subsidiaries and warehouse as a means of reducing our carbon footprint. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Policy o eGISS (Group) A/S has zero-tolerance towards corruption in any form. An explicit and clear Anti-Bribery and Code of Conduct set the standards and guidelines on dos and don’ts for employees, customers, and business partners. • Focus o Monitor and secure that our zero-tolerance policy is followed. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net eGISS Group (eGISS A/S) Delta 8 – DK-8382 Hinnerup Denmark CVR. DK35056297 o Update existing Code of Conduct. o Make and implement an Anti-Bribery Policy • Results o No cases of corrupt practices have been identified. o Up-date of Code of Conduct is in-process and is expected to be finalized and approved by the management board no later than Q4, 2020. o The Anti-Bribery Policy is in-process and is expected to be finalized and approved by the management board no later than Q4, 2020. • Significant Risks o Without a clear, explicit, and unambiguous Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy we will be excluded from future tenders. o Employees can – unknowingly – act inappropriately if the Code of Conduct and the Anti-Bribery Policy is not clearly communicated and implemented. • Opportunities o eGISS (Group) A/S will be a more attractive business partner for customers and suppliers. Denmark – Switzerland – China – USA – South Africa – Indonesia – India www.egiss.net (+45) 88 700 900 – egiss@egiss.net
