2019 Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Integrity We are committed to the highest level of integrity Our purpose is to be the world’s in all our relationships. most trusted energy partner. Performance We are committed to a culture of performance that Hess Values set the framework demands and rewards outstanding results throughout and establish the ethical standards our business. by which we conduct our business. Social Responsibility We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Integrity Independent Spirit We are committed to preserving the special qualities People Performance and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. Value Creation Value Social We are committed to creating shareholder value based Creation Responsibility on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. People Independent We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the Spirit best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth. REPORTING STANDARDS AND INDEX OF REPORTING ASSURANCE INDICATORS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for and Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 62. environmental and social issues) sector-specific guidelines and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board oil and UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT gas industry metrics, can be found at hess.com/ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS sustainability/sustainability-reports/GRI-Index. The index This is our Communication on Progress in implementing includes all indicators required for a GRI Standards Core the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We report, as well as a number of additional indicators for welcome feedback on its contents. which we are able to provide supporting information. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social Vice President, Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information Environment, Health and Safety regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com/ Hess Corporation sustainability/how-we-operate. 1501 McKinney Street We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this Houston, TX 77010 report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. information or additional copies of this report, please contact: TABLE OF CONTENTS 13 27 35 39 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our CEO’s view on building 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A review of social responsibility 60 PERFORMANCE DATA a sustainable enterprise as our way of doing business 4 27 62 ABOUT HESS SAFETY AND HEALTH INDEPENDENT Our company operations Aiming to get everyone, ASSURANCE in brief everywhere, every day, STATEMENT home safe 5 35 63 CREATING VALUE OUR PEOPLE AWARDS AND FOR SOCIETY Creating a diverse and inclusive RECOGNITION An overview of ways we deliver culture and high quality workforce value for our stakeholders that innovates, leads and learns 6 39 APPROACH TO CLIMATE CHANGE REPORTING AND ENERGY A description of our materiality Balancing the world’s growing assessment, reporting energy needs with our costframework and boundaries effective greenhouse gas emission reduction policy 8 PROGRESS AND GOALS A snapshot of our progress 42 Carbon Asset Risk Assessment Evaluating sustainability risks and path forward and global scenarios in making strategic decisions 13 HOW WE OPERATE The values that define our expectations for sustainable 53 ENVIRONMENT Responsible management of our environmental footprint ON THE COVER Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico management and performance 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company’s purpose – to be the world’s most trusted energy SAFETY partner – guides our strategy and actions to create business and We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote societal value and address global challenges. We are committed to a strong safety culture and continuously improve our performance building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s energy toward our ultimate goal of zero incidents. In 2019, we saw an needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and increase in our severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate profitable way. In 2019, we continued to execute our long term early in the year, driven primarily by an increase in contractor strategy that positions Hess to deliver visible and low risk production incidents. SSSI is a key metric for incidents with the potential growth, material cash flow growth and increasing financial returns. to result in severe consequences. To reverse this trend, we conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective As the world battles the COVID-19 pandemic, our top priority actions that included leadership site visits, safety surveys and is the safety of our workforce and the communities where we safety improvement workshops, ultimately achieving a 33% operate. A multidisciplinary Hess emergency response team has reduction in our SSSI rate from April to December. We also been overseeing our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of reemphasized the importance of mitigating high risk activities COVID-19 in our work environment. The global pandemic has by issuing an update to the “Hess Rules,” our baseline global had a severe impact on near term oil demand, resulting in a sharp requirements for safe work practices. decline in oil prices. Our company is in a strong position – with our low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage Engaging our contractors, who in 2019 represented more than through the current low price environment and to prosper when 70% of our total workforce hours, continues to be a critical oil prices recover. part of achieving our safety goals. We enhanced our contractor management practices in early 2020 by formalizing our engagement Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is with contractors considered higher risk based on the scope of their key to creating economic prosperity and raising standards of living work for Hess or their past EHS performance, to ensure alignment across the globe, especially as the world responds to the pandemic on the standards expected in Hess operations. and begins to recover from its effects. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change. Another key factor in achieving our ultimate goal of zero incidents Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve is continuous improvement of our process safety management the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a Scenario, in which oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting critical role in mitigating risk. In 2019, we continued a multiyear the world’s growing energy demand through 2040 and beyond. process to standardize our approach to competency assurance and training for safety critical positions across the company. We Our company will continue to be guided by the Hess Values and also progressed the development of three new software systems our longstanding commitment to sustainability, which create value focused on work authorization, management of change and for the benefit of all stakeholders and position us to continuously safety observations – to increase awareness and provide better improve business performance. Our Board of Directors is tools for mitigating safety risks. climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE to evaluate various risks and global scenarios in making Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee governments, businesses and civil society to work together on has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should environmental, health and safety goals. be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and Our 2019 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) into our strategy and goals. Our environment, health, safety and Sustainable Development Goals. social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on several key Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to areas, described below. Detailed information on our programs and continue reducing our carbon footprint in keeping with the findings performance is provided in this report and on our company website of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the at www.hess.com. aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature 2 rise. As one of our key strategic actions, our Board of Directors We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international and senior leadership have established 2020 reduction targets voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental for greenhouse gases (GHGs) and flaring. Between 2008 and protection, human rights and good governance, including our 2019, we have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global by approximately 60%. In addition, we are contributing to Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable technological and scientific advances designed to reduce, business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in capture and store carbon emissions, including our support of our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which groundbreaking work by the Salk Institute to develop plants with we have mapped to issues identified as part of our materiality larger root systems that according to the Salk Institute are capable assessment described in this report. of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per PEOPLE year from the atmosphere. We shape the culture of our workplace by focusing on quality Our climate change strategy is closely aligned with the leadership and employee engagement, fostering diversity and recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial inclusion, driving innovation and embracing Lean processes. In Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability 2019, we expanded our Unconscious Bias training to our U.S., Board. In addition, we are accounting for the cost of carbon in our Malaysia and Denmark managers, and through our Life at Hess business decisions. In 2019, we once again conducted scenario initiative we are further weaving diversity and inclusion into our planning using the energy supply and demand scenarios from culture, policies and programs and cultivating a positive and the International Energy Agency and confirmed the resilience of fulfilling experience for all employees. Hess’ portfolio and inventory of forward investments under the Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our Development Scenario. workforce through a robust program of employee engagement SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and communications. For 87 years, our company has been dedicated to treating people ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE with dignity and respect. That is why Social Responsibility is one of DISCLOSURE our core Hess Values. As society reflects on heartbreaking recent Transparency in reporting is an important part of being a examples of racial injustice and violence in the U.S., Hess leadership trusted energy partner, which is why we have been publishing expressed our condemnation of all forms of discrimination and a sustainability report since 1997. In late 2019, we moved reaffirmed our commitment to racial equality, diversity and inclusion. forward with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR In keeping with our values, we support efforts to address societal strategy, starting with a materiality assessment. We expect to inequalities and create opportunity in the communities where we finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals operate with a particular focus on education. For example, in 2019, and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share results we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, in our next sustainability report. Persevere) educational program for three more years to help at-risk In 2019, we continued to be recognized as a leader in our industry students in Houston’s Greater East End stay in school; Hess has for the quality of our environmental, social and governance contributed more than $2.1 million to the program over the past performance and disclosure. We are proud of the progress three years. In Malaysia, we began support for a new initiative made in executing our long term strategy in line with our purpose called the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary and values. We thank our employees, communities, customers, Program, which provides financial assistance to underprivileged business partners and investors for their partnership in building a children. In North Dakota, for the second year in a row, we provided sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for all our Hess toy trucks to every elementary school in the state together stakeholders and the world around us. with a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. In Guyana, we are working with our joint venture partners to build capacity among the local workforce and supplier companies. In 2019, the joint venture invested more than $3 million to support a number of initiatives including the Centre for Local Business Development, which has registered more than 2,000 Guyanese John B. Hess businesses and conducted almost 3,000 training days since its Chief Executive Officer launch in 2017. June 2020 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 10.3 Years of 311,000 Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day 1,197 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent Reserve Life Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced Proved Reserves Hess Portfolio of Operations 2019 Highlights • Our company had another outstanding year offshore Guyana, where Hess has a 30% interest in the Stabroek Block. In 2019, we participated in five major discoveries, bringing total discoveries on the block to 15 as of year end 2019. In January 2020, the estimate of gross discovered recoverable resources for the block was increased to more than 8 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with multibillion barrels of exploration potential remaining. Production • The Liza Phase 1 development, offshore Midstream Guyana, with capacity of 120,000 gross Developments barrels of oil per day, achieved first Exploration production in December 2019. • In May 2019, the second phase of the Liza development was sanctioned; it will have PRODUCTION a production capacity of 220,000 gross Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn barrels of oil per day and is expected to start production in 2022. State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 • In the Bakken, our transition to plug and perf completions from our previous 60 development offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, stage sliding sleeve design delivered a Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. 15% uplift in 180 day cumulative initial production rates and a 5–10% uplift in MIDSTREAM estimated ultimate recovery per well. At the same time, we reduced our plug Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, and perf drilling and completion costs a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline in 2019 to $6.8 million per well, down terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. from $7.6 million in 2018. • In October 2019, we announced an DEVELOPMENTS oil discovery at the Esox-1 well in the Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The well was tied back to the Tubular Bells production offshore Guyana. facilities and commenced production in February 2020. EXPLORATION • In December 2019, Hess achieved first Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests gas on Phase 2 of the North Malay Basin offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests Gas Project safely and on schedule. in the Gulf of Mexico. Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. 4 CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY Hess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. By integrating sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term strategy, we seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders and business partners, our employees, the local communities and economies where we operate, and society at large. We believe our company is in a strong position – with our low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage through the current low oil price environment and to prosper when oil prices recover. MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, see page 21). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry is being called to help address both of these challenges. We have set – and are on track to meet – aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions that are consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement (see page 46). Going forward, we will continue to do our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the transition to a lower carbon economy. DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2019. Workforce Communities We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well Our community investments are designed to make long as those we support indirectly – both in our supply chain and in lasting, positive impacts on the communities where we the broader economy, where the energy we produce is essential operate. We seek to develop the local workforce to enable to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical and upward mobility into higher-paying jobs in our industry and safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring supply chain (see pages 19, 24, 25 and 37). suppliers and contractors to abide by our Code of Business • $7.7 million in social investments, with the majority Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments regarding in Texas, North Dakota and Louisiana labor and human rights (see page 21). • $3.1 million by our joint venture in support of the • 1,775 Hess employees globally Guyana Centre for Local Business Development • $594 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.) • 6,400 hours of volunteering by our employees, with the • 9,135 hours of learning and development provided majority in the U.S. (Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota) to employees • 98% local nationals employed in Denmark, and • $3,700 million in total supplier spend across 89% in Malaysia 3,000 suppliers • 95% of our total supplier spend of $3,700 million is on purchases made within the same country in which we are doing business Shareholders Society Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our We contribute value to society at large through the direct shareholders. We continue to successfully execute our long economic value we generate, the affordable energy we term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, focusing only produce and our commitment to operate responsibly and on low cost, high return opportunities, while investing in advance sustainable development (see page 21). our people and business. Furthermore, our efforts to lower our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned with the • $3,159 million in capital and exploration expenditures energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable • $580 million in royalties and other payments development (see page 45). • $461 million in income taxes paid • $316 million in dividends paid to investors • $380 million in interest expenses • 1-year total shareholder return of 19%, first among peers • $7.7 million in social investments (For peer list, see page 33 of Hess’ 2020 proxy statement.) • 3 -year total shareholder return of 27%, second among peers 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions inclusiveness and completeness of • Transparency in Business Conduct of Hess’ strategy and 2019 performance information. Consistent with the GRI • Human Rights and Security regarding material economic, social Standards’ materiality guidance, we and environmental issues. Our annual identified and prioritized new and These material issues have informed report, U.S. Securities and Exchange emerging issues important to our our environment, health, safety and Commission Form 10-K filing and stakeholders. Engagement with our social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy proxy statement detail our financial and stakeholders – which include employees, and helped to define the boundaries governance information and can be found suppliers, customers, communities, of this report. on our website. shareholders, government bodies, S  ee reporting boundaries for each of these nongovernmental organizations, industry issues at hess.com/sustainability/approachAdditional sustainability and investor to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues information is available at hess.com/investors peers and academics – enables us to strengthen our license to operate While we have been validating these REPORTING STANDARDS and brings increased focus to our issues on an annual basis since 2015, This report was prepared in accordance transparency goals. in 2019 we engaged a third-party with the Core option of the Global consultant to help us refresh our In 2015, we conducted a survey of select Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. materiality assessment and update our industry peers and a subset of priority Our reporting is also informed by: EHS & SR strategy. The approach used external stakeholder groups to validate • the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on for the materiality assessment, which and expand upon our prior materiality Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, which was completed in early 2020, is assessments. We then supplemented the was jointly developed by IPIECA (the consistent with approaches and survey results with desktop research on global oil and gas industry organization guidance provided by leading standards a larger group of peers and stakeholders for environmental and social issues), bodies, including the GRI, IPIECA and by reviewing public reports and websites the American Petroleum Institute and ISO 26000; it also considers the SASB documenting key issues for our industry, the International Oil and Gas Producers materiality profile for the oil and gas including key topics and disclosures Association; industry as an additional reference point. from the GRI’s G4 Oil and Gas Sector • t he United Nations (U.N.) Global Supplement. This process allowed us to For the materiality assessment, we Compact’s Ten Principles; validate that stakeholder expectations are first developed an initial list of potential • key environmental, social and being addressed. sustainability topics through desktop governance ratings and scorecards; research. This research involved reviewing Through that survey, as well as an annual, • recommendations from the Task public reports and websites – including document-based assessment of key Force on Climate-Related Financial those of our oil and gas industry peers stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ Disclosures; and and other important stakeholders – that operational and regulatory risks, we have document key issues for our industry. • oil and gas industry metrics from the identified the 10 most material issues for We then validated and prioritized the Sustainability Accounting Standards our company: topics through a stakeholder engagement Board (SASB). • Regulatory Assurance process, which included a survey and An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global • Water Management workshop to obtain internal viewpoints Compact reporting indicators is available at hess.com/sustainability/sustainability• Transportation Impacts and interviews with a sampling of key reports/gri-index external stakeholders. • Emergency Preparedness MATERIALITY and Response Through this exercise, we confirmed We determined the content for this • Process Safety and Spills that the key issues driving our current report by applying the GRI’s reporting EHS & SR strategy are still relevant. • Community Engagement We also found that certain issues have principles; for example, we considered our operations and performance in • Climate Change and Greenhouse been receiving more or less stakeholder the wider context of sustainability Gas (GHG) Emissions emphasis over the past five years. issues as well as ensured stakeholder • Stakeholder Engagement We are currently working to validate 6 the results of the materiality assessment in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We in the charts, tables and text may not through benchmarking and additional also review and adjust targets included as precisely sum to the total amounts shown internal workshops. That process will part of our annual incentive plan formula due to rounding. All currency references aid in developing an updated EHS & to account for divestitures as needed. In in the report are in U.S. dollars. SR strategy, including setting goals and 2017 and 2018, this included restating our EXTERNAL ASSURANCE targets for our material topics. We plan targets and associated annual metrics for This report, including our sustainability to share our plan forward (for post 2020) severe safety and environmental incident data and self-declared GRI “in in next year’s sustainability report. rates to account for the Permian, Equatorial accordance” status, was assured Guinea and Utica divestitures. BOUNDARY SETTING by ERM Certification and Verification Included within the scope of this report are Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.com/sustainability/climate-changeServices (see page 62). This external the facilities and assets operated by Hess energy review helps to ensure consistent and Corporation and our subsidiaries during objective data collection and reporting calendar year 2019, unless otherwise INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE of our sustainability performance. indicated. Data presented are gross Our internal information systems promote In addition to providing assurance in figures from operated facilities, unless the centralized collection of data from relation to our sustainability report, specified otherwise. Hess operated and joint venture assets ERM Certification and Verification around the world. In order to evaluate We report GHG emissions on both Services also conducts a separate accuracy and reliability, we conduct an operated and equity share basis in verification of the GHG emissions data quality assurance/quality control reviews accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and provided in the report and in our CDP and validation of both aggregated and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Climate Change response. facility-level data. Individual numbers Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 2015), as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. Our workforce metrics include data for contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10% of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment Midstream Operations, North Dakota depends on several factors, as described 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 PROGRESS AND GOALS Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the table below, along with our key accomplishments in 2019 and goals for 2020 and beyond; the goals support select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. In line with our continued commitment to operating sustainably, we have proceeded with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR strategy starting with a materiality assessment in late 2019. We expect to finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share the results in our next sustainability report. HOW WE OPERATE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Complete assurance on the embedded Revisit the draft compliance standard as part regulatory compliance system, Conducted a Corporate Audit Department of the Hess Operational Management System including standard work evaluation (CAD) Tier I assurance review on the regulatory (HOMS) streamlining exercise; continue to 14, 28, 58 and equipment repair root cause register and compliance communication tools; conduct Tier II assurance activities on routine, analysis; begin pursuing a compliance began drafting the compliance standard high volume compliance obligations in 2020* standard for the enterprise* Regulatory Assurance Continue providing our assets with Monitored emerging regulatory risks through Continue providing our assets with routine routine updates and discussions participation in a number of industry association updates and discussions on emerging on emerging regulatory risks and working groups (e.g., American Petroleum regulatory risks and changes through the 17–18 changes through the use of existing Institute, IPIECA, etc.) and communicated key use of existing communication methods communication methods and information back to our operated and select and operating rhythms in 2020* operating rhythms* nonoperated assets Published our 2018 Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards’ Core “in accordance” option and included Continue to refine our sustainability disclosure in alignment with the Continue to refine our sustainability disclosures disclosures to align with stakeholder recommendations of the Task Force on 6–7, 40 to align with stakeholder expectations in 2020 expectations Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; included Transparency indicators from the Sustainability Accounting in Business Standards Board’s oil and gas industry metrics Conduct in our GRI Content Index Implement a third-party online Improve third-party due diligence policy and Completed selection and implementation of due diligence system and conduct enterprise procedures to enhance coverage an enhanced third-party online due diligence compliance risk assessment and and reduce redundancies; improve and 16–17 system; completed a compliance risk assessment analysis on select assets diversify the compliance training curriculum and analysis of key exploration assets in 2020 Continue to develop model contracts Completed six model contracts and made Continue to deepen relationships with strategic Supply for key spend areas to enhance risk significant progress on five others, in areas such suppliers focused on mutual collaboration; Chain and management; further evaluate the as logistics, exploration and technology, and this further revise, create and implement policies 8, 18–19 Contractor supplier relationship and performance work is ongoing; engaged face to face with key for supplier relationship management; develop Management management processes as part of the strategic suppliers to set expectations, develop category strategies that consider potential HOMS initiative relationships, build trust and influence behaviors emission reductions in 2020 and beyond Develop a framework for further integrating Continue expanding Lean deployment Certified almost 50 employees as ELLs Lean and innovation into the Hess culture, across Hess, including development enterprisewide; existing ELLs continued local including revamping and expanding the suite of of new embedded Lean leaders (ELLs) business improvements and provided coaching training and coaching tools to include Lean and in assets and central support functions to other employees and contractors in their work innovation, training new embedded Lean and 16 and further development of those areas; conducted a “Take Work Out 2: Breakout” innovation leaders and further improving the already trained; continue to use a initiative, which resulted in about 200 skills and effectiveness of current ELLs; structured Lean approach to identify improvement opportunities, with five continue to use a structured Lean approach to “Take Work Out” opportunities of those selected for implementation take out unnecessary work and foster creative thinking and innovation in 2020 and beyond Management Systems Rolled the EHS global standards into HOMS; Continue progressing the EHS global Continue progressing the EHS global continued work on the EHS standards, extending standards effort across all assets to meet 14 standards project through 2020 the target for implementation from 2020 to 2021 the 2021 target for full implementation to allow for HOMS integration Monitor strategic actions from the 2015 EHS Continue to measure effective EHS & Continued tracking individual EHS & SR & SR strategy through the end of the year; SR strategy implementation through initiatives through project-specific work plans develop an updated EHS & SR strategy, 2020; begin a refresh of the strategy as part of our business operating rhythm; 6–11 including the next set of strategic initiatives in 2019 through an updated conducted an updated materiality assessment and forward-looking goals, based on the materiality assessment* (completed in January 2020) 2019–2020 materiality assessment* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 8 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Consider avenues for further aligning Monitor and assess ongoing social Governance Identified eight SDGs that are most our social responsibility strategy with investments to help ensure focus and and aligned with Hess’ material issues; applicable SDGs; assess the availability alignment on areas that overlap with 21 Management included this mapping exercise in of tools or metrics to measure the the United Nations’ Sustainable Approach our 2018 Sustainability Report impacts of our investments on the Development Goals (SDGs)* SDGs in 2020 and beyond* Identify communities in areas of operation Instituted a regular operating rhythm most severely affected by the COVID-19 Institute a semiannual cadence to review with semiannual reviews for stakeholder pandemic and pursue engagement or Community stakeholder outreach and refresh planning; continued to deliver on our investment opportunities to mitigate and stakeholder mapping; increase focus on commitment to a sustainable ARO health and economic impacts; maintain 10, 22–24 Stakeholder asset retirement obligations (AROs) in program in North Dakota by plugging the ARO program in North Dakota; identify Engagement North Dakota in cooperation with 40 wells and completing reclamation opportunities for social investment in regulators* activities on 95 sites Guyana focused on public health and education in 2020 and beyond* Participate in sector-specific and broader Continue to monitor potential human Incorporated human rights risk industry workshops and symposiums on rights risks and conduct risk assessments assessment into Hess’ emerging risks human rights best practices; implement 21–22, 24 if needed based on activity levels in 2019 strategy and planning reviews learnings in operated assets deemed and beyond* as higher risk in 2020 and beyond* Continue to conduct human rights Social Risk Develop an enterprisewide compliance training as needed based on identified No training conducted in 2019 22, 24 Management training module on human rights in 2020* risks in 2019 and beyond* Continue to track the number of employees and contractors completing Continued to monitor contracts to confirm Continue to track implementation human rights training at high-risk assets, inclusion of human rights clauses and 19, 24 of these efforts in 2020 and beyond* as well as the percentage of new alignment with Hess policies contracts with human rights clauses* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 PROGRESS AND GOALS SAFETY AND HEALTH DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Continue to drive progress in critical Surpassed our target of 98% inspection maintenance compliance by expanding and testing of integrity critical equipment, Continue reinforcement of critical our annual incentive plan metric from with approximately 15,000 critical maintenance compliance through our 30 safety critical equipment only to include performance standard assurance test annual incentive plan metric in 2020* all equipment with performance standards work orders completed in our work order system* Continue bow tie program implementation Implemented a bow tie program at at our North Malay Basin and Denmark Complete implementation of bow tie the offshore platform at our North assets; commence rollout of the electronic diagrams at our North Malay Basin Malay Basin asset and progressed Management of Change system at asset and pursue an alternative implementation at the floating storage 31 selected operated assets; continue Process barrier management approach at and offloading vessel at that same asset; collaboration with industry groups on Safety our Denmark asset* progressed validation of bow ties within a set of process safety fundamentals and Spills the safety case at our Denmark asset in 2020* Through 2022, focus competency efforts Continue to perform assurance activities Completed audits and consulting on continued implementation of local according to the 2019 Board-approved activities per the Board-approved competency programs and processes at CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with our CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with our operated assets; beginning in 2022, tiered EHS assurance program; continue the tiered EHS assurance program; restart efforts to build a standardized 27–28, 30 to develop our enhanced competency mapped certain job profiles with enterprisewide approach to CAL, define assurance and learning (CAL) strategy, safety critical competencies and began safety critical job profiles across the with phased implementation slated to developing the enhanced CAL strategy enterprise and integrate CAL with HOMS begin in 2020* and our learning management system* Did not achieve our TRIR target due to an increase in our contractor TRIR; Meet a workforce total recordable pursued several initiatives aimed at Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.28 29–30 improving contractor safety performance, actual workforce TRIR in 2020 or below as discussed further in the Safety and Health section Occupational Health Did not achieve our goal, as our 2019 SSSI and Safety rate was slightly above our target of 0.46; Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 however, took swift action after identifying Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual severe and significant safety an upward trend in this rate early in the 29–30 actual SSSI rate in 2020 incident (SSSI) rate year and ultimately achieved a 33% reduction in our SSSI rate from April to December OUR PEOPLE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Introduced the Hess Way of Leadership Continue to build high quality leaders Reinforce the Hess Way of Leadership Series to level-set knowledge and by refreshing and formalizing the by providing practical tools, training and capabilities with employee career resources available to them on guidance; evaluate the flexible working development, rewards and recognition, 10, 36–37 topics such as inclusion and arrangements that were employed during policies and practices; formed task diversity, innovation, Lean and the COVID-19 pandemic as part of normal forces focused on enhancing our coaching and feedback training work practice in 2020 Lean and innovative culture Employment Introduce a revised talent philosophy Implemented an improved talent and Refine practices to assure inclusive, high Practices and associated succession planning succession planning process by engaging quality succession planning; leverage technology more broadly, beginning senior leaders in conducting health of 36–37 technology to improve our hiring practices with senior leaders and then cascading discipline talent reviews deeper into in 2020 to other managers the organization Continue focus on removing unconscious Expand diversity (Unconscious Bias) Conducted Unconscious Bias workshops bias from employment practices, 35 training across our locations for all leaders globally including recruiting and talent development, in 2020 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 10 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Conducted our second portfolio-specific Disclose the results of our portfoliocarbon asset risk scenario planning specific carbon asset risk scenario Continue to evaluate carbon asset risk Risk exercise, which is now integrated into our planning exercise; incorporate scenario through this annual exercise in 2020 42–45 Management planning cycle on an annual basis, using planning into our regular business and beyond* scenarios from the International Energy planning cycle* Agency’s 2019 World Energy Outlook Through our subsidiary, Hess Midstream LP, Continue to invest in additional partnered with Targa Resources to build midstream infrastructure and Continue to pursue additional natural gas the $200 million Little Missouri Four gas increase compression capacity; processing and compression capacity; plant, which came online in August 2019, complete construction and continue planning for the Tioga Gas 49 and built out additional gas compression commissioning of the joint venture Plant turnaround and expansion project capacity, which will significantly expand gas plant (Little Missouri Four) in 2020 our ability to bring more natural gas to operated by Targa Resources market Continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25% reduction in Achieve a 25% reduction in GHG greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Reduced our GHG emissions intensity by emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2e Strategy, (i.e., tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 26% compared with our 2014 baseline 46–47 per thousand BOE) by 2020, versus Metrics (CO2e) per thousand barrels of oil (ahead of our 2020 target) our 2014 baseline* and Targets equivalent (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline* On track to achieve ONE Future targets Continue to improve performance through planned flaring reductions, our Continue to make progress against the related to reducing methane emissions, leak detection and repair program and 51 ONE Future sectoral 2025 targets* through ONE Future sectoral targets* the phaseout of high bleed pneumatic controllers in North Dakota Continue to make progress toward our Achieve a 50% reduction in flaring 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity Reduced flaring intensity by 35% intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) 48–50 (standard cubic feet per BOE) by 50%, compared with our 2014 baseline by 2020, versus our 2014 baseline* versus our 2014 baseline* ENVIRONMENT DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Develop a risk assessment toolbox Completed baseline mapping for offshore Continue to baseline the characteristics for offshore water discharge in 2019; water discharge and finalized a data of emergent contaminants and chemicals 11, 53, 55–56 continue to work toward automated migration plan for the automation of considered “highly toxic” in 2020* data collection in 2019 and beyond* data collection in future years Complete the water data mapping Water exercise at North Malay Basin and a Completed a water data mapping exercise Management Conduct water risk assessments for the chemical analysis at South Arne in 2020; at South Arne and initiated one at North South Arne and North Malay Basin assets participate, through the National Alliance Malay Basin (expected to be finalized and complete a water risk ranking and for Water Innovation, in the U.S. 11, 53, 55–56 in 2020); conducted two pilot studies resource evaluation (e.g., oil recovery Department of Energy’s five year focused on tracking and treating per water use)* program for research and development produced water in the Bakken and mapping of water treatment technologies in 2020 and beyond* Surpassed our target, achieving a 51% Process Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 Achieve a 10% reduction from our reduction in our severe and significant Safety actual severe and significant environmental 2019 actual severe and significant 11, 57–58 environmental incident rate, compared and Spills incident rate environmental incident rate in 2020 with 2018 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. Note: Beginning in early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic demanded a significant amount of our resources and attention as well as a shift to a different and more complex working situation for our employees and contractors. As a result of these unanticipated challenges during the year, it is possible that some of our initiatives may change in terms of scope and timing. Our expectations for implementation timelines are therefore based on the information available at the time of publication of this report and may continue to shift depending on public health and market conditions later in the year. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 Production Operations, North Dakota 12 HOW WE OPERATE Hess is committed to the highest members of senior management to emergency response planning procedures standards of corporate citizenship. meet with investors to solicit shareholder for EHS events and EHS legal and We aim to help meet the world’s views on various topics, including EHS regulatory matters that could affect the growing energy needs in a way that & SR. (For more information on Board company’s business and operations. protects the health and safety of our involvement in climate change-related The EHS Committee met four times people, safeguards the environment and issues, see the Climate Change and in 2019, and each committee member contributes to the sustainability of the Energy section, page 41.) attended at least 75% of the meetings. communities where we operate, while The Board’s Audit Committee oversees Our Vice President of EHS met regularly also delivering long term value to our the integrity of the company’s financial with the EHS Committee and the Chair shareholders and other stakeholders. statements, financial reporting practices, of the committee in 2019 to prioritize The six Hess Values support our purpose systems of internal accounting and actions on a number of topics, including to be the world’s most trusted energy financial and disclosure controls, and EHS performance and strategic priorities; partner. Our Code of Business Conduct other financial matters such as tax enterprise risk management; regulatory and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social planning, compliance and reporting for matters; environmental, social and Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human income taxes. It also oversees compliance governance reporting; climate change Rights Policy, and Environment, Health and risk management. strategic actions; and progress against and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our greenhouse gas and flaring targets. The EHS Committee was originally Values to define internal expectations established in 2013 as a subcommittee of Each member of the EHS Committee for sustainable management and the Audit Committee; in June 2019, the is independent and qualified under the performance at Hess. We apply these subcommittee was elevated to a fourth standards established by applicable law, principles to key company processes and standalone committee of the Board, stock exchange listing standards and initiatives, as described in this section. underpinning our commitment to evaluate Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. GOVERNANCE sustainability risks at the highest level. Committee members have extensive oil The highest level of oversight at Hess The EHS Committee leads the Board’s and gas industry experience, including rests with the Board of Directors, which oversight of Hess’ sustainability practices, operations, research and development, has four standing committees: the Audit working with the full Board and senior and financial expertise. To supplement Committee, the Compensation and management so that sustainability risks the expertise of EHS Committee members Management Development Committee, are taken into account when making and the full Board of Directors, Hess the Corporate Governance and Nominating strategic decisions. The EHS Committee brings in outside subject matter experts to Committee and the EHS Committee. assists the Board in identifying, evaluating brief members on current and developing and monitoring EHS strategies and issues relevant to our business, such as See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors material risks with the potential to affect climate change. Board members, together the people, environment or communities with our executive leadership, have also Board Accountability where we operate or our company’s participated in field visits to Hess Hess’ Board is actively engaged in business activities, performance or operated and nonoperated assets to overseeing the company’s sustainability reputation. The EHS Committee makes better understand our key EHS strategies strategy and performance, working recommendations to the full Board on and risks. In 2019, committee members alongside senior management to evaluate policies, programs and practices to visited our Bakken asset to engage sustainability risks and global scenarios address such strategies and risks and with the Hess workforce and observe in making strategic decisions, including monitors the company’s compliance with how Hess is managing and mitigating those related to climate change. Our these policies, programs and practices. EHS risks and to highlight Lean and independent Chairman periodically The EHS Committee also reviews technology-focused initiatives in the field. accompanies our CEO and other 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 HOW WE OPERATE Executive Oversight In 2019, under the leadership of the HTA operational excellence. Due to the The company is managed by an Executive Network, we completed development necessary migration of these standards Committee, which is composed of Hess’ of the Hess Operational Management from our prior EHS & SR Management most senior executives and chaired by System (HOMS), a single, enterprisewide System to HOMS, we have extended our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive system that houses and integrates the the deadline for full implementation Committee focuses on operational, various standards, procedures and of the phase III standards (and any strategic, financial, EHS and social issues other governance documents in use other standard with an approved delay and is the highest approval body before throughout our operations. HOMS dispensation) from 2020 to 2021. the Board. The Executive Committee establishes a common operational Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ holds regularly scheduled meetings, and framework outlining how we aim to sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives our Chief Operating Officer chairs an address risk management, process operational subcommittee of the Executive safety, environmental responsibility KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES Committee that also meets routinely to and management of personnel and Several key processes in our company help discuss these and other matters. contractors, as well as the efficient to identify and mitigate risks in potential, See information on our approach to and reliable design and operation of our new and existing operations; achieve sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ assets. A HOMS manual supports HOMS operational excellence; and evaluate sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices implementation and provides direction investment opportunities. on how the management system guides KEY INITIATIVES While these processes are focused on our and integrates our work across functions We continue to evolve and advance operated assets, it is important to note and locations. Ultimately, we expect our management systems in a manner that we also review potential risks in Hess’ that HOMS will help us to manage risks that aligns with Hess’ portfolio and nonoperated assets. We generally prioritize associated with a changing organization; organizational structure. As part of four main objectives for nonoperated coordinate technical expertise, standards this process, in 2018 we reorganized assets: making a positive contribution and processes across the organization; into teams of functional leaders (e.g., to local communities; influencing project and align asset-level operations with EHS, Wells, Human Resources, Supply outcomes by focusing on issues with the enterprisewide corporate governance Chain), which helps us continue to greatest potential impact; establishing documents and business priorities. improve oversight and assurance across governance structures and project the company and provide expertise in Ongoing assurance and continuous assurance plans; and documenting and key functional areas within each asset. improvement will continue to be internally sharing high-value lessons The Head of each functional area is central aspects of how we manage our learned. As these assets represent a responsible for overseeing activities in organization, including through audits significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, that area across the company, verifying and assessments of our implementation we have continued to conduct targeted, that relevant standards are applied as of and compliance with HOMS. Key high-level reviews of nonoperated activities, appropriate and working with each operations and processes will be regularly including production operations, facilities asset to optimize safety, quality, reviewed based on assessed risk and and designs. delivery and cost. compliance requirements. Enterprise Risk Management The Heads of each function are supported In 2020, we are streamlining Hess’ Hess applies a comprehensive, by technical authorities (TAs) – many of enterpriseand asset-level safety and standardized approach to identifying whom are embedded directly into our operational standards, procedures and and managing risks of all types across assets. Together, these individuals form other governance documents as part of our operations. Our enterprise risk the “Heads of” and Technical Authority our implementation of HOMS. management (ERM) program, which (HTA) Network, which supports operations includes consideration of EHS & SR In support of HOMS, we have continued across the company. This group meets risks, provides a framework that enables implementation of EHS standards that monthly to support enterprisewide Hess’ Board of Directors and executive formalize enterprisewide expectations initiatives, promote transparency of leadership to work together to strengthen and accountabilities for key areas of activities and optimize synergies across the consistency of risk consideration in EHS risk and performance and support our functions and assets. making business decisions. Our Board a globally consistent approach to 14 of Directors has ultimate oversight over assessments, we identify risks and asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples the ERM process and is charged with assess their likelihood and potential include identifying and validating concept understanding the key risks affecting the impact to people, the environment, selection or confirming the technical basis company’s business and how those risks our reputation and our business. of design for a facility. can be managed. Annually, our Chief Our Risk Management Standard, which Climate risks are considered throughout Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s applies to all assets and major capital both enterprise and functional risk Audit Committee with a comprehensive projects, helps to align and integrate risk assessments from the perspective of review of Hess’ enterprise-level risks, management across the company. The potential financial, physical, reputational the status of the ERM program and risk standard establishes a risk framework, and regulatory impacts. Further management strategies utilized under accountabilities and expectations across discussion of Hess’ approach to our corporate risk policy. The status the organization to provide a consistent and managing climate risks can be found in of EHS & SR risks and mitigations are integrated risk management process across the Climate Change and Energy section. also discussed in detail at the Board’s our assets, projects and business functions. EHS Committee meetings. Periodically, Value Assurance our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and As part of our ERM process, all assets Major investment opportunities are CRO provide an update to the Board are required to have a risk assessment assessed through our value assurance on enterprise-level risks, including the in place that is refreshed at least annually. process. This process helps to provide relative risks of assets and projects In addition, major capital projects and new increased objectivity in our investment within the portfolio. The CFO and CRO development opportunities that go through decisions by including those who are not oversee day-to-day implementation of the the value assurance process (described directly involved with the asset or project ERM process, including developing and at right) must have risk assessments in internal reviews. Following this process verifying compliance with relevant policies completed prior to each value assurance helps to provide assurance that our capital and standards. stage gate. Risk registers and reports that allocation and portfolio management are generated through these processes decisions are based on independently Hess’ ERM process is used to develop are reviewed and updated periodically as reviewed, high quality input. a holistic risk profile for each asset and part of asset and major project operating major capital project, drawing input from The value assurance reviews are risk based rhythm meetings. subject matter experts, performance and focus on economics, subsurface and data, incident investigations, lessons We also require that functional-level facility design, safety, environmental and learned and recent audits. In these risk risk assessments be included in each socioeconomic considerations, regulatory VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS INCEPTION OPTIMIZED VALUE FRAME SCREEN REFINE IMPLEMENT OPERATE • Determine objectives •E  valuate and rank • O  ptimize preferred •D  eliver refined option  eet/exceed •M DECISION DECISION option DECISION DECISION options sanction metrics • Confirm  technical and economic viability • Reduce  risks and • Develop  execution  eet Production •M uncertainties plan Excellence expectations • Select  preferred • Allocate budget option FRAMING WORKSHOPS, VALUE ASSURANCE REVIEWS OPERABILITY AND OPERATIONAL READINESS REVIEWS POST-PROJECT REVIEWS PEER ASSISTS AND TECHNICAL/FUNCTIONAL REVIEWS 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 HOW WE OPERATE requirements and other technical and business partners, employees and other or company working on behalf of Hess nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the stakeholders. We have encouraged or our subsidiaries is expected to follow potential impact of carbon cost on project our leaders to learn fundamental Lean similar principles. Failure to comply economics, we apply either actual carbon skills and then apply them to business with the Code of Conduct and related pricing where a regulatory framework problems. The leaders then coach and policies, or applicable laws, may result in for such exists, or a sustained $40 per develop employees and contractors to disciplinary action, including termination. tonne cost of carbon to the forecasted generate solutions themselves. The result All of our key compliance policies greenhouse gas emissions from significant is our distinctive Lean culture in which and procedures are described in our new projects. continuous improvement comes from Code of Conduct. These policies and the entire workforce – our “army of Through our value assurance process procedures are communicated to and problem solvers.” (see figure on the previous page) we available for all employees globally. Our bring in technical experts from across the In 2019, we conducted a follow up to Global Compliance team establishes, company, chosen based on how their the prior year’s “Take Work Out” initiative, maintains and enforces the compliance skills and experience contribute to the which helped to reduce unnecessary policies and procedures, as well as other project under review. Including experts tasks; the new initiative, called “Breakout,” processes and initiatives to prevent and from across the organization creates helped us to identify and address detect compliance violations. Our aim learning opportunities for participants to persistent pain points in efficiency that is to promote an organizational culture take back to their respective assets and require multifunctional or cross-team that is committed to ethical conduct functions and apply to future assurance efforts to resolve. The initiative resulted and compliance with the law. The Chief processes. in about 200 proposed improvement Compliance Officer updates the Audit opportunities. Senior management Committee of the Board of Directors The value assurance process is closely selected the five opportunities with the on a regular basis. aligned with our ERM process so that we greatest potential for positive impact, can apply consistent methodologies and To continuously enforce compliance and those five will be the initial focus of criteria to risks across our company. controls and embrace best practices, improvement efforts. our Global Compliance team focuses Due Diligence To support the day-to-day implementation on internal investigations and anti-bribery Our due diligence processes help us of Lean principles, we use a standard and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, assess nontechnical, aboveground risks process for selecting, training and as well as other enterprise programs when evaluating opportunities, including developing embedded Lean leaders and systems. In 2019, our Global those in new geographies. The process (ELLs), who, after completing this Compliance team investigated all issues also helps the project team mitigate process, help to train their teams in and allegations referred to the team identified risks once a commitment is basic Lean skills, improve processes through the various channels available to made to proceed. Ultimately, the process and eliminate waste in their respective our workforce, including our dedicated is complementary to our ERM and work areas. We certified approximately compliance hotline. In addition, Global value assurance workflows, utilizing the 50 additional employees as ELLs in Compliance continued to manage the necessary information at key decision 2019, bringing the total number of ELLs company’s automated approval systems points in our investment and project to about 200 enterprisewide. ELLs – which are used to review and approve planning processes. participated in multiple kaizen (Japanese higher risk transactions and relationships See more detail on these processes at hess. for “improvement”) workshops held across with our business partners – including com/sustainability/how-we-operate/keyenterprise-processes our value stream to provide sustainable our system for the disclosure, review improvements to business results for their and approval or mitigation of potential Lean respective assets or functions. conflicts of interest. Throughout 2019, For more than a decade, we have been Global Compliance also continued to work implementing Lean principles across our BUSINESS CONDUCT with key functions across the company, operations to eliminate waste, improve The Hess Code of Conduct outlines including Legal, EHS, Human Resources reliability, drive continuous improvement the business conduct and behaviors and the Corporate Audit Department, to and create value for our shareholders, we expect of our employees, officers, review potential issues and implement directors and contractors. Any individual appropriate remediation plans. 16 Offshore Operations, Danish North Sea Providing employees with effective training POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT support for HessPAC. Both direct and on the Hess Values is a key element of HessPAC indirect corporate political contributions strengthening our culture to ensure HessPAC serves as the political action are prohibited by Hess company policy. that employees understand and embody committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees HessPAC permits political contributions the Values in their daily work. As part of and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal only through voluntary employee-funded this effort, our Global Compliance team and state campaign finance and election PAC contributions. has developed in-depth online trainings laws. HessPAC is used to promote the Advocacy on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC interests of Hess Corporation. In 2019, Hess regularly communicates with an Policy and Procedure. Delivered through an HessPAC continued in its third full cycle array of stakeholders in the public policy enhanced, modular platform that highlights of operation, generated approximately arena, including legislators and regulators key concepts, the trainings include $74,000 in member contributions and both in the U.S. and internationally. examples of how employees can translate distributed $73,500 in political contributions Hess executives and our External Affairs the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. in a bipartisan manner to candidates at the function engage with legislative and All employees who are active at the time federal level. regulatory institutions to offer a unique training is launched, as well as all new HessPAC publicly discloses all of its perspective on energy policy issues, employees and certain contracted staff, are contributions to political candidates, parties to better understand federal and state required to take these trainings and certify and committees. Its federal contributions requirements applicable to our operations compliance with the Code of Conduct and are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election and to mitigate potential risks to the other applicable policies and procedures. Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In company’s license to operate. The Global Compliance team conducts 2019, we did not make any state-level Consistent with Hess principles and audits and ongoing monitoring to help contributions from HessPAC, but if we values, our legislative and regulatory ensure that all employees complete these do in the future, these will be publicly engagement is done in accordance with online trainings. At year end 2019, 98% available on the appropriate website of all applicable laws and regulations. of active employees had completed the each respective state where HessPAC is Code of Conduct training, and 99% had active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate Hess’ commitment to transparency also completed the ABAC training. funds were used to provide administrative means that the company fully complies 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 HOW WE OPERATE with all lobbying reporting requirements were used for political purposes. A list SUPPLY CHAIN outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of memberships and associations that In Hess’ day-to-day business operations, of 1995 and all amendments made to the received more than $50,000 from Hess we rely on suppliers and contractors law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership in 2019 is shown below. to provide key goods and services and and Open Government Act of 2007. In perform essential tasks. These companies We recognize that our positions do not 2019, the company’s lobbying expenses are critical to our success and our ability always align with all formal positions totaled approximately $624,200. This to maximize the efficiency of operations of the associations, organizations and includes fees and expenses for external while minimizing operational risks. In 2019, collaborative working groups in which consultants and trade association dues we purchased approximately $3.7 billion we participate. Our funding should not used for lobbying purposes, as required in commercial goods and services from be considered a direct endorsement of by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess approximately 3,000 suppliers, whose the entire range of activities undertaken also complies with any and all relevant workhours comprised more than 70% by these associations, organizations or state and foreign legal and regulatory of our total workforce hours. collaborative working groups. To address requirements concerning direct and concerns related to potential misalignment, We work collaboratively with our suppliers indirect lobbying activities and contacts. we publish our positions on key to improve performance and create Hess belongs to a number of trade sustainability issues in this annual report. shared value. We jointly review processes, associations (organized under section procedures and data with many suppliers Hess’ Vice President of External 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) to help drive the right actions and foster Affairs is responsible for approving and that include our industry peers and other continuous improvement. overseeing employee engagement with companies in related sectors. Trade elected officials or regulators when these While this section describes our general associations provide forums through employees act as official representatives approach to engagement with our which companies across the oil and of the company. This strict internal policy suppliers, these practices may differ gas industry can develop unified public extends to Hess employees who serve in certain instances, if necessary, to policy agendas, exchange technical and on trade association committees that comply with applicable local laws and industry best practices and approach advocate for policy changes. This helps requirements or if otherwise appropriate. issues relevant to our business with a to ensure that Hess continues to operate common voice. Hess requires all trade Management Approach at the highest level of integrity and associations to publicly disclose all We continue to enhance our capabilities transparency and remains compliant expenses related to lobbying activities, to understand the market and strategically with all reporting requirements. as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure manage our suppliers with cross-functional Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying As part of the regulatory assurance teams that work collaboratively to reach activities accounted for 20% of our total element of our EHS & SR strategy, we safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. lobbying spend in 2019. aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to Our Procurement Policy specifies who In 2019, none of Hess’ membership fees or should participate in the evaluation of ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing dues were used by any of our associations tenders, management of contracts assessments of our global advocacy for direct or indirect political advocacy. and ongoing procurement of goods priorities to drive improvements to our Furthermore, no payments made by Hess and services. It also includes code of process for tracking and informing our to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations ethics and conflict of interest guidelines advocacy efforts. Memberships and Associations • American Petroleum Institute • Extractive Industries • IPIECA Transparency Initiative • Center for Offshore Safety • Oil Gas Denmark • Independent Petroleum • Center for Strategic and • National Petroleum Council Association of America International Studies • International Association of Oil • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • Council on Foreign Relations and Gas Producers 18 and states that employees who violate review during procurement can be found we also require our suppliers to prioritize the Procurement Policy are subject to in the Safety and Health section. hiring local staff. Hess’ joint venture disciplinary actions. A central goal of in Guyana also seeks to employ local The companies that supply Hess with our supply chain management system, nationals and support local suppliers. goods and services must comply with all including our Procurement Policy, is to Since launching operations in Guyana applicable laws and regulations, including help ensure that suppliers understand and in 2017, the joint venture has invested in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest abide by our high ethical, safety and other $4.4 million in supplier development, and anti-corruption, and must maintain performance standards, while helping technical and vocational education and any applicable licensing or permitting us avoid unexpected commitments and economic development, much of it requirements for their activities. Suppliers leverage our spend more effectively. with a focus on building local suppliers’ are also required to meet the expectations ability to obtain work in the oil and gas Hess follows a standardized approach to set forth in our Code of Business sector or broader economy. Through the evaluate and measure the performance Conduct and Ethics and Hess’ Voluntary Centre for Local Business Development, of key potential and current suppliers Commitments regarding labor and human this investment has supported nearly on the basis of total value, including rights. Standard contract clauses include 40 supplier forums and more than 500 safety, quality, delivery and cost. We requirements with respect to ethical business assessments to ascertain the employ a systematic prequalification business practices, human rights, social strengths and weaknesses of Guyanese and selection process to help ensure responsibility, business integrity, search firms; helped register more than 2,000 we are working with qualified and safe and seizure, EHS and quality of materials Guyanese businesses for access to suppliers. Where appropriate, potential and services. opportunities through the Supplier suppliers – as determined by a risk-based Local Content Registration Portal; and conducted almost decision matrix – undergo a risk review; Internationally we often prioritize local 3,000 training days covering procurement, an anti-bribery, anti-corruption and legal suppliers when performing under the fundamentals of offshore oil and gas, compliance review; and a review of EHS production-sharing contracts or other supply chain management, financial performance and programs. In addition, agreements with host countries. These management and human resource our procurement staff reviews, where agreements vary by country. management. appropriate, the potential suppliers’ See more on Hess’ expectations and insurance, tax and quality information. In Malaysia, for example, we use an requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess. If discrepancies with our applicable approved vendor list that includes com and hess.com/sustainability/how-weoperate/supply-chain requirements arise, the relevant function Malaysian-owned companies, and within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans, as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to factors such as the number of workhours or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. In Malaysia, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on the 14 HOMS elements. Further Planning Meeting, Houston, Texas detail on our EHS-related qualifications 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 Hess Student Mentoring Program, Houston, Texas 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Hess, social responsibility (SR) means impact management, and strategic social We have endorsed or formally joined a maintaining the highest standards of investments that provide direct and indirect number of voluntary initiatives designed corporate citizenship as we work to deliver benefits to the communities where we to protect the environment, promote the energy the world needs – energy that operate. Our SR activities are designed to human rights and encourage financial is fundamental to advancing economic generate economic opportunities for our transparency. We collectively call these our progress and improving living standards. stakeholders, create valued partnerships Voluntary Commitments. They include: SR, which is one of the six Hess Values, and maximize value for shareholders. • The Universal Declaration of is foundational to the culture of our GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Human Rights company and to our engagement with the communities where we operate; it includes We are committed to implementing ethical • The International Labour Organization’s and responsible business practices in Declaration on Fundamental Principles protecting the health and safety of our all that we do. Through the Hess Code and Rights at Work workforce, safeguarding the environment of Conduct, we have established the and creating a long lasting positive impact • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact business conduct and practices we expect on our communities. of our employees, officers, directors and • The Extractive Industries Transparency Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive contractors, including adherence to the Initiative stakeholder engagement, social risk and highest standards of human rights. The Sustainable Development Goals The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – which was adopted by U.N. Member States in 2015 – provides a shared blueprint for global development. Central to the Agenda is a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set ambitious targets and foster cooperation among governments, civil society and the private sector. As part of our materiality assessment (see page 6–7), we align our material issues with the SDGs to track our greatest impacts and evaluate where our strategic actions and ongoing operations have the most significant potential to promote progress toward the SDGs. The following table summarizes how the SDGs align with our material issues and where discussion of those topics can be found in this report. RELEVANT SDGS HESS MATERIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION (PAGE #) • Human Rights and Security 21–22, 24 SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages • Process Safety and Spills 30–33, 54–55, 57–58 • Transportation Impacts 29 SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote • Community and Stakeholder Engagement 24–25 lifelong learning opportunities for all SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and • Process Safety and Spills 30–31, 54–55, 57–58 sanitation for all • Water Management 53, 55–56 • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 39–51 SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern • Regulatory Assurance 58–59 energy for all • Transparency in Business Conduct 14–17 SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic • Community and Stakeholder Engagement 19, 35–36 growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 39–51 SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine • Emergency Preparedness and Response 31–33, 57–58 resources for sustainable development SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial • Process Safety and Spills 30–32, 57–58 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and • Regulatory Assurance 58–59 halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss • Water Management 53–56 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2019, we also endorsed the Equality with resource owners, communities and INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER Act, and in doing so became a member stakeholders from across the industry ENGAGEMENT PROCESS of the Human Rights Campaign’s and civil society to develop oil and STEP 1 Business Coalition for the Equality Act. natural gas resources in a manner that Identify Risks & Issues The Act, which is still under review in the is environmentally and socially responsible. U.S. Senate, would guarantee explicit, We prioritize safety, integrity and STEP 2 permanent protections for lesbian, gay, transparency and aim to treat all of our Establish Internal Accountabilities bisexual and transgender people under stakeholders with respect. We actively STEP 3 existing civil rights laws and create a federal pursue dialogue with stakeholders – standard to treat all employees the same. including local communities, employees, Identify Key Stakeholders Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to contractors, suppliers, customers, industry STEP 4 provide a foundation for our SR and members, governments and investors – Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, to share our values, vision and goals and Outline Engagements for example, compels us to demonstrate to seek feedback. STEP 5 high standards of ethics and integrity Stakeholder Planning and Monitor & Track and outlines our commitments to the Engagement Process communities where we operate and to Our stakeholder planning and engagement and tracking the key issues, with updates to our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy process is aligned with and included in the Business Owner and, as required, other specifically prohibits child labor, forced the Hess Risk Management Standard. senior management at least twice per year. labor and workplace harassment in our Alignment with this standard helps to operations; it also covers key issues establish clear links between our stakeholder Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to relating to our supply chain and community identification and engagement activities identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host engagement. These policies are supported and the key external issues impacting each communities while improving our business at the local level through training and asset. We maintain individualized External and strengthening our license to operate. procedures specific to the needs of our Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for each We engage with a wide range of external operational locations. of Hess’ operated locations. stakeholders, including the following: The individualized EAS Plans involve a five • Land Users/Landowners: Residents, Organizational Structure landowners, commercial land interests, Hess’ External Affairs function serves as step process (see graphic above right). farmers, ranchers an internal coordination body and resource The first step is understanding the specific • Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral for our assets and project teams as they risks faced by each asset as identified rights owners, water rights owners and implement our SR commitments and in the asset-level risk register and “heat users, hunters, fishers, gatherers programs. External Affairs develops maps” and then prioritizing those risks • Governments: Local, regional and governance, reports companywide that are most critical to Hess’ license to national authorities, national militaries, social performance, provides technical operate. In the second step, we establish international governing authorities and functional support to the assets and documented internal accountabilities for • Parties with Direct Economic Interests: project teams, and provides assurance managing each key issue – including Investment partners, vendors and across these efforts. The asset and identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an suppliers, contractors, unions, project resources report into the individual from senior management with shareholders business line management structure accountability for the issue) and an Issue • Parties with External Business and are responsible for developing and Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals Interests: Chambers of commerce, executing assetor project-specific SR responsible for managing the ongoing industry organizations, local businesses, plans. SR activities are integrated and strategy and engagement to mitigate sustainability initiatives aligned between our central organization stakeholder impacts). In step three, each • Special Interest Groups: and global locations. Issue Manager, with support from our Nongovernmental organizations, religious External Affairs function, documents the groups, cause-oriented nonprofits, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT community groups relevant stakeholders, and then in step four As we work to help meet the world’s outlines the engagement strategies for those • Community Services: Police, fire and energy needs, we partner as appropriate emergency medical services, health stakeholders. The final step is monitoring care services, education, human service agencies 22 • Indigenous Groups: Formally Engagement with Bakken Stakeholders Leads to Efficiencies recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, Hess’ suppliers and business partners represent one of our key external stakeholder indigenous advocacy groups groups. After identifying inefficiencies in the process for contractor safety orientation in the Bakken region, we worked through the North Dakota Petroleum Council (NDPC) Recent examples of our stakeholder and with select stakeholders to create a more streamlined system. engagement activities can be found at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility Dozens of producers and hundreds of contractor companies operate in the Bakken region in North Dakota, and most contractor companies have been required to attend Grievance Mechanisms safety orientations for each producer before they can begin work. In conducting our In the communities where we operate, Bakken contractor orientations, Hess noted that many participants were disengaged, we do our best to address potential having been through similar orientations already with other producers. issues early – before they mature into In early 2018, at a meeting of the NDPC, Hess proposed a single, shared safety more severe challenges – and we believe orientation program that all producers would use and that contractor employees would only have to take once. Those trained through such a program would be given a card, that strong and transparent stakeholder similar to a driver’s license, that would identify them as ready to work in the Bakken. relationships help us to do that. Formal The idea was met with significant support, and Hess took the lead in chairing a new grievance mechanisms are an important NDPC committee to develop the program, which was named One Basin–One Way. part of soliciting stakeholder feedback on Developing the One Basin–One Way safety orientation required deep and long term a company’s operational impacts; they engagement with a wide array of industry stakeholders. The NDPC committee had 99 members representing 50 different companies – from oil and gas producers to safety also help companies respond to and act training providers to contractor companies (e.g., drilling rig operators, casing crews, on that feedback through an established welding companies, construction companies and more). At least 4,000 hours of work process. Hess’ grievance mechanisms went into developing the program, which launched in June 2019. help facilitate stronger relationships As of year end 2019, more than 11,000 workers had earned One Basin–One Way with communities, landowners and certifications, and over 1,300 contractor companies had registered. Thirteen producer other stakeholders and allow for a more companies are participating to date, and the program has been formally endorsed by the governor of North Dakota. This significant and collaborative engagement effort has effective response to concerns from the resulted in a program that is providing major efficiencies for all involved companies – community. We have reached out to essentially exporting our Lean philosophy beyond the walls of Hess – and should also community members through forums bolster safety in the region. such as community meetings, town halls and local hearings to share information When alerted to a potential issue, the our stakeholder engagement process, about our grievance mechanisms and to response team draws employees from described previously.) The response team establish channels of communication. various disciplines within Hess – such as strives to complete each investigation Through one of the grievance mechanisms EHS, drilling, completions, operations, within 14 days of the original report and at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback maintenance, civil construction and human provide a response and/or resolution within and complaints (anonymously, if desired) resources – that are best able to respond 30 days. As a final step before closing through several access points, including our to the concern and reach a resolution. a case, we contact the stakeholder to Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner For example, safety concerns are forwarded confirm the issue has been adequately Solutions team, our North Dakota front to Hess’ EHS function; individual worker addressed. Trending data on grievances desk staff and our Surface Land team. complaints are handled by Human are reported upward to the Bakken We receive and address concerns relating Resources; and business integrity or ethics Leadership Team, composed of key senior to employee and contractor performance, complaints are referred to our Code of decision makers for the Bakken asset, as behavior and activities toward external Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. part of our regular operating rhythm. stakeholders. We may also receive feedback By engaging each discipline as appropriate, Separately, we maintain a grievance on environmental, health and safety (EHS) we escalate management of the grievance mechanism for landowners and mineral concerns and workplace, procurement and upward in the company as necessary to rights holders associated with the Bakken supplier issues. The most commonly raised help resolve the issue. asset. Specifically, we have an Owner topics include road conditions, erosion, We maintain an internal database – the Relations telephone hotline, webpage land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and stakeholder management system (SMS) and email address through which these weed control. In 2019, we received 318 – to track these grievances from start individuals can ask questions and share grievances through this process. to completion. (The SMS also supports concerns and complaints. Our Owner 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT in our Human Rights Policy. We utilize 2019 MANAGEMENT an online human rights training module 2019Social SocialInvestment Investment Spend Spend by byCountry Country When we expand or grow our for employees that explains the concept $$Thousands Thousands operations, we work with stakeholders to and importance of human rights, reviews 2% 2% proactively identify, mitigate and manage our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance aboveground risks that can impact our on integrating respect for human rights 12% 12% activities or the communities where we into employees’ daily work and provides operate. When entering a new geography, directions on how to report suspected commissioning a new development or human rights violations. expanding an existing facility, Hess uses strategic planning processes to examine COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING the social, political and reputational As part of Hess’ commitment to the 86% 86% environment and identify nontechnical communities where we operate, we focus risks and mitigation activities. Where our ■ U.S. $6,596 on creating local shared value, mutually ■ ■U.S. $6,596 Guyana $930 operations are ongoing, we regularly ■ ■Guyana Malaysia $930$133 beneficial relationships and a safe and ■ Malaysia $133 conduct heat map reviews that take into reliable environment for our operations. account new and emerging risks and At the local level, our assets and Houston develop recommended mitigating actions. operational headquarters create, maintain 2019 Social Investment Spend by Type of Investment We address human rights considerations and implement strategic social investment, 2019 Social Investment Spend $ Thousands throughout these processes, including by Type of Investment capacity building and infrastructure 2% $ Thousands1% during due diligence and social risk improvement programs tailored to each 2% 1% identification, mitigation and management. operation and community. 5% We also have a Security4% and Human Rights 5% 4% We evaluate our programs to confirm Toolkit that we can utilize locally for training a balance of strategic investment and security personnel on human rights issues. support of local organizations, which helps 34% 34% 58% Human Rights us meet the changing development needs 58% Everywhere we operate, we work to of the communities where we operate. uphold human rights and treat everyone Hess focuses on established partnerships with dignity and respect. By engaging with key organizations and projects best with stakeholders, we aim to proactively aligned with the business and social risks ■ Community $4,414 ■ Community $4,414 ■ ■ Education $2,639 Education $2,639 address potential issues and work to identified through risk assessments. We ■ Matching Gifts $417 ■ Matching ■ Health $119 Gifts $417 prevent human rights-related incidents. integrate this strategy into our business, ■ Health $119 ■ Environment $70 ■ Environment $70 Hess’ complex operational environments enhancing investment visibility and Note: These charts include all social investments in 2019, including those Note:associated with joint These charts include all operations. venture Noncash orin“in social investments kind” including 2019, contributions those present opportunities to make positive leveraging volunteer opportunities for our have been included category of the within theoperations. social issue they support. associated with joint venture Noncash or “in kind” contributions and lasting contributions in the areas of employees. have been included within the category of the social issue they support. governance, transparency, respect for Our social investment programs contribute Relations and Owner Support teams rule of law, and social and economic to education improvement and work skill manage this system and use the SMS development. development, which are fundamental to to track open issues and help ensure Our business practices are aligned with sustainable economic growth. We also resolution. In 2019, these teams received our SR and Human Rights Policies. seek to identify opportunities in our supply and responded to more than 30,000 emails Human rights issues are analyzed at chain to provide lasting economic benefit and phone calls, assisting an average of various phases of our business activities, through local job creation. 17 customers per hour. beginning with due diligence. In 2019, our social investments totaled Also in 2019, we worked to integrate Hess is committed to educating our $7.7 million, with $2.6 million going toward these two grievance mechanisms to personnel on the importance of respecting education projects. increase visibility and improve access human rights as well as raising internal to both programs. awareness of the best practices outlined 24 Local Program Highlights In 2019, Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities. The following are selected highlights. LEAP Program in Houston In 2019, we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program for three more years to help keep at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training through reading, summer programs and collegeand career-readiness training. Hess has contributed more than $2.1 million to LEAP over the past three years. LA1 Coalition in Louisiana As part of the LA1 Coalition, Hess continued supporting efforts to replace and elevate a section of the LA1 highway near Port Fourchon, Louisiana – a key port for offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico. The new roadway is expected to improve emergency response capabilities and the hurricane evacuation route. Hess has contributed more than $800,000 to the public–private partnership. JET Apprenticeships in North Dakota Hess continues to fund the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program, which, for the past two years, has developed local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. JET graduates also earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential. Since 2017, 26 apprentices have entered the JET program, 14 have completed the apprenticeship and 11 have transitioned to be Hess employees. Toy Trucks in North Dakota We continued our partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office in 2019, shipping toy trucks and a corresponding science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach to every elementary school in North Dakota. The materials help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM-related lessons. Education in Malaysia Hess sponsored the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) program again in 2019, bringing 12 ETAs to teach English in public secondary schools in Kelantan, Malaysia. The program reached almost 9,000 students through classroom learning as well as 29 English camps. Hess also began funding a new education program under the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary Programme, which provides annual scholarships to underprivileged children from the Orang Asli indigenous community. Capacity Building in Guyana In 2019, Hess’ joint venture in Guyana invested more than $3 million to support a number of initiatives, including the Centre for Local Business Development and technical and vocational training for recent graduates. In addition, the joint venture evaluated the potential to fund future capacity development initiatives that would support economic development, health, education and training in Guyana. Centre for Local Business Development, Guyana 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico 26 SAFETY AND HEALTH The safety of our workforce is Hess’ In 2019, we again conducted “Go to improve safety performance. Through first priority and one of our core values, Gemba” events to engage our workforce 2019, our North Dakota asset has embodied within the Hess Value of in conversations about safety, with a trained 275 frontline leaders to be Social Responsibility. Through our safety focus on improving pre-job planning safety role models. A senior leader was programs and practices, we seek to and job safety assessment tools and designated to attend the kickoff session maintain a culture in which employees techniques. Gemba means “the real for each class to demonstrate leadership and contractors keep each other safe place” in Japanese and, in practice, support, set expectations and model the on the job, so that everyone across our “Going to Gemba” means having leaders behaviors outlined in the workshop. With operations returns home safe every day. from Hess visit our worksites to better a look toward continuous improvement understand safety challenges and of our leadership training, we’ve been Our commitment to safety begins at reinforce our commitment to “everyone, collaborating with the Center for Offshore the top of our company, and it is our everywhere, every day, home safe.” Safety and the International Association expectation that this commitment be When a site’s workforce includes contract of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set reinforced at every level. For example, workers, managers from our contractor of process safety fundamentals, and we we include key enterprisewide safety companies will often accompany our plan to integrate this into our training in metrics in our annual incentive plan leaders on these visits. The 2019 the future. formula for executives and employees. Gemba events took place in January We also conduct leadership site visits MANAGEMENT APPROACH and November, as data from recent years and safety observations to engage our At Hess, our objective is continuous indicated that both months have higher organization in safety performance. In improvement in safety performance, with incident rates; therefore these events 2019, we completed approximately the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. present key opportunities for reinforcing 194,000 site visits and observations, which The Hess Operational Management safety practices. we track as leading performance indicators. System (HOMS), which is discussed in Hess is participating in the development of the How We Operate section, serves as Our annual Global Safety Appreciation the American Petroleum Institute’s Onshore a framework for managing and measuring Day, hosted last year in November, Safety Program, drawing on our own our safety performance. provides an opportunity for the Hess experience to support improvement within workforce to stop and reflect on safety Over the past several years, we have the oil and gas industry. This effort aims to issues – including the prevention of severe formalized and standardized many of establish standards for managing activities and significant incidents – and discuss in U.S. onshore exploration and production how we can further embed safety into the operations that have historically high Hess culture. In 2019, we used the event EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE incident rates in the industry. The intent to reintroduce and update our universal, of the program is to raise awareness and mandatory safety requirements known as TIER I improve understanding of best practices Corporate Audit the Hess Rules. The original Rules focused and create effective and efficient safety Department: on energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, Evaluates risk programs that are standardized across and control structure working at heights, confined space entry, onshore upstream operations. hot work, excavation and trenching, and TIER II land transportation. We added two new After the 2018 refresh of our safety Central EHS: Rules, addressing dropped objects and leadership training program, staff from Verifies compliance to standards safety system bypass procedures, to set Hess’ asset operations and our central clear expectations intended to protect Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) employees and contractors who function continued to train frontline TIER III Assets and Facilities: perform certain activities on Hess leaders on specific Hess expectations Tests systems and barriers operated worksites. and processes to minimize risk and 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 SAFETY AND HEALTH as with regulations, and assist the assets Local Efforts in addressing identified improvement Around the globe, Hess assets demonstrate their commitment to safety every day, opportunities. whether by achieving outstanding results or continuously improving their processes. The Tier III Assurance level constitutes In North Dakota, we deployed a routine task procedure program in 2019 to streamline permitting for routine tasks relating to energy isolation. The aim was to improve control of routine self-assessments by assets against work and risk management and create efficiencies in pre-job planning for routine and low corporate EHS standards, corporate and risk activities. We developed a standardized risk assessment matrix to assess routine tasks asset-level procedures, and regulations. and identify which tasks could be risk assessed in advance. By doing the risk assessment at the outset, operators no longer need a permit for each routine task they conduct and thus In 2019, Hess’ CAD conducted Tier I can focus more attention on higher risk tasks. Specifically, if the task is verified to be low EHS audits and consulting activities in risk, a worker can proceed without a permit. However, if site conditions such as weather, simultaneous operations, changes in process temperatures or pressures warrant, additional accordance with the Board’s approved plan site controls, such as following standard work instructions or proceeding through the for the year. Based on asset requests, Hess permit-to-work process, may be required. We are planning additional improvements in subject matter experts also completed 2020 to increase the effectiveness of this program and streamline daily planning. various Tier II assessments in 2019. At the At our North Malay Basin asset, we celebrated several notable safety milestones. Tier III level, self-assessments in the form of Between May 2017 and September 2019, production operations at the asset achieved behavioral safety observations, leadership 1 million workhours with no lost time injuries (LTIs), completing activities such as hookup and commissioning, piping installation, start up, production and planned shutdown. In site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig September 2019, our Tok Bali Supply Base reached four years LTI free, and in November inspections and other reviews occurred 2019 our Kemaman Supply Base reached seven years LTI free. Both supply bases provide throughout the year. logistics for our North Malay Basin offshore production operations and have rigorous safety programs in place, including monthly safety and health committee meetings, safety OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY walkabouts and hazard hunts on vessels and onshore bases, and contractor engagement and onboarding. These efforts were a driving force behind the asset being awarded the Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership Hess CEO Award for Safety Excellence as well as the Offshore Self-Regulation Excellence for occupational safety by empowering Gold Award from the Malaysian Department of Occupational Safety and Health. workers and giving them the responsibility to identify and mitigate the safety issues relevant to their operations. our EHS practices across the company The HOMS Assurance Procedure through our global EHS standards project. operates in three tiers, as shown in the For example, our behavioral safety These safety standards and associated figure on the previous page. At the Tier I observation program (BSOP) trains procedures address key areas of safety Assurance level, and as an independent workers to conduct peer-to-peer risk – such as energy isolation, dropped assurance function within the corporation, workplace observations in order to identify objects and confined space entry – the Hess Corporate Audit Department and track safe and at-risk behaviors. and promote leadership, awareness, (CAD) conducts annual audits following a Immediate feedback is given to workers consistency and accountability across risk-based plan that covers various topics, who have been observed, and behavioral all levels of the organization. The recent including occupational safety and health; trends are analyzed to identify broader update to the Hess Rules, discussed drilling, completions and production opportunities for improvement. previously, helps to better align the Rules process safety; and management of Our U.S. onshore assets have had with our EHS standards. environmental impacts. CAD’s annual plan behavioral safety programs in place since is reviewed and approved by both the We review conformance with the 2011, and best practices developed at Audit Committee and the EHS Committee external and internal requirements those assets were codified into Hess’ of Hess’ Board of Directors, while the (e.g., regulations, policies, standards enterprisewide BSOP Standard in 2017. audit results are reported to and reviewed and procedures) related to the various Since then, we’ve been working to deploy by the EHS Committee. HOMS elements through our HOMS the standard across our assets, and, with Audit Element and associated Assurance At the Tier II Assurance level, working implementation at our operated assets Procedure. This procedure was developed collaboratively with Hess assets, subject in Denmark and Malaysia in 2019, the as part of our transition to HOMS in 2019; matter experts and technical authorities BSOP Standard has now been deployed it is an update and expansion of our conduct assessments to evaluate enterprisewide. As part of implementation previous assurance program and covers conformance with corporate and asset of the standard in Malaysia, we hosted a all HOMS assurance activities. EHS standards and procedures, as well “train the trainer” session in September 28 2019, which included teaching Hess aircraft used to support our operations. workshops early in 2019 to engage workers the basics of behavioral While our aviation contractors have our employees and contractors in safety, analysis and identification, and experienced no significant Hess-related discussions about safety performance conversation skills. BSOP programs aviation accidents or injuries in more than and to develop safety improvement promote continuous data collection and 25 years, we continuously work with plans. We also reemphasized the collaborative sharing of best practices these contractors to further reduce risk. importance of mitigating high risk and safety information across Hess Through these efforts, over the past five activities through our update to the assets. Going forward, we aim to analyze years our aviation contractors have moved Hess Rules. Ultimately, we were able these collected data on an ongoing basis more passengers with fewer flights, to achieve a 33% reduction in our to identify specific actions for continued reducing the number of flights supporting SSSI rate from April to December. improvement. our operations by 35% and overall flying hours by 11%. In 2019, in response Transportation is another key focus of to the expanded use of unmanned our occupational safety efforts at Hess. Employee and Contractor aerial systems to survey our assets and Safety Performance We address land, aviation and marine Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.6 operations, we increased oversight to transportation safety through a variety proactively validate that safe practices are of programs. 0.5 0.57 used and regulations are met. The Hess Land Transportation Standard 0.4 Our approach to marine transportation has three pillars: driver training and 0.41 safety is addressed under the Contractor competency, the use of in-vehicle 0.3 Management heading later in this section. 0.31 monitoring systems for company owned vehicles, and journey management0.2 Key Performance Metrics planning. Hess workers are required to Our full workforce total recordable 0.13 take proactive driver training0.1prior to the incident rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.43, 0.09 first time they operate a motor vehicle on which was higher than our 2018 rate 0.05 company business, with refresher0.0 training of 0.32 and our target of 0.28. The 2017 2018 2019 required every three years. Our Land uptick was driven by an increase in our Transportation team publishes weekly contractor TRIR, as our employee rate ■ Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) ■ Contractor TRIR safety bulletins that address key topics, dropped by 62% year over year. Our such as distracted driving, safe parking full workforce lost time incident rate and safety technology. These bulletins are increased from 0.08 in 2018 to 0.18 in Workforce Safety Performance* also provided to many of our contractors. 2019. Our severe and significant safety Cases per 200,000 Hours Our key contractors are required to incident (SSSI) rate, which incorporates 0.5 comply with Land Transportation Safety incidents that have the potential to result 0.43 Recommended Practice, Report 0.4 No. 365, in severe consequences as well as Tier published by the IOGP. Correlated with 2 process safety events and recordable 0.32 0.3 these efforts, our collisions per million incidents, stood at 0.54 for 2019, 0.24 miles traveled declined by 69% 0.2 from 2016 slightly above our target rate of 0.46. 0.18 to 2019. We experienced no workforce fatalities 0.1 0.08 0.08 Hess’ Corporate Aviation Safety among either employees or contractors Management System and HOMS 0.0 form during 2019. 2017 2018 2019 the basis of our aviation safety program. In response to incidents throughout the Our aviation standards and procedures year, our assets conducted root cause ■ Workforce TRIR ■ Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) frequently exceed national regulations analyses and implemented corrective *H ess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. in our countries of operation, and we actions across our onshore and offshore When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day regularly conduct aviation contractor operations. Certain of our assets also of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals. safety audits, site visits and readiness initiated a series of site visits, safety reviews to monitor the safe operation of surveys and safety improvement 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 SAFETY AND HEALTH To improve safety performance, New Software Tools Support Global Safety tracking near miss incidents that have the potential to result in severe During 2019, we worked on the development of three new software tools that aim to consequences is as important better manage risks to people, property and the environment. as tracking incidents that result in The electronic Permit to Work (ePTW) and electronic Management of Change (eMOC) systems aim to improve consistency across processes, optimize and automate standard an actual consequence. We require work and assure operational and regulatory compliance. Both systems are expected to that near miss incidents be reported improve our understanding of risk and support better risk management and decision internally and recorded into our making, especially during simultaneous operations and emergencies. incident management system as if an PTW requirements seek to ensure that risks are mitigated prior to conducting work, actual consequence had occurred. personnel are involved in planning the work and conducting a risk assessment, proper authorization is in place for the work to be carried out, the person in charge of an area is Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive aware of the ongoing work, and a formal hand back of the facility or equipment in a safe plan metrics include a target aimed condition is in place. The ePTW system supports HOMS Element 7, which establishes the at reducing the rate of severe safety design, operational and maintenance requirements for new and existing operations and incidents, which includes near miss support activities. ePTW also helps to support several Hess Rules – including energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, working at heights, confined space entry, dropped object incidents with potential severe prevention and hot work – by improving the process for meeting the Rules’ requirements. consequences. The eMOC software aligns with Element 8 of HOMS, which establishes a requirement for effective management of planned or unplanned changes to people, processes and PROCESS SAFETY equipment. We began the enterprisewide rollout of both systems in early 2020, and The aim of our process safety program is their implementation is ongoing. to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled The third tool, deployed in North Dakota in 2019, is a mobile safety observation program loss of primary containment of any that is helping Hess employees and contractors to capture safety observations at field material, including materials that are locations. The software platform enables the recording of safety observations in real time. It includes a standardized methodology for capturing observations and allows nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, for continuous learning and sharing of best practices. nitrogen, compressed air), that could These three software systems have transformed legacy systems into efficient digital result in an incident such as an injury, processes – giving employees and contractors ready access to the information they fire, explosion, toxic release or need to do their jobs. environmental impact. We focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems In 2019, we continued to enhance our Another strategy we have pursued to that could impact asset integrity and the process safety systems by building upon minimize process safety risk is to enhance safe and proper operation of equipment. the competency assurance and learning our integrity management program. In particular, we address: (CAL) programs – which define, assess Integrity critical equipment (ICE) are and develop workforce competencies barriers and safeguards that prevent or • Design integrity: reducing risks in the – that were already in place at certain mitigate process safety incidents through design and construction of facilities of our assets. We are in the midst of a detection, isolation, containment, control • Technical integrity: inspecting, testing multiyear process to build a standardized or emergency preparedness and response and maintaining hardware and approach to CAL, define safety critical within our facilities. We have established software barriers job profiles across the enterprise and ICE performance standards, which set • Operational integrity: working within integrate CAL with HOMS. (See the How specific requirements and criteria for operational design parameters We Operate section for more on HOMS.) inspections and tests that help to ensure Standardization will allow us to have ICE barriers are effective. In 2019, we again Our approach to process safety involves a common CAL program as well as a surpassed our target of 98% inspection identifying, managing and mitigating common CAL electronic management and testing of ICE, with approximately risks across Hess operations. We do system. In 2019, we mapped certain 15,000 critical performance standard this by raising awareness of risks among job profiles with safety critical assurance test work orders completed. In our workforce, providing strong safety competencies and began developing 2020, we plan to continue reinforcement of leadership and maintaining a commitment an assurance strategy. critical maintenance compliance through to continuously improving our process a pilot of Hess technical authority-led safety procedures, systems and standards. integrity assessments of barrier health. 30 Understanding the role of barriers in (PSEs). However, we experienced an also diligently prepare to respond effectively relation to hazards, threats, events and increase in our combined Tier 1 and Tier to any emergency that may occur. consequences – in other words, “barrier 2 PSEs over 2018, which was our best Emergency preparedness and response thinking” – is a key part of our ongoing year to date, with six Tier 1 PSEs in 2019 exercises help us to engage our process safety efforts. Our Gulf of Mexico (compared with three in 2018) and 10 employees and key stakeholders, employees and contractors continue to Tier 2 PSEs (the same as in 2018). We including our contractors, in preparing use “bow tie” diagrams to help visualize have investigated all 2019 Tier 1 and for and responding to an incident. threats, barriers and consequences. Our Tier 2 incidents and are implementing These exercises range from notification North Malay Basin asset implemented a appropriate actions that are expected to drills (in which personnel practice the bow tie program on its platform in 2019 prevent similar incidents in the future. communication protocols required in case and is working toward implementation of We also track Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are of an emergency) to full-scale equipment a similar program on its floating storage leading process safety indicators primarily mobilization exercises. In the event of an and offloading vessel in 2020. designed to monitor risk control systems incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness In Denmark, we strengthened barrier and process safety barriers at the facility, and response program is designed to effectiveness and maintenance in 2019 asset or enterprise level. Hess uses these respond to actual or threatened injuries as part of our effort to obtain third-party KPIs to drive continuous improvement at to people, spills and releases to the validation for the asset’s performance particular facilities. For instance, our global environment, damage to our assets and standards, as required by European Drilling and Completions team tracks impacts to the company’s reputation – Union legislation. We are working to Tier 3 KPIs relating to well control system in that order of priority. validate the existing bow ties in the performance. An example of a global Preparedness at Hess involves our asset’s safety case, which is a regulatorily Production Tier 4 KPI is the execution response organization (illustrated on required study unique to individual of required maintenance on ICE, which the next page), engagement with officials offshore installations that aims to identify was an indicator that was again included and communities, emergency facilities and mitigate safety risk. In 2020, our in the 2019 annual incentive plan bonus and response plans. We hold trainings aim is to validate our maintenance calculation for employees. and exercises to define and clarify roles, management system by conducting a EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS responsibilities and resources. Continuous third-party audit of performance tests on AND RESPONSE improvement is an essential element of our selected systems. While Hess’ safety programs are designed Emergency Preparedness and Response Key Performance Metrics to help prevent incidents from occurring, we Standard by which we incorporate lessons Hess tracks process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant Planning and Response Regarding the COVID-19 Pandemic to the IOGP’s Process Safety – In early 2020, an outbreak of a new coronavirus strain became a deadly global Recommended Practice on Key pandemic. Our first priority in this crisis has been the safety of our workforce and Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, the communities where we operate. November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 We established an enterprisewide, cross-functional team specifically for COVID-19 and activated response teams for each of our locations in Europe, Asia and the U.S. The and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an objective is to protect health and safety while assuring continued reliable operations. enterprisewide level in both internal and These teams have implemented a variety of health and safety measures in consultation external reports. with suppliers and partners based on the most current recommendations by government and public health agencies. This includes enhanced cleaning procedures, Our goal has been to continually reduce health screenings, travel restrictions, extended work schedules at offshore platforms, our number of process safety events and social distancing initiatives such as remote working and reducing the number of personnel on worksites wherever possible. We continue to keep our workforce informed about updated guidance from health Process Safety Events officials, Hess’ actions, and available benefit resources through internal channels such 2017 2018 2019 as emails, the company intranet site, virtual town hall meetings, internal social media posts and supervisor-led small group virtual meetings. Tier 1 7 3 6 PSE Count We also reached into our communities to help those most vulnerable to the pandemic’s impact, such as lower income families with children at home, medical professionals and Tier 2 22 10 10 first responders and hospitality workers in need. PSE Count 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 SAFETY AND HEALTH oil spill recovery equipment and offshore the standard requires that we give HESS EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION vessel operations. contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance As part of our joint venture with and existing safety management systems. Incident Support Team ExxonMobil in Guyana, we participated IST If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory HOUSTON in an incident command system training grade based on EHS criteria, the asset involving Guyana response agency vice president or director must endorse stakeholders, with Hess providing Incident Management Team a safety improvement action plan before IMT delivery assistance. We also participated ASSET that contractor may be approved for in a functional exercise simulating hose procurement or provide services on a Hess failure and pump malfunction during an controlled work location. If an operational uncontrolled spill, and we tested the TIER 1 Emergency Response Team ERT situation (such as an emergency) requires FACILITY notification and communication process the use of a contractor that has not between ExxonMobil and Hess. completed the prequalification process At our Houston operational headquarters, or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS learned from incidents and exercises into we conducted medical drills to practice grade, the asset vice president or director our preparedness planning, training and and refine our response programs. We must approve the use of the contractor, future exercises. also took steps to improve our cyber crisis and asset management must provide management plan with a risk analysis and increased oversight. In 2019, we conducted several subsequent tabletop exercise to identify preparedness trainings and exercises at the As an extension of the Contractor areas for improvement. local level. In North Dakota, for example, Management Standard, we developed a local response teams and Hess employees CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT new risk-based contractor engagement participated in emergency response plan Contractors are critical to Hess’ operations, procedure in 2019 that requires certain trainings and equipment deployment comprising more than 70% of our total engagement activities based on a drills, including one at the Tioga Rail workforce hours and performing key tasks contractor’s EHS risk profile. One of the Terminal, enacting firefighting and spill in our operations. required activities is to perform “bridging” response tactics. Federal regulators, state for higher risk, in-scope contractors. The We use a recognized industry law enforcement and local fire services procedure also established a corporatewide safety database to standardize our participated in a functional exercise for a bridging philosophy and methodology, prequalification processes across multiple catastrophic event at the Tioga Gas Plant. which should help bring consistency to the sites for our U.S. operations. This enables We also conducted equipment deployment bridging process and associated bridging us to clearly communicate requirements drills on Lake Sakakawea, in partnership documents. Once issued, the procedure is and expectations to our contractors and with county emergency management anticipated to help prioritize engagement share information efficiently across Hess departments. with higher risk contractors and align operations. We also now require that our contractor management resources In the Gulf of Mexico (GOM), we revised U.S. asset subcontractors register in the accordingly. and tested the GOM Regional Well database, to provide another layer of Containment Plan through a worst-case visibility into subcontractors and to validate We audit contractors to verify compliance discharge scenario functional exercise that work done on behalf of Hess meets with applicable Hess EHS requirements; involving one of the offshore production our EHS expectations. contractor EHS requirements; local, state platforms. Participants included the and federal requirements; and industry HOMS addresses contractor capabilities U.S. Coast Guard, the Hess Incident standards and best practices. In addition, and competencies, and, as part of Management Team and various spill new contractors working on Hess this framework, we have implemented response and well control cooperatives. controlled worksites must take part a Contractor Management Standard in an onboarding process. Separately, the GOM Incident at our operated assets. The standard Management Team visited partner oil spill includes requirements for both current We also work to ensure that our recovery and response organizations to and potential new contractors to whom contractors receive safety training along observe and learn more about the use of the standard applies. For example, with our employees. In 2019, our North 32 Malay Basin asset held its annual Logistics EHS Week in Tok Bali, Malaysia, to create greater safety awareness among contractors, employees and community members. Eleven logistics contractors participated, including marine, land and aviation transportation companies. Similarly, and as noted at the beginning of this section, we held engagement workshops with contractor partners in North Dakota to discuss safety performance and develop safety improvement plans. Hess’ enterprisewide marine assurance framework, as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program – a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum – form the basis of how we evaluate marine contractors and vessels. The program helps to ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ Supply Base Operations, Malaysia performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans by a nutritionist, exercise programs and to promote the health of workers. may be needed. shared by personal trainers and outdoor In 2019, NIOSH conducted in-depth, HEALTH AND WELLNESS events to increase physical activity. We on-site studies at Hess locations on At Hess, we prioritize the health of our also maintain a random drug and alcohol occupational health and industrial hygiene employees and contractors both on testing program for employees and select topics, including, for example, taking a and off the job. In key locations – such contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort comprehensive look at the presence of as Houston and North Dakota – and for includes the management of regulatory chemicals in the atmosphere at a worksite eligible employees and their spouses, drug testing programs required by the U.S. from start to finish of a drilling operation. we offer a comprehensive wellness Department of Transportation and the Separately, Hess’ industrial hygienist program that encompasses emotional, U.S. Coast Guard. studied reliability operator job tasks, social, physical and financial wellbeing. looking at the use of solvents and common We also continue to evaluate health risks The program includes annual on-site oilfield chemicals in our operations to as technologies in drilling and operations flu vaccines, biometric screenings and better understand potential exposures evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked health and wellness fairs. Our health and from such use. These types of studies help with the National Institute for Occupational wellness fairs bring local vendors directly Hess continue to improve work practices, Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of to employees and select contractors raise awareness among oilfield workers of the federal Centers for Disease Control and during business hours and provide many potential hazards, and find and promote Prevention – to stay abreast of changes additional options for improving personal ways of reducing risks in our operations to regulations and trending health topics health, including meal plans developed and throughout the industry. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 Planning 34 Room, Houston, Texas OUR PEOPLE Our priority is to make Hess a great place Recruiting Diverse Hires bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) to work, now and for the long term. We In 2019, we implemented several initiatives equality and inclusion. deliberately shape our employee culture to help us attract more diverse job We remain committed to fostering the by focusing on quality leadership, candidates and new hires. For example, professional growth of women and fostering diversity and inclusion, creating we introduced a new video recruiting minorities at Hess. As an example, learning and engagement opportunities, technology, HireVue, to expand the reach Women Inspiring Success and Excellence driving innovation and embracing Lean of our university recruiting and attract processes. Through our Life at Hess more diverse talent into our early career initiative and a range of other policies and programs. We also became a member 2019 Employees by Region programs, we seek to deliver a positive of the National GEM Consortium, which Americas 1,528 86% and fulfilling employee experience. supports the development of diverse Asia-Pacific 150 8% STEM (science, technology, engineering EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS Europe 94 5% and math) talent at the master’s and Ph.D. At the start of 2019, Hess had 1,708 levels. As part of the Genesys Works Africa 3 <1% employees, and as of December 31, program, we welcomed two more high2019, we had 1,775 employees. Of this school-level interns – for a total of four year end total, approximately 86% were 2019 Women and Minority* – who represent diverse backgrounds. located in the U.S. and 14% were in Representation Lastly, we worked to improve our candidate international locations. WOMEN experience for Hess applicants. (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Fostering Inclusion Total At Hess, we are committed to diversity and JOB Employees in Number Percent Hess is also committed to fostering an CATEGORY Job Category of Women Women to providing equal employment opportunities inclusive work environment in which each for all employees and job candidates Executives and person is a valued team member who Senior Officers 31 5 16% regardless of race, color, gender, age, continually learns and grows. In 2019, we Firstand Midsexual orientation, gender identity, creed, 441 99 22% expanded our Unconscious Bias training Level Managers national origin, genetic information, disability, to our U.S., Malaysia and Denmark Professionals 874 273 31% veteran status or any other protected managers, and 475 employees completed status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, the training in these locations. Other 429 79 18% promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other Through Life at Hess, we are helping TOTAL 1,775 456 26% aspects of employment. Hess’ Inclusion to ensure that inclusion is woven into MINORITIES and Diversity Council provides executive our culture, policies and programs. (U.S.BASED EMPLOYEES) leadership and direction to our hiring, work As a testament to our efforts, Hess was Total environment and development activities. included in the 2020 Bloomberg GenderJOB Employees Number of Percent CATEGORY in Job Minorities Minorities Equality Index, which tracks and reports Category We do not tolerate any form of workplace on public companies’ performance on Executives and harassment, including sexual harassment. Senior Officers 30 4 13% gender equality and representation in the We reinforce these expectations through Firstand Midworkplace, as well as transparency in Level Managers 359 68 19% our Code of Conduct, our recently reporting on gender. We also received an updated Equal Employment Opportunity Professionals 756 195 26% 85% score on the 2020 Human Rights and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies, Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Other 383 64 17% training for U.S.-based managers, other Index (CEI). The CEI ranks more than human resources policies and our Human 1,000 of the nation’s largest businesses TOTAL 1,528 331 22% Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. on their practices related to lesbian, gay, *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 OUR PEOPLE (WISE) – a Hess networking group with External Efforts conversations and support employees in chapters in Houston, New York and We take part in external efforts and career choices. We also rolled out revised North Dakota – has a vision to “help professional organizations that are helping technical career maps to our engineering promote and cultivate leadership skills, to make our industry more diverse. In and geosciences staff. business practices, career opportunities 2019, for example, we publicly endorsed One of the aims of our career development and personal contacts for women.” WISE the Equality Act, and in doing so efforts is to help employees advance within is run as a “Lean-In Circle” and uses became a member of the Human Rights the company. Over the course of 2019, we workshop modules from Lean-In Energy, Campaign’s Business Coalition for the had more than 200 internal promotions and the industry chapter of the national Equality Act. The Coalition is a group of approximately 300 internal moves. organization based on Sheryl Sandberg’s more than 260 leading U.S. employers bestselling book, Lean In. To underscore that support the Equality Act, which would Integrating Lean our commitment to gender equality, our guarantee explicit, permanent protections We have continued our work to establish Senior Vice President of Production serves for LGBTQ people under existing civil a distinctive Lean culture across the on Lean-In Energy’s board of directors, rights laws and create a federal standard enterprise. Embedded Lean leaders – and Hess was a sponsor of its new online to treat all employees the same. employees who are highly trained in Lean mentoring platform. Our relationship with – help to ensure we put Lean principles Also in 2019, we engaged with groups the Lean-In organization provides Hess into practice effectively. We also encourage such as the National Business & Disability employees with external opportunities for employees to participate in training and Council at the Viscardi Center, the National enrichment, development, networking and engage in coaching and mentoring to Diversity Council, the U.S. Business digital mentoring. support their Lean skills development. Leadership Network, the National Action Also in 2019, we continued to provide Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Learning and Development U.S. employees with a corporate Society of Women Engineers and the We’re committed to fostering a culture of membership to the Women’s Energy Veteran Jobs Mission. We also support continuous learning. Our enterprisewide Network (WEN), sponsored WEN’s 30th additional membership organizations that learning management system – anniversary celebration and sent Hess promote diversity. CareerManager Learning – houses representatives to serve as leaders at computer-based training modules and the Women’s Global Leadership Forum TALENT MANAGEMENT supporting materials for instructor-led and the HERWorld Energy Forum. We take a strategic and deliberate courses. It also tracks and records approach to talent development so employee training and measures Tracking Our Performance that our employees have meaningful training effectiveness through surveys To gauge our progress, we track our U.S. opportunities and a clear path to grow and evaluations. In 2019, approximately employee demographic metrics, including with the company and become future 900 employees participated in various the proportions of Hess’ workforce that are leaders. CareerManager trainings, for a total of female and minority (as defined by the U.S. CareerManager, our human resources roughly 9,100 hours. (These numbers do Department of Labor). From 2018 to 2019, system, provides a common platform not include our mandatory safety training, the numbers of both female employees and and offers a range of tools to manage which is tracked and reported separately.) minority employees remained consistent. talent development. In 2019, we launched We also track the number of local national New Hires and Early Career a new tool, CareerManager Talent, employees in our international operations Programs that provides senior managers with a and report publicly where the number is Passport to Hess is an onboarding standard approach to assess and track 100 or more. Overall, the proportion of and orientation program for new Hess the development of future leaders while local nationals and of nationals holding employees designed to facilitate a smooth facilitating real-time conversations with managerial or professional positions has transition through close interaction with their teams. In 2020, we plan to give more grown over the past five years. During this supervisors. The experience begins with managers access to the tool. period, the percentage of local nationals access to a pre-hire portal that enables In 2019, we launched a refreshed new employees to learn about their work increased from 85% to 98% in Denmark approach to career development, location prior to their first day on the job. and from 75% to 89% in Malaysia. helping managers to have more effective After starting at Hess, employees can 36 access a structured, on-demand learning participating in the wellness program. We Europe and Asia. Many more were held program that explains our culture and expanded long term disability benefits for locally in Denmark, Houston, Malaysia values. In addition, supervisors receive our employees and now cover the entire and North Dakota. We use town halls to tools and coaching to guide them in cost. We continue to provide seminars on provide updates on business priorities and helping new hires successfully integrate into financial and health-related wellness topics. performance, reinforce strategy and values, their work teams. For our U.S. employees, we continue to and answer questions from our workforce. extend all benefits coverage to spouses and Early career engineers and geoscientists can We launched a new program in 2019 called partners and offer transgender benefits and take part in our Foundation Program, which “Greg on the Go” – a short employee Q&A equitable benefits for LGBTQ employees helps prepare them for their careers through audiocast with our COO Greg Hill. and their families. focused training, mentoring and on-the-job As part of Life at Hess, we rolled out a assignments. The Foundation Program, with In celebration of our company’s 85th manager education program to help leaders 63% of its membership comprising women anniversary in 2018, every employee understand how to leverage Hess policies and minorities, reflects our commitment to below senior executive level was granted and practices, rewards and recognition diversity. Through the program, we maintain 85 shares of Hess stock – a gift intended programs, and career opportunities to relationships with universities that align to reward and engage employees in the enhance the employee experience. In with our values, standards and business future success of the company. In 2019, 2019, we recast the Hess Excellence operations. Hess leaders serve as members we began the practice of awarding stock Awards to recognize individuals and of the academic advisory committees of to new hires, so that all Hess employees teams for exceptional accomplishments some of these universities. are shareholders. that exemplify our Hess Values. Hess has also continued to support the Job EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We improved our education assistance Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship To positively enhance employees’ program, giving employees immediate program in North Dakota. Over the past experience at Hess, we use a range access to the full benefit (rather than two years the program has graduated local, of engagement tools, including small providing an annual stipend) and enabling qualified reliability operators who also earn group discussions, focus groups, town new employees to take part right away. a U.S. Department of Labor credential. hall meetings, interactive webcasts and In 2019, 57 employees took advantage Through JET, we partner with local high regular pulse surveys. We regularly share of this program. We also introduced new schools and the Transitional Assistance information with and solicit feedback flexible work schedules, which provide Program at Minot Air Force Base to source from employees about our business more work-life balance, for all employees new candidates who are looking for performance, programs and processes. in North Dakota and office-based employment opportunities. Since 2017, 26 We utilize the company intranet and digital employees in Malaysia. apprentices have entered the JET program, signage at our major locations to share 14 have completed the apprenticeship and information in a timely manner. Finally, we continue to make a lasting, 11 been brought onto Hess as new hires. positive impact on our communities Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief through volunteering and giving. Our BENEFITS Operating Officer (COO) host small group Volunteer Policy allows employees, We are committed to providing our sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, with manager approval, to participate employees with high quality service and to discuss enterprise opportunities and in company sponsored volunteer events value when it comes to benefits. In 2019, challenges. In 2019, Hess convened during business hours. Employees can we provided more than $96 million in 29 Leadership Dialogue sessions at our request matching gifts of up to $5,000 benefits to our U.S. employees and Houston operational headquarters, our annually for personal donations, and continued to refine and expand our benefit regional offices in North Dakota and qualified charities may receive a $500 offerings. For example, we introduced a new Malaysia, and via video conference with grant on behalf of employees who wellness program focusing on the emotional, offshore and field locations – reaching more support that charity on their own time. social, physical and financial wellbeing of than 500 employees. our employees and subsequently expanded In 2019, our employees spent nearly Also in 2019, we held three town hall 6,400 hours volunteering and donated the program to spouses and partners. meetings that were webcast to offices more than $416,000 through our matching Employees can earn company contributions and offshore platforms in the U.S., gift program. to their Health Savings Accounts by 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 Drilling Operations, North Dakota 38 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess’ Climate Change Position Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires unrelated to the energy transition, and we intend to continue to governments, businesses and civil society to work together on reflect the IEA’s scenarios in our future analyses. cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should Hess’ strategic priorities – to invest only in high return, low cost be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and opportunities, build a focused and balanced portfolio at low reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global prices and lower our portfolio breakeven costs – are aligned with economic development in the context of the United Nations the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA’s SDS, in which (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s Hess supports the aim of the Paris Agreement, and Hess’ Board growing energy demand. Our business planning includes actions of Directors and senior leadership have set aggressive targets we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Over the past 12 consistent with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel years, our company has reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 on Climate Change (IPCC) and the aim of the Paris Agreement equity GHG emissions by approximately 60%. to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. We are committed to developing oil and gas resources in an We will continue to take steps to monitor, measure and reduce environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our Board our GHG emissions through the following actions: is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing • Setting and disclosing our targets to reduce the carbon Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior intensity of our operations management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. We are committed to • Applying technological innovation and efficiency to decrease transparency, and our strategy is closely aligned with the energy use and GHG emissions across our operations, and recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task continuing to explore additional opportunities to do so Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). • Investing in innovative research and scientific solutions to In 2019, we once again tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio mitigate climate change under the energy supply and demand scenarios from the • Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new International Energy Agency (IEA) 2019 World Energy Outlook investments (WEO), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s well below 2°C Sustainable Development Scenario • Incorporating carbon risk scenario analysis into our business (SDS), and confirmed the robustness of our portfolio and our planning cycle inventory of forward investments. We expect the IEA’s views to • Working with government and industry partners to advance continue to evolve, including in response to macro events the development of a range of low GHG emission pathways and technological advancements EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT and governments on climate changeto our goal of top quartile performance We engage with key stakeholders – related topics. It is not a lobbying in this regard. In addition to preparing including government agencies, investors, organization, but instead provides a forum this sustainability report in accordance private landowners and communities – on for encouraging continuous improvement with the Global Reporting Initiative’s select issues including climate change, of industry performance. IPIECA enables Standards at the Core reporting level and we will continue to communicate our collaborative work with stakeholders by and establishing our alignment with the performance on these topics in this annual promoting an understanding of the key TCFD recommendations, we participate sustainability report and the sustainability role the oil and gas industry should play in a number of voluntary initiatives related section of our company website. in providing innovation, global reach, to climate change disclosure. We have knowledge and technical expertise to help been recognized for our climate change Hess is an active member of IPIECA on develop and implement feasible future stewardship, achieving leadership status in sustainable development issues such as energy solutions. the CDP’s 2019 Global Climate Analysis for climate change, biodiversity impacts and the 11th consecutive year. Hess is one of access to energy – issues that are often Hess has consistently been recognized only two U.S.-based energy companies to too complex for individual companies as a leader in the oil and gas industry for achieve leadership status, earning an A-. to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its our disclosure and transparency relating According to the CDP Score Report, members by engaging with stakeholders to sustainability, and we remain committed 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks of climate change. Moreover, the TCFD is fast becoming the benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. In 2018, we completed our first scenario-based annual carbon asset risk assessment to evaluate Hess’ transition risks. Subsequently, we expanded this analysis to include measuring physical and reputational risks, completing the necessary steps to be aligned with the TCFD’s approach to analyzing climate-related risks and opportunities. The TCFD guidelines describe the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD FRAMEWORK: HESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) • Maintain the Board of Directors’ EHS Committee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters 2–3, Governance • Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters, to help ensure they remain climate 13, 41 change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies • Maintain a Climate Change Position, and update it as needed to align with internal initiatives and stakeholder expectations • Support the aim of the Paris Agreement • Continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage GHG emissions and evaluate emission reduction opportunities; set targets to reduce GHG emissions, methane and flaring Strategy • Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and 39–51 the CDP Climate Change survey • Purchase renewable energy credits, in combination with renewable energy generated from the grid, to offset 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity, and purchase carbon offsets to mitigate 100% of our business travel-related emissions • Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change • Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change-related risk • Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment, including applying a $40 per tonne carbon price in geographies where no specific regulation yet applies Risk • Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (first published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that 14–16, Management evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the IEA 41–46 • Conduct scenario planning to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions (the results of our portfolio-specific scenario planning analysis are summarized later in this section) • Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess Metrics progress against targets 46–51 and Targets • Maintain our 25% GHG intensity reduction target (established in 2015), which is aligned with the IEA’s 2019 World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development Scenario projection of a 21% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 our score is higher than the oil and gas which confirms, through an external For the 10th consecutive year, we were extraction and production sector average review, our alignment with the TCFD’s included in the Dow Jones Sustainability (C), the North America regional average (C) recommendations. Index North America, which highlights and the global average (C). We obtained an A  ccess our latest CDP Climate Change public companies with outstanding Aby earning high marks in many of the response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/ performance across economic, sustainability/climate-change-energy leadership categories critical to the TCFD, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change. 40 GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT We also assess how climate change may Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside Through our enterprise risk management impact water availability and water stress senior management and actively oversees (ERM) process, we have developed risk in the areas we operate using the World Hess’ sustainability practices, so that profiles for each of our assets that identify Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool. sustainability risks – including those key risks – including those related to In 2019, we began an evaluation of our related to climate change – are taken into climate change. For each risk scenario, approach to physical risk assessment account when making strategic decisions. we estimate the likelihood and potential to inform enhancements to our process, impact that the identified risks, including The Environmental, Health and Safety including how it is incorporated into physical, reputational and transition(EHS) Committee of the Board is tasked our wider ERM process. As part of this related climate change risks, could have with assisting the Board in identifying, effort, we have commenced an inon our business. We compile all identified evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and depth pilot assessment of our Gulf of risks on an integrated risk register that strategies with the potential to affect the Mexico operations, which will consider catalogs actions for managing or people, environment or communities where the potential impact to our facilities and mitigating each risk. we operate or our company’s business infrastructure – including logistics and activities, performance or reputation. The Transition Risks export – as well as how these may be Hess Board is routinely briefed by experts Transition risks are the risks associated affected by predicted future climate to help ensure they remain climate change with the rate of change in policy actions, change scenarios (e.g., increasing storm literate and that climate change-related technologies or market conditions aimed intensity, coastal flooding, etc.). This work risks are considered in the development of at the emission reductions, energy is still ongoing, and it is our intention to company strategies and policies. Our Vice efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be incorporate the learnings from the pilot President of EHS also met regularly with needed to achieve climate-related aims. In into the risk management processes the Board’s EHS Committee in 2019 to order to assess a broad range of transition across our operated assets. provide updates on climate change-related risks, and as an integral part of our planning We also maintain insurance coverage issues and strategic initiatives, to review cycle, we now conduct an annual scenariofor physical damage to our property and external drivers for strategy and reporting based carbon asset risk assessment, as liability related to negative environmental and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. discussed on pages 42–45. effects resulting from a sudden and See the How We Operate section for more accidental pollution event, excluding detail on governance. Physical Risks Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, Hess considers the physical risks INVESTMENT DECISIONS for which we are self-insured. The amount associated with climate change – such All significant new investment proposals, of insurance covering physical damage is as increased severity of storms, drought as presented for approval to senior based on the asset’s estimated replacement and flooding – for both new projects management, incorporate the cost value or the estimated maximum loss. and existing operations through our of carbon as set out in our planning ERM and value assurance processes. Reputational Risks guidance documentation. In geographies For example, meteorological and The TCFD has identified climate change where there is an established regulatory oceanographic studies undertaken for as a potential source of reputational risk framework in relation to carbon dioxide offshore developments include modeling or opportunity for companies. According (CO2) cost, impacts are included in the that incorporates assumptions from to the TCFD, the types of reputational risk base case of the investment analysis. the latest climate change science. and opportunity posed by climate change Where there is currently no regulatory Mitigations to address changing storm can include: framework, results are presented as a magnitude are incorporated into the • Shifts in consumer preferences sensitivity. Investment decisions are made design of our facilities, and severe in the context of such evaluation and on weather management and business • Stigmatization of a sector return-on-investment criteria to balance continuity plans are maintained for • Increased stakeholder concern or risk and return. Hess’ Greenhouse Gas severe weather events such as Hurricane negative stakeholder feedback Cost in Project Economics guidance Harvey, a Category 4 storm that caused (Continued on page 46) document for incorporating GHG costs widespread flooding and damage to the in project economics was first published Houston area in 2017. internally in 2016. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Carbon Asset Risk Assessment Climate-related issues have evolved from an environmental extend (see www.iea.org/weo2019/). These scenarios are concern to also include financial considerations. Our recognized as a leading industry standard and benchmark stakeholders have therefore expressed an interest in worldwide, and are, therefore, an appropriate choice for an understanding how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be oil and gas producer such as Hess. impacted by a transition to a lower carbon economy. Although Such scenarios and therefore our own assessment of carbon an energy transition to a lower carbon economy is underway, it risk are premised on a longer term view of energy supply and is widely considered that there are multiple pathways to achieve demand. We expect that recent events related to the global this transition, creating uncertainty as to trajectories to a low COVID-19 pandemic and near term global oversupply of oil carbon environment and the pace and scale of change. will have a short term impact on the various IEA energy supply To help quantify climate-related risks and opportunities – and to and demand scenarios as published in the 2019 WEO. In 2020, provide perspectives to our investors and other key stakeholders we plan to update our scenario analysis to reflect the IEA’s – Hess conducts an annual scenario planning exercise as a interpretation of the impact of recent market conditions methodology to assess portfolio resilience over the longer on its longer term forecasts. term. This scenario-based approach allows us to assess and According to the IEA, the emphasis on strong early action and communicate to our shareholders our understanding of future the subsequent rapid reduction in emissions means that the SDS risks and opportunities in relation to the potential evolution of is aligned with the Paris Agreement objective to hold temperature energy demand and mix, the emergence of new technologies, and rise to well below 2°C, while pursuing efforts to limit the possible changes by policymakers with respect to GHG emissions. temperature increase to 1.5°C. If technologies that remove Because the TCFD recommends transparency around key carbon from the atmosphere (i.e., those that allow for “negative” parameters, assumptions and analytical choices, Hess has emissions) were to be deployed at scale in the second half of the chosen to model the three main scenarios detailed in the IEA’s 21st century, then the SDS would provide a 50% chance of a 1.5°C 2019 World Energy Outlook against our own internal base outcome (see the IEA chart on the following page). The planning case. Furthermore, the TCFD recommends that cumulative level of net emissions required to do this would organizations use a 2°C, or lower, scenario to test portfolio be less than the median level in the 1.5°C scenario assessed resilience – in other words, a scenario under which global by the IPCC. warming is kept to well below a 2°C increase compared with The group of three charts on the next page depicts the 2019 preindustrial levels. Such scenarios usually feature reductions WEO’s world energy demand and CO2 emissions under the IEA’s in demand for oil, natural gas and coal; growth in clean three main scenarios. technologies; and a reshaping of trade flows, among other assumptions. The Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) in In the Stated Policies Scenario, which is the IEA’s central scenario, the IEA’s 2019 WEO, which is part of Hess’s modeling, fits within worldwide energy use is expected to grow by approximately 24% this recommendation. between 2018 and 2040 (see the IEA chart on the following page). While there is a decline in demand for coal, oil and natural gas in Considerations for Carbon Risk Scenario Assessment this scenario between 2018 and 2040 – most notably in the To evaluate the potential exposure of our portfolio to transition European Union (E.U.) – it is offset by increased demand elsewhere risks in a carbon-constrained future, we began by considering during that same period. Ultimately, demand for oil and gas is the long range outlook for energy supply and demand, as well as projected to grow in the Stated Policies Scenario by 9% and 26%, for oil, gas and carbon prices. We have used the IEA’s 2019 WEO respectively, over that period and account for 53% of the energy to examine supply and demand and oil, gas and carbon price mix in 2040, down only slightly from 54% today. scenarios through 2040 in the Current Policies Scenario and the Stated Policies Scenario, and through 2050 in the SDS, which In the Sustainable Development Scenario (consistent with are the years through which these respective IEA scenarios limiting the rise in global average temperature to well below The IEA 2019 World Energy Outlook’s Three Main Scenarios • The Current Policies Scenario is the business-as-usual case. • The Stated Policies Scenario incorporates energy policy and implementing measures affecting energy markets that may have been adopted (chieﬂy the Nationally Determined Contributions – i.e., the emission reductions agreed to by individual countries under the Paris Agreement), even though specific measures necessary to put them into effect may need to be fully developed and implemented. • The Sustainable Development Scenario reﬂects a pathway to achieving key energy-related components of the U.N. Sustainable Development Agenda – including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and measures to improve poor air quality – and is consistent with limiting the rise in global average temperature to below 1.8°C at a 66% probability or 1.65°C stabilization at a 50% probability, without any recourse to net-negative emissions. 42 2°C), worldwide energy use is projected to experience a modest oil and gas fields remains an essential element of the energy decline of 7% between 2018 and 2040. Oil and gas are still transition. Approximately $510 billion is estimated to be expected to account for nearly half of the energy mix (47%). spent on average each year between 2019 and 2030, while $390 billion is spent between 2030 and 2040. While the Sustainable Development Scenario projects lower oil demand in the 2040 timeframe, the IEA states that In contrast, since the oil price crash of 2014, upstream oil and “continued investment in both new and existing oil fields, gas investment has been curtailed. Investment has ranged even as overall production declines in line with climate goals, between $350 billion in 2016 and $420 billion in 2019, with is a necessary part of the energy transition envisaged in the investment for 2020 now expected to be further reduced to SDS” (2019 WEO, page 95). between $300 billion and $350 billion. Even with a major capital reallocation from fuels to power, the IEA’s Sustainable In terms of the continuing upstream oil and gas investment Development Scenario requires upstream oil and gas investment required to meet such demand, in the Stated Policies over the next decade significantly above the average over the Scenario annual spending averages $650 billion between past five years. The oil and gas industry is a long cycle business, 2019 and 2030 and $730 billion thereafter. In the Sustainable such that this continued underinvestment is a risk that could Development Scenario, although fewer new developments manifest itself as a medium term supply gap, where recent levels are required, continuing investment in both new and existing of investment are insufficient to meet medium term demand. World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario 25 50 Current Policies Stated Policies Sustainable Development 20 Thousand Mtoe 40 Billion Tons of Oil Equivalent Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide 15 30 10 20 Gt 5 10 0 0 2000 2018 2030 2040 2000 2018 2030 2040 2000 2018 2030 2040 ■ Coal ■ Oil ■ Gas ■ Nuclear ■ Renewables ■ Solid Biomass CO2 Emissions Trajectories for Total CO2 Emissions in the Sustainable Change in Production of and Demand for Coal, Oil and Natural Development Scenario and to Limit Warming to 1.5°C Gas in Selected Regions in the Stated Policies Scenario, 2018–2040 45 Sustainable Development Scenario 900 Million Tons of Oil Equivalent Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide 600 30 Million Tons of Oil Equivalent 300 Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide 15 0 1.5°C with no From SDS toward 1.8°C negative emissions 0 -300 From SDS toward 1.5°C -15 -600 2000 2020 2040 2060 2080 2100 Middle India United Africa Russia China SE E.U. East States Asia ■ Coal ■ Oil ■ Gas Change in Demand 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 43 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Carbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued Hess’ Approach to Scenario Planning Hess Portfolio NPV Index* The TCFD recommends that, once a below 2°C scenario is 125 established, companies should define a base case or business-as120 usual outlook for the future. The base case should use the same set of metrics as the below 2°C scenario (e.g., oil demand, carbon prices and other market factors) and share the same fundamental 100 20% 100 economic foundations. Establishing multiple scenarios allows measurement of the delta between metrics at future points to % Percent properly understand the envelope within which risk and opportunity may occur. 75 Hess’ approach to scenario planning is aligned with the TCFD recommendations. We have prepared internal guidance that details our approach and establishes a specified methodology. 50 This also serves as a roadmap for our external verifier to review Hess Base IEA Sustainable and verify that we followed our specified methodology when Case Development Scenario conducting this scenario analysis. *The NPV index normalizes the value of the Hess portfolio under Hess’ base case Our first step in this process was to establish a Hess base case, to 100%, and indexes the value of the Hess portfolio under the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario to the Hess base case. which for 2019 was premised off a long term $60 per barrel Brent and $2.75 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) Henry Hub natural gas price, both in 2020 real terms. In addition, we applied either actual carbon pricing for our assets and intended forward investments where a regulatory framework for such exists, or a the Paris Agreement’s aim of limiting the rise in the global sustained $40 per tonne cost of CO2. Hess’ base case was then average temperature to well below 2°C, as the scenario compared against the various oil, natural gas and carbon prices in incorporates a 66% probability of 1.8°C stabilization and a the IEA’s three main scenarios – Current Policies, Stated Policies 50% probability of a 1.65°C stabilization, without any recourse and Sustainable Development – running our current asset to net-negative emissions. portfolio and intended forward investments through these varying sets of assumptions to assess financial robustness. In the chart above, the first column shows the net present value (NPV) of the Hess portfolio under our base case commodity The three charts below show the oil, natural gas and CO2 prices and CO2 price assumptions, normalized to 100%, and the second under the IEA’s Current Policies, Stated Policies and Sustainable column shows the NPV of the Hess portfolio under the IEA’s Development scenarios against Hess’ base case. As these charts Sustainable Development Scenario and CO2 price assumptions show, there is a wide spread of oil, natural gas and carbon pricing as an index to the Hess base case. The NPV of the Hess portfolio across the three IEA scenarios, a key ingredient for informative under the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario assumptions scenario planning. is 20% higher than under the Hess base case assumptions. Results of the Hess Scenario Planning Exercise This result demonstrates the robustness of Hess’ portfolio against Through our methodology, we have tested the robustness of even the most challenging of the IEA’s scenarios, aligned with Hess’ asset portfolio and intended forward investments under the goals of the Paris Agreement, driven by our conservative multiple energy scenarios, including the IEA’s Sustainable planning assumptions as they relate to commodity prices and Development Scenario. We note that the latter is aligned with the competitive pipeline of future investments in our portfolio. Crude Oil Price Natural Gas Price CO2 Price 200 8 160 U.S. Dollars per Barrel, 2020 Real Terms U.S. Dollars per MMBtu, 2020 Real Terms U.S. Dollars per Tonne, 2020 Real Terms 150 6 120 100 4 80 Hess Base Case IEA Current Policies Scenario 50 2 40 IEA Stated Policies Scenario 0 0 IEA Sustainable 0 Development Scenerio 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 44 Validation of Hess Strategy Hess Strategic Priorities With the lower oil demand assumed in the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario, industry competition may intensify, and some higher cost producers may be forced out of the Invest Only marketplace. We therefore believe our scenario analysis in High Return, Low Cost validates Hess’ strategic priorities to focus investment on Opportunities high return, low cost oil and gas opportunities and to build a focused and balanced portfolio, robust at low prices. We believe this strategy is consistent with the IEA’s Sustainable Prioritize Return Build a Focused & Development Scenario, which envisions a meaningful role for oil of Capital to Balanced Portfolio Shareholders – Robust at and gas through 2040, when oil and gas are still projected to Low Prices account for 47% of global primary energy demand. COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Although recent events and market conditions have necessitated major reductions to our 2020 capital and exploratory budget, longer term, Hess plans to allocate the majority of our capital expenditures to developing the company’s growth assets offshore Guyana and in the Bakken shale play in North Dakota. Grow Free Cash Maintain Financial Flow in a Disciplined, Strength and Our offshore oil discoveries in Guyana are among the industry’s Reliable Manner Manage for Risk largest and lowest cost discoveries made globally over the last decade. The Liza Phase 1 and Phase 2 developments have industry leading long term oil price breakeven costs of $35 and $25 per barrel Brent oil respectively, which more than meet Hess’ investment hurdle rate. They also have rapid investment payback plus strong cash flow generation under a range of oil prices, In summary, based on the results of our 2019 scenario planning thereby underpinning and validating Hess’ strategy. In the Bakken, analysis, we conclude that it is highly unlikely any of our assets Hess has approximately 1,900 locations that can generate at least would be “stranded” by the CO2 pricing under even the most a 15% internal rate of return at $50 per barrel West Texas ambitious of the IEA scenarios – the Sustainable Development Intermediate (WTI). That equates to greater than 60 rig-years Scenario, which is consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement. for the company, assuming one rig drills 30 wells per year. The IEA is clear in its conclusions that oil and gas will continue We expect that the combination of Guyana’s extremely low to remain a key part of the world’s energy solution for many breakeven costs along with aggressive cost reduction activities decades to come. And, based on this scenario planning exercise in the Bakken will contribute substantially to structurally lowering and Hess’ strategic priority of being among the lowest cost oil our portfolio breakeven costs. As a result, Hess is well positioned producers, we believe that during the projected period we can for the long term to retain our share in the marketplace as a low continue to monetize our reserves and deliver strong cost producer, even with the gradually reducing global oil performance under a wide range of market conditions. demand projected under the IEA’s SDS. Top Offshore and Shale Plays* Hess Bakken Locations with Investment Breakeven WTI Rate of Return of 15% or Higher Gross Number of Economic Locations at Various WTI Prices** Guyana (Liza) breakeven is the lowest of major offshore developments and shale plays >3,000 2,950 BreakevenBreakeven WTI (U.S. WTIDollars perper Barrel) 60 2,700 50 40 1,900 (U.S. Dollars Barrel) 30 20 900 10 0 U. Po S. G w O za WTI $40/bbl $50/bbl $60/bbl $70/bbl $80/bbl de Co r Ri tto n Va veM r J. Ca M st belle rgy Li on Ba y tn kk e en ~30 ~63 ~90 ~98 SC O O Za m a Rig >100 Ea gl P/ Br ST az il e NW ord F Sh el SJ DJ Ba f sin Years** J. Sv Ba er sin du p Pe Vi rmki ng ia Ju bi le n e *RS Energy Group, Offshore First Class: The L.I.Z.A Framework, January 2018. Onshore single well **Point forward January 2019, locations generating higher than 15% after tax return. breakeven costs include facility costs and general and administrative costs and exclude acquisition costs. Assumes approximately 30 wells per rig-year. Includes Middle Bakken and Three Forks. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 45 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Reputational Risks, continued stock market fluctuations. In addition, we the impact of the divestitures that took In 2019, to address this potential risk as found that these types of climate-related place in 2017 and 2018. However, we have identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook an risks, for the most part, have already been maintained our commitment to achieving exercise to measure the potential impacts identified through Hess’ ERM process our original 25% GHG emissions intensity of changes in corporate reputation (driven and are being managed and mitigated and 50% flaring intensity reduction targets. by climate change risks and opportunities) through that process. Going forward, we In the operated GHG emissions and flaring on Hess’ market valuation. Our analysis will continue to explore more tangible ways charts that follow, we reference divested attempted to use a Capital Asset Pricing to quantify reputational risk. assets for the purpose of continuity. All Model (CAPM) to calibrate the historical target-related discussions are based on METRICS AND TARGETS relationship between the stock price return restated numbers, which remove the As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, of Hess to changes in our RepRisk score, impact of the divestitures. we have established three targets aligned oil prices and Standard and Poor’s Oil and with the TCFD’s criteria for target setting. GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE Gas Stock Price Index. RepRisk – a global We have committed to: We report GHG emissions from our data science company focused on due diligence of material environmental, social •R  educe the GHG emissions intensity of oil and gas assets on both operated and governance (ESG) risks – produces our operated assets by 25% by 2020 and equity bases. Our GHG emission a quantitative summary of the ESG risk (versus a 2014 emissions baseline) estimates include carbon dioxide, exposure of a company, including climate•R  educe the flaring intensity of our methane and nitrous oxide – reported related risks. RepRisk’s assessment of the operated assets by 50% by 2020 in units of carbon dioxide equivalent ESG risk exposure of a company is based (versus a 2014 emissions baseline) (CO2e). In 2014, Hess began using on the company’s activities observed by global warming potentials based on the • Lower methane emissions intensity from media, stakeholders and third-party sources values in the Fourth Assessment Report: our U.S. onshore upstream operations to and excludes information provided by the Climate Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared less than 0.47% by 2025 company itself. Hess’ current RepRisk score by the IPCC, to estimate CO2e totals. of 19 (as of May 2019), places our company The 2019 WEO’s updated Sustainable Approximately 94% of Hess’ direct in the low risk exposure category, which is Development Scenario, similar to their 2018 reported (Scope 1) operated GHG comparable to or better than most other oil SDS, requires an ambitious 21% carbon emissions are from stationary and gas companies. intensity reduction by 2030 in order to be combustion sources such as flaring, consistent with a less than 2°C aim. This The goal of our analysis was to measure heaters, turbines and engines. The 21% carbon intensity reduction figure is the potential impact of changes in factors used to estimate emissions for derived from the Sustainable Development RepRisk scores for Hess resulting from these sources enterprisewide are those Scenario’s CO2 emissions divided by the publication of a series of historical prescribed by the U.S. Environmental primary world energy demand in 2030 news articles related to climate change Protection Agency (EPA) in its GHG versus 2017. Hess’ 25% GHG intensity risks and then correlate this impact to Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part reduction target, referenced above, which a change in market valuation for Hess. 98, Subpart C). The remaining 6% of was set in 2015 and is based on our The CAPM model showed a moderately our reported operated GHG emissions operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions statistically significant correlation between are from a variety of noncombustion divided by production, exceeds the IEA’s our stock price and our RepRisk score, and fugitive emission sources such Sustainable Development Scenario goal of when general market conditions were as storage tanks, compressor seals, a 21% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 assumed to be held constant; however, pneumatic pumps and valves. For such and is therefore consistent with the Paris this did not result in substantial changes sources at onshore facilities, we use the Agreement’s 2°C ambition. in Hess’ market valuation. While we found emission factors prescribed by the U.S. this exercise helpful, measuring and valuing Based on the Hess GHG Inventory EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting reputational risks and opportunities is Protocol, which is published on our Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). challenging because of the difficulty of company website, and as part of our target Hess uses other appropriate regulatory isolating the long term climate changesetting process, we restated our 2014 or industry-specific factors to estimate related reputation impacts from other baseline and subsequent years’ emissions fugitive emissions for all other facilities. company-specific, industry-related and in our 2018 Sustainability Report to remove 46 We also report indirect emissions decreased 57% through a combination of 2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 associated with purchased electricity emission reduction initiatives, asset sales GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE 2018 OPERATED 2019 Operated SCOPE 1 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) and refinery shutdowns. GREENHOUSE Thousand GAS Tonnes Emissions 2 by Source BY SOURCE COEMISSIONS e 6 50 Tonnes Thousand TonnesCO CO2e2e emissions. 6 Thousand 50 Scope 1 and 2 Equity Emissions 45 55 6% 45 Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Our major source of Scope 1 and 255 40 6%40 35 In 2019, of the estimated 4.3 million emissions from nonoperated oil44 and 44gas 35 30 tonnes of gross GHG emissions reported assets in 2019 was from the 33A-18 34% 30 60% 25 33 25 from our operated oil and gas assets, Block in the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 34% 20 60% 20 3.9 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, Development Area. Our equity emissions 22 22 15 15 primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, from this asset were approximately 11 11 10 10 and approximately 0.4 million tonnes 1.2 million tonnes. 5 5 00 00 0 0 were Scope 2 emissions, from purchased Major sources of emissions from our 2014 2014 2017 2016 2017 2019 2016 2018 2018 2020 2019 2020 ■ Flaring 2,384 electricity. Process operations (primarily operated assets in 2019 included those ■ Fuel Combustion ■ Flaring1,324 2,384 ■ Other 227 fuel combustion) and flaring accounted from the Tioga Gas Plant and our North ■ Fuel Combustion 1,324 ■ Other 227 for 34% and 60% of our Scope 1 GHG Dakota, North Malay Basin and offshore emissions, respectively. Gulf of Mexico production assets, which In 2019, our absolute GHG emissions together accounted for an estimated Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions increased by 0.4 million tonnes 2.5 million tonnes of equity emissions. (Scopes 1 and 2) GHGIntensity Intensity(Tonnes (Tonnesper perThousand ThousandBOE) BOE) GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) 6 50 5.4 GHG 6 50 5.4 compared with 2018, due primarily Our other operated and nonoperated 5 4.6 to increased production of 21 million assets made up the balance of equity 5 41 4.6 4.1 3.9 4.3 4.340 40 Million Million Tonnes Tonnes CO CO22e 41 4.1 3.9 Million Tonnes CO2e barrels of oil equivalent from our North 4 e emissions at an estimated 0.6 million 4 33 34 34 30 Dakota operations. However, because tonnes, of which Guyana accounted for 3 33 34 34 30 30 3 30 our production increased at a higher approximately 0.2 million tonnes from the 20 2 20 rate than our absolute emissions, our startup of operations in 2019. Our 2019 2 10 cumulative GHG emissions intensity Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions were 1 10 1 through 2019 (i.e., tonnes of emissions approximately 0.4 million tonnes higher 0 0 per thousand barrels of oil equivalent than in 2018 due primarily to significantly 0 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2014 Divested 2017 2016 Assets 2018 2019 (BOE)) decreased by 26% compared to increased production in North Dakota and ■ Hess Portfolio Divested Assets GHG Emissions Intensity (Hess Portfolio) our 2014 baseline. the startup of operations in Guyana. ■ Hess Portfolio 2020 Target (31 Tonnes per Thousand BOE) GHG Emissions Intensity (Hess Portfolio) 2020 Target (31 Tonnes per Thousand BOE) Equity Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) Scope 3 Equity Emissions Since 2007, Hess has tracked GHG Scope 3 GHG emissions are those 2018 2018 OPERATED OPERATED SCOPE 1 1 SCOPE emissions from our operated and GREENHOUSE GREENHOUSE GASGAS EMISSIONS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE BY SOURCE generated from corporate value chain Thousand Thousand Tonnes Tonnes CO2eCO2e nonoperated oil and gas assets based activities that are not accounted for and 2019 Operated Greenhouse Gas on our equity interest. The graphs on reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions by Country the next page detail our Scope 1, 2 and emissions. We disclose our Scope 3 Thousand Tonnes CO2e 3 emissions from 2008 to 2019 on an GHG emissions, the vast majority of equity basis. These graphs show that over which are from the processing and end the past 12 years we have reduced our use of our sold products, on an equity absolute Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions basis as described on the next page. 89% 89% from 10.8 million tonnes of CO2e to Unlike fully integrated energy companies 4.3 million tonnes, or 60%. During the that are positioned to offer a full range 7% 7% same period, Scope 3 equity emissions of energy products and services directly 4% 4% decreased from 114 million tonnes to to consumers, Hess, as an exploration 49 million tonnes of CO2e, or 57%. In total, and production company, has no direct ■ U.S. U.S. 3,847 ■ 3,847 over this period, our combined Scope 1, control over these Scope 3 emissions. ■ Malaysia ■ Malaysia 291 291 2 and 3 absolute CO2e emissions have We therefore are focusing on scientific ■ Denmark ■ Denmark 198 198 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 47 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Contribution to the Salk Institute’s Development of Plant-Based Carbon Capture and Storage As an additional measure beyond our GHG emission reduction target, which is currently focused on our operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are pursuing ways to help mitigate climate change on a global scale. In early 2020, we announced a gift of $12.5 million over five years to help fund the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative research and development program. The aim is to develop plants with larger root systems that, according to the Salk Institute, are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. The initiative is being run by leading biologists and chemists in the fields of plant genetics and biochemistry and builds on their discovery of a crucial gene to enhance the natural abilities of plants to store CO2. solutions and innovative research 49 million tonnes. The 13% increase in Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions with the potential to address GHG Scope 3 emissions compared with 2018 (Scopes 1 and 2) by Country Million Tonnes CO2e emissions on a global scale. Our support is related to the sale of an additional 12 of groundbreaking research by the Salk 12 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2019. 10.8 Institute on plant based carbon capture Although not material, we also track and 10 and storage is described above. report Scope 3 emissions associated To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, with employee business travel. Combined 8 we follow the methodology established emissions from employee business travel Million Tonnes CO2e by IPIECA in its 2016 report Estimating via commercial air carrier and rail in 2019 6 Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope were about 3,500 tonnes of CO2e, a slight 4.3 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. This increase from 2018. 4.2 4.0 4 3.9 guidance, which is currently the industry Carbon Offsets standard, is based on the World As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, 2 Resources Institute’s and World Business we have purchased carbon credits annually Council for Sustainable Development’s since 2010 to offset at least 100% of Scope 3 guidance. 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 2019 our Scope 3 business travel emissions Per the IPIECA guidance, we report (approximately 3,500 tonnes in 2019). In ■ U.K. ■ Libya ■ Thailand ■ Norway ■ Azerbaijan ■ U.S. Scope 3 emissions for category 11 2019, for the second year, we also offset ■ Denmark ■ Russia ■ U.S. Virgin ■ Algeria ■ Indonesia Islands “Use of Sold Products” by calculating 100% of our Scope 1 emissions associated ■ Equatorial ■ Malaysia/ ■ Guyana combustion emissions for our oil, natural with operating the company’s truck fleet, Guinea Thailand ■ Gabon gas and marketed oil products. We also aviation activities (aircraft and helicopters) report Scope 3 category 10 “Processing and personal and rental vehicle miles driven of Sold Products” emissions, which while on company business (approximately result from the refining of our crude oil 11,800 tonnes in 2019). Equity Greenhouse Gas production by others. Emissions (Scope 3) We purchased 15,340 tonnes of carbon Million Tonnes CO2e In 2019, we sold 572 million standard credits from 3Degrees, for the retirement 120 114 cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural of offsets related to a third-party landfill gas, which, when used by customers, gas to energy project in Montana. This 100 accounted for an estimated 11 million contribution offset 100% of the GHG Million Tonnes CO2e tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold Million Tonnes CO2e 80 emissions we estimate were generated 216 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) from our business travel and company 60 52 49 49 of crude oil, which accounted for another operated truck fleet, aviation activities 43 40 34 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for and vehicle miles driven in 2019 (Scopes an estimated total of 45 million tonnes 1 and 3). 20 of Scope 3 category 11 emissions. This crude oil, when processed by refiners, EMISSION REDUCTION INITIATIVES 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 2019 resulted in an additional 4 million tonnes In support of our GHG emission and Note: Our 2019 equity Scope 3 emissions were comprised of 45 million of Scope 3 category 10 emissions, which flaring intensity reduction targets, we tonnes of CO 2e from use of sold products, and 4 million tonnes from processing of sold products. brings our total Scope 3 emissions to track and monitor air emissions at each 48 of our assets and undertake a variety of •T  he Tioga Gas Plant is quickly reaching capacity in an attempt to mitigate emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts full capacity. The gas plant is planned additional flaring. focus on our largest-emitting facilities and to be shut down in the third quarter of In addition, the following ongoing on opportunities that are technically and 2020 to complete a turnaround; the activities are designed to reduce flaring. economically feasible and where we are shutdown will allow for the completion able to achieve stakeholder approval. of required maintenance and a planned Natural Gas Capture expansion project of approximately We have continued to use technology Flaring developed through our partnership with $150 million to increase plant capacity In 2019, flaring from Hess operated assets GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer and from 250 MMSCFD to 400 MMSCFD totaled 71 MMSCFD, an increase of 20 operator of well site natural gas capture and to process a combination of MMSCFD compared with 2018, primarily and natural gas liquid (NGL) extraction additional Hess and third-party natural related to significantly increased production equipment – to recover high BTU gas gas that is currently being flared. from our North Dakota operations. We are from locations in North Dakota that were taking multiple steps, which are described •M  uch of our gas produced south of the previously flaring this raw, wet natural below, to mitigate this flaring increase and Missouri River prior to 2019 had to be gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully to drive significant flaring reductions in the flared due to insufficient gas capture and addresses some of the technical challenges next few years. processing facilities. Hess Midstream LP associated with capturing NGLs from the partnered with Targa Resources to build On an intensity basis, we have reduced our Bakken gas – the units are modular and a new $200 million gas plant – the Little cumulative flaring intensity by 35% through mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned Missouri Four gas plant – which came 2019, compared with our 2014 baseline. 120 and they can adapt to the ever-changing online in August 2019 and can process In North Dakota, exceptional well flow conditions of the well and the 100 up to 200 MMSCFD of natural gas 350 that performance driven by a change in changing chemistry of the associated gas. 80 had previously been flared. 300 completion strategy (using plug and In 2019, we operated 11 GTUIT mobile • Over the last 18 months, Hess Midstream 250 perf completions instead of the previous 60 units and two ColdStream energy recovery LP has added approximately 140 multistage sliding sleeve design) resulted 200 units (14 MMSCFD of capacity in total), 40 MMSCFD of additional gas compression in a significant increase in initial production 150 allowing us to capture 7.2 million gallons capacity. We built two new compression rates, which in turn required additional short 20 of NGLs. As a result, about 513 MMSCF stations at Blue Buttes and East 100 Nesson term flaring to maintain safe operations. of gas flaring was avoided, and CO2e 0 2014 2015 and 2016 added 2017 2020 additional compressors, 2018two 50 Additionally, delays in the construction emissions were reduced by an estimated each, at the Wheelock, Sorkness and and commissioning of the Little Missouri 0 2014 44,661 2016tonnes. 2015 2017 2018project provides dual This Myrtle compressor stations, which will Four gas plant (discussed further at right) economic and environmental benefits, as it significantly expand our ability to bring caused higher than expected flaring during converts gas into marketable products as more natural gas to market. the year. Although flaring rates increased year on year, rates have remained within Over the next several years, we plan to Hess Flaring Rates regulatory limits and are comparable to our continue to pursue additional natural gas peers and top producers in the Bakken. processing and compression capacity, 99 which will help to alleviate flaring intensity Flaring Flaring Intensity Intensity (SCF per BOE) BOE) 100 300 Although more than $3 billion has been in the region. 250 Flaring Flaring(MMSCFD) spent on midstream infrastructure in 80 276 74 71 (MMSCFD) North Dakota over the past eight years, At many of our production facilities, 60 51 200 60 our strong production performance has Hess relies on third parties to provide 174 164 180 150 163 outpaced our buildout of infrastructure the gas gathering and processing 40 100 to process the significant increase in gas infrastructure that is needed to mitigate 20 50 production. gas flaring. In 2019, the rate of gas capture by third-party gathering and 0 0 Through our subsidiary, Hess Midstream 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019 processing facilities was less than LP, we are committed to and are Divested Assets expected. We are exploring additional ■ Hess Portfolio aggressively executing significant capital Flaring Intensity (Current Hess Portfolio) commercial arrangements to improve 2020 Target (138 SCF per BOE) projects to increase gas capture rates and third-party gas gathering and processing reduce flaring in the Bakken region. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 49 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY well as reduces the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. Offshore Flare Recovery System In 2012, we commissioned a flare recovery system for the offshore platform at our South Arne asset in Denmark. The primary intent of installing the system was to reduce GHG emissions and subsequently the quantity of CO2 allowances that would need to be purchased to meet regulatory requirements. The $3.7 million system reroutes gas from the flare to a compressor to be utilized as lift gas or fuel gas and works optimally when the offshore operation incurs steady production with minimal upset events. Primarily through the use of this system, flaring at our South Arne operations has been reduced by 80% between 2015 and 2019. S  ee additional examples of emission reduction initiatives at hess.com/ sustainability/climate-change-energy/ emission-reduction-initiatives Optical Gas Imaging, North Dakota ENERGY USE Reducing our energy use has the dual benefit of lowering costs and GHG 28 million gigajoules, 8% lower than in from gas to electric compression. Based emissions, and it is a central focus of 2018. This reduced energy usage was on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean primarily related to selectively replacing estimate that approximately 25% of this approach to managing the business. We aging gas-fired compressor stations in electricity was generated from renewable generate and purchase energy primarily North Dakota with electric compression. sources, primarily wind power. We also for power, processing, heating and cooling. Seventy-seven percent of Hess’ energy support renewable energy through the In 2019, energy consumption from Hess use was directly generated from our purchase of renewable energy certificates operated assets was approximately operations, primarily at the Tioga Gas (RECs), so that in total 100% of the Plant and at our production facilities in net electricity used in our operations Energy Use Thousand Gigajoules North Dakota, the North Malay Basin, is attributable to renewable sources. Denmark and the Gulf of Mexico. The To offset our purchased electricity that 35,000 33,121 remaining 23% was indirect energy (i.e., came from nonrenewable sources, we 30,653 30,000 28,182 energy used by utilities to provide net purchased 530,714 Green-e Energy 25,000 purchased electricity) purchased for our certified RECs for wind power, equivalent North Dakota production operations and to 530,714 MWh or about 75% of the 20,000 the Tioga Gas Plant. electricity purchased for our operated 15,000 In 2019, our U.S. operations accounted exploration and production assets in 10,000 for all of our purchased electricity – 2019. In total, including the RECs, 100% approximately 700,000 megawatt hours of our indirect energy use came from 5,000 (MWh), or a 17% increase from last renewable sources. 0 2017 2018 2019 year, primarily attributable to increased S  ee more detail on our purchased electricity ■ Direct use at hess.com/sustainability/climate■ Indirect production in North Dakota and the change-energy/energy-use conversion of new compressor stations 50 Managing Methane Emissions In recent years, advancements in shale energy technology have developed three separate Environmental Performance Programs generated a significant increase in the supply of low cost natural for participating companies to implement and phase into their gas. As a cleaner-burning fuel, natural gas can play a critical role operations starting January 1, 2018. Hess is implementing the in the transition to a low carbon economy. However, there is two programs applicable to our operations in North Dakota, considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the as follows: natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce • Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources: the fuel’s climate benefits. Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of Hess is actively pursuing voluntary methane emission reductions fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods as part of our EHS & SR strategy. As one aspect of this effort, and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, imaging cameras. Hess conducted semiannual surveys at 869 a group of companies from across the natural gas industry sites in 2019. focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that • Program to Replace, Remove or Retrofit High Bleed Pneumatic yield continuous improvement in the management of methane Controllers: Participants will replace, remove or retrofit high emissions associated with the production, processing, bleed pneumatic controllers with low or zero emitting devices transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future within five years. After identifying 248 high bleed pneumatic offers a performance-based, flexible approach that is expected controllers remaining in our North Dakota operations, we have to yield significant reductions in methane emissions. The goal begun phasing them out of service. In 2019 and early 2020, we is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1% of gross took 86 high bleed pneumatic controllers out of service; we plan methane production across the U.S. value chain by 2025. to phase the remaining out by 2022. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 1% or less across the U.S. natural gas value chain provides immediate The third program, involving manual liquids unloading for natural GHG reduction benefits. gas production sources, is not applicable to Hess, as we do not currently operate any natural gas-only production wells. To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established 2025 methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership chain: production (0.28%), gathering and boosting (0.08%), provides a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders processing (0.11%), transmission and storage (0.30%) and and learn from one another. So far, Partnership companies have distribution (0.22%), which cumulatively total to the 1% target. made significant progress, including eliminating or retrofitting In 2018, the ONE Future members’ cumulative methane emissions more than 28,000 high bleed pneumatic controllers and intensity was 0.33% across the U.S. onshore natural gas value conducting more than 156,000 leak detection surveys. chain, down from 0.55% in 2017. ONE Future has also set interim In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental 2020 sectoral targets. Partnership commitments, in 2019 we continued implementation Hess has activities in three of the ONE Future sectors: production, of our LDAR program across all of our production facilities gathering and boosting, and processing. In 2019, we reduced our (existing and new) in North Dakota and at the Tioga Gas Plant methane emissions rate across all sectors. For production our in North Dakota. methane emissions rate was 0.35%, for gathering and boosting it F urther detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment was 0.14% and for processing it was 0.03%. Our total onshore U.S. section of this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment methane intensity was 0.52%, which is below the ONE Future combined 2020 interim target of 0.64% for those three sectors, but slightly above the 2025 target of 0.47%. Our relative methane intensity decreased in 2019. This drop is correlated with the Methane Emissions Intensity continued implementation of our leak detection and repair ONE Future ONE Future Hess 2019 SECTOR 2025 Target 2020 Target Performance (LDAR) program across all of our production facilities (existing % % % and new) in North Dakota and our program to phase out high bleed pneumatic controllers. We anticipate that we will achieve U.S. Onshore Production (ND) 0.28 0.38 0.35 the ONE Future targets by 2025. U.S. Onshore Gathering and 0.08 0.08 0.14 Boosting (ND) Our combined U.S. methane emissions intensity across our onshore and offshore operations was 0.27%, while our global U.S. Onshore Processing (ND) 0.11 0.18 0.03 methane intensity in 2019 was 0.15%. In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the U.S. Onshore Upstream 0.47 0.64 0.52 founding participants in the Environmental Partnership. A key activity of the Environmental Partnership is furthering action U.S. Onshore and Offshore NA NA 0.27 to reduce air emissions, including methane and volatile organic Production compound emissions (VOCs), associated with natural gas and oil Global Production NA NA 0.15 production. To accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership NA: Not applicable 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 51 Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico 52 ENVIRONMENT Our commitment to safeguarding the North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum’s FRESHWATER USE Freshwater Use environment is a key aspect of the challenge to achieve zero pipeline spills. Million Cubic Meters Million Cubic Meters Hess Value of Social Responsibility and Hess is also a member of the Gulf of underpins the way we work every day. We 7.7 8 Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. 8 strive for continuous improvement in our 7 The Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GoMA) is 7 environmental impacts, which include water a nonprofit, public–private partnership and energy use, air emissions, waste 6and 6 5.0 that aims to enhance the ecological spills. Across our company, we dedicate 5 5 and economic health of the Gulf region 3.8 significant staff and resources to help 4 4 by encouraging collaboration among ensure compliance with environmental3 laws government agencies, businesses, 3 and regulations, international standards 2 education providers and NGOs. GoMA is 2 and voluntary commitments. We have 1 focused on improving habitat conservation, 1 developed a range of key performance water quality, natural resource stewardship metrics to track our environmental 0 0 2017 and land2018 2019 use strategies. In 2019, we 2017 2018 2019 performance and drive improvement over supported several GoMA initiatives, ■ Groundwater time at both the asset and enterprise levels. ■ Municipal Water including “citizen science” Water Watch Some of these metrics are also factored ■ Surface Water programs in Louisiana (in partnership into our annual incentive plan, to further with the Lake Pontchartrain Basin advance our culture of environmental Foundation) and Texas (in partnership with stewardship. 2019 Freshwater Use by the Galveston Bay Foundation). Through Facility/Business Function We collaborate with peers, governments the Water Watch program, high school Thousand Cubic Meters and nongovernmental organizations students and other citizens are sampling (NGOs) to help drive environmental Gulf of Mexico water for microplastics. 5% 7% performance improvements across In addition to providing funding, Hess our industry. We sponsor and actively Environment, Health and Safety staff participate in the Bakken Production have provided technical expertise. Optimization Program, a research program Also in 2019, we initiated a project with led by the Energy and Environmental the Gulf Offshore Research Institute and Research Center (EERC) and funded by 88% the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary the North Dakota Industrial Commission Program focused on cultivating native that aims to improve Bakken system oil plants and grasses to restore the function ■ North Dakota Drilling and Completions 4,441 recovery and reduce the environmental ■ Tioga Gas Plant 368 and habitat of critical Gulf Coast wetlands. ■ All Other Operations 233 footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. We also voluntarily sponsor and participate In 2019, we continued working with the in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline program, a partnership among oil and gas WATER MANAGEMENT Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of companies, academia and environmental The communities and ecosystems in oil and gas producers leading and funding organizations coordinated by the Houston which we operate depend on water to research on innovative technologies to Advanced Research Center that aims thrive. Water is also important for our detect leaks and other pipeline integrity to develop science-based solutions to onshore operations, where we primarily issues (see page 59). The iPIPE consortium environmental issues associated with oil use it for drilling and completions in our is one of several initiatives we are and gas development. upstream operations and cooling in our sponsoring that is designed to help meet midstream gas processing operations. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 53 ENVIRONMENT Lifecycle Approach to Well Integrity Maintaining the integrity of our wells – that is, preventing the barriers to be used through the lifecycle of the well, and they uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers or between undertaking activities in the field. An example well barrier geologic layers within the Earth – is fundamental to protecting diagram is shown below. We use a combination of barriers the environment, the health and safety of our workforce and – such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, the communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding cement, packers and bridge plugs – that work together to prevent our product. uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the production tubing and the underground For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the We require a minimum depth of annular cement above and appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout below potential flow zones that meets or exceeds applicable the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction regulations. We also require maintaining multiple and redundant and maintain and monitor them through production and barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our minimum maintenance, and then we add new barriers during abandonment. requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers Our global standards for well integrity outline the criteria for on drilling rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations. installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for WELL DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE SCOPE DESIGN (Drilling & OPERATION (Repair, Intervention ABANDONMENT Completions) and Workover) WELL BARRIER DIAGRAM, BAKKEN DRILLING EXAMPLE Drill Pipe Safety Valve RCD RCD COMPONENT CONDITIONS OF SATISFACTION RCD Spool Drill pipe safety valve Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation (inside blowout preventer) Drilling BOP APR APR RCD Drilling blowout preventer (BOP) Spool VBR VBR Pressure tested to 250 and 5,000 psi upon installation and choke and kill (C/K) valves Drill pipe float valves Inflow tested while drill pipe is being run in-hole C/K C/K Valve Valve Pressure tested to 1,500 psi prior to drilling out of the 7-inch casing cement barrier C/K Valve Wellhead Wellhead Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation 16-inch Casing WELL BARRIER ELEMENT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA Primary Well Barrier 9 5/8-inch Casing Rotary control device (RCD) Pressure tested to 250 psi and 70% of working pressure and RCD spool upon installation Continuously monitored fluid system as identified by the Wellbore fluid drilling fluid program 7-inch Drill Pipe Float Secondary Well Barrier Casing Annular preventer (APR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation Variable bore ram (VBR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation 54 Water management has been identified as a material issue for Hess and is a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS Deepwater Assets & SR) strategy. In 2019, we continued Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, to develop our risk-based, lifecycle can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. approach to managing water, completing In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater a stressed water resource analysis in the pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Bakken region and sponsoring two pilot Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal studies focused on tracking and treating government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide produced water. a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. See the Shale Energy section online for more detail on our approach to water management in our shale operations: hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they are working as designed. For example, we pressure-test barriers and well components during Our total freshwater use for exploration construction, after first running computer models to confirm we will not overpressure the and production in 2019 increased by component during testing. We run digital well logs to validate correct cement placement 44% over 2018. The largest driver of this between the production tubing and the formation before completing our wells. And, in deepwater offshore wells, we verify cement installation with remotely operated vehicles. increase was our North Dakota drilling and completion operations, which saw We monitor each well’s integrity from initial drilling through plugging and abandonment. a 54% increase in water use compared Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of well integrity issues; with the prior year. This increase was however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring due in part to a change in our primary system. completion strategy; the new strategy In 2019, we completed a multiyear process of updating and enhancing our well integrity improves production but requires more management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing sand proppant, and therefore, more water well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support to move that proppant. Water use also well integrity. The enhanced system is expected to help us better manage integrity risks increased due to an increase in drilling throughout the well lifecycle and help to ensure these risks are reassessed if material changes to a well’s design or changes to steps in the planned development process are identified or activity: We drilled 39 more wells and anticipated. We are also improving documentation, data collection and reporting on key hydraulically fractured 31 more wells in performance indicators to measure compliance with these procedures and to enhance the 2019 than in 2018. In 2020, we plan to chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another. continue evaluating completion strategies The enhanced management system will help to ensure that each stage of the well lifecycle to maximize product recovery. and associated field activity is supported by technical standards and procedures that specify minimum requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells, along with the As our operational profile and practices elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers that prevent or stop the uncontrolled continue to evolve, we are assessing flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line the best ways to reduce water use with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio. impacts across our operations. In North Dakota, for example, our freshwater See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale reduction strategy primarily involves operations, at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy reusing produced water – the nonpotable water that is released from underground formations along with produced oil and natural gas – for production maintenance. During 2019, we increased our reuse of produced water for production maintenance by 57%. The total amount 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 55 ENVIRONMENT of water we need for our operations and evaluation, selection and risk assessment. Hess utilizes third-party software our ability to reuse produced water varies These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline programs, such as the Integrated based on the geology of the formation, studies as well as screenings of identified Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify production levels and changes in hydraulic species using the International Union protected areas and key biodiversity fracturing technologies, among other for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red areas as well as specific species listings. factors. We remain committed, throughout List and other threatened, endangered We maintain a list of IUCN Red List our operations, to evaluating ways to and protected species lists. We use species with habitats that overlap with reduce our water footprint. the results of ESIAs to create mitigation our operations. (See table below, which strategies, where appropriate. Even where provides a snapshot of relevant species Hess participates in industry forums the conditions or circumstances do not at the time of publication of this report.) focused on water management, to call for a full ESIA, we routinely conduct The IUCN updates the Red List species advance our own performance and biodiversity risk screenings and impact classifications regularly based on new contribute to industrywide knowledge assessments and undertake appropriate information and improved data from sharing and progress. For example, we mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct ongoing third-party studies, and we are active participants in the IPIECA assessments when the classification of update our species list accordingly. Water Working Group, which aims to species and habitats changes in areas help companies improve their water use We also identify IUCN protected areas where we operate. performance and reduce their water (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. footprint by providing sound analysis, As part of our goal to improve biodiversity In 2019, there were four such areas, all in assessment tools, good practices, management at Hess’ global assets, North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area, credible data sources and appropriate we have developed threatened and Fort Union Trading Post National Historic indicators. In 2019, this group developed endangered species field guides for Site, Two Top and Bit Top Mesas and guidelines on how to use water risk tools personnel to use during field activities. Theodore Roosevelt National Park). at the asset level. We are also members of In addition, we have a standard work the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative instruction for all projects to help ensure IUCN Red List Species effort among 21 oil and natural gas we take appropriate steps to protect with habitats overlapping Hess operations companies to study, describe and improve natural resources across our operations. CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT) lifecycle water use and management in Critically Endangered We monitor the addition of new species 23 upstream unconventional oil and natural to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Endangered 49 gas exploration and production. In 2020, national endangered and threatened we will also continue our partnership Vulnerable 175 species lists. In addition, we identify with the Environmentally Friendly Near Threatened 194 locations where we may need to conduct Drilling program to review beneficial new biological risk assessments and, uses of produced water in shale energy where applicable, develop mitigation We regularly work with our industry operations. plans as a result of these listings. Also, peers on biodiversity-related issues. For BIODIVERSITY where appropriate, we adjust drilling example, we are an active member of We are committed to conserving site locations to accommodate habitat the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services biodiversity and habitats in the places features and priorities for certain species. Working Group of IPIECA. We also where we operate. We consider the During the 2019 construction season, we participate in the Endangered Species protection of biodiversity in our decision conducted 106 projects in the Bakken Working Group of the American Petroleum making and management from the earliest region that required environmental Institute (API), with the goal of proactively stages of exploration and development evaluation. Of the 106 projects, 57 balancing oil and gas development with through production and closure at every required field studies, and of those 57, environmental decision making. We also Hess location around the globe. 49 required mitigations or adjustments participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity to protect species habitat, wetlands or Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the We conduct formal environmental and cultural sites, including to protect the International Council on Mining and Metals social impact assessments (ESIAs) on threatened Dakota skipper moth. and the Equator Principles Association. major capital projects as part of site This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas 56 and financial sectors together to develop DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE and share good practices for safeguarding FACILITIES Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea biodiversity and ecosystems. Discharges from our offshore facilities 70 include drilling mud, drill cuttings and 70 140 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) WASTE produced water. These waste streams Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) We generate a variety of waste streams, Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) 60 120 are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir including waste specific to drilling and management, discharged directly to 50 100 production activities. For each Hess asset, the ocean (when allowed by applicable we manage waste through specific waste regulations) or transported to shore for 40 80 management plans designed to comply treatment and disposal or recycling. 30 60 with all applicable regulatory and Hess In 2019, our offshore facilities discharged requirements for that location, as well as to to sea approximately 10,000 tonnes of 20 16 40 13 protect human health and the environment. nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 10 17 20 These plans, which are developed to which included 3,500 tonnes of 10 6 align with the Hess Waste Management nonaqueous base fluid. 0 0 2017 2018 2019 Standard, require the application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Offshore produced water discharges ● Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) ● Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and to sea totaled an estimated 2 million Dispose” – with disposal being the leastcubic meters in 2019. Produced water preferred option. discharges had an average oil content 80 Hydrocarbon Spills HYDROCARBON SPILLS of 6 parts per million volume (PPMV), In 2019, we 250 generated approximately 60 totaling 16 tonnes of oil discharged.70This 250 245 60 108,000 tonnes of solid waste, data reflects 50 a year-on-year decrease in 50 200 60 200 approximately 98% of which was classified 52 Volume of Spills (Barrels) Volume of Spills (Barrels) PPMV but a slight increase in tonnes of Number of Spills as nonhazardous according to applicable Number of Spills 40 40 152 150 oil discharged, due to an increase in50the 150 regulations. Our overall waste generation volume 30of discharged water. 123 30 40 volume was100higher in 2019 compared with 100 29 29 2018 due to a 57% increase in soil disposal At our South 20 Arne asset, we have 20 30 stemming from 50 an increase in asset significantly reduced the amount of 50 10 10 retirement obligations. produced water discharged to sea by 20 0 instead reinjecting 0 it into our wells to 0 0 10 We also disposed of approximately stimulate production. By reinjecting the 2017 2018 2019 130,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from produced water, we are able to offset ■ Volume of Spills ● Number of Spills our North Dakota asset at licensed our use of seawater and reduce the disposal sites in 2019. These drill cuttings, environmental footprint of our North Nonhydrocarbon Spills as well as the discharges from our offshore Sea operations. We steadily increased facilities (discussed in the next section), are reinjection volumes45 of produced water 800 800 776 45 not included in our overall waste totals per from an estimated4076% in 2014 to 88% 700 700 40 IPIECA reporting guidance. in 2019. While reinjection is somewhat Volume of Spills (Barrels) 600 35 600 581 35 30 Volume of Spills (Barrels) We have continued our efforts to reduce driven by regulations, we have gone Number of Spills 30 30 Number of Spills 500 500 landfilled piping waste by decontaminating beyond what is required, 25 substantially 22 25 400 400 20 (i.e., removing technologically enhanced reducing our produced 20 water discharges 20 300 300 naturally occurring radioactive material or over time. 15 15 200 200 TENORM) and recycling it. In 2019, we 10 113 10 100 SPILL PREVENTION 100 recycled 370 tonnes of nonhazardous piping 5 5 0 Hess maintains spill0 preparedness and 0 0 waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. 2017 2018 2019 response plans and conducts emergency See the Shale Energy section online for more information on naturally occurring response exercises at each of our assets. ■ Volume of Spills ■ Volume of Spills ● Number of Spills ■ Number of Spills radioactive materials (NORM) and TENORM: To support a swift and effective response to hess.com/sustainability/environment/shaleenergy any loss of primary containment (LOPC) 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 57 ENVIRONMENT incident, we maintain strong relationships and regulatory guidance. We also use Absolute SO2 emissions in 2019 were with mutual aid and emergency response leading and lagging indicators to monitor essentially flat compared with 2018. Due organizations at the local, regional and LOPC performance, including continuing to increased production, SO2 intensity global levels. Hess’ international oil spill to tie LOPC performance to our annual decreased from 2018 to 2019. response needs are supported by our incentive plan. Both absolute and normalized VOC partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited In 2019, the number of hydrocarbon spills emissions increased slightly from 2018 (OSRL), an industry-funded cooperative. held flat compared to 2018, while the to 2019, although the emissions trend International medical and security volume increased slightly. The number since 2017 has been essentially flat. incident responses are covered by our of nonhydrocarbon spills increased by Absolute VOC emissions increased agreements with International SOS and 41% and the volume increased by 85% by 3,000 metric tons from 2018 to 2019; Global Guardian. Our domestic needs are compared with 2018. With regard to the therefore, even with higher production supported by the Marine Spill Response increase in volume of nonhydrocarbon spills, in 2019, normalized VOC emissions Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, 83% was due to two produced water spills. increased. This is primarily attributable the Sakakawea Area Spill Response to an increase in flaring volumes at our Cooperative, Tri-State Bird Rescue and In 2019, we continued to implement a range Bakken well pads. Research, and the Wildlife Center of Texas. of programs focused on spill prevention. To Hess representatives serve on the board address spills that result from corrosion and of directors of OSRL and on the executive integrity issues, for example, we continue Air Emissions committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a to enhance our inspection and surveillance nonprofit oil spill cooperative that supports programs, upgrade external corrosion 121 the Gulf of Mexico. protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, 30000 120 Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) 30000 and replace or redesign pipes. We have 102 Our international subsea well control also continued to enhance spill prevention 90 100 100 preparedness and response capabilities are 24000 24000 training and spill-related worksite controls, Emissions (Tonnes) supported by the Subsea Well Intervention 86 87 80 80 including expanding the sharing of root Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf 18000 18000 cause analysis findings and use of fluid 69 60 of Mexico, we are members and serve on 60 transfer checklists. 12000 In addition, we continue the executive committee of the Marine Well 12000 to enhance the range of key performance 40 40 Containment Company. These organizations indicators6000 we use to track performance provide well capping, containment and 6000 20 20 internally and increase internal transparency 24 dispersant capabilities as well as equipment 14 and reporting. 0 12 and personnel mutual aid. 2017 2018 2019 0 2017 2018 2019 0 0 201 AIR EMISSIONS We are also active members of the Oil ■ NOX The normal operation of fuel combustion ● NOX Intensity Spill Response Joint Industry Project ■ VOC ● VOC Intensity and processing equipment as well as ■ SO2 organized by IPIECA and the International ● SO2 Intensity flaring activities results in air emissions of Association of Oil and Gas Producers, nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we contribute to the IPIECA Oil and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND Spill Working Group in support of our Fugitive emission sources, including those LEGAL PROCEEDINGS international assets. We are a member of related to product loading and storage, Strengthening our regulatory assurance the API’s Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness also can contribute to VOC emissions. program is one of the six components of and Response Subcommittee. We also our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance participate in Area Planning Committee We observed a decrease in absolute also helps us to ensure the effectiveness meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. and normalized NOX emissions in 2019, of our management systems. As part of Environmental Protection Agency. primarily due to less fuel gas consumed our long term compliance strategy, our at compressor stations. The newer We track LOPC events through our incident regulatory team continued the use of compressor stations that have come reporting system by size and material and a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. online in recent years utilize electric report spills following applicable industry assets in 2019. drivers, replacing gas-fired engines. 58 As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, we continued our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program in 2019 across all of our U.S. onshore operations, as a way to achieve emission reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments and to comply with a prior Consent Decree in North Dakota. In our North Dakota production operations, the LDAR program helps to decrease the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections, and our formalized process for assigning work material flows to field personnel helps to increase accountability and the efficiency of any needed repairs. For a detailed description of our LDAR program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and Production Operations, North Dakota enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines. Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Environmental Expenditures Hess received 43 alleged violations for Hess continues our active involvement in the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental various administrative activities regarding Research Center – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the timing on submittals, well status changes North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a and procedural reporting activities. Of total of $9 million (a $2.4 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from the 43 alleged violations, eight resulted participating operators) over a period of four years to research and demonstrate emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then in penalties totaling $7,750 during 2019. encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. The majority of our expenditures on Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for environmental fines and penalties in 2019 additional investment and testing. In 2019, iPIPE members chose to support two ($4,750) were the result of small offshore technologies. The first is a pipeline coating developed by Direct-C that can act as a spills. Other expenditures were related to sensor and detect leaks. iPIPE will help to fund testing to assess the response of the Direct-C technology under various environmental conditions. one alleged commingling of recycled oil The second technology involves low orbiting satellites collecting data that could be from U.S. Bureau of Land Management used to identify pipeline leaks or other performance issues. This system includes field inspections. proprietary algorithms and autonomous software to synthesize the massive amounts of data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and actionable alerts. iPIPE member operators first funded this technology in 2018 and are continuing to support its testing and refinement. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 59 PERFORMANCE DATA This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. An expanded version of this table, which includes cross references to supporting narratives in this sustainability report, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/key-sustainability-metrics. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and proxy statement, which can be found at hess.com/investors, provide more detail on our financial and governance information. UNITS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 6,495 6,323 5,466 4,762 6,636 Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (408) (282) (4,074) (6,132) (3,056) Total assets $ Million 21,782 21,433 23,112 28,621 34,157 Total debt $ Million 7,397 6,672 6,977 6,806 6,592 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 9,706 10,888 12,354 15,591 20,401 Debt to capitalization ratio % 43.2 38.0 36.1 30.4 24.4 Exploration and Production Total net equity hydrocarbon production* Thousand BOE/D 311 277 306 322 375 Total operated hydrocarbon production** Thousand BOE/D 394 323 340 361 433 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,197 1,192 1,154 1,109 1,086 L  iquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 78 75 72 74 76 Gas % 22 25 28 26 24 Reserve life Years 10 12 10 9 8 Replaced production % 104 170 351 119 NM Selected Economic Metrics Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 3,159 2,340 2,168 2,154 4,338 Income tax expense/(benefit) $ Million 461 335 (1,837) 2,222 (1,299) Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 580 468 379 330 457 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 316 345 363 350 287 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 594 598 603 707 791 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 380 399 325 338 341 Operating costs $/BOE 12 13 14 16 15 Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 4 4 5 6 7 Total social investment $ Million 7 7 14 20 21 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) taxes $ Million 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 5.5 Our People Number of permanent employees # 1,775 1,708 2,075 2,304 2,770 U.S. % 86 86 85 83 79 International % 14 14 15 17 21 Part-time employees % <1 <1 <1 <1 <1 Full-time employees % 100 100 100 100 100 Employee turnover – voluntary % 6 6 5 5 5 Employee layoffs % 0.2 20 13 18 8 Female employees (U.S. and international) % 26 26 28 27 27 Minority employees (U.S.) % 22 22 23 25 24 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 2 2 3 Safety Performance Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0 Hours worked – workforce Million hours 16.0 14.9 20.8 21.7 28.6 Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.13 0.09 0.10 0.24 Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.57 0.41 0.31 0.50 0.39 Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.43 0.32 0.24 0.39 0.36 Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.06 0.03 Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.24 0.12 0.10 0.15 0.10 Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.18 0.08 0.08 0.13 0.08 Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.13 0.06 0.00 0.09 Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.12 0.02 0.08 0.14 0.25 Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.05 0.08 0.10 0.21 Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 NM: Not meaningful *Total net hydrocarbons produced are equity share values from Hess’ SEC Form 10-K. **Total operated hydrocarbon production is used for intensity metrics (i.e., flaring, GHG emissions, energy and other air emissions). 60 UNITS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 25,828 18,797 22,009 26,991 36,121 Flaring intensity* SCF/BOE 180 163 164 174 192 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 3.9 3.6 3.7 4.1 5.1 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 3.6 3.3 3.4 3.7 4.7 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 319.4 283.0 313.4 296.9 403.7 N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.7 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 61 52 52 52 63 Fuel combustion % 34 43 42 43 33 Other % 6 5 6 5 4 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.1 0.8 0.9 0.2 0.2 N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.9 1.6 1.9 2.4 2.4 Operated GHG emissions intensity* Tonnes CO2e/thousand BOE 30 34 34 33 33 Equity (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions Million tonnes CO2e 4.3 3.9 4.0 4.2 5.5 Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO2e 49.2 43.4 48.8 51.6 60.2 Energy Use Production energy intensity* Gigajoules/BOE 0.20 0.26 0.27 0.29 0.23 Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 21,650 25,064 25,831 29,973 27,506 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 6,532 5,589 7,290 8,273 8,642 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 708 606 790 896 936 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 531 70 90 100 135 Freshwater Use (Consumption) Groundwater Million cubic meters 1.0 1.5 5.6 5.7 6.0 Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.9 0.8 1.2 0.6 1.2 Surface water Million cubic meters 3.2 1.6 0.8 1.2 1.7 Total freshwater Million cubic meters 5.0 3.8 7.7 7.6 8.9 Reused/recycled (estimated)◊ % 3.6 3.3 7.7 14.5 12.0 Solid Waste Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 107.0 45.4 154.4 92.5 252.5 Hazardous Thousand tonnes 0.8 1.7 2.6 0.9 0.4 Liquid Waste† Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 542.4 141.01 48.28 73.05 7,275 Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.52 18.44 Spills Hydrocarbon spills – number # 29 29 52 46 47 Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 152 123 245 308 1,025 Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 30 20 22 42 91 Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 776 113 581 1,104 10,033 Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs)* Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 1,711 1,655 2,987 3,804 3,727 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 12 14 24 29 24 NOx Tonnes 9,909 14,306 12,665 10,261 11,515 NOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 69 121 102 77 73 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 13,000 10,303 10,724 9,441 13,133 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 90 87 86 71 83 Exploration and Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 16 13 70 87 81 Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 6 10 17 18 15 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 2 1 6 6 6 Other Environmental Indicators Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 7 75 842 24 25 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 20 15 15 10 13 Environmental reserve $ Million 70 80 80 80 80 *The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2019 was 143,933,216 BOE. **Third-party power generation. ◊ Reused/recycled water in 2018 and 2019 represents the percentage of total Bakken produced water that was reused in those years. By reusing 142,000 cubic meters of produced water for well maintenance in 2018, and 222,983 cubic meters in 2019, we have been able to offset freshwater use in that same amount. †Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment and deep well disposal. 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 61 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2019 Sustainability Report (the Report). Engagement Summary Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 (Core option). Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Level: Limited assurance. Respective Responsibilities: • Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. • ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. OUR CONCLUSION Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016 (Core option). OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusion. During our assurance engagement, travel restrictions were imposed following the outbreak of COVID-19. As a result of these it was necessary to adjust the assurance activities that we had originally agreed with Hess. We replaced the planned “in-person” head office and site visit to Hess’ operations in North Dakota with virtual “visits” via teleand video conference calls for this year’s assurance engagement. These changes do not affect our limited assurance conclusion above. However, it is possible that in-person visits may have identified errors and omissions that we did not discover through the alternative assurance program. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. • Virtual “visits” to Hess’ operations in North Dakota and the Stampede asset in the Gulf of Mexico, to verify the source data for the assets’ sustainability performance indicators for 2019 and to review sustainability management implementation at the asset level. • An analytical review of the 2019 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level. • A virtual “visit” to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas, to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process, and to conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report. • A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2019 sustainability performance and activities in the Report. • A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. • A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. OUR OBSERVATIONS We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance 29 June 2020 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff who have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect. 62 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION SUSTAINABILITY • MSCI USA ESG Leaders Index for 10th • STEM Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top • CDP Climate Change leadership status for consecutive year 50 Employers 11th consecutive year • FTSE4Good U.S. Index for seventh • Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the • Dow Jones Sustainability Index North consecutive year  Best Employers America for 10th consecutive year • Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best • Wall Street Journal’s Top 250 Best • Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s Managed Companies Employers 100 Best Corporate Citizens for 12th • Careers and the disABLED magazine’s • Newsweek magazine’s America’s Most consecutive year Top 50 Employers Responsible Companies – No. 1 oil and gas company • Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 • Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Employers WORKFORCE – Only U.S. oil and gas company • Equal Opportunity magazine’s Top 50 • Minority Engineer magazine’s Top 50 • STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for Employers Employers seventh consecutive year SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the forward-looking statements. The following important factors could meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forwardand Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as looking statements: fluctuations in market prices of crude oil, natural amended. Words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” gas liquids and natural gas; reduced demand for our products, “forecast,” “guidance,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” including as a result of COVID-19; changes in laws, regulations and “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “predict,” “will,” “target” and similar governmental actions applicable to our business; the ability of our expressions identify forward-looking statements, which are not contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us; historical in nature. Our forward-looking statements may include, unexpected changes in technical requirements; availability and costs without limitation: our future financial and operational results; our of employees and other personnel, equipment, supplies and other business strategy; benchmark prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids required services; and other factors described in Item 1A—Risk and natural gas; our projected budget and capital and exploratory Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and any additional risks expenditures; expected timing and completion of our development described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange projects; future economic and market conditions in the oil and gas Commission. industry; and information about sustainability goals and targets and As and when made, we believe that our forward-looking statements planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and are reasonable. However, given these risks and uncertainties, initiatives. caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such Forward-looking statements are based on our current forward-looking statements since such statements speak only as of understanding, assessments, estimates and projections of relevant the date when made and there can be no assurance that such factors and reasonable assumptions about the future. Forwardforward-looking statements will occur and actual results may differ looking statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement we and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially make. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to from our historical experience and our current projections or publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether expectations of future results expressed or implied by these because of new information, future events or otherwise. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Design: incdesign.com Chain of Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power 64 trees preserved for the future 4,655 pounds of GHG emissions resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, 5 pounds of water pollutants not created not generated a process-chlorine-free 100% post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100% 30,010 gallons of water saved Displaces this amount of hydrocarbons: certified wind energy and containing 100% 2.32 barrels of natural oil unused post-consumer recycled fiber. 2,009 pounds of solid waste not created 5,333 pounds of net greenhouse gases In other words, your savings from the use of (GHGs) prevented wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 29 million British thermal units of energy 2,385 miles not driven not consumed 26 trees planted 2019 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 63 LEARN MORE AT WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY AND HEALTH OUR PEOPLE A review of social responsibility as Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, Creating a diverse and inclusive our way of doing business every day, home safe culture and high quality workforce www.hess.com/sustainability/socialwww.hess.com/sustainability/ that innovates, leads and learns responsibility safety-health www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENT INDEX Balancing the world’s growing energy Responsible management of our Performance against GRI Standards needs with our cost-effective greenhouse environmental footprint indicators gas emission reduction policy www.hess.com/sustainability/ www.hess.com/sustainability/ www.hess.com/sustainability/climateenvironment sustainability-reports/GRI-Index change-energy www.hess.com
