2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 1 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Index 1. MESSAGE FROM OUR LEADERSHIP 03 2. ABOUT THIS REPORT 05 3. #OURCBA 08 4. PEOPLE 20 5. ENVIRONMENT 43 6. INNOVATION AND FUTURE READINESS 64 2 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE Despite the challenging conditions in 2019 – both in the global economy and in the aluminum market in particular –, at CBA we remained focused on our long-term strategy of building a BOARD OF DIRECTORS sustainable Company, creating value for stakeholders across the aluminum chain, and achieving higher levels of competitiveness. Among the initiatives supporting delivery of our strategy is CBA 4.0, a large-scale program that saw significant progress in 2019, with much more still to come. Through CBA 4.0 we are investing in technology and working to firmly embed a digital mindset in our culture. Another aspect of our strategy that has evolved is sustainability, in which we made important progress in the year: we created a dedicated sustainability department and committee, and joined the United Nations Global Compact. But our most significant achievement in the year was CBA’s certification against the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Performance Standard and Chain of Custody (CoC) Standard. CBA has become the first Brazilian company to offer sustainable aluminum that is certified across the aluminum value chain. Through these combined efforts, we successfully navigated the headwinds in the global economy and aluminum market, and kept the Company on course and stronger than ever. These are achievements that few others can claim, and have made us better poised for the future. In the coming years we aim to further expand our share of the domestic aluminum market vis-à-vis imported products, especially in the packaging and transportation segments, helping to strengthen local industry while also growing our presence across the Americas. CBA’s growth has been planned so that it is sustainable and supported by efficient and more technology-intensive operations and highly engaged teams. This is #ourCBA! Luis Ermírio de Moraes Chairman of the Board of Directors, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) GRI 102-14 3 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Aluminum solutions that transform people’s liand were among the top 10% in the Korn Ferry Clives. This is CBA’s purpose, as unveiled in 2019. It exmate Survey. Korn Ferry also ranked CBA as one of presses our aspiration to build valuable partnerships the top companies in the world for “engagement and with our different stakeholders, including customers, enablement”, in a survey that polled more than seven suppliers, shareholders, the communities where we million employees worldwide. MESSAGE FROM operate and our employees, with a focus on creating In terms of results, adjusted EBITDA rose 3% comTHE CEO shared value. pared to 2018, totaling R$ 861 million. Net Revenue CBA’s purpose reflects our approach to doing busidecreased 3% in 2019 to R$5.3 billion, reflecting the ness and our history – the journey that has taken us global economic slowdown, contracted demand in the where we are, underpinned by 65 years of successaluminum supply chain, and repercussions from the ful operations and a pioneering spirit that has led us US-China trade war, which drove a 15% drop in LME to deploy the best and most advanced technologies aluminum prices. in our operations and interactions. It is also deeply Despite the adverse market conditions, we maintaiconnected to our strategy and our efforts to lead CBA ned our focus on CBA’s long-term strategy, which on a sustainable and responsible journey. in 2019 included the acquisition of a rolling mill in In 2019 we embarked on a program toward digital Itapissuma (PE), northeastern Brazil. The new facility transformation. We engaged the entire organization will add to CBA’s range of foil and sheet products and in working together to build the needed skill sets improve the competitiveness of locally produced proand actively identify new opportunities. Significant ducts against imports, while also strengthening our projects using industry 4.0 technologies delivered position in aluminum markets in the Americas. improvements across aspects such as costs, the enIn closing, I would especially like to thank our emvironment, safety, product quality, co-development ployees for a highly productive year. Our people are with customers, and process simplification. at the heart of everything we do and deserve much CBA’s efforts earned us several accolades in the year, of the credit for the progress we achieved in the year. two of which in particular have been a source of pride We will continue working together each day to build for our team. We received international ASI certifi#OURCBA—a more competitive, robust, modern, cation attesting that our aluminum-making process partnership-oriented, technology-intensive and susis sustainable—from mine to final product, and we tainable Company. were ranked as one of the 150 Best Workplaces in Brazil by Great Place to Work. In addition, we were positioned among the companies with the highest Ricardo Carvalho organizational climate favorability ratings in Brazil, CEO, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) GRI 102-14 4 2019 2019CBACBAANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT Controllership Office – Aluminum Plant (SP) 5 02 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT About this Report operations, in a process that engaged our leaders, employees and external stakeThe 2019 Companhia Brasileira de Aluholders listed in the CBA stakeholder mínio (CBA) Annual Report describes map, including customers, financial insour businesses’ and operations’ key titutions and local communities. These strategies and activities between Janusurveys were supplemented by industry ary 1st and December 31st across the research, Company documentation, and environmental, social, economic and benchmarking against local and global operational dimensions. This report aluminum industry players. The key topihas been prepared in accordance with cs identified by strategic stakeholders in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the materiality exercise were compiled as Standards, under the Core option. The material topics for the report. contents of the report are organized by CBA’s material topics and correlated with the Integrated Reporting <IR> capitals. Each chapter also references the CBA stakeholders material topics and Sustainable DeveA stakeholder is any party within the lopment Goals (SDGs) that are relevant value chain that can affect or be affecto its content. ted by CBA. Our most significant stakeholders include: employees, customers, This report has been independently aslocal communities, governments, indussured by PwC to ensure transparency try associations, financial institutions, and integrity. investors, suppliers, Votorantim S.A and To submit any questions, suggestions or the Votorantim Institute. comments, please contact the annual reCBA engages with stakeholders based port team by email to comunicacaocorpon a prioritized map of strategic sectors cba@cba.com.br established by our Communications department. Our stakeholder engagement Materiality Exercise initiatives include employee climate surveys, customer visits and workshops, and The material topics presented in this reinitiatives geared to communities and port were selected in a materiality exerlocal governments, which we describe cise conducted in 2017 for our aluminum throughout the report. Mirai Mining (MG) GRI 102-1, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-50, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 6 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Our material topics GRI 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 Related GRI CBA Material Topic Related SDGs SDG target used to establish linkage with material topic disclosures Sustainable mining Monitoring and mapping 15.5: Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of the impacts of bauxite 304: Biodiversity natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and mining on biodiversity; (2016)*, MM1 and MM2 prevent the extinction of threatened species reclaiming mine sites; and relations with land owners Dam safety and waste management 306: Effluents 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through Waste management and and Waste (2016)* prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse treatment and mechanisms for and MM3 monitoring dam safety 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources ENVIRONMENT 302: Energy (2016) 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Eco-efficient production Processes and investments to reduce consumption of water 6.3: By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and energy in our production and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the processes, and minimize proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and greenhouse gas and other safe reuse globally atmospheric emissions 303: Water (2018) 6.4: By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning 305: Emissions (2016) 13.3: Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning 201: Economic 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, performance (2016) technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on highvalue added and labor-intensive sectors 202: Market 8.6: By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in Presence (2016) employment, education or training Business ethics, compliance 205: Anti-corruption and resilience 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms (2016) Corporate governance and financial performance that ensure business continuity and 307: Environmental 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and transparent value creation for stakeholders compliance (2016) institutions at all levels 412: Human rights 16.3: Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and assessment (2016) ensure equal access to justice for all 419: Social and economic 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels compliance (2016) 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level 8.5: By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work wage by gender for all women and men, including for young people and persons with compared to local disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value minimum wage 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have PEOPLE 203: Indirect economic relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent impacts (2016) jobs and entrepreneurship Social license to operate Engaging with communities near our operations 4.1: By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality and supporting regional primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning development, and creating outcomes reputational value for CBA 4.2: By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary education 413: Local communities 4.c: By 2030, substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, including (2016) * and MM7 through international cooperation for teacher training in developing countries, especially least developed countries and small island developing States 11.6: By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment Integrity and employee well-being Efforts to protect the 403: Occupational physical integrity of our health and safety 3.1: By 2030, reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per employees, and initiatives to (2018) 100,000 live births improve quality of life 3.5: Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol 3.8: Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them Strengthening the sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of aluminum industry clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all Engaging with industry countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities associations and civil society to contribute to the growth 301: Materials (2016) of the industry, and working to expand reverse logistics 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of and recycling capacity in the natural resources aluminum value chain 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them FUTURE sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of Innovation and clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with customer satisfaction all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities Innovative processes CBA topic: Innovation and products delivering and customer 9.5: Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of sustainable value, and product satisfaction industrial sectors in all countries, in particular developing countries, including, co-creation with customers by 2030, encouraging innovation and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per one million people and public and private research and development spending * These material topics include disclosures from the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement (GRI G4). 7 2019 2019CBA CBAANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT Corporate Office in São Paulo Material themes in the chapter 03 Financial and manufactured capital SDG 8 #OURCBA 8 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 AT A GLANCE INVESTIMENT PEOPLE PRODUCTION FINANCIAL RESULTS R$ 38 million 4.800 1.88 million in innovation and technology direct employees metric tons of bauxite processed R$ 5.3 billion in net revenue R$ 43 million Among the 323 thousand in environment 150 Best metric tons of smelting R$ 861 Companies production million R$ 16 million to Work for in Brazil, in adjusted EBITDA in safety by GPTW 357 thousand metric tons of aluminum R$ 6 million products* in social initiatives 98% R$ 7 million of electricity requirement self-generated in the Legado das Águas and Legado Verdes do Cerrado nature reserves *Aluminum Plant (Upstream and Downstream) + Metalex GRI 102-7, own topic CBA-1 9 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Ranked among the best In 2019 CBA was named Company of the Year in the Minerals Industry, in the Nonferrous Minerals category, for the third year running. The awards were presented by trade journal Brasil Mineral to companies Casting area at selected through a direct vote of the Aluminum journal subscribers. Plant (SP) Who we are Founded in 1955, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) is a vertically integrated, sustainable producer of high-quality aluminum products. With hydroelectric generation capacity for 100% of our energy requirement, CBA’s operations span both bauxite mining and processing into primary aluminum (ingots, plate sheets, billets and rod*) and semi-fabricated products (caster rolls, sheet, foil, extruded profiles and parts and components). Working closely with customers, CBA also develops tailored solutions and services, primarily for the packaging, automotive and transportation markets, helping customers to produce more lightweight, durable and sustainable products. The Company also works to strengthen the aluminum industry by engaging with industry associations and local and international organizations supporting the sustainability of the aluminum value chain, participating in customer and consumer segment events in partnership with universities and research institutes, and attending industry conferences and trade shows in Brazil and around the world. GRI 102-2, GRI 103-3 – 301 Materiais Mirai Mining (MG) *The rod casting step is handled by a partner. 10 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Itapissuma Plant (PE) Where we are CBA directly manages the following operations and facilities: Corporate Office, Aluminum Plant (SP), Mining facilities, the Metalex plant, the Sorocaba Facility, a Distribution Center, Nickel Business operations and, the newly acquired, Itapissuma Plant (PE). The Company is headquartered at our Corporate Office in São Paulo. CBA’s plant in Alumínio (SP), a city in São Paulo State, houses our core aluminum-making operations, and is supplied with bauxite ore from mines in the Southeast state of Minas Gerais and the Midwest state of Goiás. The Metalex plant in Araçariguama (SP) is dedicated to recycling aluminum scrap, while the Sorocaba facility provides machining services, especially for CBA´s units. Our Distribution Center operations in Caxias (RS) continues its operation, while the Distribution Center operations in Rio de Janeiro were wound up. The Nickel Business—which includes operations in Niquelândia (GO) and São Miguel Paulista (SP)—remained under a temporary shutdown due to unfavorable macro-economic and market conditions. The acquisition of Itapissuma Plant, that used to be Arconic Indústria e Comércio de Metais Ltda, was announced in In early 2020, CBA 2019 for US$ 50 million. The deal was completed on February 1st, 2020. The facility, located in Itapissuma (PE), completed the has a production capacity of 50,000 metric tons per year of foil and sheet that will add to CBA’s range of flat-rolacquisition of a unit in led products and improve the competitiveness of locally produced products against imports. The new operation is the leading producer of packaging foil in Latin America, with a portfolio of high value-added products such as Itapissuma (PE), which is extra thin foil for aseptic packaging and thin and medium foil for flexible packaging applications. It also supplies leader in Latin America industrial sheet products for high value-added market niches, such as electric transformers, automotive gaskets in sheet production and components, and special alloys. for packaging and CBA also has 20 hydropower plants that are operated by Votorantim Energia, supplying electricity to its Aluminum aluminum sheets. Plant. In addition, CBA owns the Legado Verdes do Cerrado reserve and co-funds the Legado das Águas reserve, both managed by Reservas Votorantim. GRI 102-3, 102-9 11 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Our operations Legacy reserves4 • Legado das Águas Miracatu (SP) • Legado Verdes do Cerrado Niquelândia (GO) 4 Managed by Reservas Votorantim. Administrative Hydropower dams5 units • Corporate Office • Iporanga • Itupararanga São Paulo (SP) Juquiá (SP) Votorantim (SP) • Distribution Center • Serraria SHP • Barra Grande Caxias do Sul (RS) Juquiá (SP) Pinhal da Serra (RS) • Porto Raso SHP • Campos Novos Industrial Tapiraí (SP) Campos Novos (SC) plants • Barra • Canoas I Mining facilities Tapiraí (SP) Cândido Mota (SP) • CBA plant • Alecrim • Canoas II • Itamarati de Minas Mining Alumínio (SP) Miracatu (SP) Palmital (SP) Itamarati de Minas (MG) • Sorocaba Facility • Fumaça • Machadinho • Miraí Mining Sorocaba (SP) Ibiúna (SP) Piratuba (SC) Miraí (MG) • Metalex • França SHP • Piraju • Poços de Caldas Mining Araçariguama (SP) Juquitiba (SP) Piraju (SP) Poços de Caldas (MG) • Niquelândia • Jurupará SHP • Salto Pilão Nickel Business6 Piedade (SP) Apiúna (SC) • Barro Alto Mining¹ Niquelândia (GO) Barro Alto (GO) • São Miguel Paulista • Niquelândia • Santa Helena SHP • Salto do Rio Verdinho • Alumina Rondon² São Paulo (SP) Niquelândia (GO) Votorantim (SP) Caçu (GO) Rondon (PA) • Itapissuma Plant • São Miguel Paulista • Votorantim SHP • Ourinhos 1 Operated by a partner. Itapissuma (PE)³ São Paulo (SP) Votorantim (SP) Ourinhos (SP) 2 Currently under licensing. ³ Acquisition concluded in 2020. 6 Under a temporary shutdown. 5 Managed by Votorantim Energia. GRI 102-4 12 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT VALUE CREATION MODEL INPUTS OUTPUTS 1. Mining 2. Bauxite receipt 3. Alumina Refinery • Negotiations with landowners • R$ 5.3 billion in net revenue to lease mining land After it is washed and crushed at the Mining Bauxite is extracted at our mines in accordance At the Refinery, aluminum oxide (alumina) is • Asset maintenance facilities, bauxite ore is carried in trucks to a rail • R$ 861 million in adjusted EBITDA with best practices that ensure the land is restored extracted from the bauxite using the Bayer process, • Purchased raw materials, to the same or better than original conditions, for use terminal, and from there by rail to the Alumínio in which the ore reacts with caustic soda at high Plant (SP). There, the ore is unloaded and the services and inputs in farming activities after the mine is decommissioned bauxite is separated according to its physical and temperature and pressure Financial • Investment in modernization and technology Financial chemical properties Capital • R$ 38 million invested in innovation and technology Capital SDG 8 • Modernization using technologies such as artificial intelligence, alumina robotization, connectivity and process automation bauxite • A digital mindset for the CBA 4.0 Journey • Research and development of • Innovation workshops with universities, institutions, customers and new technologies partners • Innovation and co-creation to • Capacity building and training for employees, including training on digital develop new products and platforms and using virtual reality technology services • Ranked as one of the 100 companies deploying IT in the most innovative • Collaboration with education Intellectual Intellectual ways in the IT Mídia awards and research institutions to drive • Patents for projects and products innovation Capital Capital 4. Smelters 5. Casting 6. Downstream SDG 9 Molten aluminum is produced through Alloy elements and scrap are added to the Cold and hot milling, extrusion and surface treatment • R$ 6 million invested in social initiatives • Investment in social programs processes transform primary products into higher electrolytic smelting of the aluminum oxide molten aluminum in the furnaces as needed, • Transparent relations with stakeholders for community development and the product is then cast into different value-added products co-developed with customers, through participatory planning shapes enhancing our portfolio with customized solutions used • Corporate social responsibility projects across three pillars: Education in the automotive, packaging and other industries Development, Public Management Support and Economic Development • Relations with trade associations, customers, the • 704 employees working as volunteers in social programs media, governments and other Social and rod • More than 1,400 people involved in emergency drills in Zona da Mata and Alumínio stakeholders Relationship Molten Social and • Customer awards (a Material Supplier Award during the Honda Supplier caster rolls billets Capital aluminum Relationship Conference, and a best supplier award for Quality from Denso) • Aluminum Business: Automotive market Capital plate Ingots 4 bauxite mines¹, sheets SDG 1 2 6 8 1 integrated aluminum plant (from • 1.88 million metric tons of bauxite processed alumina to semi-fabricated 10 11 16 • 323,000 metric tons of smelting production products), Packaging market • 357,000 metric tons of aluminum products* 1 aluminum foil and sheet facility • 98% of electricity requirement from renewable sources in Itapissuma², • Products for the automotive, packaging and transportation markets as 1 distribution center, well as growth markets where there are opportunities for aluminum 1 scrap recycling facility (Metalex), • Approximately 81,000 metric tons of internal aluminum scrap and 1 machining facility (Sorocaba) 67,000 metric tons of external scrap recycled • Nickel Business: 1 mine and 1 plant, both under a temporary ALUMINUM SOLUTIONS THAT TRANSFORM PEOPLE’S LIVES Manufactured *CBA Plant (primary and semi-fabricated) + Metalex shutdown • 20 hydropower plants supplying Our aspirations Capital Manufactured 17 power to the Aluminum plant³ PARCERIAS Our results generate increasing returns on investment through sustainable business and a strategy that creates E MEIOS DE SDG 7 8 9 12 • 2 private reserves: Legado das Águas (“Water Legacy”)4 and Capital IMPLEMENTAÇÃO value for our customers, suppliers, employees and communities. • 4,800 direct employees • 1,327 fixed third-party employees Legado Verdes do Cerrado Our customers recognize us as a trusted company that creates valuable partnerships, offers differentiated • R$ 16 million invested in occupational safety (“Cerrado Green Legacy”), both products and services, and delivers innovative solutions. • Zero fatalities, and a lost-time and no-lost-time injury frequency rate of managed by Reservas Votorantim 1,75 • 6 dams5 Our employees have Company pride and are recognized and valued by inspiring leaders. • CBA was ranked as one of the 150 Best Workplaces in Brazil by Great • Corporate office Place to Work, and won a Korn Ferry Engaged Performance Award • A commitment to initiatives focused on diversity Human • Human rights due diligence to minimize risks in our operations • Direct and third-party Capital employees SDGs SDG 3 5 8 10 • Students and researchers To the right of the Value Creation Model, our results in each capital are • Certification against the ASI Performance Standard and Chain of Custody working in-house on Company correlated with the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—an (CoC) Standard, with CBA becoming the first aluminum producer in the projects in collaborations with The capitals Americas to concurrently certify three mining operations (Miraí, Poços de education and research ambitious plan of action for people, planet and prosperity. The 17 SDGs are listed below: Caldas and Itamarati de Minas), a fully integrated industrial plant (Alumínio) institutions Human Capital across all product types—billets, ingots, sheet, flat-rolled products and anodized and coated extruded profiles—and our Corporate Offices in São Paulo. 1 2 3 4 5 6 ÁGUA POTÁVEL ERRADICAR ERRADICAR SAÚDE DE EDUCAÇÃO DE IGUALDADE DE The term ‘capital’ is used in economics to describe A POBREZA A FOME QUALIDADE QUALIDADE GÊNERO E SANEAMENTO Certified operations: Corporate Office; Miraí, Poços de Caldas and Itamarati de any asset that creates value over time, including not Minas mines; and Integrated Plant (Alumínio) • Land for our operations, • R$ 43 million in environmental investment only financial but also intangible assets such as an especially mine operations • Joined the Global Compact and committed to initiatives supporting the SDGs organization’s reputation, training and knowledge • Mined bauxite ore • Targets set for 2025 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water withdrawal creation. These are all part of an organization’s • Water resources for our and waste disposal 7 8 9 10 11 12 sources of wealth. In this Value Creation Model, ENERGIAS TRABALHO DIGNO INDÚSTRIA, REDUZIR AS CIDADES E PRODUÇÃO E operations and hydropower plants RENOVÁVEIS E E CRESCIMENTO INOVAÇÃO E DESIGUALDADES COMUNIDADES CONSUMO • Aluminum Lifecycle Assessment developed capitals are divided into financial, intellectual, social ACESSÍVEIS ECONÔMICO INFRAESTRUTURAS SUSTENTÁVEIS RESPONSÁVEIS • Greenhouse gas emissions assured. Only 2.56 t CO2e/t of smelting Natural Capital and relationship, manufactured, human and natural Natural production (Scope 1 and 2), compared to a global average of 12 t CO2e/t capital, as outlined in the Integrated Reporting <IR> framework. Resources invested in each of the Capital • R$ 7 million invested in the Legado das Águas and Legado Verdes do Cerrado nature reserves capitals are transformed by CBA through our SDG 3 6 14 15 1. Three mines are operated by CBA (Miraí, Itamarati de Minas and Poços de Caldas – MG) and in one CBA has mining rights but the mine is 13 14 VIDA 15 VIDA 16 17 operated by a partner (Barro Alto-GO). CBA also has a mine project under licensing in Rondon (PA). AÇÃO CONTRA A NA PAZ, JUSTIÇA E PARCERIAS 2. The acquisition of the Itapissuma facility was concluded in February 2020. production process, and then return to society in the MUDANÇA GLOBAL ÁGUA TERRESTRE INSTITUIÇÕES E MEIOS DE EFICAZES IMPLEMENTAÇÃO 3. The plants are part of CBA’s manufactured capital, but are managed by Votorantim Energia. For this reason, employees at these units are not accounted for as part of our human capital. form of results, thereby creating value. DO CLIMA 4. Legado das Águas is co-funded with other Votorantim portfolio companies. Employees at these units are not accounted for. 5. Two dams are for water impoundment, two are mine tailings dams, and two are industrial waste tailings dams. All dams have been built in a single step or have been either downstreamor centerline-raised. GRI 102-6 13 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Potential to go beyond We aspire to build a competitive and sustainable business that generates positive impact for shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, the environment and society. How can we continue to meet this aspiration into the future, in such a rapidly changing business environment? The answer, of course, is by investing in technology—modernizing our processes and equipment, creating new solutions and preparing our people for an increasingly digital world. This journey of cultural transforOur Aspiration mation, known internally as “CBA of the Future”, was launched in 2017 and has required a disruptive Our results generate increasing process of rethinking our approach to ensure the returns on invested capital through sustainable business Company is increasingly agile and competitive in and a strategy that creates value this new context. Concurrently, we have continued for our customers, suppliers, our efforts to achieve greater organizational maemployees and communities. turity with a focus on customers, sustaining operational excellence, improving supplier relations, Our customers recognize us as a trusted company engaging employees and delivering superior shathat establishes valuable reholder returns, in a growth journey that benefits partnerships, offering all stakeholders. differentiated products Several planned improvements were successfully and services and delivering delivered throughout 2019. This included deinnovative solutions ploying new technologies (mobility, cognition and Our employees have Company the Internet of Things) and embedding a digital pride and are recognized and mindset in the Company’s DNA, as we continued on valued by inspiring leaders a path to becoming #CBA4POINTZERO. Casting Area at the Aluminum Plant (SP) 14 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CBA 4.0 Our shift of strategy to CBA 4.0 aims to implement operating improvements that can positively impact business results,including improved controls and greater agility,with the ultimate goal of becoming a better organization. As part of these efforts, an internal assessment was conducted that identified four major pillars as the basis of our CBA 4.0 strategy. The most significant change in 2019 was a cultural transformation aligned with our value of Competitiveness. We encouraged people to continuously think about what they do and how they operate to drive increased integration across the value chain— from suppliers to customers—and across all stakeholders, and to work to achieve competitive differentiation (read more in the chapter “People”). PEOPLE Define approach 1 and review previous materials Hold discussions with 2 leadership to identify tactical objectives linked to industry 4.0 PROCESSES TECHNOLOGY 3 Assess opportunities and build value map Prioritize 4 opportunities Translate opportunities 5 into actions and assess technological readiness Estimate value capture INFORMATION 6 from prioritized SECURITY initiatives for budget 15 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability today and tomorrow To ensure the viability of our ope• Diversification of the energy mix throughout the Company. In 2019 we formalized a rations into the future, we need to • Changing production patterns Sustainability department responsible for building look ahead at emerging global trends relations with society and addressing issues such • Hyper-transparent relationships over the coming decades. Our leadership as waste dams, the environment, health and safehas identified four megatrends that are diThese megatrends, combined with the Materiaty, among others. We also created a Sustainability rectly related to the Company’s challenges lity Matrix defined in 2017, were addressed in Committee to embed sustainability considerations in the coming years, and which will help to workshops and internal discussions that informed in decision-making. The Committee is composed of ensure we remain competitive, sustainable important strategic guidance for the Company, inthe CEO, representatives from key functions and and, above all, continue to create value for cluding: The elaboration of the Strategy for CBA guest independent members. In the first Sustainashareholders, customers, suppliers, emSustainability, created in 2018 and definition of bility Committee meeting, it was decided that CBA ployees and broader society. goals and objectives by 2025. would undertake a public commitment to a sustaiThe four megatrends are: CBA has since continued to pursue this strategic nable development agenda. At year-end 2019 we • A planet under stress direction, making Sustainability a ubiquitous topic submitted a letter of commitment to join the Global Compact, the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, which provides guidelines on promoting sustainable growth and corporate citizenship. CBA committed to implementing the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. These principles have been embedded in the Company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, as described in greater detail throughout this report. We have also undertaken initiatives and projects in support of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). CBA has joined several Global Compact initiatives and in 2020 we will make a more in-depth assessment of our contributions to the SDGs Coffee plantation in a rehabilitation area in Miraí (MG) GRI 102-12 16 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY com a da e a acidentes Inspiring leaders and o Committed to quality of ma m-estar high-performance teams life and zero injuries that embrace diversity Referência no sistema de gestão de barragens Saiba mais na seção Segurança nas barragens Recognized by customers as a An industry leader in partner in developing product dam management and service solutions Business partners Recognized by communities aligned at all times with Reconhecida pela comunidade como as a partner in social the CBA Code of Conduct parceira do desenvolvimento social development Saiba mais na seção Desenvolvimento local o e ão s Operational excellence Recognized as a model for and cost management environmental stewardship 17 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 7,713 Financial results 6,284 7,067 The aluminum market Price of aluminum London Metal 2,110 1,969 The year 2019 was marked by a continuous drop in London MeExchange (LME) 1,791 tal Exchange (LME) aluminum prices and regional premiums. The slowdown in the global economy, lower growth in demand across the aluminum value chain, driven by weak activity in key aluminum end-use sectors (such as construction and transportation LME US$ (US$/t) particularly the automotive industry), and a seemingly oversuLME R$ (R$/t) pplied aluminum market are the main causes for the downward pressure on prices. In this context, LME aluminum prices fell 15% in the year, from US$ 2,110 per metric ton in 2018 to US$ 1,791 per metric ton in 2019. The US-China trade war has also contri2017 2018 2019 buted to an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and consequent US Dollar appreciation. The Brazilian Real weakened 8% against the US Dollar from 2018 to 2019, which resulted in an 8% decrease in the average LME aluminum price in local currency. In Brazil, production in the domestic automotive sector grew 2% while exports fell 32%, according to ANFAVEA (National Association of Automotive Vehicle Manufacturers). The aluminum market grew 8% in 2019 when compared to 2018 according to ABAL (Brazilian Aluminum Association), on the back of sheet products and excluding can stock products. However, the Brazilian market was highly affected by a sizeable inflow of metals from China as a consequence of compulsory US import tariffs. In 2019, imports increased 14% (excluding can stock and cables) when compared to 2018, representing 23% of the total market. Rolling mill area in the Aluminum Plant (SP) (GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 201: Economic Performance) 18 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Operating and financial results Aluminum sales were a total of 351,000 metric tons, a 13% drop when compared to 2018. Net revenue was R$ 5.3 billion, a decrease of 3% compared with the previous year, while adjusted EBITDA rose 3%, to R$ 861 million. In the Aluminum business, net revenue totaled R$ 4.1 billion, a decrease of 7%, while adjusted EBITDA fell 4% from 2018 Financial Team to R$ 855 million. in the Corporate Office in Sao Despite the adverse economic conditions in 2019, our business model and strategy improved Paulo (SP) the Company’s consolidated results, as CBA was able to benefit from higher energy prices on our energy surplus sales. Costs for the main raw materials used for aluminum production declined throughout the year, partly offsetting the narrower margins as a result of falling aluminum prices and premiums. Liquidity and indebtedness In the Upstream Business, we have maintained our focus on improving profitability by increaAt year-end 2019 CBA’s consolidated gross debt was sing cost competitiveness. The Downstream Business has worked to develop tailored solutions R$ 2.2 billion, an increase of 5% when compared to with key customers as part of our strategy of optimizing our capabilities for meeting customer year-end 2018. In order to lengthen the amortization needs and providing high value-added services. of debt over the next years, CBA repurchased US$ 256 million in Eurobonds due in 2024 and obtained bilateral export finance facilities totaling R$ 1.1 billion, with Consolidated net revenue a 7-year average maturity, extending the debt maturi(R$ million) ty profile from an average of 4.8 years in 2018 to 5.1 5,417 5,263 Consolidated adjusted years in 2019. Aluminum sales volume 940 1,133 EBITDA (thousand tons) 4,423 37 (R$ million) Net debt amounted R$ 1.7 billion, 21% higher than 8 405 1,039 4,440 861 in 2018, mainly due to the weakening of the Brazilian 365 351 4,123 832 88 97 42 Real against the US Dollar. Financial leverage, as mea88 3,342 sured by the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA, was 308 277 1.94x compared with 1.65x in December 2018. Finan263 436 cial discipline and stable EBITDA enabled us to meet our target for leverage. Cash, cash equivalents and financial investments ended 2019 at R$ 608 million. The Company’s cash position is enough to cover the 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 next 4 years of debt obligations. Semi-fabricated Primary Aluminum Nickel Electricity GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 201: Economic performance 19 Click here and access the complete financial information. 2019 2019CBA CBAANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT Aluminum Plant (SP) Material topics addressed in this chapter: • Business ethics, compliance and resilience • Integrity and employee well-being • Social license to operate <IR> Human and social 04 capitals SDG 4 3 8 11 16 PEOPLE 20 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT “Aluminum The purpose of everything CBA is on a journey of continual improvement. As part solutions that of this, we continually upgrade our processes, deploy state-of-the-art technology, invest in capacity building, transform lives” implement new projects, and ensure we are responsive to trends in our industry and around the world. After a rebranding effort in 2018, we unveiled our new purpose as a Company, reflecting these changes. Driven by our aspiration to create value for each stakeholder, CBA’s purpose was articulated in 2019 based on four pillars: • Our History – where we are coming from and the significant milestones in this journey • Our brand – the way we do business, inspired by our origins and our journey up to the rebranding initiative • Our Aspiration – where we are headed, taking into account our relations with different stakeholders • Our Estrategy – how we will get there, in line with inputs from Strategic Engagement Our purpose therefore defines who we are and reflects our outlook for the present and vision for the future. “Aluminum solutions that transform lives” are an integral part of our history as a Company, our way of doing business, and our day-to-day interaction with stakeholders. CBA’s purpose reflects our outlook for the present and vision for the future, and provides clarity about everything we do and how we do it. 21 Casting Area in the Aluminum Plant (SP) 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Corporate governance Human capital underpinned by ethics CBA is committed to human rights. We are aware of and respect the rights, lawful interests and local customs of the communities We aim to create value for stakeholders and ensure the sustainability where we operate. We seek to share and make decisions together of our operations. This can only be achieved if our corporate culture is with stakeholders, helping to build understanding and create shaunderpinned by ethics, integrity and corporate responsibility, within a red value. rigorous and transparent governance process. Learn below about our governance structure and how our management bodies work together All service agreements incorporate provisions on discrimination, to ensure sound and agile decision-making. child labor, slave or forced labor and compliance with legislation. The Company also supports freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective bargaining. In order to reinforce this shared value, CBA engaged a partner to assess the level of maturity of CBA’s practices and policies in order to identify our positive and negative human rights impacts, and prevent, mitigate and remediate any identified negative impacts. At the end of 2019 we initiated our first human rights due diligence assessment on our operations in São Paulo (SP), Poços de Caldas (MG), Miraí (MG), Itamarati de Minas (MG) and the Aluminum Plant in Alumínio (SP). The assessment will inform a risk matrix describing risks for human rights violations in our operations, primarily using the United Nations (UN) guide on human rights as a yardstick. Based on this matrix, CBA will develop action plans to address any identified risks. Of the Company’s 13 operations, the 5 most significant underwent human rights assessments. At year-end 2019, more than 95% of CBA employees had received training on policies and procedures on human rights issues relevant to our operations. In 2019 alone, 740 employees attended e-learning training on our Code of Conduct with an estimated duration of one hour, covering topics on ethics and human rights. Corporate Office in São Paulo (SP) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 – 412: Human Rights Assessment, 412-1, 412-2 22 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CBA governance structure Shareholders’ Meeting It is the Company’s highest decision-making body and includes all Shareholders’ shareholders. It has authority to, for example, amend the Bylaws, appoint Meeting and/or remove members of the Board of Directors, approve the Company’s accounts and financial statements, and decide on asset valuations and mergers and acquisitions. Board of How do these Directors Board of Directors different levels It monitors the Company’s operating performance and decides on strategic and high-impact matters affecting CBA. Members, including interact with each independent members, are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Compensation Audit other? and Personnel Committee Committee The responsibilities of Committees each body in our corporate They advise the Board of Directors with the in performing its governance structure are oversight duties. The Committees are composed of independent outlined in CBA’s Bylaws, members who support the Board within their areas of expertise. Executive Board The Company also has dedicated committees advising the which were last updated Executive Board. in 2018 and are described Sustainability Dams Conduct in our Governance Leadership Team Committee Committee Committee Handbook. The levels of our It meets on a weekly basis to discuss significant projects governance structure are and investments, and oversees day-to-day operations. The described below. Leadership Team is composed of the CEO and seven executives representing key areas of the Company. Chief Executive Leadership Team Officer Human and Engineering Legal, Upstream Downstream Finance Supply chain Organizational and Technology Governance Development, and Compliance Health, Safety, GRI 102-18 Environment and Sustainability 23 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Risk management The CBA Risk Management Policy was revisited and improved in 2019; we identified any emerging risks, and assessed and developed action plans for existing risks. We also initiated a process to identify relevant risks based on our Strategic Plan 2020-2024, and developed a new risk appetite methodology. As another significant improvement, compliance risks were integrated with corporate risks. 2019 Complience Day Votorantim Group Values The risk management process begins with our leadership mapping out potential events that could Solidness • Ethics • Respect • Entrepreneurship • Unity prevent the Company from achieving goals. These risks are then categorized based on their likelihood and degree of impact on the Company. business, and is accordingly addressed in regular addressed in the Code of Conduct. A specially proemployee initiatives organized by CBA and Votoduced video series uses a lighthearted yet educarantim. Know them! tional approach to address compliance issues, with a focus on Preventing Losses and Fraud, PrevenContinually investing in Compliance Week – Group-wide culture and ting Corruption, and Contracts and Agreements. compliance compliance activities organized by Votorantim. Each month, one of topics in the Code of Conduct CBA’s Compliance Program was introduced in Compliance Day – a day dedicated to discussing is selected to be featured in internal communica2013 and has since been enhanced with new issues such as bribery, ethics and integrity with tions. tools, processes and methodologies for training CBA leadership. Ethics Hotline – a communication channel that employees and improving our relations and deaemployees, suppliers and customers can use E-learning – online training on the Votorantim lings with customers, suppliers, competitors, creto report any breaches of our Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for all employees. ditors, the media, the public and governments, in anonymously and without fear of retaliation. line with the highest standards of ethics and corInternal communication channels – used to disporate governance. Compliance is central to the seminate information about the different issues GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-419: Social and Economic Compliance, 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-205: Anticorruption, 205-3 24 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Featured Compliance Anti-bribery Compliance Game platform CBA has a set of policies and procedures in place to Addressing sensitive compliance issues ensure all employees are aware of the Company’s zeEthical and responsible business often requires creativity. In 2019, the issue ro-tolerance approach to misconduct or violations of conduct is essential in achieving poof workplace harassment was addressed using legal requirements and/or Company standards. Those sitive business results. No instances a game format: players (CBA employees) were policies and procedures include: an anti-bribery poof corruption involving the Company placed in a real-life escape room where they had licy, the Votorantim Code of Conduct, a Managerial were identified in 2019. Our leato solve puzzles on the theme of harassment Standard on Donations and Sponsorship (containing dership at CBA and Votorantim are to escape. All clues and evidence were based guidelines that employees are expected to follow to committed to fighting corruption on the Code of Conduct. The initiative was ensure that Company donations and sponsorship are and to ensuring that anti-bribery organized at our Corporate Office, at the compliant with legal requirements), and a Competition compliance permeates all levels of Sorocaba facility, at the Metalex plant, and at Compliance Handbook providing recommendations and the organization. CBA’s Compliance the Aluminum Plant (SP). rules of conduct for dealings with customers, suppliers Portal is a new platform within our and competitors. A Loss Prevention tool has also been Compliance Program that is desigdeployed as part of our compliance initiatives. The tool ned to effectively communicate and performs an end-to-end assessment to mitigate the provide transparency around emrisk of losses and fraud. ployee activities in which conflicts We deliver on our commitment to compliance by obserof interest with CBA and other Votoving all laws and regulations applicable to our business, rantim Group companies could arise. by upholding the highest standards of ethics in our A Trade Compliance project will also operations, and by acting with transparency and agility be initiated in 2020 to ensure the in everything we do. And we require the same commitCompany’s foreign trade transacment from our employees and partners. tions are aligned to international Any reported compliance concerns are investigated by best practices. a Business Conduct Committee composed of the CEO and representatives from the Human & Organizational Development, Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit departments. All investigations are conducted in an impartial and responsible manner and the reporting party is kept anonymous and protected from retaliation. Complience Game at Sorocaba Facitlity GRI 102-16, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-205: Anti-corruption; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 419: Social and economic compliance 25 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT High-performance teams Turn to the new world journey CBA 4.0 A strategic question set the tone for an important people management issue in 2019: how can we build a technology-savvy, future-proof workforce? How can we prepare employees for this new, competitive and digitized world? These questions were answered with assistance from a consulting firm engaged to assess our workforce’s digital maturity and what skills they need to develop for a digital future. Controllership Office at the The assessment identified the need for a cultural transformation and Aluminum Plant (SP) a change in mindsets. An integrated mapping exercise involving more than 170 people identified 23 attributes related to a digital DNA Cognitive Behavioral JOURNEY 4.0 and how the Company should be organized, operate and behave to readiness readiness build agility and value capture in this new business era. More than just skills building, our workforce requires cognitive, behavioral and emotional readiness. Thinking Acting The assessment team evaluated a set of professional attributes that different different Competitiveness the ideal CBA employee should demonstrate, including aspects such as alignment with Company values and technology readiness. Employee diversity was identified as being equally important in develoCULTURE ping the right workforce profile (read more in “Diversity to go to the Constructive PILLARS Teamwork next level”). Divergence After mapping out the target professional attributes, we developed a Leadership Journey with a series of activities designed to develop these attributes in our leaders, who then cascade these concepts on to Sense of ownership their teams, forming a multidisciplinary digital learning network. These initiatives inspired CBA to move to the next level of our cultural transformation, toward our Journey 4.0. In 2020, a range of initiatives will be implemented as part of this Journey, including shared performance Emotional Reacting targets for the transformation of our organizational culture. readness different 26 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Leadership Journey Building a high-performance team that is aligned with Company strategy requires developing inspiring leaders. Our Leadership Journey was the pathway taken to achieve this. Supervisors, as the first level of leadership, have been the focus of this journey. Initially, the need was identified for supervisors to have a peopleand results-oriented mindset. The roles and responsibilities they should have were then defined, and a training roadmap was designed to equip them to perform in those roles. Lastly, a training and development schedule extending to 2021 was developed and implemented within 2019. Management tools PEOPLE Engagement Ensure people management Act as an inspiring leader through the tools and practices aligned with the culture pillars Mana ent ge em too men gag ls En t CBA Culture Safe behavior Be a guardian of the pillars Be a reference in safe behavior, of culture for reaching CBA cul e Saf vior identifying and controlling threats business objectives tu ha as well as developing the team and re be evaluating employees for safety Roles and posture and attitude. responsibilities Innovation and excellence nd Pe na m rfor a t i o ce Create an environment of open an m I n n ov c e ll e n dialogue and constructive a ge a n c e Performance management m en Monitor indicators, divergence by stimulating and ex t valuing new ideas. ensuring efficiency in Cu execution of processes. st y om ili t er f in ab o cus S ust a Customer focus Sustainability Establish valuable partnerships, R E S U LT S Produce with health, safety understanding the real need and respecting society and the of the internal customers and environment, optimizing resources translating in planning activities. and avoiding waste generation 27 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Employee satisfaction to boost productivity People who are happy in the workplace tend to be more engaged and productive. To take this from theory to practice, CBA has fostered discussions to re-signify behavioral patterns and develop new mindsets among our 4,800 employees. The Company strives to create a workplace environment that supports co-creation, creativity and constructive collaboration, as well as encourage employees to develop their skills and attend educational programs. An example of this is our ideas Program, called IdeAI, which encourages employees to submit ideas for process improvements or new products, either individually or in groups. A Program Committee reviews submissions and selects ideas with the potential to be implemented. The authors of selected ideas receive points that they can trade in for experiences. At the end of the year, the authors of the best ideas in four categories (Environment, Cost Reduction, Operating Excellence, and Products & Innovation) participate in an event in which they receive recognition and awards. In 2019, a total of 225 ideas were submitted, 96 were approved and 61 were implemented. Another initiative is Potenciar, a Votorantim S.A program in which CBA employees are selected to develop projects revolving around the Company’s strategic levers. A highlight in 2019 was the completion of a project on waste, which demonstrated that proper waste treatment can help to reduce natural resource usage while providing new revenue streams for the Company. The success of the initiative led to the High-performance tools creation of a dedicated department • Individual Development Plans within the Company (read more in “Environment”). The current Potenciar pro• Annual performance reviews ject, initiated in 2019 and scheduled to • A culture of continuous feedback be completed in 2020, is related to our • Coaching sessions CBA 4.0 strategy. • Mentoring sessions Refinery Area at • Internal education projects Aluminum Plant (SP) 28 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT People management pillars Diversity to go to the next level Another topic that has been strengthened in 2019 is diversity. A diverse environment is one that emHuman centricity News Changes in Demographic braces different world views and in which all emPlace the organization at technologies culture and in the changes ployees feel included and represented. Such an the service of life, taking New forms of organizational Diversity of environment supports constructive disagreement, clarity of your purpose and relationship x structure generations in being more organic teamwork and, ultimately, business growth in an speed of companies the Company Encouragement Industry 4.0 environment. For these reasons, diThe emergence of new adaptation to autonomy Increasing of expectations and values Impact on and to creativity expectancy versity is being addressed as part of a project that related to work and Communication of life will be ongoing over the next five years. career in society Less Centralized Digital revolution leadership Gender People’s concern conferring power This first year was dedicated to reviewing our procesdiversity with topics related Formation ses to detect potential obstacles preventing diverse to people to sustainability of networks candidates from joining the Company. Concurrently, our leadership received training for a better understanding on the subject, with support from a specialist consulting firm. Some of the topics addressed included: what is whiteness, LGBTQ+ and feminism. A DiCBA on Workplace versity Working Group, including the CEO as a memLeadership Summit Another digital initiative in the year ber, was then created to address related issues. This Each year, CBA organizes an event was our implementation of Workplace, journey is only just beginning, and there is still a long for leaders (coordinators, managers, a collaborative networking platform available to way to go. The next step will be to introduce diversity general managers and directors) to all employees. Approximately 3,500 active users policies and practices within the Company. celebrate results in the year and outline now use the platform and publish posts about actions planned for the following year. their work, discuss published content, and partiIn the 2019 edition, awards were Through diversity, we aspire to... cipate in thematic groups and projects. The tool also presented to the winners in the has helped to provide employees with a streng... foster engagement across generations Sustainability Talent Awards and the ... strengthen our culture of gender equality thened sense of community, more accessible and IdeAl Program (see the following chapters efficient communications, a sense of connected… attract talents with different world views for more information). ness with each other, and a more comprehensive … reinforce the importance of racial equality understanding of the business. ... recruit more women and young talent into the Company GRI 103-2 29 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Among the top workplaces in Brazil In recognition of our people management practices, CBA was ranked as one of the large-size companies among the Top 150 Workplaces in Brazil in 2019. The ranking, compiled by the Great Place to Work (GPTW) Institute, recognizes the best-performing workplaces in Brazil for organizational practices. This was CBA’s first year participating in the survey, and not only was the Company successful, but we were also the only company in the mining and aluminum segments in Brazil to make the list. The Company also competed in the São Paulo Minor Cities/Large Companies category, ranking in fifth place. The recognition has created a sense of employee pride while putting a spotlight on the Company that has helped to attract a broader pool of new talents, increasing diversity in our workforce. Data for the GPTW ranking is compiled through a sample-based organizational climate survey of employees. This annual survey is designed to assess employee favorability towards the organizational climate at CBA. With a favorability rating of 85%, the Company ranked among the 150 top workplaces in Brazil in the Large Companies category. Insights from the survey were used to develop an action plan to ensure the Company remains on the right path and achieves consistently better performance. In addition, CBA was positioned among the companies with the best organizational climate favorability index in Brazil (among the top 10%) in the Korn Ferry Organizational Climate Survey. This survey also awarded CBA as one of the best companies in the world in terms of Engagement and Training, considering the survey of more than seven million Office at Aluminum Plant (SP) employees worldwide. (GRI 102-43) GRI 102-43 30 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Our commitment to safety “Safety is non-negotiable!”. Safety is an absolute imperative in all our operations, and awareness initiatives and investment in safety are a constant. In 2019, our focus was on safe behavior and preventing unsafe conditions. More than 130 supervisors attended the Safe Mindsets training module, and more than 200 employees were invited to CBA’s Annual Safety Workshop for leadership. At these events, employees received instruction on how to identify and report risks. Workplace injuries declined in 2019 compared with 2018, reducing our lost-time and no-lost-time Aluminum Business accident 2019 Safety Workshop frequency rate from 2.49 to 1.75. This reflects significant initiatives that have been implemented to improve risk awareness, safe behavior and leadership engagement. CBA also outperformed Aluminum Association (ABAL) and the International Aluminum both the national (7.27) and the international (4.0) average acInstitute (IAI)*. However, a number of lost-time injuries occurred cident frequency rates, as published by respectively the Brazilian in 2019 that increased the Aluminum Business accident severity rate from 63 to 260. The Company is permanently engaged in further reducing these figures. Accident frequency rate¹ Accident severity rate² In 2019 the most prevalent incidents involving direct and thir260 2.49 d-party employees were hand, arm and foot injuries. Actions 2.27 taken to address these issues included awareness campaigns, 1.75 reinforcing safety concepts during risk analyses, and encoura1.47 ging employees to use their Right of Refusal if they encounter 76 any risks that threaten job safety. 63 We also worked to improve the safety performance of our con0 0 0 tractors through safety campaigns such as the Contractor Ma0 0 rathon, a method used to measure, track, monitor and recognize 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 contractor performance within the CBA management system. Aluminum Nickel Aluminum Nickel *Based on the latest data available, for year 2018. 1. This consolidation follows the NBR 14280 standard 2. This consolidation follows the NBR 14280 standard guiguidelines and comprises employees’ and contractors’ acdelines, comprising employees’ and contractors’ accidents cidents with and without lost work-days (Total recordable and the calculation of lost and carriedforward work days GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-403: GRI Health & Safety, 403-9 accident rate – per MHW). 31 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT “How do you behave when no one is watching?” This question was the theme of Occupational Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT), to encourage safe behavior at all times, both in and out of the workplace. Dealing with health and safety risks Risks to the health and safety of employees are identified, addressed and adequately managed through CBA’s Workplace Risk Prevention Program (PPRA), Occupational Health & Safety Program (PCMSO) and tools such as Rolling Mill Area in the Aluminum Plant (SP) Preliminary Risk Analysis (PRA), Fale Fácil (an easy-to-use channel for reporting and addressing unsafe conditions and behavior), Toolbox or Weekly Talks and our Duty of Refusal policy (a mechanism to encourage employees to solve identified safety issues). The CIPA is composed of both employee and Company representatives, and CBA has an Integrated Management Policy that includes guidelines on occupational meets on a monthly basis to discuss improvement actions and safety suggeshealth & safety. The management system addresses both laws and regulations and tions. CBA awards prizes to the employees within each function who submit industry best practice in health and safety. All employees, including direct and thirthe best reports via Fale Fácil – a tool used to report and address unsafe d-party employees, are covered by the system. behavior and conditions. We also have a multidisciplinary group of representatives from senior leadership, who also hold monthly meetings. At CBA, all employees actively participate in managing health and safety. Reported injuries and incidents are investigated and addressed by a multidisciplinary group of representatives from the Safety department, the Internal Accident Prevention Committee (CIPA), and other departments. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-403: Health & Safety, 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-9 32 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Billet production area at the Aluminum Plant (SP) Leveraging technology to improve safety In 2019 we continued to leverage virtual reality technology in fire response training at our rolling mills and lockout/tag-out training at the aluminum plant. This technology simulates real-life situations that make the training experience more dynamic for employees. Other initiatives included implementation of a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) checkout module that uses biometrics, and development of a software system for managing safety tool usage and data. R$ 16 million invested in safety-related projects; facilities improvements, upgrades or new and safer equipment conforming to Brazilian regulatory standards (NRs); awareness campaigns; and safety initiatives. Safety targets Employee safety is embedded in CBA’s Sustainability Strategy and is addressed by initiatives continuing to 2025. Our key health and safety goals are: • Progressively reducing injuries to a frequency rate lower than 1 • A zero fatality commitment • Reducing health insurance claims through our “For You” Quality of Life Program GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-403: Health & Safety 33 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT For You Quality-Of-Life Program event in São Paulo (SP) Better health and well-being Our Por Você (“For You”) Quality-of-Life Program improves well-being and encourages healthy lifestyles among CBA employees and their dependents. The program includes initiatives across four pillars – exercise, nutrition advice, well-being, and prevention – from fitness center discounts to nutrition consultations and special care for employees with high blood pressure and diabetes. In 2019 CBA also expanded its collaboration with fitness partners, allowing employees to choose plans that match their needs and pick different activities each day, including Pilates, swimming, dance lessons, martial arts, muscle training and functional training. Employees are also invited to participate in running races and sporting competitions such as the For You Futsal Soccer Cup, with teams formed by employees at the Plant in Alumínio (SP) In prevention, CBA also organizes preventive health campaigns geared to all CBA employees, including flu vaccination, DST/AIDS, cancer prevention, healthy nutrition, mental health and hearing health initiatives. Employee health is further supported by health insurance with national coverage for all employees. Occupational health The CBA Occupational Health Department is staffed by occupational physicians and nurses who provide emEarly care ployees on sick leave with assistance and advice on the In 2019 CBA launched Mamãe, Bebê e Companhia For You Qualitybest treatment. The team also assists employees retur(Mother, Baby & Co.), a program offering support Of-Life Program ning to work, often on light duty as they recover from during pregnancy and the first 12 months from More than 2,300 people their condition. Health indicators are used to assess the birth. Employees can use an app to schedule have participated in results of occupational health services and programs, and video or audio conference consultations with activities as part of nutritionists or nurses specializing in obstetrics, the program across our identify opportunities for improvement and medical conpediatrics and breast-feeding – 24 hours a day. operations. ditions needing attention. The initiative is available to both CBA employees GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-403: Health & Safety, 403-3, 403-6 and their dependents. 34 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Operating excellence of suppliers, subcontractors and their employees. If any required document has expired, the relevant supplier is bloOperating excellence is an imperative for CBA. Our conticked from performing services until they submit the missing nuous drive for productivity and resource efficiency spans documentation. Internally, a responsible sourcing policy was multiple fronts: launched, followed by training for procurement teams and • Facilities maintenance and modernization, including structhe introduction of new rules of conduct for those involved. tured projects and process improvements to maximize proAs part of our sustainability efforts, we also developed a fiductivity while minimizing costs, safety risks and environnancial risk matrix to monitor key suppliers and inform demental impacts. The Green Soderberg, Dry-Stack Disposal velopment action plans that are monitored on a quarterly and Mobile Beneficiation projects (described in the chapter basis. This matrix covers the entire supply chain and has “Environment”) and initiatives as part of our CBA 4.0 probeen incorporated in the procurement process and in program (described in the chapter “Innovation and future readiCompetitiveness ness”) are two examples of initiatives on this front. curement approval reports. Suppliers are classified into risk Management ranges based on expenditure projections under the contract • Employee development to build high-performance teams and potential impacts on CBA, providing greater visibility Program who are more agile in their ability to innovate and solve into supplier risk for those responsible for approving conThis program designs and problems. tracts and amendments. manages initiatives across • Relations with suppliers, who are also considered a part The most significant suppliers in each key procurement and CBA to optimize processes of the business. Through them, we are able to leverage logistics category were also selected for a scorecard assessand accelerate value subject-matter expertise and knowledge in service deliment, in which they were evaluated against a set of indicacapture for the Company. very, and ensure a supply of high-quality raw materials so tors and assigned performance scores for relevant requireOur Competitiveness & our processes are optimized. ments. These scores are now shared with each supplier on Performance department is a monthly basis to improve transparency in our relations. responsible for managing the Work meetings are also held to develop structured solutions program, and is supported by to address supplier-specific issues. This has created a virwork-front leaders assigned Progress on supplier management tuous cycle of continual improvement in line with CBA’s vito oversee the projects and CBA currently has approximately 2,850 suppliers in Brazil— sion for operating excellence. demonstrate outcomes and actual value capture largely in the southeastern states of Minas Gerais and São CBA also initiated a sustainable sourcing project for supplier for the Company. More Paulo—and globally, across categories such as energy commanagement in collaboration with the Votorantim Institute. than 800 initiatives have modities, carbon, caustic soda and facilities. In 2019 our suThe project will improve the way we deal with, develop and been identified, including pplier management process became better structured with a select suppliers in a way that increasingly takes account of initiatives related to web-based online onboarding platform and a new Sustainasocial and environmental impacts. The next steps will incluCBA 4.0. ble Sourcing policy, which suppliers are required to accept as de a benchmarking exercise against Brazilian companies to a condition for onboarding. A new digital platform has also learn about industry best practice and further improve our been launched for managing the mandatory documentation supplier management processes. GRI 102-9 35 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Engaging with ritories and planning their investment in a structupath to sustainable development, creating shared red way in 6 of its 13 operational units (46.15%). value throughout the value chain. In 2020, procommunities Our social outreach in 2019 was focused on congress on this topic will be monitored in accordance At CBA we believe that social outinued local development and continuous dialog in with ASI requirements. treach can help to create shared value the communities where we operate, creating enfor the business, our partners and socieduring partnerships and an environment that suIntegrated management ty through genuine and enduring, win-win pports sustainable business. relationships. for communities Learning about the challenges facing communiCBA’s Social Action Strategy guides our outreach to ties is essential in designing long-term solutions. CBA has an Integrated Management Policy relating communities in the regions where we operate, ensuCBA conducts local social assessments and deveto stakeholders. Under this policy, the Company ring it supports their development and autonomy, is lops strategies to drive development while expancommits to: responsive to local needs, and is consistent with the ding our social license to operate and enhancing • Maintain a responsible and open channel of nature of CBA’s operations in the relevant region: the competitiveness. In 2019, socio-economic studies communication with all stakeholders to ensure focus of our social strategy in the Upstream business were completed in our areas of influence in Zona their expectations are met. is our social license to operate, while in the Downstreda Mata and Poços de Caldas, involving nine muniam business our focus is on expanding value creation • Engage with and ensure our relations with stakecipalities: Miraí, Muriaé, Rosário da Limeira, Itamain commercial relations in the supply chain. holders support ethics, good corporate citizenship, rati de Minas, Fervedouro and Miradouro, Poços de transparency and sustainable development by reCaldas, Caldas and Divinolândia. CBA has mechanisms in place for local engagement, gularly assessing our social, economic and envistudying the potentials and weaknesses of their terronmental impacts. Activity of the Environmental Education Program in Mining Social responsibility • Recognize, prevent, manage and mitigate environmental impacts from our operations: depletion assessment of natural resources and changes in local biodiverIn 2019 we engaged consultants to audit the lesity and water, air and soil quality. vel of conformity to ISO 26000 guidelines at CBA, As part of the Policy, we have a procedure in place with the audit finding our practices are 73% comfor documenting and managing interactions with pliant with the standard. The assessment examisurrounding communities in order to improve our ned not only our Corporate Social Responsibility relations with stakeholders and monitor their practices and conduct, but also the social and enperceptions of the Company and our operations. vironmental impacts from our activities and deciThis procedure is used most frequently in our misions, our occupational safety practices, ethics and ning operations. transparency, and the extent to which all stakeholders, including suppliers, are covered. The auGRI 102-43, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3413dit findings show that the Company is on the right Local Communities, 413-1, MM7 36 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Social programs In 2019, 26 projects with indicators and targets were performed. They are related to Education, Public Management Support and Economic Development, that are Priority pillars the priority pillars in the CBA Social Action Strategy, to which most of our investment in this area is allocated. Other initiatives supported culture and the rights of 1. Education Development children and adolescents. All this investments are aligned with the United Nations investing in capacity building for education (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and CBA’s key sustainability manageand school officials to ensure children and ment topics, and have defined long-term goals and targets. youth have better-quality public education Funding for initiatives is provided by the Company and external sources and maand, as a result, a brighter professional future. naged using the Votorantim Institute methodology, which governs the social inThis action area is also about mobilizing vestment of Votorantim S.A. Group companies. communities and enhancing impact. 2. Public Management Support: CBA Educational Activity helping to modernize public administration practices in partnership with the Executive and Legislative branches of municipal governments, working to achieve fiscal balance and/or implement sectoral plans, including master plans and basic sanitation plans. 3. Economic Development: advancing inclusive business models that leverage the economic strengths of each municipality, creating new sources of income and revenue that help municipalities to achieve economic independence. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-413: Local Communities 37 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Through the PVE, municipalities receive support to improve their education indicators. Education For students Votorantim’s Partnership for Education (PVE) is a methodology that aims to improve municipal public education. The program involves the entire school community (students, educators, principals), the Municipal Office for Education and local residents. In 2019, the PVE program benefited five locations where CBA operates and saw increased community participation in providing suggestions for mobilization initiatives. The overarching theme was “Management with a focus on learning”, helping public managers to better understand the factors affecting Brazil’s primary education indicator, the Basic Education Development Index (IDEB). During capacity building workshops in Niquelândia (GO), the idea was put forward that the program could leave a legacy through school managers describing their best practices in case studies that will later be compiled into a book. The book will provide a permanent record of managers’ initiatives at each of the schools. In Divinolândia, 11 mobilization events were organized that again included reading initiatives to enhance the cultural and social development of residents. The mobilization events also included initiatives such as the mayor meeting students from CBA Educational rural schools to gain an understanding of student needs; the 2020 Donate-a-Book Activity Campaign; storytelling; and a “reading march”. In Muriaé (MG), student initiatives were organized to cultivate appreciation of local cultural heritage, including: a guided tour of “Grande Hotel Muriaé”; the “Gira Gira Giribela” project, with visits from students and residents from different communities and cultural performances for nursery school children; and the creation of a virtual library with significant youth participation. GRI 102-43, 203-1 38 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT For employees and communities In our Mining operations, CBA’s Environmental Education Program (PEA) is geared to employees and the communities where we operate and includes environmental education initiatives that raise awareness about environmentally compliant mining operations. The program comprises a total of eight projects. In addition to these, the PEA program also includes workshops, lectures and other activities relating to sustainability. Environmental Education Program Initiatives • Environmental Education Refresher Training • Getting to Know CBA (visits to Company facilities) • CBA and the Community • Environmental Education in the Field • Environment Week • Chega Mais, Família! • Chega Mais, Comunidade! • Employee Environmental Education PEA activity in Miraí Mining (MG) More than 6,000 The PEA Logo Gets a Facelift people were reached by The PEA program now has a new visual identity that is beteducational initiatives ter aligned with its mission of education for sustainability. organized by CBA. The new logo is designed to express the notion of people’s dependence on the environment and a sense of belonging. 39 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Public Management Support As part of our efforts in support of public maProtecting the rights of children nagement in the cities where we operate, CBA and adolescents implemented master plans for the municipalities Two years ago, CBA rolled out the Votorantim of Niquelândia (GO) and Muriaé (MG) using a parProgram for Childhood and Adolescence (VIA) ticipatory approach. in Alumínio (SP) and Niquelândia (GO). The program combats violations of children and Aluminio city 50 years adolescent rights by working to strengthen Another highlight in Public Management Suthe Social Protection Network and the Chilpport in 2019 was the launch of a project dedren and Adolescent Rights Advocacy Syssigned to support structured municipal growth. tem. The project works closely with the MuAlumínio 50 Years, as the project is called, is a nicipal Council for the Rights of Children and participatory economic development plan for Adolescents (CMDCA), the Social Services the city hosting our aluminum plant, in Alumínio Center (CRAS) and the Child Protection Ser(SP). It is a long-term project comprising four vice. In 2019, progress was also made in adseparate phases. The community has been envancing the maturity of the program, which couraged to participate in building its economic provides capacity building for the municipal independence and empowerment in the region. councils of both cities. Forums were organized and municipal officials analyzed statistics Phase 1 – Mobilization to find ways to address this challenge. In Ni(November 2019 to March 2020) quelândia (GO), a public meeting was held to Phase 2 – Collective Brainstorming present the newly developed Municipal Social (January to April 2020) and Education Plan. Phase 3 – Preparing for the Future (May to July 2020) Other community initiatives Phase 4 – Collective Construction and In Alumínio (SP), investments were made in reSecuring Community Buy-In novating the municipal library and music scho(August 2020) ol, making them better structured to receive visitors. In Miraí (MG), CBA donated equipment to 10 schools and 9 healthcare providers. Aluminum City (SP) GRI 102-43, 203-1, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-202: Market Presence; 203-2: Indirect Economic Impacts 40 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Economic ReDes Program Development ReDes is a program for external stakeholders creIn Niquelândia (GO), two associations—one ated eight years ago in partnership with Votoranproducing cassava meal and the other proSupporting the sustainable development tim Institute and the Brazilian Development Bank ducing rapadura – received support from the of the cities where we operate is among our (BNDES) to support entrepreneurship and econoReDes program. commitments at CBA. Within this pillar, CBA inmic development. The program aims to provide vests in and helps municipalities achieve economic Investment: R$ 458,809.00 technical and financial support to strengthen local independence by supporting individual entreprevalue chains that can generate income opportuneurs or cooperatives and other production and nities. These objectives are pursued on multiple marketing organizations. fronts. Some of these are described below. Entrepreneurship Program Supported businesses generate income, source Also within the Economic Development pillar, inputs from within the municipality, and often creQuality of life and empowerment – With alongside ReDes, is our Entrepreneurship Proate job opportunities. These initiatives also genesupport from the ReDes program, the Intergram, which provides business support to sole rate indirect economic impacts in host municipali-municipal Association of Seamstresses of Sanproprietorships. ties, which have not yet been accounted for but will to Antônio do Rio Preto, in Miraí (MG), expanded be inventoried over the coming years. its facilities, purchased new machinery, orgaEmpreende Alumínio – This program was crenized a course on cooperatives and entrepreated as a way to support sole proprietors in the neurship, acquired new customers, purchased city of Alumínio (SP). In 2018, Empreende Alua vehicle and conducted market research. The mínio selected four projects proposed by entrecooperative now has 18 members and is planpreneurs to receive seed capital. In addition to ning to launch its own brand while continuing to funding, throughout 2019 participants received improve its management and cash flows. technical advice, went on benchmarking visits to similar businesses, and attended workshops Investment: R$ 221,859.96 about business models and action plans. By the end of the year, all participants had started marketing their products. Support for better and more productive farming practices – In São Sebastião da VarInvestment: R$ 185,000.00 gem Alegre (MG), CBA supports a Fruit Growing Inclusion Project offering technical assistance to improve the performance of 15 vineyards in the region. GRI 203-1, GRI 102-43, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3Investment: R$ 150,000.00 202: Market Presence; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3Visit of the Inter-municipal Association of 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Seamstresses at the Miraí Mining (MG) 41 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT The number of employees as volunteers was a record in 2019. 2019 Volunteer Action Volunteering CBA’s Volunteering Challenge is a constructive, altruistic competition organized annually since 2015 with support from the Votorantim Institute, in which participants select charities or schools for volunteer work. The 2019 edition was themed around “Volunteering and civic engagement”. The volunteering program was also perfected to increase alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2030. CBA’s Performance The competition was highly successful, with a record number of participants. A total of 704 volunteers participated in the 2019 edition, compared with 252 in the previous year. Another highlight was the initiative demonstrated by participating teams, who successfully raised funds to implement transformations in their communities. The results reflected the level of employee engagement in contributing to the development of their cities, one of the Company’s strategic commitments to the municipalities where we operate. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-413-Local Communities; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-203: Indirect Economic Impacts 42 2019 2019CBA CBAANNUAL ANNUALREPORT REPORT Material topics addressed in this chapter: • Sustainable mining • Dam safety and waste Planting area of management eucalyptus in Miraí (MG) • Eco-efficient production <IR> Environmental 05 capital SDG 6 7 12 13 15 ENVIRONMENT 43 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Global recognition for our commitment to sustainability In 2019 CBA received international certification against the ASI Performance About ASI Standard and Chain of Custody (CoC) Standard, becoming the first company The Aluminium Stewardship in the American continent to certify, at the same time, three mining units Initiative is a global, multiand a fully integrated industrial plant, including all types of products. The stakeholder, non-profit standards certification, granted by the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), recogsetting and certification organization, working across the nizes the Company’s commitment to sustainability and places us in a more entire aluminum industry and competitive position on the global aluminum market. supply chain. Benefits across the supply chain ASI certification, which was achieved following a rigorous preparation process that began in 2018, attests that CBA-produced aluminum conforms to global The steps for ASI certification best practices, from upstream to downstream. To prepare for certification, different functions at CBA were engaged around a common plan. Some of the actiCBA’s ASI certification covers the following operations: vities conducted as part of the process included: Corporate Office 1. Training a multidisciplinary team of employees to rein São Paulo (SP) search about international best practice in sustainability and the high-level certification topics; Three bauxite mining facilities in Minas Gerais – Poços de Caldas, Itamarati de Minas and Miraí 2. A self-assessment of existing practices by experts within the Company; Processes at the integrated aluminum 3. Making the necessary adjustments at the different plant in Alumínio (SP): Refinery, Smelters, departments; Casting and Downstream 4. Engaging independent consultants to train the mulAll types of products in the CBA portfolio, from tidisciplinary team and perform a gap assessment of billets and ingots to sheets, foils and extruded, CBA’s practices; anodized and painted profiles 5. Creating an action plan for implementing recommenThis achievement has made CBA an important vertically integrated member prodations from the independent consultants; ducing ASI-certified aluminum, providing a significant boost from our ability to 6. Conducting a certification audit on the previously supply responsibly produced aluminum to a wide range of industries, including described operations. automotive and packaging industries. 44 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT This is a Votorantim Institute initiative that recognizes best practices demonstrated by employees at Votorantim, creating benefits that make our businesses increasingly better for people and planet. In 2019 CBA extensively advertised the awards, which encourage and recognize employees for their engagement in sustainability projects in four categories: Environment, Efficiency & Productivity, Social Outreach, and Health & Safety. As a result, the Company had the largest number of projects registered among Group subsidiaries, with a total of 87 initiatives. To thank employees for their engagement, the Company organized an internal event in which all participants received participation certificates from the CEO, and the winners in each category were featured in a video about their project and invited to participate in the Annual Leadership Summit, during which they received honorary plaques. Among the most sustainable companies in our category A corporate social responsibility survey conducted by weekly news magazine Exame and independent consultants ABC Associados ranked CBA as one of the top companies for best practices in the Mining, Steelmaking and Metalworking category of the Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade 2019 sustainability list — another accolade in the year. This was the first year that Winners of the Sustainability Talent Award – 2019 edition CBA participated in the survey. CBA’s placement in the ranking recognizes that our practices and processes throughout the business are aligned with sustainability principles. 45 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Green Aluminum Sustainable development: a journey of continuous growth Aluminum Lifecycle Assessment In 2019, an Aluminum Lifecycle Assessment was Aluminum is a unique metal. It combines strength with flexibility, plus infinite recycompleted based on ten selected categories of clability as one of its key benefits. Aluminum is recognized as a solution for develoenvironmental impact from the different producping less resource-intensive and more circular supply chains that re-utilize materials tion stages. The inputs used in each stage were and minimize waste and environmental impact. identified and the relevant impacts computed. In One of the major focuses of our operations is producing sustainable aluminum and 2020, the findings from the assessment will be helping to tackle important environmental issues, such as natural resource depledisseminated across the organization to reduce tion and climate change. the impacts from the entire production process. Our products are manufactured using renewable energy, helping to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. CBA invests continually in innovative solutions to lessen Environmental compliance environmental impact and expand our aluminum recycling capabilities. Environmental compliance means that CBA’s Our systematic drive for sustainability has given us recognition in the market and operations are compliant with applicable envihas led CBA to establish a set of environmental targets. These targets span CBA’s ronmental regulations and that we respect our entire value chain (from Mining to Aluminum Plant) and have been calculated based stakeholders. CBA is also committed to adheon the reduction potential over ring to the requirements outlined in ISO 14001 the target horizon as a result of Environmental targets: and ASI standards, and has a software system in implementing technology-based place to update and audit compliance with legal projects. Part of the reductions Targets (gross reduction Reduction and other requirements. In addition to internal achieved so far was due to redufrom a 2017 baseline) achieved routine audits, a specialized legal consulting firm ced production. For further inReduce greenhouse gas emissions performs on-site audits at all operations in our formation, read the chapters on by 16% by 2025 4.8% Aluminum and Nickel businesses. Each operaemissions management, waste tion’s Environment department is responsible management and water and efReduce waste disposal by 15.2% 35% by 2025 for keeping up-to-date on and enforcing envifluent management. ronmental requirements. Reduce water consumption by 12.4% 22% by 2025 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-307: Environmental Compliance 46 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Aluminum recycling Aluminum is infinitely recyclable and can support supply chains that are less resource-intensive and more circular, with increased re-utilization of raw materials and minimized environmental impact. Recycling is a significant activity at CBA. The Company recycles aluminum scrap as well as scrap purchased externally or supplied by customers and partners. In 2019, CBA recycled 81 thousand metric tons of internally generated scrap and 67,000 metric tons of externally generated scrap. Two audits were conducted during the year, an internal and an external audit, to ensure these metrics are accurate. CBA offers a scrap recycling service at our plant in Alumínio (SP) and, at larger scale, at Metalex, an industrial scrap recycling facility in Araçariguama (SP) with an installed capacity of 75,000 metric tons of aluminum billets per year. CBA has set a goal for the coming years to further increase consumption of scrap aluminum, especially at Metalex. External aluminum scrap recycled – CBA Plant (GRI 301-2) 2017 2018 2019 Aluminum Aluminum Aluminum Metalex Plant Metalex Metalex Plant Plant Customer scrap 20,502 37,982 24,483 43,093 19,389 42,559 recycled (t) Third party-purchased Metalex plant at Araçariguama (SP) 2,943 628 12,765 838 4,372 913 scrap (t) Total raw materials consumed (t) 378,313 65,285 380,302 70,310 337,947 69.288 Includes smelting, ingots The CBA performs recycling of and scrap aluminum from customers, generating 6.2% 59.14% 9.8% 62.5% 7.0% 62.80% value shared throughout your chain. Percentages recycled 14.0% 18.0% 16.5% GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 – 301: Materials 47 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Emissions management The aluminum industry is energy-intensive and is therefore known to be a significant source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. CBA has made significant efforts to adequately manage emissions, and these efforts have been recognized by renewed Gold certification within the GHG Protocol Program (Brazilian Program), a platform used globally to quantify and manage GHG emissions. CBA aluminum has low emissions of greenhouse This certification attests to the transparency and traceability of our emissions gases compared to the world average. disclosures – CBA’s emissions inventory, covering all operations, is filed with a public emissions register and has been independently assured. CBA’s inventory data have been benchmarked against the leading aluminum Emissions of CO2e/t finished prod. manufacturers globally, and the Company performed well in comparison. 2.77 0.13 0.04 0.05 4.21 Our emissions in the Smelting stage (2,56 tCO2e/t smelting), the most emissions-intensive stage in the aluminum value chain, were well below the global average, including direct emissions and emissions from electricity consumption, published by the International Aluminium Institute (12 tCO2e/t smelting) and the limit required for certification from the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (8 tCO2e/t smelting). This is due to our use of clean electric power supplied from our own hydropower plants. Even if CBA’s entire value chain were included (Mining facilities, Refinery, Smelters, Casting, Downstream and Supporting Areas), the Company’s ave1.19 rage CO2e emissions in 2019 (scope 1 and 2) are well below the global average: 4.21 tCO2e for every metric ton of aluminum finished products supplied to the market. Our biomass boiler project (read more on 51 page) will further 0.03 reduce overall Aluminum Plant emissions in 2020. This means we are deMining Alumina Refinery Smelting Casting Support TOTAL livering more sustainable products to our customers. Metalex Plant, which facilities Areas remelts aluminum scrap into billets, produces only 0.25 tCO2e of greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) per metric ton of product. *Average 2019 scope 1 and 2 emissions (market-based) for finished products (all products available on the market, including Upstream and Downstream products). Not including Metalex. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-305: Emissions, 305-4 48 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CBA engagement against climate change São Paulo Environmental Agreement We have also subscribed to the São Paulo Environmental Agreement, CBA participated in two highly signian initiative created by the State government in November 2019 to ficant local and global initiatives relareduce greenhouse gas emissions and support sustainability initiatives. ted to GHG emissions in 2019: Our participation in the initiative is in line with the Company’s com• An emissions trading simulation led mitment to supporting UN Sustainable Development Goal 13, to “take by the Center for Sustainability Stuurgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”. In 2020 the dies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV Company will participate for the first time in the CDP (Disclosure, Insi– carbon trading between companies ght, Action) ranking for climate change. was simulated based on their actual emissions and international market Greenhouse gas emissions target 2025 Target Greenhouse gas rates. The initiative was important in ensuring CBA is up to date on carbon CBA has set a target of reducing its GHG emissions emissions pricing in Brazil. by 16% by 2025 from a 2017 baseline. This target (‘000 tCO2e) was set based on gross emissions from our Mining • The UN Climate Change Conferen1,315 1,368 facilities and Aluminum Plant operations (scope 1 1,252 ce (COP 25) – an annual, global event 1,104 to discuss issues surrounding climate and 2), although internally indicators are monitored for each product produced at each process stage. In change, or the “climate emergency”, as it 2019, these emissions decreased by 4.8% compared is referred to in the context of the conwith 2017, which includes emissions reductions in ference. CBA’s participation in the conthe Casting stage. The primary factor in these reducference was important in updating our tions is the lower production output in the period. knowledge about the effects of climate change and key global trends in climate CBA expects further GHG emissions reductions will adaptation and mitigation. be achieved in the coming years through our pipeline 2017 2018 2019 2025 of energy efficiency, modernization and fuel converProjection sion projects. Mining facilities and Aluminum Plant operations (Refinery, Smelters, Casting and Downstream). GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-305: Emissions, 305-1 Scope 1 and 2 (market-based approach) 49 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Higher productivity and less emissions CBA uses Söderberg technology in its Smelting operations, where aluminum oxide is transformed into smelting aluminum. Our Green Söderberg project, launched in 2018, is automating the furnace feed process to reduce emissions from the process while also improving efficiency and safety. Currently 36 pots have the technology installed to test and optimize results. All furnaces are expected to be converted by 2030. Key benefits from the Green Söderberg project: • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions • Lower consumption of materials (anode paste and fluoride) • Improved electric current efficiency in the electrolysis process Smelting Area in Aluminum Plant (SP) 50 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Biomass boiler Other emissions As part of an effort to incorporate more sustainable options Besides greenhouse gas emissions, our production process gein our energy mix, CBA’s Refinery will now purchase steam nerates particulate and other gas emissions, such as fluoride generated by a supplier using wood-chip biomass. This will and sulfur and nitrogen oxides. Emissions management at CBA further reduce emissions from burning fossil fuels while imconforms to environmental legislation and is regularly monitored proving the management and predictability of steam costs. to support prevention and continual improvement. Internal and Construction of the boiler structure began in 2019, and the external audits are conducted on emissions monitoring results. start of operation is scheduled for the first half of 2020. In addition, the Company monitors data from a Weather and Air Quality Station located near the Aluminum Plant. 2017 2018 2019 Other air emissions (t) Aluminum Total Total Metalex Total Plant Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 649 330 361 32 393 Sulfur oxides (SOx) 99 50 58 2 60 Volatile organic compounds 1 4 4 4 (VOCs) Particulate matter (PM) 1376 1062. 92 1069.19 3.24 1,072 Fluoride 113 160 157 157 Note 1: Mining facilities generate no fixed-source emissions and in 2019 production was on hold at our Nickel operations, and therefore these operations generated zero emissions. CBA’s processes are not known to emit persistent organic pollutants (POP) or hazardous air pollutants (HAP). These emissions are therefore not monitored. Note 2: Performance is satisfactory, with all measured items within the ranges permitted by applicable regulations. Aluminum Plant (SP) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-305: Emissions, 305-7 51 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT A cleaner energy mix Electricity is one of the primary inputs in the aluminum gy consumption of 27.9 million GJ, with 71% deriving production process. To mitigate impacts on our cost from renewable sources. base and maintain a renewable energy mix, CBA uses Existing efforts have been maintained and new effully or jointly owned hydropower plants to supply the forts have been undertaken to further reduce fuel entire electricity requirement at the Aluminum Plant consumption and therefore energy intensity over the (SP). In 2019, 98% of the electricity consumed by coming years. An example of these efforts is the Leaf our production processes was self-generated hydroproject described in the chapter “Innovation and Futupower, or a total of 5,500 GWh. Of this amount, 90% re Readiness”. is consumed at the Smelters, the most energy-intensive stage of the production process, for which specific In 2019 electricity consumption decreased in our Aluenergy consumption targets have been set (kWh/t). minum and Nickel businesses, primarily reflecting the Including both fuel and electricity, CBA has an enerdecrease in production during the period. 2017 2018 2019 Total energy consumption (‘000 GJ) Aluminum Nickel Aluminum Nickel Total Total Total Business Business Business Business Total consumption of 53 18 2 20 60 2 62 renewable fuels¹ Total consumption of 8,075 12,071 17 12,088 7,850 18 7,868 nonrenewable fuels² Electricity 21,606 21,299 39 21,338 19,877 38 19,915 Total energy consumption 29,734 33,388 58 33,445 27,787 58 27,845 within the organization 1. Including hydrous ethanol; anhydrous ethanol (% contained in gasoline); biodiesel and biodiesel (% contained in diesel). 2. Including natural gas, fuel oil (HFO); fuel oil (LSFO); gasoline; diesel; LPG and petroleum coke. Note: data on electricity sold is confidential. Energy intensity 2018 2019 In 2019, energy intensity decreased at the Aluminum (GJ/metric ton produced) Plant in the Smelting stage (the most energy-intenAluminum Plant (smelting) 94.2 85.1 sive process step) and at Metalex in billet production. Porto Raso Hydroelectric Metalex GRI 103-1, 103-2 e 103-2: 302 Energy, 302-1 4.8 4.6 (recycled aluminum billets) 52 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Waste management CBA has policies in place on reducing and managing waste in our and develop talent within Group companies. The project proposal was operations. In addition to minimizing the amount of waste we geneaccepted by CBA and we are now structuring a new department that rate, we also ensure the waste we do generate is disposed of as sustaiwill create value from waste in internal and external processes. nably as possible by either recycling or utilizing waste as a raw material Generation of value with waste in another process. All suppliers engaged for waste disposal undergo a In 2019, the Environment department, working with the Technology screening process that includes on-site assessments on environmental function and operational departments at the Aluminum Plant, comrequirements. pleted an in-depth survey of waste streams to identify waste materials Zero Landfilling with potential untapped value. They then established shared plans and Since November 2019, CBA’s Alumínio (SP) plant has sent its organic wastargets to transform waste costs into products. te for processing into Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF), resulting in zero waste While CBA already creates value from waste disposal, the new structure going to landfill. is set to optimize the process while enhancing compliance and ensuring Potenciar Program the technical and commercial feasibility of each proposed waste disposal Many waste streams have the potential to become revenue streams for solution. CBA has developed value-creating processes for five of the six CBA. These were the findings from a project completed in 2019 as part waste streams that were identified as being feasible in 2019. of the Potenciar Program, a Votorantim Academy initiative to recognize Hazardous and nonhazardous waste 2025 Target Waste generation In 2019, nonhazardous waste volumes were reduced and the amouWaste target (‘000 t) nts of waste sent for recycling increased. In Mining, within the Aluminum Business, waste volumes generated declined compared with CBA has set a target of reducing waste 1,771 volumes by 35% by 2025 from a 2017 1,668 2018. Our Nickel operations significantly reduced their waste volu1,501 baseline. This target was set based on gross mes due to a temporary shutdown. waste volumes in our Mining facilities and 1,151 Aluminum Plant operations. Waste volumes 2018 2019 decreased by 15.2% in 2019 compared with Hazardous waste 2017. The reduction reflects our strategy transported, in metric tons (GRI 306-4) Aluminum Nickel Total Total of using higher-grade ore from our Barro Business Business CBA Alto operation, reducing mud volumes stored in dams. The reduction also reflects Transported (by the 96,780 44,726 485 45,210 Company/contractors) the decreased production in the period. CBA expects to reduce waste volumes in 2017 2018 2019 2025 Note: Waste transported by the Aluminum Business included 41 thousand metric tons of legacy waste the following years through improvement Projection materials that were disposed of during the period. No waste is imported or exported by the organization. projects with a primary focus on Mining Note: Mining facilities and Aluminum Plant operations All transported waste was treated and conformed to regulations on land transportation. (Refinery, Smelters, Casting and Downstream) facilities and Refinery waste. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-306: Waste, MM1 GRI 306-2 53 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 Non-hazardous Hazardous waste waste by method by method of of disposal in Aluminum Nickel disposal, in Aluminum Nickel Total Total metric tons* Business Business metric tons Business Business Reutilization 10 10 Reutilization 22,111 22,111 Recycling 1,836 4 1,840 Recycling 35,189 175 35,364 Co-processing 8,966 481 9,447 Composting 18 18 Incineração Recovery (including 1 1 3,218 12 3,230 (queima de massa) energy recovery) Landfilling 536 18 554 On-site storage 2 1,118 1,120 On-site storage* 11,787 11.787 Other* 923 370 1,293 Other** 1,417,217 1,417,217 Total** 11,739 1,973 13,711 *“Other” disposal methods include physico-chemical treatment of liquid waste and Total non-hazardous oil emulsion. CBA uses neither underground injection nor composting as disposal 1,490,076 205 1,490,281 waste methods for hazardous waste. Recovery (including energy recovery), destination for landfill and incineration at the Aluminum Plant volumes were negligible (less than 100 kg). *Local Storage includes electronic scrap, water treatment plant sludge and other **For reporting purposes, spent pot lining (re-refined) and remediation waste from non-hazardous solid waste. the Smelters at the Aluminum Plant (residual stock) are not included in the total **“Other” disposal methods include dam disposal (tailings and mud, which are also volume of hazardous waste. reported in disclosure MM3) and waste sent for co-processing. CBA uses neither Storage volumes increased due to cleanups conducted in our nickel operations, which incineration nor underground injection as disposal methods for nonhazardous waste. generated waste on-site. The increase in stored waste in 2019 is related to the storage of Wastewater Treatment Plant sludge in the dam facility. GRI 306-2 54 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Water Treatment Station at Aluminum Water & effluents Plant (SP) Water is essential in aluminum production. Usage All CBA units identify aspects and impacts reof this resource at CBA is managed in a way that lated to water usage and create appropriate minimizes impacts and reduces pressures on locontrols within operating processes, as well as cal water resources. Water is used at some Mining raising awareness and employee engagement. operations for washing bauxite ore, and in our We also run campaigns, such as the Gota d’Água production operations primarily in steam boilers, (“Not One Drop”) challenge, that engage emwet gas scrubbing systems, and cooling procesployees and their relatives as members of the ses. The Company’s water requirements are sourcommunities surrounding our operations. ced primarily through withdrawal from surface CBA’s Zona da Mata (Itamarati and Miraí, Minas and groundwater sources. Gerais) operations have representatives on two Throughout 2019, we continued to recirculacommittees: the Committee on Tributaries of the te water from the Alumínio (SP) and Miraí (MG) Pomba and Muriaé in Minas Gerais and the Comwaste dams, increasing water reutilization in the mittee for Integration of the Paraíba do Sul River production process. Basin (CEIVAP). Target 2025 New water Water footprint consumption (‘000 m³) In 2019 CBA was one of three companies inviNew water consumption target 3,104 3,022 ted to participate in a project called El Agua nos CBA has set a target of reducing water 2,720 Une – SuizAgua Brasil, led by the Swiss Agenwithdrawal by 22% by 2025 from a 2017 2,421 cy for Development and Cooperation (COSUDE). baseline. The target was calculated based The initiative is being implemented locally by the on the water savings potential of projects Fundação Getulio Vargas Center for Sustainability that have been planned for this period, and Studies (FGVces), and aims to improve corporate covers the value chain from Mining facilities water stewardship practices through water footo Aluminum Plant. The Company had tprint surveys. Following the survey, in 2020 CBA planned to reduce water withdrawals by 4% will have a water stewardship action plan inforin 2019 through increased water recycling 2017 2018 2019 2025 med by data on the impact from the aluminum at the Aluminum Plant. As a result of lower Projection supply chain. production volumes, however, actual water savings were higher, at 12.4%. Mining facilities and Aluminum Plant operations (Refinery, Smelters, Casting and Downstream) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-303: Water and Effluents 55 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Effluents Water efficiency At the Aluminum Plant (SP), all effluents are treated and re-utilized on-site in a cloThe efficiency calculation used at CBA is the vosed-loop system. As a result, no effluents are discarded into the environment. In our lume of water recycled into the process (‘000 m³) Mining facilities, effluents are treated at a wastewater treatment plant and recipient divided by the volume of water withdrawal (‘000 water bodies are monitored. In our other operations, effluents are discharged into m³), as recommended by the Sustainable Minerals municipal sewage systems in accordance with water quality requirements contained Institute Minerals Council of Australia (SMI-MCA) in applicable legislation. Any deviations in water quality are promptly addressed to and the Brazilian Aluminum Association (ABAL) for minimize impacts. aluminum producers. Water withdrawal 2017 2018 2019 WATER EFFICIENCY (%) and effluent discharge, in megaliters Aluminum Nickel Total Aluminum Nickel Total 2017 Total 84.3 90.7 91 Business Business CBA Business Business CBA 84.3 83.9 86.3 2018 2019 Total water withdrawal 4,408 3,189 124 3,313 3,042 134 3,176 (303-3) 59.3 Total de efluente 56.3 2,086 1,063 209 1,272 4,447 557 5,004 descartado (303-4) 42.2 Note: Water discharge volumes increased significantly in 2019. Most of this volume is related to rainwater and the need to keep dam levels low, which is not directly related to water withdrawal. National recognition for reducing water consumption In March 2019, CBA received an honorable mention in the 14th edition of the FIEPS Water ALUMINUM METALEX MINING Stewardship Awards. The project in question, called “Solutions to reduce water consumption in PLANT alumina production”, implemented three initiatives over a two-year period: water withdrawal Note: the figure for 2018 was restated as an adapted version of the calculation from the dam for reutilization in the process, reduction of evaporation losses, and replacement was previously used for operations with dams. To improve comparability with other of pump gland packings with mechanical seals. The project delivered savings of 80 m3/h of plant processes globally, the standard method is now used instead. water and 8 m3/h of potable water. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3-303: Water and Effluents, 303-2, CBA-2 56 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Dam safety Dams are a critical part of the aluminum is also supported by an independent geovalue chain. They are expensive to build and technical engineering firm that conducts operate, and have the potential to cause monthly dam safety assessments and sixsignificant damage. Of CBA’s six dams, two -monthly inspections, and provides regular are for water impoundment, two are mining theoretical and practical training to our emdams, and two are industrial waste dams. ployees and contractors. To further improve These dams are located at Alumínio (SP), our dam safety management practices, in Itamarati de Minas (MG), Miraí (MG) and Ni2019 CBA created a multidisciplinary Dam quelândia (GO). Committee and established a dedicated deThe water impoundment and waste dams in partment for dam safety. Miraí and Itamarati de Minas, Minas Gerais, CBA strictly adheres to the guidelines were built in a single step, which means outlined as part of our Integrated Dam Sathey have never been subsequently raised. fety Management System (SIGBAR) to enThe waste dam in Alumínio (SP) has had sure the physical integrity of the dams we two downstream raises built prior to reaoperate is maintained. All dams have a dediching its final configuration and the dam in cated Dam Safety Plan (DSP) as required by Niquelândia (GO) has had mostly centerline law, and an Emergency Response Plan (ERP) raises. All dams operated by CBA have been that includes training and evacuation drills built with appropriate materials and never involving local communities. using waste. To ensure our dams continue to operate safely, the Company has a monitoring sysDesign, installation and ongoing tem comprising more than 200 observation management ensure the safety instruments, as well as regular inspection of the CBA dams routines including inspections by the operations team and dam safety experts. CBA Palmital Dam at Alumínio City (SP) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, Topic Dam Safety, GRI G4 MM3 57 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Additional Safety Investment In addition to rigorous monitoring and preventive maintenance, CBA invests in projects, research and development to ensure our dam structures are sound and reliable. R$ 33.7 million was invested in dam safety in 2019 alone. Half of this investment was allocated to installing early warning and dam monitoring systems as part of Emergency Response Plans (ERPs). In addition, investment was made in new dam disposal technology in Alumínio (SP). Pilot Press Filter at Aluminio (SP) Dry-stack disposal – The future of dam waste management This project will use filter presses to dewater waste materials stoTo enable dry disposal, the Company has conducted tests with a filter red in the Palmital Dam in Alumínio, shifting from wet disposal press installed at the Refinery in 2016, with a capacity of 10 t/h. The (with a low concentration of solids) to dry disposal (with a 75% pilot filter press has been used to recover caustic content from the solids concentration). The project is expected to involve an inliquid that is being removed from the dam for dry disposal, further vestment of approximately R$ 300 million. Construction began in optimizing results. In three years, this project has reduced the amou2019 and the project should be operational in 2023. The initiative nt of impounded surface water by 70%, making the dam dryer and, could lengthen dam life by as much as 20 years. In addition to lontherefore, safer. ger dam life, the project allows the caustic soda present in the mud to Tailings and mud 2017 2018 2019 be re-utilized, generating resource generated by operations Aluminum Aluminum Aluminum savings and supporting operating Mineração Total Mineração Total Mineração Total (metric tons) Plant Plant Plant excellence. The dry mud can also be used in other processes, such as in Mud 602 930 1,532 581 913 1,494 507 763 1,270 the cement industry. CBA has reseSand 103 0 103 100 0 100 114 0 114 arch projects at an advanced stage to develop these applications. Other waste 1 8 0 8 13 0 13 27 0 27 Total 713 930 1,643 694 913 1,607 648 763 1,411 1. Process waste at the Refinery, such as tank cleaning waste. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, Topic Dam Safety Note: the annual reduction in mud volumes is due to the use of higher-grade bauxite and decreased production. 58 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT An integrated project creating a chain of benefits A liquid removal project is one of several ongoing initiatives related to the Alumínio dam. The project is now being optimized through a filter press pilot that allows caustic content to be reutilized. See how the process works: A pilot filter press is used to transform Water is removed from the dam the sodium carbonate contained in the The caustic solution to allow for dry-stack disposal liquid phase into caustic soda through a is re-utilized in plant in the future. 70% of liquid high yield causticization process processes. content has been removed. developed at CBA. The calcium carbonate can be used as a soil amendment in remediating mine sites. It can also be used in producing cementitious materials (e.g. grout, mortar, cement). Liquid: Solid: 16,000 t of carbonate generated and currently 70% of liquid content has been removed caustic solution calcium carbonate being used in testing and development 1. 2. 3. 59 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, CBA Topic Dam Safety 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Alumínio dam drill More than 1,200 people from the CBA and communities were involved in the first emergency drill for the Palmital Dam in Alumínio (SP). The drill was organized in partnership with the Municipal and State Civil Defense Departments with support from the Military and Road Police, the Fire Department, the Environmental Regulator (CETESB) and the Raposo Tavares toll road operator. The drill involved communities living in the Self-Rescue Zone (ZAS)—the area that would be affected in the hypothetical event of a dam breach—and was designed to train residents and government agencies on the procedures to be followed in an actual emergency. Zona da Mata Dam Drill Residents living near the dams in Itamarati de Minas (MG) and Miraí (MG) participated in evacuation drills where they were instructed on how they should act in an emergency. Around 200 people from CBA and community participated Palmital Dam at Alumínio City (SP) across the two drills. The activities were supported by the Municipal and State Civil Defense Departments, the Fire Department, the Military Police, the Environmental Police and government representatives from the six municipalities within the Self-Rescue Zone. Prevention is always important Safety drills have been incorporated in our Emergency Response Plans (PAE) and were initiated in 2019, with a very Community membership to positive media response. These annual drills are important in the simulated in 2019 ensuring that evacuation procedures are up-to-date and in identifying opportunities for improvement. As part of this, 11 emergency sirens were installed in Alumínio (SP), 12 in Miraí 60% in Itamarati 71% in Miraí 29% in Alumínio (MG) and 7 in Itamarati de Minas (MG). In Niquelândia (GO) the of Minas (MG) (MG) (SP) sirens will be installed and the first drill will be held in 2020. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, Topic Dam Safety 23 people 81 people 1,198 people 60 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Biodiversity CBA’s Mining operations also have Environmental Education Programs (EEP) for employees and communities that cover biodiversity manaCBA works to minimize impacts and preserve biodiversity in our gement and other topics. We also have an environmental manageareas of influence. Our focus is on recognizing, preventing, managing ment system with targets set for environmental rehabilitation and and mitigating environmental impacts from our operations. recontouring of decommissioned mine sites. Our most significant impacts on biodiversity result from clearing veCBA’s operations in Zona da Mata have a partnership with the Federal getation and stripping the soil for mining. To offset these impacts, University of Viçosa for research and development across three areall environmental licensing processes in the mine cycle are managed as: environmental rehabilitation (soil), forest restoration (forests) and transparently and with a high standard of care, and mine sites are water stewardship (forest hydrology). A total of 84 papers have been rehabilitated and the vegetation restored to form ecological corridors published as part of the partnership to date, including 16 in scientific and return the area to farmers in the same or in a better state than journals, 9 doctoral theses and 9 master’s dissertations. before the mining operations. A Mobile Beneficiation system is in an initial testing stage as part of CBA has implemented biodiversity management plans to ensure miniour efforts to leverage process technology and innovation to minimimum requirements on biodiversity management are met. This supports ze impacts and optimize resources. This will allow the beneficiation prevention and continual improvement at our operations, ensuring stage—a small-scale beneficiation plant—to be moved to the mine on-site and surrounding areas are safely and effectively managed. All site. The system operates as a closed circuit and allows unusable ore three Mining operations have biodiversity management plans in place. to return to the original soil, accelerating the reclamation process and avoiding the need to store waste in dams. Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated (hectares) 2017 2018 2019 Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated at start 28.4 59.7 46.6* of period Amount of land newly disturbed within the reporting period 60.8 31.7 27.4 Total amount of land newly rehabilitated within the 29.5 38.4 39.7 reporting period Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated at end 59.7 53.0 34.3 of period Note: Figures are for the Miraí, Poços de Caldas and Itamarati de Minas operations, all in the state of Minas Gerais. Disturbed areas include both mining and supporting areas (service roads, decanting wells, etc.). * In 2019, the Miraí Mining (MG) changed its calculation assumptions, changing its non-rehabilitated disturbed land from 25.6 hectares to 19.10 hectares, impacting the total CBA of “Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated at start of period ”in relation to the value Planting in recovery area in Miraí (MG) of “Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated at the end of the period (2018). GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 304: Biodiversity, 304-2, GRI G4 MM1, (GRI G4 MM2) 61 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Legado das Águas With funding of R$ 2 million in 2019, CBA is the largest sponsor of the Legado das Águas (“Water Legacy”) reserve, an initiative managed by Reservas Votorantim that is stewarding the entire area around the Vale do Ribeira hydropower plants in São Paulo, which supply electric power to CBA’s operations. The Reserve was originally acquired by CBA for the preservation of plant cover to protect water resources for hydropower generation; since 2012, the Reserve has been repurposed to include activities that create knowledge, revenue, employment and income through conservation and responsible use of natural resources, providing a positive legacy for society. The Legado das Águas reserve is open to the public, with its 31,000 hectares of hiking trails, lookouts, aquatic recreational activities and Atlantic Forest walks. In 2019, more than 3,000 people visited the Reserve for eco-tourism, studies, research and technical and engagement visits. The plant nursery on the Reserve produces saplings that are sold to reforestation and landscaping projects in cities across São Paulo, bringing the Atlantic Forest to urban centers, and generating new business opportunities from standing forests! The wealth of fauna and flora on the reserve also attracts researchers in different fields who generate scientific information and knowledge about the Atlantic Forest, the world’s most biodiverse—and its most threatened—biome. Improving cities in the region Located in Vale do Ribeira, an area whose municipalities have some of the lowest municipal Human Development Index (IDH) indicators in the state of São Paulo, the Legado das Águas reserve has a mission of catalyzing socio-economic initiatives that better people’s lives in the cities of Juquiá, Miracatu and Tapiraí. A range Atlantic Forest in of initiatives are being developed and implemented in the areas of public manaLegacy of Waters gement support, cultural development, inclusive education, entrepreneurship and tourism support, through projects that are aligned with the Votorantim Institute’s social guidelines and technologies. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 304: Biodiversity 62 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Legado Verdes do Cerrado Legado Verdes do Cerrado (“The intercrops baru (a fruit typical of the Cerrado), Cerrado Green Legacy”), a privabananas, Cerrado cashew and lemons, providing te sustainable development reserve year-round harvests in what has proven to be a owned by CBA and managed by Reservas highly successful agricultural project. Votorantim, invested R$ 5 million in 2019 in infrastructure, equipment, a nursery expansion, ecotourism and environmental educaSEBRAE Entrepreneurship tion projects, scientific research, and activities Education Award creating sustainable business opportunities. A project titled “Advanced Family Farming CamCreated in 2017 in an area spanning 32,000 hecpus”, a collaboration between the Legado Verdes tares, the Reserve has implemented a new landdo Cerrado reserve and Instituto Educacional Ti-use model in which 20% of its area is allocated radentes, in Niquelândia (GO), took first place at to conventional, intelligently managed and prothe state level in the SEBRAE Entrepreneurship fitable economic activities (cattle farming, soya Education Awards, in the Professional Education and maize crops and forestry) and the remaining Category, and third place at the national level. The 80% is occupied by preserved native Cerrado partnership provides 20 fully funded scholarships (wooded savanna). to students from low-income families to attend professional education programs, and the reserve Production of native saplings expanded in 2019, sets aside 10 hectares for practical training. cementing the initiative as a new and promising business. The nursery was expanded to a production capacity of 300,000 saplings per year, serPartnership ving reforestation projects largely in the states of Our partnership with the Goiás Research Funding Foundation (FAPEG) Goiás and Minas Gerais. supports nature conservancy projects within the Reserve. Three projects were awarded funding: one for research on zebrafish, which are a good In crop growing, the Reserve uses syntropic farbio-indicator of water quality; one for monitoring soil and sediments, ming, agroforestry and conventional farming providing valuable information in support of adequate soil management; techniques, seeking harmony with nature and and the third for identification of flora species. its resources. In 2019, the Reserve’s agroforesOther significant partnerships include a collaboration with the State try system received a SEBRAE award in both the University of Goiás (UEG) to monitor water quality in the Traíras River, regional and the national category. The system an important source of water for the city, and an agreement with the Goiás Agriculture Federation (FAEG) to support smallholders in expanding Legado Verdes do Cerrado GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 304: Biodiversity protected areas on their properties. 63 2019 RELATÓRIO CBA ANNUAL ANUAL 2019 REPORT CBA at Votorantim Hub Material topics addressed in this chapter: • Strengthening the aluminum industry • Innovation and customer satisfaction 06 <IR> Intellectual Capital INNOVATION AND FUTURE READINESS SDG 9 12 64 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Development of market and innovation Developing products with attributes that customers value, and expanding the use of aluminum in our key markets—automotive, packaging and transportation—as well as growth markets where there are opportunities for aluminum. This aspiration set the tone for the activities of our Market Development and Innovation department. In practical terms, this means targeting our innovation efforts to current needs, such as urban mobility, healthiness and industry 4.0, to deliver more customized products to customers. It also means developing new products that ensure the sustainability and longevity of the business, working Primary Business shoulder-to-shoulder with customers. Clients Event The strategy for these efforts is in line with the goals set for our Upstream and Downstream businesses: • Build loyalty with Upstream customers, by developing close relations that foster experience-sharing to drive improved performance and operating excellence for both parties. • Be recognized as the industry leader in the packaging sector in the Americas and for developing new solutions for automotive and transportation customers as well as segments offering opportunities in Brazil in the Downstream business, supplying higher-strength and more lightweight parts made of aluminum. Lightweight parts make equipment more fuel-efficient and produce less greenhouse gas emissions, supporting the overall sustainability of the supply chain. Pack Day 2019 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Innovation and Customer Satisfaction 65 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT The future is 4.0 Machine and Process Connectivity: this generates reliable data for Process-Based Management and future projects using machine learning, The CBA 4.0 program has identified more than 450 industry 4.0 initiaimproving process efficiency and productivity. The solution has been imtives with a focus on training and process improvement. Priorities have plemented in caster roll production at the rolling mills to maximize probeen set and, within the Competitiveness Management program, the ductivity and product quality. different departments are following up on action plans to accelerate outcomes and process improvements. Data Intelligence: in the Downstream, the rolling mills operations equipment are connected to the cloud with data intelligence. Management Progress so far teams gain agility to make accurate decisions, contributing to increase Online Metering Systems: combinations of online equipment that corthe productivity. relate and measure process variables. At the Refinery, three pieces of equipment are being tested to separately measure the concentration of Digital Safety Dashboard: a one-stop platform for managing safety alumina and caustic soda in the digestion stage and the liquor/mud indata (checking outstanding items and approvals, and tracking action terface levels in the precipitation stage. This project can be replicated at plans), enhancing safety management. different stages of the process and will considerably reduce the requirement for manual sample collection for laboratory testing. Training on digital platforms and using 3D technology: digital training enhances e-learning, providing greater flexibility in terms of training Advanced Analytics Smelters: using Artificial Intelligence (AI), a sysschedules and greater control of training attendance. In some areas, 3D tem was developed to improve electrolysis cell efficiency by predicting headsets are used for safety training to enhance the learning experience non-run events (NRs). Using different correlations of 13 real-time variaand improve retention. bles, the system detects potential deviations that could result in loss of efficiency, allowing preventive action to be taken to improve overall cell Digital Supply Chain – A Logistics Transformation Journey: integraefficiency. ting information, creating connectivity across the logistics chain, and Leaf Project: This project is using fuzzy logic to develop algorithms to improving productivity and service CBA’s Digital Supply Chain regulate consumption and optimize resources by reducing process valevels delivered to customers. Realreceived an award from riability. The project was first implemented at the Refinery to reduce -time information speeds up deciIT Mídia, which ranked natural gas consumption, and in 2019 was extended to several Casting sion-making and reduces risks inheCBA as one of the 100 furnaces. The goal is to expand the project to all furnaces and to Downsrent to our operations. companies deploying IT in tream operations. the most innovative ways. 66 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT The digital revolution requires a transformation in people To fully harness the value of digital technology, it is essential that we rethink our work approach and make the necessary changes, including behavioral changes, across the Company. This involves three major fronts: • Implementing exponential technologies, such as mobility, cognition and the Internet of Things; • Incorporating a digital mindset in our DNA; • Creating a continuous feedback loop, with processes in place to encourage experimentation and innovation. This is precisely what CBA is doing to drive competitive differentiation, enhance profitability and reduce corporate risks. The digital revolution we aspire for is one that is perceived by all stakeholders, especially those engaged with the business; delivers increased shareholder returns; improves product quality; and drives employee engagement. These aspirations underlined the importance of this journey to CBA—a process of seeking out technology that can be Market Development and Innovation Team deployed in the aluminum world, and one which is in Aluminio (SP) just beginning. 67 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Our innovation journey At CBA innovation is a continuous endeavor in our day-to-day operations. It all begins with potential ideas and projects being identified, primarily by our market intelligence team, based on market Close monitoring trends and customer feedback. The Innovation function organizes visual During execution, projects are monitored in terms of progress and management flashes on a weekly basis, and pace, work dynamics, deliverables, and challenges at each stage. projects are validated and approved each Other outcome indicators we track include customer/partner loyalty month using a governance approach that and retention, OEM approvals, positive feedback on completed prois focused on time-to-market and allows jects, and awards. for errors in the development phase as part of the learning process. A target has also been set for new products in the Company’s Our innovation methodology portfolio, and performance against this target is communicated to commercial and production CBA’s approach to project management and governance is based on teams, as well as targets related to project pace the Design Thinking model, a dynamic approach to innovation that and margins on new and ongoing projects. provides the required agility and appropriate indicators, and places the customer at the center of each stage of the process as a thermometer to gage whether we are on the right track. Tools such as Scrum and Canvas are used to gain an understanding of and prioritize projects, often using 3D printer prototyping. These prototypes help to improve both time and resource efficiency. We encourage employees to share ideas on a digital platform, called IdeAl, that is used to capture and manage those ideas. Projects are classified by order of complexity, readiness and adherence to strategy, and delivery is monitored by a multidisciplinary group as part of Printing of 3D weekly product development committee meetings. Projects, challenprototype Aluminio (SP) ges, indicators and lessons learned are also shared monthly during innovation and new business forums, and are reported to the leaders involved in the Company’s innovation ecosystem. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Innovation and Customer Satisfaction 68 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Collaborating on innovation projects with customers Customers CBA has a department dedicated to maMany innovation projects are conducted in collaboranaging customer service and ensuring Innovation projects tion with customers. These include projects across thewe develop the best possible relations mes such as: and development new with each customer. Some strategic • Reducing the weight and assembly costs of aluminum trucustomers are managed by a Key Acproducts represented ck bodies for the transportation segment count Manager (KAM) to develop dee14.8% of the net revenue per, personalized and more enduring re• Developing easy-to-assemble and lightweight chassis for from Transformed electric buses lationships under short -, medium-and Business in 2019, from 32 • Roof mounting structures for photovoltaic modules long-term plans. projects and 28 clients. • Vehicle floor reinforcement to increase torsional stiffness CBA conducts Customer Satisfaction Surveys to identify and document the and enhance safety for vehicle occupants underlying reasons for customer satis• Automotive projects to improve vehicle safety, reduce faction and/or dissatisfaction. The finweight and enhance sustainability Planning for innovation • In packaging, CBA secured approval in the US of an alloy dings from the surveys inform strategic plans to improve customer service, using CBA has a strategic roadmap for innovation, that is widely used in the domestic market, enabling cusa tailored approach where necessary. describing opportunities and challenges tomers in this market to leverage our knowledge and exAnd the results have begun to show. over the following 5 years, including deperience Market recognition came in the form tails for each segment. Actions to achieve • In the Brazilian market, we validated a foil product with of several awards in 2019, including an these goals have already been implemented more malleable mechanical properties that minimize flex award in the material supplier category and are followed closely and reported on a cracking, helping to improve usage in existing applications during the Honda Supplier Conference, monthly basis to senior leadership. and capture market share in new applications as a solution and a best supplier award for Quality from Denso. Another highlight in the for autoclavable products and food packaging year was the first edition of CBA’s Ups• In other markets, we have developed solutions with custotream Business Customer Conference to mers for structural parts with better applications. In these showcase what the Company can do in cases, new technologies were used and alternative welding, partnership with customers. press-fit and adhesive joints were created to support the GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Innovation and Customer Satisfaction application of onboard technologies in customer solutions 69 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Logistics highlights In 2019, further progress was made on implementing solutions within the Logistics Transformation Journey initiated in 2017 to optimize service levels and customer satisfaction. Industry 4.0 and the Internet of Things (IoT) have been instrumental in increasing process efficiency. Below are three examples of newly implemented capabilities: • My CBA Deliveries app: CBA and customers can track shipments in real time, and respond rapidly to unexpected events. The solution supports risk management, faster delivery times and greater transparency for customers. • Geolocation tool: this tool tracks vehicle movements and times at the Proven improvements in 2019: Plant yard, helping to identify and ad• Inventory accuracy – up from 93% in 2017 dress bottlenecks in the logistics proto 99.9% cess, improving productivity. • OTIF (On Time In Full) – an indicator of the • Customer Scheduling Portal: FOB extent to which deliveries are made in the customers and trucking companies can quantities and on the date agreed with the schedule vehicle loading times within a customer—up from 65% in 2017 to 98% of scheduling grid on the requested deliupstream customers very date. Shipments are prepared and items are separated one day in advance. • Backlog (scheduled but uncompleted deliveries) – down from 200 metric tons in The new processes have already deli2017 to 37 metric tons per day vered improved performance indicators, and customer feedback indicates • Vehicle waiting times at the plant: – digital solutions are driving operating down from an average of 5 hours in 2017 excellence. to 2.1 hours • Daily shipments overview – data now has hourly resolution, supporting identification of bottlenecks in the logistics process in real time to inform immediate action and GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CBA Topic: Innovation problem solving. and Customer Satisfaction 70 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CBA at Votorantim Hub Innovation in events and scientific production CBA has invested in partnerships for collaborative scientific research. The Company has selected and developed important collaborations with universities both near our operations and across the country that have mutually complementary capabilities. In Market Development and Innovation, two projects were approved to source qualified professionals through a partnership with Instituto Euvaldo Lodi (IEL) and the Brazilian Counsel for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq). Newly graduated grant holders now collaborate directly in innovation projects. In a partnership with the Brazilian Aluminum Association (ABAL), a research grant holder has been allocated to the Technology department to develop new materials using graphene for applications with aluminum. In addition, CBA has organized a range of innovation workshops with universities, institutions, customers and partners, as well as Tech Day events that bring together aluminum industry experts to discuss applications, trends, innovative solutions and opportunities. In 2019, our Tech Day events showcased new products in the truck equipment segment, helped to strengthen alliances in the automotive segment, and accelerated opportunities in packaging as well as new opportunities in other potential segments. A workshop on additive manufacturing was held at the Alumínio (SP) plant, with guest speakers including academics and industry experts. CBA also had a significant presence at Votorantim Hub, an initiative organized by Votorantim subsidiaries to show stakeholders their transformation journeys toward the future. Visitors to CBA’s booth were invited to use a tour guide to learn about our technological transformation and sustainability journey. They also had the opportunity to interact with our virtual reality tools, test their compatibility with the Company’s aspirations, participate in creating a word cloud, watch videos and interact with employees. GRI 102-43, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Innovation and Customer Satisfaction 71 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Proudly building the future With so many achievements in 2019, we are confident that CBA has made great strides toward a more sustainable, technology-enabled and efficient future, in which customers, partners and employees work together for each other’s and society’s benefit. We are nimble, resourceful and prepared, and have the best team to turn our aspirations into reality. Ricardo Carvalho CEO, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA) 72 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI & ASI supplement GRI 102-5 Closely Held Corporation The likelihood of a risk is determined based on the history of GRI 102-8 and 102-41 CBA ended year 2019 with a workforce of 4,800 employees—a figure relatively level prior events, future expectations and projections, and the curwith 2018—all of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company also has 1,327 fixed rent situation of identified risk factors. After formalizing and third-party employees. implementing one or more action plans addressing risk events, which are monitored by the relevant departments, those risks 2018 2019 given a “high” or “critical” final risk rating are reported to CBA’s Total direct employees by employment type and gender Executive Board, Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Men Women Total Men Women Total GRI 102-13 Full-time direct employees 4,458 358 4,816 4,380 420 4,800 CBA is an active member of industry associations in the regions Note: these figures exclude apprentices and interns. CBA has no part-time employees. in which we are present, where we contribute to discussions on issues affecting the aluminum supply chain and work with other Total direct employees 2017 2018 2019 stakeholders to support local sustainable development. These by employment associations include the following: contract and gender Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total • Brazilian Aluminum Association (ABAL), where we are represenPermanent 4,406 292 4,698 4,328 335 4,663 4,355 407 4,762 ted on the Board and on several committees, subcommittees and working groups Temporary 116 19 135 130 23 153 25 13 38 • International Aluminium Institute (IAI) • Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Total 4,522 311 4,833 4,458 358 4,816 4,380 420 4,800 • Poços de Caldas Association of Mining Companies (ASMPC) Our operations are located in the Midwest, Southeast and South of Brazil. • Serra do Brigadeiro State Park Advisory Board Total direct employees 2017 2018 2019 • Committee on Tributaries of the Pomba and Muriaé in Minas by employment contract and region Southeast Midwest South Southeast Midwest South Southeast Midwest South Gerais (COMPE) • Committee for Integration of the Paraíba do Sul River Basin Permanent 4,491 192 15 4,466 182 15 4,569 180 13 (CEIVAP) Temporary 107 28 0 153 0 0 35 3 0 • Brazilian Association for Business Communications (ABERJE) • Brazilian Packaging Association (ABRE) Total 4,598 220 15 4,619 182 15 4,604 183 13 • Brazilian Association of Aluminum Window and Door Manufacturers (AFEAL) GRI 102-11 Owners to ensure all business risks and action plans are cove• Brazilian Association for Photovoltaic Solar Power (ABSOLAR) At CBA the precautionary principle is used as a guide for risk red and in progress. Impact assessments take account of all analysis and procedures, but has not been formally adopted identified risk factors, and the potential consequences of risks • Brazilian Association of Truck Equipment Manufacturers (ANFIR) by the company. The Company has a Corporate Risk Matrix in materializing are identified across six dimensions: Financial, • Global Aluminium Foil Roller Initiative (ALUFOIL) place and conducts risk updating rounds with Heads and Risk Reputational, Environment, Health & Safety, Social and Legal. 73 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI 102-45 GRI 202-1 GRI 201-2 Aluminum and Mining, Nickel and Own Employees are paid the entry-level wages established for their To assess the financial implications and other risks and Hydroelectric Plants), Metalex Ltda., CBA categories under collective bargaining agreements, with no opportunities due to climate change, the Alumínio (SP) opeEnergia Participações S.A., CBA Machadinho gender-based differences, at all significant locations of operation developed a risk map that identified three threats: Geração de Energia Ltda., BAESA-Energética ration. The lowest entry-level wage paid to employees is 4% Barra Grande S.A. and ENERCAN-Campos Novos higher than the national minimum wage. Energia S.A. GRI 102-46 The report coordinators were responsible for considering Risks or Nature of Associated Financial Methods used to manage the risk Cost of actions opportunities due and defining report boundaries for each topic for year 2019. risk impacts implications or opportunity taken to climate change The analysis was done by a team representing the Sustainability (project leader), Environment, Treasury and Investor Relations & Communications departments. The GRI StanDaily monitoring of water reserve levels dards were applied with support from specialized consulCosts of and rainfall, and fortnightly meetings of Costs have not Water shortages Disruption of disruptions a multidisciplinary team to monitor water been identified as tants. due to extreme Physical operations (not usage indicators. If a reduction in reserves is these are routine drought calculated) identified, meetings are held weekly and a crisis activities GRI 102-48 management plan is developed. In this year’s report the GRI disclosures reflect the performance of all CBA operations. Any restatements are presenDaily monitoring of effluent pond levels and, ted on a disclosure-specific basis. Risk of Costs have not The effluent pond Cost of where necessary, activation of rainwater water body been identified as overflowing due to Physical fines (not diversion procedures. The Water Treatment contamination these are routine GRI 102-49 extreme weather calculated) Plant team is available 24/7 to ensure a prompt and fines activities and effective response. There were no changes. The information compiled for this report addresses the material topics defined in the materiality exercise in 2017 and used for the previous report. An annual cost Based on the of R$ 10,400 GRI 102-51 PMR Brazil to participate in questionnaire, simulations. Other Date of most recent report: 2018 CBA Annual Report. Costs of these Efforts to reduce emissions over the coming reduction projects Financial risks of years and participation in the FGVces Emissions Regulatory offsetting costs were have not been carbon pricing Trading Simulation to determine the best way to GRI 102-56 emissions calculated to respond to each pricing scenario. taken into account The decision to seek external assurance for the report was be as high as as they have R$ 20 million/ other associated taken and approved by senior leadership, including the CEO. year productivity and Assurance services were conducted independently. efficiency benefits. GRI 103-2 302 Energy CBA uses a structured approach to energy maCBA has not sustained significant climate-change impacts as measures taken to date have been effective. However, the Company nagement that is supported by an integrated management plans to perform the relevant calculations and revise its risks in 2020. CBA also plans to participate in the Carbon Disclosure system covering certification practices, routines, improveProject (CDP), a voluntary climate change program, the following year. ments, initiatives, systems and policies. 74 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 2018 2019 Water withdrawal, in megaliters GRI 303-3 Total Aluminum Total Nickel Total Total Aluminum Total Nickel Total Total Aluminum Total Nickel Total Business Business CBA Business Business CBA Business Business CBA Surface water, including water from 3,308 984 4,023 2,992 118 3,110 2,900 110 3,010 wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans Groundwater 64 0 64 72 0 72 136 0 136 Rainwater (harvested and stored 307 0 307 118 2 120 0 22 22 directly by the organization) Utility-supplied water 8 5 14 7 4 11 6 1 7 Total water withdrawal 3,418 990 4,408 3,189 124 3,313 3,042 133 3,175 Note: CBA makes no withdrawals of seawater, produced water or withdrawals in areas with water stress. All water withdrawals are freshwater (≤1000 mg/L total dissolved solids). Water discharge, in megaliters GRI 303-4 2017 2018 2019 Destination Total Aluminum Business Nickel Business Total CBA Aluminum Business Nickel Business Total CBA Surface water, including water from wetlands, Not reported 811 206 1,017 4,442 516 4,958 rivers, lakes, and oceans Water sent to other organizations Not reported 252 3 255 5 41 46 Total discharge Not reported 1,063 209 1,272 4,447 557 5,004 Note: CBA does not discharge effluents into seawater/groundwater. No discharges are made in areas with water stress. All water withdrawals are freshwater (≤1000 mg/L total dissolved solids). GRI 304-2 the introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens or pacts are documented and are considered significant when caExcept at Mining facilities, there were no impacts on biodithe reduction of species. tegorized above a threshold of IV. versity directly related to our operations, as no facilities were During the year there were no impacts related to habitat conexpanded. However, forest fires occurred on Company-owned version or changes in ecological processes outside the natuGRI 304-3 land during the dry season, which were unrelated to our operal range of variation. There were also no significant impacts CBA has 62.4 thousand hectares of protected areas, and 39.7 rations. Our operations have fire responder teams available to with reference to the extent of areas impacted, as ore bodies hectares were restored during the period. These areas contain respond in the event of a forest fire in order to minimize poare localized within confined areas and are mined during short vegetation of the Cerrado and Atlantic Forest biomes, as shown tential damages. periods of time. In addition, there were no significant impacts in the table below. No studies were conducted during the period with respect to on species in our Aluminum Plant operations. All identified im75 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI 305-1, 305-2 e 305-3 pany submitted its defense to the relevant GRI 304-3 The method used by the organization to authorities, and no decisions have been Size and location of all habitat areas consolidate the emissions from all operaissued to date imposing fines/sanctions. protected or restored (km²) tions is operational control in accordance As a strategic decision, a settlement was with the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, reached to end proceedings involving a 2018 2019 which covers the following greenhouse gadispute over environmental licensing docuArea approved by Area approved by ses: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3. mentation for Miraí (MG), after fines were independent external independent external Emissions performance was considered saimposed in 2015. CBA agreed to pay the professionals or professionals or tisfactory in 2019, with scope 1 emissions fines solely for the purpose of diminishing Biome conforming to Área conforming to Área declining as a result of reduced production, its liability, but without this constituting external parameters/ total external parameters/ total protocols protocols and with hydropower plants supplying 98% any admission of guilt or liability. Under of the Company’s electricity requirement the settlement, the fines will be paid in 36 Yes No Yes No (compared with 96% in 2018). This resulted installments amounting to an aggregate in low scope 2 emissions given that hydropayment of R$ 115,257.70 in 2019. The Cerrado 0 296 296 0 384 384 Note: this item covers power is considered a clean source. Scope 3 Company is committed to compliance and CBA’s Mining facilities emissions rose with increased use of bauxite any notices of violations from the relevant (Miraí, Itamarati de Atlantic Forest 0.001 36 36 0 240 240 Minas and Poços de from the Barro Alto mining, which is further authorities are immediately reviewed and Caldas), the Legado than other Mining facilities (the percentage defended or appealed against. do Cerrado reserve, Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 of bauxite from Barro Alto increased from Nazca, the Aluminum Block and the TransTotal km2 0.001 331 331 0 624 624 53% to 62%). GRI 403-5 shipment Yard. CBA plans and implements training on saGRI 306-3 fety protocols, induction training for all GHG emissions (‘000 tCO2e) CBA has a chemicals management proceemployees and contractors, as well as sta2017 2018 2019 dure with requirements on proper storage tutory training, at the frequency required GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 and use of chemicals and on mitigating by our internal controls. Stationary combustion 434.6 456,1 421.6 the risk of chemical spills and resulting Mobile combustion 16.2 13,3 17.6 soil and water contamination or effects on GRI 403-7 neighboring communities. Chemical storaCBA has Occupational Health & Safety poliFugitive emissions 10.6 4,9 6.5 ge areas are required to have bunding and cies and procedures in place for all onand emergency response kits, and all operaoff-site activities, and provides informaIndustrial processes 858.1 862.1 813.5 tions have environmental response teams tion and directions to surrounding commuAgricultural 1.8 0.01 0.1 who are trained to respond in the event of a nities as necessary. spill. The Company also has a contaminated Total scope 1 1,342.8 1,336.5 1,259.2 area management procedure covering preGRI 403-9 liminary assessments of areas with contaFive high consequence injuries occurred c. Biogenic CO2 emissions 4.1 1.9 2.8 mination risk, confirmation investigations, in 2019 involving direct employees. Each Removal of biogenic CO2 Not available 3.5 7.6 risk analyses and adequate remediation of operation area has a risk assessment spreconfirmed contamination. No significant adsheet identifying the risks and hazards Total scope 2 (market-based) 10.2 17.9 9.9 spills occurred in 2019. CBA’s performance inherent to that area. The most significant Partial scope 3 (bauxite transportation) 21.4 28,7 25.0 is therefore deemed to be satisfactory. risks are related to falling from heights and chemicals. If any such incidents occur, a rooNote: includes the Alumínio (Aluminum Plant), Metalex, São Miguel Paulista, Niquelândia, Miraí, Itamarati de Minas and Poços de GRI 307-1 t-cause analysis is conducted and an action Caldas operations. Figures for 2017 and 2018 restated for conformity to the updated Public Emissions Inventory tool. Changes in land use generated only biogenic emissions. CBA received notices of environmental plan is developed to prevent recurrence. violations in 2019 against which the Com76 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 2018 2019 GRI 403-9 a. Work-related injuries (direct employees) Aluminum Business Nickel Business Aluminum Business Nickel Business Aluminum Business Nickel Business Number of high-consequence workN/D N/D N/D N/D 4 0 related injuries (excluding fatalities) Note: the most prevalent incidents Rate of high-consequence workwere hand and foot injuries. Indicators N/D N/D N/D N/D 0.42 0 related injuries (excluding fatalities) are consolidated in accordance with NBR 14280 guidelines. All incidents requiring any form of medical attention are reported. Serious (highNumber of work-related injuries 23 0 24 0 16 0 consequence) injuries are defined as injuries requiring medical care (lost time). There were no fatalities in Injury frequency rate 2.57 0 2,62 0 1.69 0 2019; CBA’s fatality rate is therefore zero. The Company’s internal controls Injury severity rate 107.21 0 31 0 134.1 0 use consolidated data covering both direct and third-party employees, and some data for 2017 and 2018 are not Number of lost days* N/D N/D N/D N/D 1,271 0 available for direct employees only. *Total of lost and carriedforward Number of hours worked. 8,963,588 N/D 9,135,179 330,471 9,484,314 333,172 work days. 2017 2018 2019 GRI 403-9 a. Work-related injuries (other employees)* Negócio Alumínio Negócio Níquel Negócio Alumínio Negócio Níquel Negócio Alumínio Negócio Níquel Number of high-consequence work-related N/D N/D N/D N/D 1 0 injuries (excluding fatalities) Note: the most prevalent incidents were hand and foot injuries. Indicators are consolidated in accordance with Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries NBR 14280 guidelines. All incidents N/D N/D N/D N/D 0.24 0 requiring any form of medical (excluding fatalities) attention are reported. Serious (highconsequence) injuries are defined as Number of work-related injuries injuries requiring medical care (lost 5 0 7 1 8 0 (including fatalities) time). There were no fatalities in 2019; CBA’s fatality rate is therefore zero. The Company’s internal controls Rate of work-related injuries (including 1.48 0 2.11 2.84 1.91 0 use consolidated data covering both fatalities) direct and third-party employees, and some data for 2017 and 2018 are not Injury severity rate 3 0 150 0 113 0 available for direct employees only. * For “other employees” are considered full-time third-party employees Number of hours worked. 3,368,638 N/D 3,305,346 351,045 4,194.453 303,441 77 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI 413-2 GRI MM7 Operations with significant actual No actual negative impacts were identified at As in the previous year, in 2019 there were 25 comor potential negative impacts on 2019 local communities | GRI 413-2 CBA’s operations. However, there are significant plaints in Zona da Mata and 1 in Poços de Caldas. potential impacts as identified through two difThese complaints were largely related to impacts Total number of suppliers 13 ferent methodologies. The first is the Company’s from our operations such as dust, noise, sediment strategic risk matrix, which identifies social imcarriage during the rainy season, vehicle speeds and pacts affecting the community. Risks are considam emergency alarm sirens being activated due to Total operations with significant 4 dered significant if rated as “extreme” in terms of the potential theft of equipment. To mitigate dust potential impacts social impact, although the likelihood of occurrenemissions, tank trucks are used to spray the roads ce is extremely low due to the controls that are in and make the dust settle. To address complaints Alumínio (SP), Miraí Location of operations with place. The second methodology is based on a Prioabout noise, operation hours were adjusted to re(MG), Itamarati de significant potential impacts Minas (MG) and ritization of Communities for Social Action based duce disturbance. Carried sediments were addres(municipality/State) Niquelândia (GO) on the potential impact from the decommissioning sed by the Mining facilities team through intervenof the relevant operation, denoting economic detions in affected areas. Vehicle speed issues were pendence. The Alumínio (SP), Miraí (MG) and Niaddressed through Toolbox Talks and surprise insquelândia (GO) operations have a potential impact pections by the Safety team. In relation to disturrated as significant. bance from the alarm system, the option is being GRI 412-3 2018 2019 For dam-related impacts, a management system considered to reduce the motion sensor coverage is in place to ensure safe operation. In relation to area to closer to the towers. This entire process is Total number of investment agreements and contracts 344 490 economic dependence, affected locations are codocumented and managed using a control spreasigned in the period vered by social action plans providing public madsheet. At the factory, there is still no control over nagement support and development of local suthe total complaints received from the community, Total number of investment pply chains. but the CBA provides a contact point for complaints agreements and contracts that through the Ethics Line Channel, from where it is include human rights clauses or 200 161 that underwent human rights GRI 419-1 later directed to the responsible areas. screening The Company tracks all legal proceedings through a software-based management system. Fines and ASI 3.3.b Percentage of investment awards related to labor matters, including court In 2019 CBA paid R$ 2.29 million in mining taxes agreements and contracts that settlement, were a total of R$ 27.4 million in to the Brazilian Mining Agency. include human rights clauses or 58% 33% 2019, of which a significant portion represents that underwent human rights payments and proceedings involving units where screening operations were partially suspended pending resolution of the dispute. During the period, three Significant Significant contracts are contracts are fines were received related to tax proceedings, in Definition of significant contracts with a contracts with a a total amount of R$ 4.2 millions. A tax-related investment contracts/ term longer than term longer than fine of R$ 15,000 was also paid during the peagreements six months and/or a six months and/ riod. For the remaining cases the Company subvalue greater than or a value greater mitted its defense and the proceedings are curR$ 1 million. than R$ 1 million. rently in progress. 78 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX [102-55] GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 6 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 10 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 11 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-4 Location of operations 12 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-5 Ownership and legal form 75 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-6 Markets served 13 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 73 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain 35 Yes GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-10 Significant changes to the organization or its supply chain 11 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 73 Yes GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives 13, 16, 49 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-13 Membership of associations 73 STRATEGY GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3e4 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 24, 25 GOVERNANCE For the Materiality GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure 23 Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT the GRI content index is clearly presented and the GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 6 references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 73 with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 6 The service was performed 6, 30, 38, 40, on the Portuguese version GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement of the report. 41, 71, 36 79 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 7 REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the financial statements 74 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 7, 74 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics 7 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information 74 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting 74 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period 6 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report 74 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 6 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 6 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI Content Index 79, 80, 81 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-56 External assurance 6, 74 TOPIC 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 19 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 18, 19 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18, 19 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 74 Yes TOPIC 202: MARKET PRESENCE | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40, 41 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 40, 41 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 74 minimum wage TOPIC 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS | MATERIAL TOPIC: SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41, 42 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 42 80 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41, 42 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 38, 40, 41 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. 40 TOPIC 205: ANTICORRUPÇÃO | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24, 25 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 24, 25 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24, 25 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and actions taken 25 Yes TOPIC 301: MATERIALS | MATERIAL TOPIC: STRENGTHENING THE ALUMINUM INDUSTRY GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 47 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 47 Yes TOPIC 302: ENERGY | MATERIAL TOPIC: ECO-EFFICIENT PRODUCTION GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 52, 74 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 52, 74 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52, 74 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 52 Yes GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 52 TOPIC 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS | MATERIAL TOPIC: ECO-EFFICIENT PRODUCTION GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55, 56 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 55, 56 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, 56 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 55 Yes GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts 56 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-3 Water withdrawal 56 Yes GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-4 Water discharge 56 Yes 81 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance CBA Material Topic CBA-2 Water efficiency 56 TOPIC 304: BIODIVERSITY | MATERIAL TOPIC: SUSTAINABLE MINING GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 61, 62, 63 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 61, 62, 63 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61, 62, 63 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity 61, 75 Yes GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 75, 76 Yes Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or GRI mining and metals sector suplement MM1 53, 61 Yes extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity GRI mining and metals sector suplement MM2 management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) 61 Yes of those sites with plans in place TOPIC 305: EMISSIONS | MATERIAL TOPIC: ECO-EFFICIENT PRODUCTION GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48, 49, 51 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 48, 49, 51 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48, 49, 51 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 49, 76 Yes GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 49, 76 Yes GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 49, 76 Yes GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 48 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 51 Yes TOPIC 306: WASTE | MATERIAL TOPIC: DAM SAFETY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 53 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 53 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 GRI 306: Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 54 Yes GRI 306: Waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills 76 Yes GRI 306: Waste 2016 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 53 Yes 82 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance TOPIC 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 76 Yes TOPIC 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY | MATERIAL TOPIC: INTEGRITY AND EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31, 32, 33, 34 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 31, 32, 33, 34 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 32, 33, 34 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 32 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 32 Yes GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-3 Occupational health services 34 Yes Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-4 32 health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 35 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-6 Promotion of worker health 34 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-7 76 linked by business relationships GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries 31, 32, 76, 77 TOPIC 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 22 Yes GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 22 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-3 78 clauses or that underwent human rights screening TOPIC 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES | MATERIAL TOPIC: SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36, 37 83 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT GRI Standards Disclosure Item Page Comments and External omissions assurance GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 37 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 37 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-1 36 Yes development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-2 78 Yes communities The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes GRI mining and metals sector suplement MM7 relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous 36, 78 Yes peoples, and the outcomes TOPIC 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE | MATERIAL TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND RESILIENCE GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24, 25 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 24, 25 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24, 25 GRI 419: 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas 78 Yes OWN TOPIC INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION | MATERIAL TOPIC: INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 65, 68, 69, GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70 e 71 65, 68, 69, GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 70 e 71 65, 68, 69, GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 e 71 Own topic: Innovation and customer satisfaction CBA-1 Investments in technology and innovation 9 OWN TOPIC DAM SAFETY | MATERIAL TOPIC: DAM SAFETY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57, 58, 59, 60 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 57, 58, 59, 60 GRI 103: General disclosures 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57, 58, 59, 60 GRI mining and metals sector suplement MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks 58 Yes 84 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on sustainability information in the 2019 Annual Report To the Board of Directors and Stockholders cial Responsibility”, issued by the Federal Accountity involved in the preparation of the sustainability Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio ting Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard information, as well as applying analytical proceAlumínio SP NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than dures to obtain evidence that enables the issue of Audit and Review”, also issued by the CFC, which a limited assurance conclusion on the information Introduction is equivalent to the international standard ISAE taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (“CBA” or 3000, “Assurance engagements other than audits also requires the performance of additional proce“Company”) engaged us to present our limited asor reviews of historical financial information”, isdures when the independent auditor becomes awasurance report on the compilation of sustainability sued by the International Auditing and Assurance re of matters that lead the auditor to believe that information in the CBA 2019 Annual Report for Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require the information taken as a whole might present the year ended December 31, 2019, that we comply with ethical and independence resignificant misstatements. quirements, and other responsibilities, including in Management’s responsibility relation to the Brazilian Standard on Quality ConThe procedures selected are based on our undersManagement of CBA is responsible for the prepatrol (NBC PA 01) and, therefore, the maintenance tanding of the procedures applied in the compiration and fair presentation of the sustainability of a comprehensive quality control system, inclulation and presentation of the information in the information in the 2019 Annual Report, presented ding formal compliance policies and procedures for 2019 Annual Report, other engagement circumsin accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative ethical requirements, professional standards and tances and our analysis of the areas in which sig(GRI-Standards) and for such internal controls as legal and regulatory requirements. nificant misstatements might exist. The following it determines necessary to prepare of information procedures were adopted: free from material misstatement, whether due to These standards also require the work to be plan(a) Planning the work, taking into consideration the fraud or error. ned and performed to obtain limited assurance materiality and the volume of quantitative and quathat the information included in the 2019 Annulitative information and the operating and internal Independent auditor’s responsibilities al Report, taken as a whole, is free from material control systems used to prepare the information in Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the misstatement. the 2019 Annual Report; sustainability information included in the 2019 (b) Understanding the calculation methodology and Annual Report based on our limited assurance enA limited assurance engagement conducted in acthe procedures adopted for the compilation of ingagement carried out in accordance with the Tecordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 dicators through interviews with the managers reschnical Communication CTO 01, “Issuance of an and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries ponsible for the preparation of the information; Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Soof management and other professionals of the en(c) Applying analytical procedures to quantitative 85 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT information and making inquiries reof issuing an opinion, we might have identified Conclusion garding the qualitative information and other matters and possible misstatements in the Based on these procedures, no matter has come its correlation with the indicators disclosed information related to sustainability in the 2019 to our attention that causes us to believe that the in the 2019 Annual Report; Annual Report. Therefore, we do not express an information included in the 2019 Annual Report (d) Comparing the financial indicators with the opinion on this information; of Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio has not been financial statements and/or accounting records. compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limithe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). The limited assurance engagement also included tations than financial data, due to the nature and tests to assess compliance with the guidelines of the diversity of the methods used to determine, calcuSão Paulo, March 26, 2020 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-Standards) applied late and estimate these data. Qualitative interprein the preparation of the information related to sustations of the relevance, materiality, and accuracy tainability included in the 2019 Annual Report. of the data are subject to individual assumptions PricewaterhouseCoopers and judgments. Furthermore, we did not carry out Contadores Públicos We believe that the evidence we have obtained is any work on the data reported for prior periods, CRC 2SP023173/O-4 sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our nor future projections and goals. limited assurance conclusion. The preparation and presentation of the sustaiMaurício Colombari Scope and limitations nability indicators were performed pursuant to Contador CRC 1SP195838/O-3 The procedures applied in a limited assurance the criteria of the GRI Standards and, therefore, engagement are substantially less detailed than do not aim to provide assurance with the regard those applied in a reasonable assurance engageto the compliance with social, economic, enviment, the objective of which is the issuance of an ronmental, or engineering laws and regulations. opinion on the sustainability information in the However, the aforementioned standards establish 2019 Annual Report. Consequently, we were not the presentation and disclosure of possible cases able to obtain reasonable assurance that we might of non-compliance with such regulations when become aware of all significant matters that misanctions or significant fines are applied. Our light be identified in an assurance engagement, the mited assurance report should be read and unobjective of which is the issue of an opinion. Had derstood in this context, which is inherent to the we performed an engagement with the objective criteria selected (GRI-Standards). 86 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CREDITS General coordination Andressa Rissato Brolacci Lamana | Human and Organizational Development and Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability General Manager Luciano Francisco Alves | Financial Director Coordination Raquel Martins Montagnoli Team Sustainability | Leandro Campos de Faria, Alan Ferreira da Costa and Vivian Martins de Souza Financial | Cristiane Aschkenasi Dantas, Bruno Naufal Buso and Camila Alencar Maimone Communication | Fernanda Diniz Bolzan de Oliveira and Bruna Azevedo Di Monaco Zuquim Environment | Marcus Vinicius Vaz Moreno Technical and Editorial Coordination Quintal 22 Technical consultancy BSD Graphic design and Diagramming Walk4Good Photos Panoptica Multimída, Andrei Pires (Legado das Águas Photo), Luciano Candisani (Legado Verdes do Cerrado Photo) and CBA Collection. External verirication PricewaterhouseCoopers – PWC Translation LATAM – Latin American Translations We thank the support and cooperation of the managers and other colleagues involved in the corporate and industrial areas of CBA, Votorantim and partners in collecting information and preparing this Annual Report. 87 2019 CBA ANNUAL REPORT CAPA www.cba.com.br 88
