January 2020 Responsible energy solutions on a sustainability journey – Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact Photo by Delase Bonney 2 Contents CEO statement............................................................................................................................................. 5 UN Global Compact................................................................................................................................... 6 MAKEEN Energy at a glance.................................................................................................................. 8 Human rights................................................................................................................................................ 13 Human rights risks..................................................................................................................... 13 Code of conduct for suppliers and third parties.......................................................... 13 Labour.............................................................................................................................................................15 Labour risks.................................................................................................................................. 15 Health and safety policy......................................................................................................... 15 Fighting forced and child labour.........................................................................................16 Anti-discrimination – in a male-dominated industry...................................................16 The first global satisfaction survey.................................................................................... 17 Safety always comes first....................................................................................................... 17 Environment................................................................................................................................................20 Environmental risks .................................................................................................................20 Environmental policy...............................................................................................................20 Responsible initiatives from our everyday office life................................................. 22 Solutions that make an environmentally friendly fuel good business................ 24 Turning problematic plastic waste into useful resources......................................... 24 Anti-corruption .........................................................................................................................................29 Anti-corruption risks................................................................................................................29 Code of conduct – in the making ......................................................................................29 Training in anti-corruption....................................................................................................29 UN Sustainable Ocean Principles........................................................................................................31 Protecting our ocean with solutions for an environmentally friendly fuel......... 31 Addressing the problem of plastic waste pollution.................................................... 33 Key Performance Indicators from 2019............................................................................................36 Key Performance Indicators for 2020..............................................................................................39 3 Photo by Your Photo Trips 4 CEO statement Over time, some things change – while others stay the same. At MAKEEN Energy, we are still a global, market-leading corporation in the energy industry, and we are still determined to play an active role in the sustainable transformation of the energy market. And in my opinion, this last part – the one about transformation – is the actual reason why we keep changing for the better. Today, MAKEEN Energy has supported the UN Global Compact for 2 years, and our sustainability journey keeps taking us new places. It supports the promise we make to ourselves and our stakeholders in our purpose: responsible energy solutions for people and planet. However, no one is perfect, and neither are we. We know that we can always do better – and that thought only fuels our ambitions and initiatives. Over the last 12 months, we have expanded the itinerary for our sustainability journey. Among the newest initiatives, we find a global satisfaction survey, a code of conduct for suppliers and third parties and a commitment to the UN Sustainable Ocean Principles. As our organisation is spread across continents, the same goes with our initiatives. We know that it takes a dedicated effort to spread the actions and involve people across all our locations. And with the UN Global Compact, we have a good tool that on the one hand ensures we keep sustainability on our minds and on the other hand helps identify areas where we can improve. To maintain and focus our efforts to change for the better, we therefore continue to support the UN Global Compact as well as the UN Sustainable Ocean Principles. Anders C. Anderson Anders C. Anderson CEO / Managing Director of MAKEEN Energy CEO / Managing Director 5 UN Global Compact Global Compact is a United Nations initiative. By signing up, companies world-wide commit to follow the initiative’s 10 principles within the 4 topics: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In January 2018, MAKEEN Energy chose to join the UN Global Compact as a part of our sustainability journey, and this Communication on Progress report is therefore the second one from us. The 4 topics and the 10 principles are listed to the right1. 1 https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/ principles 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10 and bribery. 7 MAKEEN Energy at a glance MAKEEN Energy is a global, market-leading corporation that delivers equipment, solutions and services to the energy industry. We employ approx. 1,000 people across 6 continents and operate in over 140 countries. With our global reach, local presence and decades of experience, we can deliver responsible solutions that make a difference to people and planet. Across 6 continents, we have approx. Across 6 continents, business areas are We Wehave havecustomers customers inin 1,000 140 we have approx. 140 LNG, power, trading, ic waste conversion, anagement, engineering, , project management countries countries 1,000 employees employees On 29 January 2018, we joined the UN Global Compact Wherever you are, we are MAKEEN Energy is the mother company of several companies – that all share the same purpose We have offices in 19 countries and our headquarters is in Denmark Our purposeisis Ourpurpose OurOur business business areas are Responsible energy LPG, LNG, areas power, aretrading, Responsible energy LPG*, solutions for people plastic waste LNG*, conversion, power, trading, olutionsand for people plastic waste conversion, planet facility service, management, project engineering, management facility management, and planet engineering, service, project management 1936 Our history can be traced back to 1936, and the 2015 MAKEEN Energy name was introIn 2019, In 2018, our turnover was duced in 2015 1881 billion our turnover was M Our history can be traced back to 1936, and the *LPG: Liquefied Petroleum Gas / LNG: Liquefied Natural Gas DKK ** The turnover is preliminary, awaiting examination of accounts MAKEEN Energy name was DKK (€130M) (€118M)** introduced in 2015 9 Responsible energy solutions for people and planet 10 11 12 Human rights At MAKEEN Energy, we recognise and respect Code of conduct for suppliers human rights. And as a global corporation, we and third parties know that we have a responsibility towards the people around us – whether or not they are With offices, work sites and employees all around directly in contact with our business. the world, it is without a doubt important to make sure that we as a company do not violate the interThe job of keeping our efforts going is assigned to national human rights. Moreover, we recognise our CSR Committee. Along with – and as a part of that we are also present in industries and places – Global Compact and CSR issues, the committee where the international human rights might be is responsible for ensuring that MAKEEN Energy challenged. does not contribute to human rights violations of any kind. Nevertheless, in our opinion it is also important to realise and acknowledge that we can never truly To strengthen our support for the international act independently. No matter what we do, parthuman rights, the CSR Committee is working on ners will always be involved. And if we want to incorporating our efforts into our supply chain. protect human rights throughout the entire supply The first result of this was seen in 2019 when we chain, we need to include such third parties in our drew up an official document for our suppliers to considerations. sign – described more in detail later in this chapter. To do so, we set up a goal of creating an official document for our suppliers to sign – and now that Human rights risks is a reality. We have composed a document – our code of conduct for suppliers and third parties – At MAKEEN Energy, it is our objective and pur­ that our suppliers must sign to verify that they do pose to develop responsible energy solutions for not violate any human rights by, for example, using people and planet. Therefore, we find it natural to forced or child labour. consider and protect human rights for all individuals who are somehow involved in our activities. However, this document also incorporates other areas relevant for a decent business. Among other We have identified the following risks within the things, it deals with corruption, bribery and contopic of human rights: flicts of interest. • Monetary penalties due to legal violations We want all our suppliers and third parties to sign • Negative impact on reputation among suppliers, the document, but with almost 1,000 different customers, employees and other stakeholders partners, we are aware that this project takes time • Not acting in accordance with our purpose of to complete properly. However, we will start the developing responsible energy solutions for process in 2020 and create a feature to visualise people and planet the progress and number of signatories. 13 Photo by Artem Beliaikin 14 Labour Our employees are our most valuable asset. They We have identified the following risks within the are the ones who have turned MAKEEN Energy topic of labour: into what it is today – a global, market-leading corporation in the energy industry. Since we know • Monetary penalties due to legal violations how important everyone in our organisation is, we • Work-related injuries among our employees are extremely committed to providing them with • Negative impact on reputation among suppliers, the best possible work environment. customers, employees and other stakeholders • Difficulties in attracting and keeping skilled No matter where we are operating, we always labour adhere to local and international requirements • Not acting in accordance with our purpose of regarding working conditions. Moreover, we regudeveloping responsible energy solutions for larly review our methods, processes and systems people and planet to detect and prevent possible risks and discover opportunities for improvement. Some of the newest means to improve our working environHealth and safety policy ment count a revised health and safety policy, a global satisfaction survey and non-discrimination Even though MAKEEN Energy’s employees are training. These were all introduced in 2019 and located all around the world, their working condiwill be further explained later in this chapter. tions are always subjected to the same requirements: our health and safety policy. This is an imAs we pay great attention to our employees’ portant starting point and tool, but it does not have health, safety and well-being, we also believe to be complicated. As a result, we rewrote it, along that our employees should have the right to with the other MAKEEN Energy policies, in 2019 to further their own interests. Therefore, they all make it more accessible and reader-friendly. have freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. And we are confident that However, the essence of the policy has remained this is one of the reasons why people tend to stay the same. Our health and safety policy still sets out with us until they can celebrate their 10th, 25th to ensure a healthy and safe working environment and/or 40th anniversaries – just like a number of for everyone involved in our activities. Whether we em­ployees did in 2019. are dealing with full-time employees, temporary staff, contractors or other stakeholders with a work-related connection, this policy states our reLabour risks quirements and expectations concerning working conditions. As MAKEEN Energy depends on the hands and minds of our employees, we need to provide these In addition, our global health and safety managewith a safe and healthy working environment. We ment system ensures that our efforts are aligned always adhere to the local requirements, and we across all our locations around the world. The strive to provide the best working conditions for system itself is managed by our Group Quality everyone everywhere. Committee while the implementation of initiatives 15 Labour and requirements is handled locally by functional mitted to working actively against it and to management teams. These teams are responsible promoting a diverse and inclusive culture. Con­ for involving employees from every corner of the sequently, we embrace diversity among our em­ organisation, and this ensures that our efforts are ploy­ees, and we believe that it helps to create a transformed into operational action plans and imbetter and more dynamic working environment. plemented throughout the organisation. For a number of years, we have been making an effort to show the career possibilities for women in Fighting forced and child labour the energy industry which is traditionally rather male-dominated. We, and the rest of the industry, We strongly believe that all children, no matter depend on engineers and other technically eduwhere they grow up, should be able to be children cated and trained staff, and statistics show that – with everything this involves. They should have primarily male students choose these educations1. access to education and through that be able to But on education and career fairs as well as in the develop both themselves and their skills. And in career section on our website, we make sure to tell our opinion, growing up and learning about the the story of both male and female employees. many aspects of life is not compatible with being compelled to work in order to provide for parents, Over the last year, we have expanded and siblings or other family members. stren­gth­ened our efforts against discrimination by initiating internal anti-discrimination training. However, we do acknowledge that it can be beneBy starting to educate and train our management ficial for children to combine education and work in non-discrimination procedures, we have taken in some contexts. And as a global organisation, we the first step on the way to further ensuring that are also aware that we have activities and partners we do not discriminate at MAKEEN Energy – in countries where child labour can be a problemneither consciously nor unconsciously. atic topic. At the time of writing, we have trained part of Everywhere we operate, we want to take responsithe management group at our headquarters in bility and join the fight against both forced and Denmark. Among other things, the training has child labour. Besides ensuring that we use neither focused on articulating and exemplifying the ways of these within our own organisation, we have also in which we possibly discriminate both current and taken action by composing an official document potential employees. The materials we used in for suppliers to sign. This was one of our goals for Denmark have been shared with the HR managers 2019, and the document – our code of conduct for at the other MAKEEN Energy offices around the suppliers and third parties – is now a reality. For world, and these are responsible for conducting more information, see the chapter about human similar sessions locally in the near future. rights. Anti-discrimination – in a male-dominated industry 1 McKinsey & Company, Bridging the talent gap in Denmark – Insights from female representation in STEM, Whether it relates to gender, age, ethnicity, reli2018, pp 38-39, https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/ gion, disabilities or other factors, MAKEEN Energy Featured%20Insights/Europe/Bridging%20 the%20talent%20gap%20in%20Denmark/Bridging-thetalentis against any kind of discrimination. We are comgap-in-Denmark-McKinsey-Full-report.ashx 16 Labour Our internal non-discrimination training deals with On the positive side, the scores are highest when all possible types of discrimination. However, as our employees are asked if they are generally we are part of the energy industry, we are aware happy to go to work and if they find their tasks that we operate in a typically male-dominated meaningful. On the negative side, we unfortunateworld, and we pay special attention to gender ly see that some employees have experienced discrimination. When considering all MAKEEN stress symptoms within the last year. We do not Energy’s management levels globally, women want any of our employees to be under such presassumed 11% of the positions in 2019. It is our sure that they are affected negatively, neither at vision to promote gender equality and increase work nor when they get home. As a result, we will the number of fe­males in our management, but at pay special attention to stress prevention. It is imthe same time we also believe that qualifications portant that our people feel they can talk openly should always be the decisive factor. about the topic – and to solve the stressful situations as soon as possible. Distribution of men Safety always comes first 11% and women across all MAKEEN Energy’s In 2019, we committed ourselves to creating a management levels global reporting system that our employees can 89% in 2019 use to report work-related accidents – and now, this system is a reality. Safety always comes first at MAKEEN Energy, and since we work with equipment and solutions for gas, we know that our product and industry can cause possibly hazardThe first global satisfaction survey ous situations. And that just makes our focus on safety even more important. In addition to our health and safety policy, we also focus on providing a good mental working enviWhen considering average numbers, the manufacronment for our employees by taking action turing industry which we are part of has an LTIFR against stress and bullying. Previously, we had of 2.67% . However, it is our ambition to make the implemented efforts to prevent both at our headworking conditions as safe as possible for all our quarters in Denmark, and last year we set a goal employees and to continually keep focusing on for ourselves to include all our offices in these and improving the conditions. The ultimate goal initiatives. is, of course, to ensure that our employees can do their jobs without any risks of work-related injuries. As the first step on the way, we conducted the first global satisfaction survey in 2019. All employAs a result, we prioritise to take action in response ees received an e-mail with a link to a completely to any work-related accident. Only by responding anonymous survey, and the survey included 11 to these situations can we take care of our emquestions/topics that should be rated on a scale ployees – and learn in order to prevent the situafrom 1 to 6. Our HR department collected the tions from reoccurring in the future. anonymous answers, and the survey statistics now offer an insight into both positive and problematic areas. 17 Enabling our partners to embrace the energy market of tomorrow 18 19 Environment Our activities and solutions inevitably involve and Environmental risks affect the communities and places around us. In our opinion, that is actually the whole point of We have identified the following risks within the working with solutions for the energy industry. At environmental topic: MAKEEN Energy, we see it as our first job to make our influence on the planet (and its people) as pos• Monetary penalties due to legal violations itive as possible. That is vital when you, like us, • Not meeting the growing demand for sustain­ strive to make responsible energy solutions. able energy solutions • No development of our business We continually look for ways to reduce adverse • Negative impact on reputation among suppliers, environmental impacts and use resources more customers, employees and other stakeholders efficiently, and we turn our eyes to both the prod• Not acting in accordance with our purpose of ucts we deliver to our customers and actions we developing responsible energy solutions for perform as a company. Over the last year, we have people and planet introduced and engaged in a number of new initiatives. Among them, you find a bicycle campaign, a revised environmental policy and a facility that Environmental policy converts plastic waste into new resources. These, and other environmentally friendly projects, will be As our purpose states, we provide responsible introduced later in this chapter. energy solutions for people and planet. In other words, sustainable initiatives and ambitions drive Generally speaking, our environmental approach us forward, and they, consequently, also form the is based on the principles and requirements of the foundation for our environmental policy. This is an ISO 14001:2015 standard, combined with national important starting point and tool, but it does not and customer criteria. And despite our current have to be complicated. As a result, we rewrote it, efforts, we know that it is always possible to do along with the other MAKEEN Energy policies, in better. So that is our aim for next year as well. 2019 to make it more accessible and reader-­ friendly. At MAKEEN Energy, we have identified a number of environmental risks related to our business both However, the essence of the policy has remained now and in the future. Among other things, we the same. Our environmental efforts are still want to optimise our use of resources, for example founded on two main pillars: actors and actions. by reducing packaging waste, and to develop Concerning the first, we work hard to involve all greener and healthier energy solutions. our stakeholders – employees, suppliers and 20 Environment others – in our environmental initiatives. Strengthening awareness and knowledge-sharing is key to succeeding and engaging people. Concerning the second, we endeavour to embed proactive measures throughout all our activities. Preventing pol­ lution, reducing waste and optimising use of resources are all important actions when it comes to managing and minimising harmful environmental effects. In addition, our global environmental management system ensures that our environmental efforts are aligned across all our locations around the world. The system itself is managed by our Group Quality Committee while the implementation of initiatives and requirements is handled locally by functional management teams. These teams are responsible for involving employees from every corner of the organisation, and this ensures that our efforts are transformed into operational action plans and implemented throughout the organisation. MAKEEN Energy’s environmental efforts are founded on two main pillars 21 Environment Responsible initiatives from our everyday office life To reduce our use of paper, we have started to shift from hard copies to digital versions whenever possible – and when printing, we encourage duplex printing and the use of recycled paper We have mulched the flower beds outside one of the offices in France to eliminate the use of herbicides In our canteen in Denmark, we collect plastic lids from milk cartons and use them in our on-site Plastcon* test facility We have started to phase out single-use cups and instead welcome washable mugs in several offices *Learn more about Plastcon in the chapter about environment 22 Environment Our Sri Lankan employees and their families have continued with their tree planting campaign to fight deforestation and reduce carbon footprint – and by the end of 2019, they had planted 1,271 trees in total To be as energy efficient as possible, we have gradually started to replace traditional light bulbs with LED We have generally strengthened our focus on sorting waste with, for example, separate bins for paper, glass and plastic A group of Danish employees joined a national “cycle to work” campaign and cycled 14,076 km in 74 days – and even won the competition in the local area 23 Environment Solutions that make Natural gas is the most environmentally friendly an environmentally friendly fuel fossil fuel, and it emits significantly lower amounts of CO2, SOX, NOX and particulate matters into the good business atmosphere than e.g. coal and oil. The emissions With rising political and legislative focus on are reduced by 20-100%, and the solutions from strengthening sustainability and minimising emisKC LNG therefore play a valuable part in pushing sions, the maritime sector (along with the rest of this fuel forward. the transportation industry) is looking into alter­ native fuels like never before. And here, liquefied As often when a new product enters the market, natural gas (LNG) – simply, natural gas in its liquid LNG also faces some challenges. Currently, one of form – comes forth as one of the best options. the barriers to widespread LNG usage in the maritime sector is the cost. However, by enabling bunAs a global corporation in the energy industry, kering from 2 tank trailers at the same time, the MAKEEN Energy naturally wants to contribute to Y-piece from KC LNG helps to break down this obthe development of and transition to LNG – an stacle and make LNG a more economically viable environmentally friendly and highly cost-efficient fuel. And with a world record in 2019, KC LNG’s fuel. Through our division KC LNG, we work dediY-piece even proved that it is possible to bunker a catedly with designing, manufacturing and delivership with LNG from 4 tank trailers, 2 at a time, in ing solutions that enable our customers to use just 1 hour and 23 minutes. LNG as a fuel. And as an additional and even more environmentally friendly advantage, it is actually Briefly put, the Y-piece is an enormous time saver possible to use those solutions with liquefied – and a minute saved is a penny earned. With less biogas (LBG) as well. The already low emissions time spent on refueling the ferry, the shipowner are then brought further down for the benefit of gets more productive time by sea, and that is our planet and its people. good business. Turning problematic plastic waste into useful resources What is LNG? Our planet is drowning in plastic. And even with When natural gas is cooled down to -162°C our advances in recycling, plastic waste is still a (-259°F) in a process known as liquefaction, problem. Today, we produce more than 1,260 it becomes a clear, odourless liquid – also million tons of plastic waste on a global scale anknown as liquefied natural gas, LNG. The nually, but it is only possible to recycle a small liquid takes up 600 times less space than portion of it1. Consequently, thousands of tons of the gas and is easy to store and transport. plastic waste end up at landfills or, even worse, in nature where it takes between 500-1,000 years to degrade into micro-plastic that never goes away. 1 https://www.statista.com/statistics/282732/global-production-of-plastics-since-1950/ 24 Environment 16% 25% 40% 19% recycled used for placed at landfills ends up in nature energy or heating Worldwide, we threw away 126 million tonnes of plastic waste in 2016 MAKEEN Energy’s Plastcon system is a responsible and profitable solution to the plastic waste pro­ blem. Some plastic items are too difficult or resource-demanding to melt down and use for new items – what is also known as mechanical recycling. A major reason is the fact that one item, like for example a water bottle or a toothbrush, consists of several different plastic types, and to be What can able to recycle it mechanically, these types must Plastcon be separated. convert plastic However, Plastcon can turn all kinds of plastic waste into? waste, also when mixed together, into new resources through what is known as chemical re­ The process in the Plastcon system converts cycling. Simply put, it can separate the elements plastic waste into the following resources: in the plastic waste and make them available as new resources – ready to use again. More specifi• 80% oil which can be used as fuel for cally, it can turn plastic waste into oil, gas and ships and trucks, as an alternative to carbon black. conventional marine gas oil and in the production of new plastic materials During 2019, the Plastcon system and technology has been developed further. We have put up a • 15% gas which can be recirculated to test system at our own headquarters in Randers, power the system itself Denmark, and the results have been very good. At the time of writing, we are working hard to set up • 5% carbon black which can be used to the first facility that can turn plastic waste from colour new plastic materials households and industries in the local area around our headquarters into useful resources. 25 Bridging gaps in global energy supply 26 27 International standards against corruption As a part of the UN Global Compact, MAKEEN Energy naturally complies with the project’s international standards for anti-corruption. And since one of our offices is located in the UK, our entire organisation is also compliant with the UK Bribery Act which is regarded as a rather comprehensive piece of legislation. Photo by Hitesh Choudhary 28 Anti-corruption Wherever you are, we are – that is a saying we Code of conduct – in the making live by and strive to fulfil. To live up to it, MAKEEN Energy is represented in countries all around the In 2019, we set out to compose and publish a code world. Some of the places and industries we ope­ of conduct. It will guide our employees in cases rate in are characterised by rough competition for and situations where they may be in doubt about business opportunities, and that can easily lead to what is the right thing to do. At the time of writing, situations with demands for improper payments or we are still working on our code of conduct, but we other actions that break with our company policies. expect to finalise it in April 2020. Besides sharing and using it internally, we will also make it publicly Nevertheless, there should be no ambiguity or available on our website so everyone has a chance doubt about our dissociation from corruption. to see what they can expect from the way we do At MAKEEN Energy, we are in no way interested business. in doing business based on improper payments or solving problems with illegal means. On the conMAKEEN Energy’s code of conduct will deal with trary, we believe in founding a business on strong a number of topics and, among other things, it will values, integrity and high moral standards and in consider the 4 topics from the UN Global Com­pact: the importance of a fair market that is not ruined human rights, labour, environment and anti-corrupby bribery and corruption. Over the last year, we tion. Moreover, our code of conduct will also point have been working on a code of conduct and on out directions regarding conflicts of interest, whisanti-corruption training sessions to strengthen our tleblower arrangements and legal compliance. efforts against corruption. Both initiatives are further introduced in the next sections. Training in anti-corruption Anti-corruption risks When we planned our activities in the beginning of 2019, we also committed ourselves to start educatMAKEEN Energy is an international corporation ing and training our management and sales manand deals with stakeholders all around the world. agers in our anti-corruption objectives and proceAs a result, we also operate in countries that acdures. Both groups are at the front line when we cording to the Corruption Perception Index by interact with people outside our own organisation Transparency International are affected by cor­ and, therefore, particularly exposed when it comes ruption in their public sectors. to potential corruptive practices. We have identified the following risks within the Up until January 2020, we have trained part of our topic of anti-corruption: management group in anti-corruption so they are equipped with knowledge about and methods for • Monetary penalties due to legal violations handling any type of corruption if they should • Negative impact on reputation among suppliers, come about. Next step is to set up an online traincustomers, employees and other stakeholders ing module in our internal system, so sales managers and other relevant personnel can be trained here in the future. We will implement this online system within the first 6 months of 2020. 29 Photo by Levent 30 UN Sustainable Ocean Principles As one of the first companies in the world, same is, consequently, the case for our support. MAKEEN Energy signed the Sustainable Ocean As a result, we have not yet launched activities Principles, a United Nations initiative, in October specifically to support the initiative, but the sec2019. As a signatory, MAKEEN Energy will take tions below present two projects that we believe action to promote the well-being of the ocean for can contribute positively. current and future generations. We are convinced that we can take part in making a difference, and especially our solutions for liquefied natural gas Protecting our ocean with solutions (LNG) as well as our plastic conversion facility for an environmentally friendly fuel (known by the name Plastcon) have great potential for having a positive impact. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is the cleanest fossil fuel available, and its emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases are significantly lower compared to other conventional fuels. As a result, our What are the Sustainable ocean is much better off with a maritime industry Ocean Principles? using LNG as a fuel instead of, for example, traditional heavy fuel oil (HFO). The Sustainable Ocean Principles were introduced by the United Nations in Our LNG division, KC LNG, strives to facilitate the September 2019 as a supplement to the transition to LNG by developing solutions that UN Global Compact. They recognise the enable ferries to be fuelled with LNG. And by using urgency and global importance of a healthy a cleaner fuel for ferries, we make transportation ocean, and their 9 principles point out ways by sea as responsible as possible. to take action to protect our ocean. Common to all KC LNG’s solutions are 4 core principles: scalability, customisation, mobility and zero-emission. These headlines more or less speak To focus our efforts, we have chosen to work dedifor themselves, but from a sustainable point of catedly with particularly 2 of the 9 principles. Speview, one deserves a little extra attention. cifically, we will dedicate our attention to principles 2 and 3 that both address the issue of ocean With the zero-emission principle, we refer to our health and productivity. Whereas principle 2 is goal of constructing systems and solutions with about promoting or contributing to restoring, prothe lowest possible emissions – and completely tecting or maintaining a healthy ocean, principle 3 without any methane slip. When bunkering a ship pays attention to preventing pollution and reducwith LNG, you typically use nitrogen to purge the ing greenhouse gas emissions that can affect the hoses free from natural gas in the end, and that reocean. leases methane; a gas that is about 25 times more harmful to the environment than CO2. However, At the time of writing, the Sustainable Ocean Prinwith KC LNG’s patented solutions we completely ciples have only existed for a few months, and the avoid this. 31 Sustainable Ocean Principles Emission reductions Shipping – 25% – 100% – 100% – 100% – 90% – 90% Heavy Fuel Oil LNG LBG Every year, 8 million tonnes of plastic waste end up in our ocean – and in 2050, it is expected that we will have more plastic than fish swimming around1 2014 2050 1 By weight, assuming that fish stocks will be constant Plastcon can convert plastic waste to SOx marine gas oil with 10 times less sulphur than the normal product 32 Sustainable Ocean Principles When focusing on emissions, it is also relevant to Secondly, Plastcon can convert the harmful plastic notice that KC LNG’s solutions are designed to waste into new resources. The largest part of the handle a transition to an even more responsible output is oil, and by refining this, you can get a fuel: liquefied biogas (LBG). When replacing LNG marine gas oil with 10 times less sulphur than the with LBG, the already low emissions are brought product which is normally used by the maritime further down – and the ocean’s well-being will go industry as illustrated to the left. In that way, we up. So, when the LBG production and infrastrucreduce some of the emissions that our ocean is ture is in place, KC LNG’s solutions are ready to exposed to3. handle an even more responsible fuel. For an overview of the emissions reductions with both LNG and LBG, se the illustration to the left1. Emissions regulations – and solutions that facilitate Addressing the problem of plastic the new limits waste pollution With the 2020 emissions regulations from With our Plastcon – a system that converts plastic the International Maritime Organization waste into new resources – the ocean can enjoy 2 (IMO), the maritime sector needs to lower benefits. its sulphur emissions – and, consequently, rethink fuel solutions. To live up to the new Firstly, Plastcon can take away some of the plastic limits, both our LNG solutions and our Plastwaste pollution our planet suffers under. Studies con facility come forth as problem solvers. have shown that approximately 8 million tons of With our bunkering solutions, it is possible plastic waste ends up in the ocean every year, so to fuel ships with LNG which is a fuel with plastic waste is without a doubt a threat to our low sulphur emissions. And a low sulphur oceans. And it is only expected to grow bigger in content is also found in the oil from the the future – as the illustration to the left shows2. Plastcon facility which makes this an ocean friendly fuel too. 1 Illustration #1. Source: KC LNG 2 Illustration #2. Source: Ellen Macarthur Foundation; PlasticsEurope; ICIS Supply and Demand; EIA, World Energy Outlook (2015) (Global GDP projection 2013-2040 and central ‘New Policies’ scenario oil demand projection 2014-2040, both assumed to continue to 2050; Ocean Conservancy and McKinsey Center for Business and Environment, Stemming the Tide: Land-based strategies for the plastic-free ocean (2015); J. R. Jambeck et al., Plastic waste inputs from land into the ocean (Science, 13 February 2015); J. Hopewell et al., Plastics recycling: Challenges and opportunities (Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, 2009); IEA, CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (2014); IEA, World Energy Outlook Special Report : Energy and Climate Change (2015); Carbon Tracker Initiative, Unburn3 Illustration #3. Source: http://www.imo.org/en/MediaCentre/ able Carbon (2013). PressBriefings/Pages/MEPC-70-2020sulphur.aspx 33 Empowering our people to innovate 34 35 Key Performance Indicators from 2019 2018 2019 target 2019 result HUMAN RIGHTS We will compose and publish a Target achieved document that all our suppliers shall with our code Process planned to sign to verify that they do not use No action of conduct for be started forced or child labour or violate any suppliers and other human rights. third parties LABOUR At our headquarters in Denmark, we have implemented efforts to Efforts implemented First global prevent stress and bullying, and Only local efforts throughout the entire satisfaction during 2019 we want to spread in Denmark organisation survey conducted these initiatives throughout the entire organisation. To ensure a good working environCode of conduct ment throughout the company, under construction, we work to publish a code of ethics Code of ethics pubNo action expected to be that will help strengthen the working lished finalised in April environment and our differences 2020 within the company. We will create a global reporting Reporting system system in which employees shall created with the report work-related accidents. New system created No action possibility to report Among other things, the system and <2% in LTIFR accidents and will include a measure of LTIFR measure LTIFR (lost time injury frequency rate). Target not achieved, but a In the future, we will start conducting code of conduct Process planned to external audits to check if suppliers No action for suppliers and be started use forced or child labour. third parties has been published as a starting point 0% women in By 2022, our goal is to have 20% Process planned to the board of Process in progress women in the board of directors. be started directors We will start to educate and train our 30% of management management in non-discrimination No action have completed Target achieved procedures. training 36 2018 2019 target 2019 result ENVIRONMENT Target not During 2019, we will reduce our CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from achieved, because headquarters’ CO2 emissions from from heating: heating: 5 tons/year the utility provider heating. 348 tons/year has not been ready ANTI-CORRUPTION Code of conduct We will compose and publish a code under construction, Code of business of business conduct that shall guide No action expected to be conduct published our employees in cases of doubt. finalised in April 2020 We will start to analyse all our 30% of activities business activities and collaborations No action and collaborations Target achieved for risks related to corruption. analysed We will start to educate and train 25% of manage­our management and sales managers ment and sales No action Target achieved in our anti-corruption objectives and managers have procedures. completed training We will take action in response No global system Action in 100% of the Not relevant, no into incidents of corruption, if any of action cases cidents registered should occur. 100% of new Target not We will start to implement an anti-­ employees within achieved, since corruption training for all new management, No action we have focused employees within management, sales and business on training current sales and business development. development have management first completed training 37 Photo by Sasin Tipchai 38 Key Performance Indicators for 2020 2019 2020 target HUMAN RIGHTS In our internal ERP system, we will create No feature to monitor the Feature created in ERP a feature that visualises the number of number of signatories system to visualise signatories of our code of conduct for progress and number of sup­pliers and third parties. in signatories LABOUR At all our hubs, we want to strengthen our First global satisfaction Results from survey efforts to prevent stress and bullying in 2020, survey conducted turned into initiatives among other things by using the results from to prevent stress and the first global satisfaction survey (conducted bullying in 2019) as our starting point. We will start to conduct external audits among 4 external audits External audits our suppliers to check if they use forced or child conducted conducted among our labour, and in 2020 we will begin to check our 3 3 largest suppliers largest suppliers. We will continue to educate and train our man30% have completed 100% have completed agement in non-discrimination procedures. training training By 2022, our goal is to have 20% women in the 0% women in the Process continues board of directors. board of directors ENVIRONMENT During 2020, we will reduce our headquarters’ CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions from heating heating: 348 tonnes/year heating: 5 tonnes/year ANTI-CORRUPTION We will compose and publish a code of Process has been started Code of conduct will be conduct that will guide our employees in finalised in April 2020 cases of doubt. We will continue to educate and train our 25% have 100% have management and sales managers in our completed training completed training anti-corruption objectives and procedures. We will continue implementing anti-corruption New employees in man100% have training for all new employees within agement have completed training management, sales and business development. completed training 39 Responsible energy solutions for people and planet MAKEEN Energy is a global, market-leading corporation in the energy industry. We are MAKEEN Energy determined to play an active role in the Alsvej 21 sustainable transformation of the energy 8940 Randers SV market, and this is why we develop respon­ Denmark sible energy solutions that make a difference Tel +45 8740 3000 to people and planet. We do this by enabling our partners to embrace the energy market www.makeenenergy.com of tomorrow, by bridging gaps between present and future energy supply and by empowering our people to innovate. Our portfolio includes equipment, services and spare parts, facility management, engineering and project management for every­ thing from LPG filling facilities to LNG bunkering solutions and power plants. We take pride in having co-­responsibility for our customers’ success – not only for short-term business results, but also for long-term business transformation. We employ and empower approx. 1,000 people across 6 continents and operate in over 140 countries. Our global reach, local presence and decades of experience ensure that we can deliver complete solutions at a level unmatched in our industry. As we say – wherever you are, we are. Photo by Pixabay
