Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <2> QNB Finansbank Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 1. Introduction and Business Overview 3 1.1 About This Report 4 1.2 Message From The Chairman and CEO 5 1.3 QNB Finansbank at a Glance 7 1.4 Sustainable Financial Performance 10 1.5 2019 Performance Summary and Sustainability Highlights 11 2. QNB Finansbank’s Approach to Sustainability 12 2.1 QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy 13 2.2 Sustainability Governance 15 2.3 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 16 2.4 Materiality Assessment 17 2.5 External Commitments 18 3. Sustainable Finance 19 3.1 Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services 20 3.2 Supporting SME’s and Entrepreneurship 21 3.3 Financial Inclusion 22 3.4 Customer Experience and Satisfaction 22 3.5 Responsible Customer Communication and Marketing 23 3.6 Customer Privacy and Data Security 23 3.7 Digital Transformation and Innovation 24 4. Sustainable Operations 25 4.1 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management 26 4.2 Talent Attraction, Development and Retention 28 4.3 Diversity and Inclusion 30 4.4 Environmental Impact of Operations 31 4.5 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain 31 5. Beyond Banking 32 5.1 Social and Community Investment 33 6. Disclosures and Further Information 35 6.1 Sustainability Performance Summary 36 6.2 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Content Index 37 6.3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 40 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <3> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1. Introduction and Business Overview Contents: 1.1 About This Report 1.2 Message From The Chairman and CEO 1.3 QNB Finansbank at a Glance 1.4 Sustainable Financial Performance 1.5 2019 Performance Summary and Sustainability Highlights Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <4> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.1 About This Report 2019 QNB Finansbank Sustainability UN SDG’s. In addition, a new section, Report provides an overview of our United Nations Global Compact Bank’s sustainability approach and Communication on Progress (COP) performance covering the period Index, has been included to this from 1 January 2019 to 31 December year’s report to publicly share our 2019 by complementing the topics Bank’s contribution and support to in QNB Finansbank 2019 Annual UNGC’s ten principles. Report. In this report, the terms “QNB This report has been prepared in Finansbank A.Ş.”, “QNB accordance with GRI Standards: Finansbank”, “Our Bank”, “The “Core Option” and Financial Services Bank” and “We/Us” are used Sector disclosures. Our Bank’s interchangeably. Like previous contribution to the United Nations year, figures and disclosures in this Sustainable Development Goals (UN report reflect only QNB Finansbank’s SDG’s) is presented by aligning our domestic operations excluding sustainability objectives by relevant subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. Feedback Geri Bildirim You may contact our sustainability team This report’s electronic version can be at sustainability@qnbfinansbank.com reached here. and submit your opinions, suggestions and feedbacks about this report, and our sustainability practices. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <5> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.2 Message From The Chairman Dr. Ömer A. Aras Chairman particular focus on social and environmental This is why we believe that joining the United While sharing our second Sustainability sustainability. Nations Global Compact the world’s largest Report, which provides all the details of our corporate sustainability initiative was sustainability efforts in 2019, I would like to At QNB Finansbank, we will dwell on the steps acutely pertinent. As a signatory, and in order thank all our stakeholders first and foremost, and measures we took during these trying to establish a sustainable and inclusive global my colleagues. times in the forthcoming 2020 Sustainability economy, we are committed to aligning our Report. In the meantime, I would like to strategy and operations with the UN Global Kind regards, emphasize that sustainability and sustainable Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of human development are global and shared goals in the Ömer A. Aras rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, Chairman face of a pandemic that brought irreversible and to carrying forward our ongoing efforts in change in our lives. these areas. As for this reporting year, we witnessed The fight against climate change has vastly turbulent changes in many areas in 2019. changed our industry’s approach to measuring, US-China trade wars, Brexit, substantial evaluating, and taking action for, the direct political and economic shifts, and the and indirect impacts of our operations. This is Esteemed Stakeholders, subsequent attempts to restore some balance why we have launched a major project aimed at were the highlights of 2019. more comprehensively managing the direct We are going through unprecedented times as we struggle with the greatest global health and indirect impacts arising from QNB Global warming and climate change also crisis of our era and try to adapt to the new Finansbank. In the coming period, we will remained to the fore as the greatest risks normal in every aspect of life. share the efforts undertaken and the results threatening our planet. Hence, we witnessed achieved under this project in detail. growing demand from all walks of life for Although the current COVID-19 pandemic immediate action to tackle climate change. Our Corporate Social Responsibility activities emerged as a health crisis, the latest Despite the tangible steps taken so far, studies are invaluable. We worked without respite on developments reveal that the pandemic will show that commitments to lower emissions our CSR projects in 2019, as in previous years. trigger, and has indeed triggered, dramatic were not enough to keep the global We traveled to all corners of Turkey, reaching changes and transformations in society, the temperature rise to 1.5°C. This means that the out to children and youth, to support them economy and the environment. fight against climate change will remain a hot with projects conducted as part of our social A new period lies ahead of us. From now on, we debate for a long time. responsibility platform, Small Hands Big will have more extensive discussions on the Dreams. Our Financiers have, without a doubt, All these developments demonstrate that adoption of new business models, changes in worked tirelessly this year, helping us launch non-financial performance and sustainability how we do business, new consumer behaviors, many projects. We will continue to accomplish are as important as financial performance. more frequent use of technology and the together and undertake even better projects in And we are equally encouraged to intensify Internet, and shift in stakeholder expectations the coming period. our efforts towards a common sustainable and demands. Therefore, it is critical to take future at QNB Finansbank, one of the largest both financial and non-financial action, with a banks in Turkey. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <6> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.2 Message From The CEO Temel Güzeloğlu CEO As for 2019, which is the theme of our report, it Innovation, one of our fundamental values, As a pioneering bank, we will pursue our was marked by our significant achievements was once again a source of inspiration for us in mission and responsibility of creating not only at QNB Finansbank. 2019. Founded to develop the future banking financial but also social and environmental technologies, Fincube will continue its value. Taking this opportunity, I would like to We pursued our strategy and sustainability operations with the title QNBEYOND. This reiterate our commitment to maintaining our priorities and focused, first and foremost, on name change has transformed QNBEYOND sustainability efforts, and to thank you digital transformation projects, support for into a special project that will extend to wider sincerely for your attention to and support for women entrepreneurs, investments in digital geographies. Hence, in 2019, we contributed to this matter. banking channels, and efforts in the area of the implementation of numerous projects corporate social responsibility. under the umbrella of QNBEYOND. You can Kind regards, find a detailed summary of these activities in We launched the trailblazing “Digital Bridge”, Temel Güzeloğlu our Report. which is a digital transformation project aimed CEO at digitalization and supporting SMEs. We are Our Bank also maintained its distinct position diversifying the benefits of our products and through human resources practices. Our Esteemed Readers, services for SMEs as part of this project. training and development activities, including Furthermore, we cooperate with solution “Financier 360” and “Branch Manager Globally, we are going through historic times, partners in various areas to help our customers Development Programs”, won 11 awards at the tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and rapidly embark on a digital transformation journey Stevie Awards for Great Employers and the adapting to the new normal as the old normal and keep abreast of the era. Brandon Hall Group Excellence Awards, two of dissipates in our memories. the most prominent business awards around We partnered with Türk Eximbank to offer the While the pandemic affects all aspects of life, the globe. “Women Entrepreneur Loan”, and thus adopted it also urged us to quickly rethink and change a pioneering role in the industry. This product We place great emphasis on Small Hands Big our ways of doing business. Since the outset of will support women entrepreneurs by helping Dreams, our social responsibility platform. We this period, as one of the pioneering banks in them tap into opportunities abroad. worked at full speed on the CSR projects under the sector, we have adapted to the new normal the umbrella of this platform with the support promptly thanks to the support of our senior We continued non-branch channel of our volunteering Financiers. We have management and colleagues. We have taken a investments in 2019, as well. We added new reached out to thousands of children all across series of steps to make sure our employees and functionalities to our internet and mobile Turkey with many projects, including “QNB customers remain unaffected in the face of banking channels, and completed the Finansbank Tales Math Museum Mobile this outbreak. We have maintained our enhancements for digital transformation and Truck”, “By the Power of Imagination” (in seamless and uninterrupted services with our paperless banking practices at our branches. partnership with the Community Volunteers new business models. While I give you merely This is how we contributed to our goal of Foundation), and “Tiny Fingers Coding an overview, we will provide further details on boosting operational efficiency and customer Future”. We will continue with corporate social these steps and the impacts of the pandemic in satisfaction, and started to take firmer steps responsibility projects focused on children and our next report. towards a sustainable shared future. youth in the coming period. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <7> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.3 QNB Finansbank at a Glance Founded on October 26, 1987 as QNB Finansbank distinguishes itself Finansbank A.Ş., QNB Finansbank with its strong shareholder structure, continues to serve our economy experienced and professional staff, as one of Turkey’s largest private innovative and distinctive products banks. Along with a workforce of and services, customer-oriented 12,087 people and 524 branches strategies and value creating social in 71 cities, including 1 branch in responsibility projects. Bahrain, QNB Finansbank offers a broad collection of products and In June 2016, 99.88% share of services across a multichannel QNB Finansbank was acquired network. Furthermore, through its by Qatar National Bank (Q.P.S.C.) subsidiaries and affiliates, the Bank (QNB Group), and since, the Bank also provides services in factoring, continues to take steps to further financial leasing, consumer finance, bolster the success story that made it private pension and life insurance, one of Turkey’s largest private banks. portfolio management, and offers e-transformation products. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <8> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights Vision, Mission and Values VALUES VISION RESPECT RESPECT AND COMMITMENT RESPECT RESPECT AND AND RESPECT AND AND BEING“US” BEING BEING BEING“US” BEING “US” “US” “US” Being the architect of every individual and commercial COMMITMENT COMMITMENT COMMITMENT COMMITMENT financial plan that will catalyze Turkey’s success MISSION LEADERSHIP INNOVATION LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP INNOVATIONINNOVATION INNOVATION Forging lifelong partnerships with all stakeholders by LEADERSHIP INNOVATION understanding their needs, finding right solutions and aiming for maximum customer satisfaction Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information <9> QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights Shareholder Structure About QNB Group Subsidiaries and Affiliates Established in 1964, QNB is the leading 99.88% QATAR NATIONAL BANK (Q.P.S.C.) financial institution in the Middle East and Africa (MEA). QNB Group today > QNB Finansinvest 0.12% OTHER is present in more than 31 countries > QNB Finansleasing spanning across three continents, > QNB Finans Asset with more than 29,000 employees Management serving 25 million customers. > QNB Finansfactoring > Cigna Finans Pension and Life > Bantaş > Hemenal Finansman A.Ş. > IBTech > QNB eFinans Note: For further information regarding Primary Brands, Products and Services primary brands, products and services, and subsidiaries and affiliates, please refer to the QNB Finansbank 2019 Annual Report. QNB Finansbank offers a broad collection of products and services in various segments and businesses (such as corporate and commercial banking, SME and agricultural banking, consumer, affluent and private banking, Enpara.com, payment systems) with the mindset of offering more than traditional banking services to its customers, focused on, innovative and customer-oriented strategies. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 10 > QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performancegelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.4 Sustainable Financial Performance Sustainable Financial Performance-I (TRY Thousand) 2017 2018 2019 Key Financials Revenues (1) 6,249,616 8,533,771 8,945,708 Operating Costs (2) 1,713,865 1,924,379 2,155,795 Employee Wages and Benefits (3) 1,253,346 1,425,103 1,716,360 Dividends Paid to Shareholders (4) 0 100,000 0 Interest Payments Made to Providers of Loans (5) 596,917 1,053,658 1,212,384 Payments to Government (Taxes) (6) 445,524 648,912 557,603 Pre-Tax Profit 2,048,965 3,058,741 3,179,760 Sustainable Financial Performance-II (TRY Million) 2017 2018 2019 Total Assets 125,857 157,416 181,681 Net Loans 82,683 94,018 110,683 Customer Deposits 65,297 83,413 100,219 Equity 12,155 14,572 16,685 Key Ratios 2017 2018 2019 Capital Adequacy Ratio 14.99% 15.41% 15.73% Avg. Return on Equity 14.34% 18.06% 17.12% In line with our mindset and our commitment 219 million. Total equity of our bank increased Avg. Return on Asset 1.40% 1.61% 1.53% to delivering value not only for our by 15%, compared to the 2018 year-end, shareholders but also for society, at QNB reaching TRY 16 billion 685 million, as the Finansbank, we believe that a consistent capital adequacy ratio realized at 15.73%. In Notes: financial performance comes from sustainable 2019, profit before taxes of the Bank amounted 1Revenues in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration (Net Interest Income/Expense, Net Fees and Commissions Income/Expense, Dividend Income, Net Trading Profit Loss and Other Operating Income) 2Covers all operating business practices. Hence, we ensure our longto TRY 3 billion 180 million, while net profit costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses and provision for loans and other receivables losses 3Covers employee wages, term sustainable growth through our broad reached TRY 2 billion 622 million. This year, bonuses, and all payments made to the government on behalf of employees 4-Covers all dividends distributed 5Covers interest client base, robust capital adequacy ratio and through the syndication agreement signed in paid on funds borrowed 6Covers current tax provision and deferred tax provision. consistently growing business volume. December 2019, we became the first and only For detailed information please refer to the QNB Finansbank 2019 Annual Report. In 2019, QNB Finansbank continued its Turkish bank granted a three-year loan since contribution and support to the Turkish 2016. The syndicated loan facility, through economy and attained significant which USD 457 million international funding achievements in terms of loan growth, deposit were raised in two maturity periods comprised volume and return on equity. As of December of 1-year and 3-year options with participation 31, 2019, the total assets of our Bank reached from 34 banks across 19 countries, TRY 181 billion 681 million, while net loans demonstrated the confidence of international reached TRY 110 billion 683 million and financial institutions in Turkish banking sector customer deposits reached TRY 100 billion and QNB Finansbank. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 11 > QNB Finansbank Message From The Chairman Sustainable Önemli sürdürülebilirlik 2019 Performance gelişmeleri Summary and About This Report QNB Finansbank at a Glance ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 and CEO Financial Performance Sustainability Highlights 1.5 2019 Performance Summary and Sustainability Highlights 525 12,087 6,721 Number of Branches Number of Employees Number of Female Employees 2,941 5.7 million 29 million TRY Number of ATMs* Number of Active Customers Total Value Invested in Employee Learning and Development * Reaches to 7,720 through existing ATM sharing program. 1,324 821 million 3.5 million Number of “Volunteer Finansçı”s Number of Digital Channel Transactions Number of Mobile Banking Customers Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 12 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2. QNB Finansbank’s Approach to Sustainability Contents: 2.1 QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy 2.2 Sustainability Governance 2.3 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 2.4 Materiality Assessment 2.5 External Commitments Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 13 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2.1 QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework At QNB Finansbank, we define Sustainability as the delivery of long-term value in financial, Sustainable Financial Performance environmental, social and ethical terms, for the benefit of our customers, shareholders, employees and community, in alignment with QNB Group’s sustainability strategy. Sustainable Beyond Our sustainability framework consists of Sustainable Finance Operations Banking three pillars: sustainable finance, sustainable operations and beyond banking. All three pillars support QNB Finansbank’s goal of Sustainable finance, is the integration Sustainable operations, is the integration Beyond banking refers to QNB sustainable financial performance, through of ESG criteria into QNB Finansbank’s of ESG criteria into our business operations Finansbank’s corporate social reducing risks, opening up new business financing activities to deliver value and across our supply chain to ensure responsibility (CSR) activities in the opportunities and strengthening our brand. with purpose. Our ambition is to support we operate ethically and efficiently. Our community where it operates. Our Under each pillar we have identified the customers to manage their environmental ambition is to further strengthen corporate ambition is to make a positive contribution sustainability topics most material to our and social risks, lend to businesses governance and risk management towards wider society through our CSR business and a series of actions plans to that contribute towards sustainable practices, promote equality throughout our activities. improve our performance. development, improve access to finance for workforce and reduce carbon emissions QNB Finansbank’s material topic identified SMEs and underserved groups, and provide generated by our operations. This approach within beyond banking is: a responsible customer service. Delivering keeps us compliant with increasing ESG ‘sustainable finance’ is the most significant related demands while helping QNB Social and Community Investment way in which QNB Finansbank can Finansbank to be an “employer of choice”. support national and global sustainable QNB Finansbank’s material topics development initiatives. Moreover, it identified within sustainable operations enables us to reduce reputational risks are: in our portfolio and maximize business opportunities emerging from the transition Talent Attraction, Development and to a greener, more inclusive economy. Retention Environmental Impacts of Operations QNB Finansbank’s material topics Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain identified within sustainable finance are: Sustainable Investment, Lending, Products and Services Supporting Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME’s) and Entrepreneurship Financial Inclusion Responsible Customer Communication and Marketing Digital Transformation and Innovation Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 14 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments Within the scope of our Fundamentals Our Understanding sustainability approach, five topics out of fourteen are deemed as “fundamentals of Corporate Governance, To conduct our activities in accordance with regulations, ethical banking principles, internal policies and procedures in a transparent and an Compliance and Risk accountable manner, to proactively manage financial and macroeconomic risks by an effective risk management policy, to ensure that our sustainability”. These topics Management liabilities are met and our activities continue even under unfavorable market conditions cannot be prioritized since they are equally important Sustainable Financial To diversify our funding sources by attracting different investors and investments through our robust financial performance and to put and should be achieved under Performance these funds into disposal of our stakeholders to support the society and strengthen the economy any circumstances in terms of Customer Experience and To make customer experience and satisfaction our priority, to provide products and services that best suit your customers’ needs reaching sustainability goals. Satisfaction Customer Privacy and To employ best measures to mitigate data security risks Data Security Diversity and Inclusion To promote the culture of respect, equality and mutual trust across our Bank Other nine topics are classified Pillar Priorities Objectives as our “sustainability priorities/material topics” and are subject to prioritization Sustainable Finance Sustainable Investments, Lending, To review our investment and lending processes within the scope of our sustainability goals and Products and Services priorities as shown in our materiality matrix. Supporting SME’s and To continue supporting SME’s and entrepreneurs by offering products, services and loan facilities Entrepreneurship that are catered for their needs Financial Inclusion To offer products and services to individuals and firms which have limited access to financial services Responsible Customer To be honest, transparent and fair at all times in our interactions with customers Communication and Marketing Digital Transformation and To offer user-friendly, accessible and environmentally friendly products and services to our Innovation customers in line with customer expectations and technological trends Sustainable Talent Attraction, Development To continue discovering, employing and keeping best talents, to provide our employees with training Operations and Retention opportunities to build different skills and capabilities Environmental Impacts of To set our Bank’s climate change strategy, to initiate necessary practices to detect direct and indirect Operations impacts of our operations Responsible Procurement and To review our procurement practices within the scope of our sustainability goals Supply Chain Beyond Social and Community Investment To continue supporting social responsibility projects Banking Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 15 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2.2 Sustainability Governance QNB Finansbank sustainability governance framework is established with the intention to integrate sustainability practices in our decision-making processes. Within this scope: Sustainability Committee (SC)* is established to provide adequate, effective and strategic oversight for the Bank’s overall sustainability initiatives. SC is responsible for general oversight of sustainability strategy and performance, including informing and updating Board of Directors and Corporate Governance Committee on sustainability related matters. Strategy Office, along with a designated sustainability team, manages overall sustainability exercises of our Bank. Strategy Office is also responsible for all sustainability related reporting. Sustainability Working Groups are the teams proposing and executing projects and action plans. This framework is supported by related policies, procedures, guidelines and QNB Finansbank’s participation to local and global sustainability-related initiatives.** Board of Directors Sustainability Committee Strategy Office Sustainability Working Groups Notes: *CEO of the Bank acts as the chairperson of the Sustainability Committee, and the committee consists of Executive Vice Presidents (EVP’s), and/or Directors who are/will be appointed by the Chairperson considering their core responsibility and at least two members of the Strategy Office. Head of Risk Management also attends the meetings as an observer. The Board of Directors and Corporate Governance Committee are annually informed regarding Committee’s activities. In 2019, the Committee held one meeting. **QNB Finansbank Sustainability Policy will be published in 2020. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 16 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2.3 Stakeholder Engagement Key Stakeholder Groups and Communication Channels and Communication At QNB Finansbank, an individual or an Stakeholder Group Needs and Expectations Frequency of Communication Main Communication Channels organization/a group that has an effect Customer Solution Center’s Designated on or affected by our Bank’s operations Communication Channels is deemed as a “stakeholder”. As Customer Service and Satisfaction QNB Finansbank Corporate Website Customers Easy-To-Use Products and Services Continuous Mobile and Online Banking Channels stakeholders have certain expectations, Transparency and Accountability Call Center we employ multiple methods and Corporate Social Media Accounts communication channels to ensure open, Branches honest and transparent dialogue with all Finansçı Internal Communication Portal our stakeholders, enabling us to evaluate Employee Satisfaction Survey opinions and feedbacks to determine Artı1 Appreciation and Recognition System what we can do better. In terms of Professional Development Leap Employee Assistance Program Employees Fairness and Equal Opportunity Continuous Ombudsman sustainability, in 2019 we established a Work-Life Balance Reporting Line (Internal Audit) separate sustainability section under our Learning and Development Programs corporate web-site to publicly disclose FinClub Events our sustainability journey with our Finarmoni Training Portal stakeholders, and as previous year, we Investor Relations Unit’s Activities have received feedbacks and questions of Increasing Share Price and Dividends Annual Reports our stakeholders through our designated Shareholders and Strong Corporate Governance, Risk Management Sustainability Reports Annually and Quarterly Investors and Ratings Investor Meetings e-mail address sustainability@ Transparency and Disclosure Roadshows qnbfinansbank.com Public Disclosure Platform (KAP) Notifications Compliance with All Legal and Regulatory Requirements Audits Key Stakeholder Groups Public Institutions Robust Anti-Corruption and Bribery Measures As Needed Regular Reporting Activities Strong Risk Management Practices and Regular Meetings Governance Structure Conferences Social Responsibility Projects Customers Employees Sponsorships Non-Governmental Making Positive Contribution to The Challenges As Needed “Volunteer Finansçı” Program Organizations Facing Society Sustainability Reports Participation to Local and Global Initiatives Shareholders Public Meetings International and Investors Institutions Transparency and Disclosure Presentations Financial As Needed Strong Financial and Governance Structure Conferences and Trainings Institutions Sustainability Reports QNB Finansbank Corporate Website International Transparency, Accountability and Disclosure Press Releases NGO’s Financial Addressing Financial, Environmental and Media Continuous Advertorials Institutions Social Risks and Opportunities Sustainability Reports Making Positive Contribution to The Society Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Meetings Fair and Transparent Tender Process Suppliers As Needed Bidding and Tendering Media Suppliers New Business Opportunities Audits Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 17 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2.4 Materiality Assessment To define material topics and sustainability priorities of our Bank, in 2017, a materiality analysis was conducted taking into consideration QNB Finansbank and QNB Group values, our Bank’s corporate strategy, stakeholder expectations and best practice examples. This analysis was reviewed by our senior management to ensure that the topics included provides a complete representation of our organization’s significant sustainability impacts. The outcomes of such assessment, material topics, are stated in our materiality matrix. Fundamentals (No particular order) Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management Sustainable Financial Performance 2 Customer Experience and Satisfaction 3 Customer Privacy and Data Security 1 Diversity and Inclusion Influence on stakeholders 5 Sustainability Priorities/Material Topics (2018-2019) 4 1. Talent Attraction, Development and Retention 8 2. Responsible Customer Communication and Marketing 3. Supporting SMEs and Entrepreneurship 6 4. Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services 5. Digital Transformation and Innovation 6. Social and Community Investment 7 7. Financial Inclusion 8. Environmental Impacts of Operations 9 9. Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Materiality from QNB Finansbank Perspective Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 18 > QNB Finansbank QNB Finansbank Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality External Sustainability Report 2019 Framework and Strategy Governance Communication Assessment Commitments 2.5 External Commitments United Nations Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact In order to show our Bank’s commitment on sustainability and address the issues pointed out in United Nations (UN) 2030 Agenda for The United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development, QNB Finansbank’s material topics are aligned with the relevant United Nations Sustainable Development (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate Goals (UN SDGs) sustainability initiative, consists of ten principles to promote better business practices in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In 2019, QNB Finansbank joined the UNGC and committed to making the principles part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. The table below shows how QNB Finansbank’s most material sustainability topics align with the UNSDGs. Objective Material Topics Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote Talent attraction, development and retention lifelong learning Social and community investment Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Diversity and inclusion You may refer to 6.3United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index of this report to learn Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Sustainable financial performance how QNB Finansbank supports UNGC’s employment and decent work for all Supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship ten principles. Financial inclusion Note: Detailed information on UN SDGs can be reached through respective official page. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable Customer privacy and data security industrialization and foster innovation Digital transformation and Innovation Ensuring sustainable consumption and production by Responsible procurement and supply chain promoting resource efficiency and non-hazardous materials Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Sustainable investment, lending, products and services Environmental impact of operations Promote just, peaceful, inclusive societies and institutions Corporate governance, compliance and risk management Customer experience and satisfaction Responsible customer communication and marketing Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 19 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Customer Privacygelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve Securityözeti performans 2018Data and Innovation 3. Sustainable Finance Contents: 3.1 Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services 3.2 Supporting SME’s and Entrepreneurship 3.3 Financial Inclusion 3.4 Customer Experience and Satisfaction 3.5 Responsible Customer Communication and Marketing 3.6 Customer Privacy and Data Security 3.7 Digital Transformation and Innovation Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 20 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Customer Privacygelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve Securityözeti performans 2018Data and Innovation 3.1 Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services As QNB Finansbank, we are committed to work Our bank strives to contribute to solving social with our clients to identify, assess and manage and environmental problems by providing environmental and social risks with the sustainable products and services* to suit the awareness that finance sector, especially the needs of its customers. Banks, can help reduce such by adopting and In 2019, by our CardFinans Retiree credit card promoting responsible investment and lending product, we continued to offer, retirement processes. payroll account holders at QNB Finansbank In 2019, we continued to support renewable discounts and advantages in pharmacies energy investments to show our commitment and food stores. Since its launch in 2014, this to Turkey’s sustainable economic growth product has been highly favored by target and development. Furthermore, the project customers. focusing on how to address and manage QNB Finansbank agricultural banking properly environmental and social risks in continued to serve its clients to contribute to lending activities continued. In 2020, we aim developments in agriculture and husbandry to integrate environmental and social risks by providing different loan facilities, and assessment criteria within our credit review advantages offered via QNB Finansbank practices. TarımKart. Within this scope, through machines on purchases of agricultural inputs, Renewable Energy Portfolio (TRY)** Agriculture Loans Program funded by Credit installment loans available at ATMs with terms (defined by ICMA Green Bond Principles Guarantee Fund, QNB Finansbank provides up to 2 years, and automatic payment of social categories and QNB Green and Social Bond farmers with long-term and cost-effective security premiums. Framework) 2017 2018 2019 loans. This program still continues since its Notes: Hydroelectric 104,124,678 119,424,246 107,999,495 launch in 2017. In addition, TarımKart, a loan *To qualify as a sustainable product and service, the product product with a once or twice a year repayment or service must specifically address an environmental or Wind 187,937,137 232,960,433 215,784,714 social challenge (as defined by internal criteria). period in line with harvest periods of farmers, Solar 81,978,431 181,516,456 134,512,669 **According to the eligibility criteria for hydroelectric sources was renewed in September 2018. The renewed in QNB Green and Social Bond Framework, previously product offers farmers a non-interest period reported figures have been revised. of up to 6 months at TarımKart-certified POS Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 21 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Customer Privacygelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve Securityözeti performans 2018Data and Innovation 3.2 Supporting SME’s and Entrepreneurship QNB Finansbank continues to support SMEs clients reach the digital age via our “Digital and entrepreneurs by providing significant Bridge”. solutions through offering products, services This year, QNB Finansbank formed new and loan facilities that are catered for their strategic partnerships with Turk EximBank needs. through “Women Entrepreneurship Loans” In 2019, we focused on digital transformation and had a major role in paving the way for projects, developing new strategic partnerships the international opportunities for women for women entrepreneurs and investing in entrepreneurs across the banking sector. digital banking channels. As investment in out-of-branch channels was Within this scope, we launched our digital one of the priorities for QNB Finansbank in transformation project “The Digital Bridge” 2019, SMEs continued to be offered services in September 2019 to aid our clients in both through “SME Easy Line” in addition to QNB banking and non-banking needs. The Digital Finansbank internet and mobile branches, with Bridge Project further enriched the scope our newly added functions for SMEs. In 2019, SME products and services offered for SMEs. We Easy Line served some 482,000 clients with a started to work with 25,000 new SME clients in call response rate of 96% and a total number of the final quarter alone and aim to reach 50,000 9.3 million transactions were realized via easy new customers in 2020. Through the newly line. Such success gained recognition and SME established digital transformation department, Easy Line received 4 awards in Stevie Business we established alliances with FinTechs and Awards. other third party solution providers to help our SME Financing Value of Loan Portfolio by Size* (TRY Thousand) 2017 2018 2019 Microenterprise 9,859,039 8,564,192 9,334,142 SME 12,795,764 11,549,224 11,120,011 Commercial 15,759,153 18,785,074 22,976,685 Corporate 13,842,635 21,476,212 26,283,129 Number of Customers Microenterprise 1,197,804 1,266,025 1,396,582 SME 105,003 110,622 126,754 Commercial 37,939 39,039 40,826 Corporate 5,871 6,026 6,273 Note: *As per the segment definitions of QNB Finansbank: Microenterprise: annual revenue between 0 and 4 million TRY, SME: annual revenue between 4 million and 40 million TRY, Commercial: annual revenue between 40 million and 300 million TRY, Corporate: annual revenue between 300 million and higher TRY. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 22 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Customer Privacygelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve Securityözeti performans 2018Data and Innovation 3.3 Financial Inclusion 3.4 Customer Experience and Satisfaction We endeavor to contribute to socioeconomic As a Bank, adopting the mission of, development by extending our resources and “forging lifelong partnerships with all services to individuals and businesses that stakeholders by understanding their have difficulty to access banking services in a needs, finding right solutions and aiming more affordable and practical manner. Hence, for maximum customer satisfaction”, we we aim to reach out to customers whose access ensure that our customers are offered highto financial services are limited through our quality services and products not only to products, services, campaigns and training satisfy their needs but also surpass their activities. expectations. In 2019, we continued to serve Turkish To this end, at our Bank, Customer Solution economy and our customers with 524 Center (CSC) is primarily responsible branches* across 71 cities. The number of for analyzing customer complaints, and ATMs are 2,941 in total and thanks to new ATM determining the root causes and taking sharing program, put in practice as a result corrective actions if necessary. In 2019, of customers’ expectations (ease of access, approximately 100 corrective actions were geographical outreach and service continuity) Further information about this program can be taken by analyzing customer complaints. now QNB Finansbank customers can use reached here. (available in Turkish only) As a fundamental principle, CSC aims that improve customer experience, continued approximately 7,600 ATMs free of charge. Initiated in 2016 as a reflection of sense of all demands, especially complaints are handled assisting all business units in setting their QNB Finansbank continued its services social responsibility and with the cooperation and customers are provided with satisfactory basic principles of doing business, measured within the scope of accessibility and disability of EFSE (European Fund for Southeast Europe) solutions at the first contact. To further achieve customer satisfaction and identified areas of support services program “Engelsiz Bankacılık” and Frankfurt School, farmers was informed such, in Q1 2019, via the Live Support Service, improvement. In 2019, “Customer Experience and provided various solutions and services amply and in detail on efficient use of financial Internet and Mobile Banking customers started Principles of the Bank” has been updated and to physically disabled (i.e. visually or tools, income-expense management, and to correspond with call center customer agents approved by the Board, and communicated orthopedically impaired) or elderly customers savings assessment, via the country-wide more easily. to all employees. Customer Experience Office to ensure they access to financial services. financial literacy project. In 2019, we reached continued to receive employee feedbacks more than 320 people in 4 different cities. “Customer Experience Office” founded regarding customer experience via “Perfect in 2015, with the main responsibility to Customer Experience Platform” Access Points (Number) 2017 2018 2019 Customer Experience and Satisfaction 2017 2018 2019 Branches* 578 540 524 Net Promoter Score (NPS) % Enpara.com 74 77 75 ATMs 2,817 2,941 2,941 Cities (where ATMs are located) 73 73 73 Provinces (where ATMs are located) 7 7 7 Note: Domestic branches. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 23 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer ÖnemliCustomer sürdürülebilirlik Privacy gelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve 2018 performans Data Securityözeti and Innovation 3.5 Responsible Customer Communication 3.6 Customer Privacy and Data and Marketing Security At QNB Finansbank, we Bank’s products and services Ensuring confidentiality of continuously adapt our Bank’s provide our customers are provided to our customers customer information and security policies, practices with clear, transparent and in all our sales channels data security is one of our and systems with the highest adequate information that (such as branches, online priorities, in relation with our industry standards, and ensure would affect their decisions banking channels, direct ethical banking philosophy, that our Bank and customers at the forefront and always sales). Furthermore, we make sustainability strategy and are protected against newly ensure that we conduct our sure that no misleading customer-oriented mindset. arising risks and security marketing and communication information is disclosed in To this end, our Bank ensures threats by making necessary activities in line with our marketing activities. In that effective and efficient developments in our systems. regulations, customer addition to the applicable security measures are taken We also provide our customers expectations and our Bank’s regulatory requirements, all in accordance with the and employees with trainings, policies and procedures with new products and services, regulatory requirements, local security bulletins and alerts, the intention to establish longas well as any changes to and international best practice so that they could be vigilant lasting business relationships existing ones, are subject to examples in accordance to the cyber threats, fraudster based on mutual trust. approval of concerned parties with complexity and size of activities, and other data including the prior approval of our operations. Hence, we security risks. With that in mind, we ensure Compliance, Legal Department that accurate and correct and Customer Experience information regarding the Office. Responsible Customer Customer Privacy and Communication and Data Security 2017 2018 2019 Marketing 2017 2018 2019 Data Security Breaches 0 0 0 Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning Marketing Communications 0 0 0 Note: Information security policy is the umbrella policy defining relevant requirements to be applied within the organization. Compliance with such policy is monitored regularly by Internal Audit Department and top management is informed accordingly. In case of any violation, an investigation is launched for the responsible and relevant sanctions are imposed as per the provisions of the “disciplinary board directions”. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 24 > QNB Finansbank Sustainable Investments, Lending, Supporting SME’s and Financial Customer Experience Responsible Customer Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Customer Privacygelişmeleri and Digital Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Products and Services Entrepreneurship Inclusion and Satisfaction Communication and Marketing ve Securityözeti performans 2018Data and Innovation 3.7 Digital Transformation and Innovation At QNB Finansbank, we are eager to catch future of the banking industry. In 2019, up with new technological trends to improve Digitalization 2017 2018 2019 QNBEYOND facilitated important projects in our products, services and processes by an Active Customers by Channel (Number) the Bank. To name a few, in 2019, a corporate innovative and customer-oriented point of view accelerator program was launched in the Online Banking 1,276,820 1,061,422 848,495 to ensure we adapt to developing technologies Bank and 8 startups were selected among Mobile Banking 2,351,932 2,957,512 3,483,637 and changing customer expectations. hundreds for the first batch. During the fourTransactions by Channel (Number) With that mindset, in 2019 our Bank: month long program these startups benefited Online 135,053,615 112,641,609 97,420,414 from mentorships, free office space, C-level > Joined SWIFT GPI, the global payment Mobile 188,739,324 241,522,617 261,708,113 sponsorship and high support for business mechanism, which delivers speed and Telephone 123,922,534 127,867,027 142,195,134 development plus many advantages from transparency to cross-border payments, ATM 141,641,101 153,720,377 166,824,605 partners thus accelerated their growth. enabling clients to monitor the status of Branch 154,860,846 146,170,736 152,663,887 This year, QNB Finansbank also started the their transactions from beginning to end, Innovation Boot Camp among its employees. > Has developed an e-transformation package A total of 561 ideas were submitted during to prepare SME and commercial clients for the application period. Throughout the their digital transformation process and 6-week Boot Camp facilitated by QNBEYOND launched its new digitalization initiative team, 9 finalists worked on their ideas and called “digital bridge”, came up with detailed business cases which > Completed the digital transformation and they pitched to the senior management. “paperless banking” improvements in all Among 9 finalists, 5 ideas were selected to be branches, implemented by the bank. > Launched the financial intelligence Q, in mobile banking, to meet the banking needs In 2019, a design team titled Design Studio of customers with a new digital tailor-made was established, with the aim of accelerating financial assistant. digital transformation and innovation via various design capabilities. Design studio Enpara.com launched in 2012 as the first cooperates with all business units to put design direct banking model in Turkey continued to thinking into practice. In its first year, the team offer retail and SME banking services through designed from scratch or redesigned numerous digital channels only. Enpara.com has reached interactive applications, including QNB First a total of 1.8 million customers by attracting App for private customers, Digital Treasury 555,000 new retail customers in 2019 and Platform for FX transactions, Executive under the Enpara.com Şirketim brand (serving Dashboard for the upper management, Mobile SME customers), Enpara.com reached 36,600 Target-Performance System to be used by customers with a 92% increase. branches, Digital Approval Platform, to be Launched to create future-ready banking used by customers before Portfolio Managers, technologies, Fincube will now continue its and mobile platforms at Express ATMs for journey under the title QNBEYOND to create customers to feel safe and perform transactions the digital applications that will shape the comfortably. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 25 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain 4. Sustainable Operations Contents: 4.1 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management 4.2 Talent Attraction, Development and Retention 4.3 Diversity and Inclusion 4.4 Environmental Impact of Operations 4.5 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 26 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain 4.1 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management Corporate Governance and Compliance the creation and implementation of risk in accordance with the laws, other applicable internally proclaimed human rights principles, management strategies covering all types of regulations, and the internal policies and and national and international ethical banking At QNB Finansbank we conduct our activities risk regarding the Bank and its subsidiaries, procedures of the Bank. practices and expects its employees to act in in accordance with relevant regulations, development and implementation of risk compliance with such. This approach includes ethical banking principles, internal policies and Compliance, is responsible for detecting, measurement and management methodologies, our practices related to AML/CFT and KYC, procedures in a transparent and an accountable evaluating, providing advice, monitoring and identification and measurement of risks, Sanctions Prevention and Monitoring, Antimanner through our strong corporate reporting on risks of non-compliance with the establishment and implementation of risk Bribery and Corruption, Code of Conduct, Fraud governance culture and framework. Within this applicable laws and regulations and standards. policies and implementation procedures, and Prevention and Management of HR risks. The context: Financial crimes compliance department (FCC) lastly analysis, monitoring and reporting of Board approved Employee Code of Conduct, (consists of fraud control unit, AML/CFT unit, Board of Directors, as the Bank’s highest risks. Insurance activities for the transfer of Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals, suspicious transactions monitoring & analytics governing body, takes strategic decisions large-scale internal and external fraud risks are Corporate Governance Policy Guideline, unit, sanctions & KYC unit) and Data protection to keep the optimum balance between the also executed under the coordination of this Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, AML/ unit operates under Compliance. Bank’s risks, growth and revenues, while department. CFT Policy, Fraud Risk Management Policy observing the Bank’s long-term interests to along with other procedures (e.g. Sanctions Internal Control, ensures that the assets of Ethical Banking Practices increase its value with the help of its executive Procedure) are communicated to our employees the Bank are safeguarded, the activities of the committees, Audit Committee, Risk Committee, QNB Finansbank adopts and recognizes as a part of our Bank’s induction program in Bank are conducted efficiently, effectively and Credit Committee, Corporate Governance addition to the regular refresher trainings or Committee and Remuneration Committee* announcements provided on such topics. ** Internal Audit, Risk management, Internal Furthermore, our Bank established different Control and Compliance divisions are the notification channels through which our internal and independent functions reporting employees can notify relevant bodies in to the Audit Committee, in accordance with the our organization (such as Audit Committee, principles set under the Banking Law No. 5411 Chief Audit Executive, Compliance Officer, and “Regulation on Banks’ Internal Systems Ombudsman, Senior Management) to report and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment any wrongdoing or grievances in the strictest Process”. confidence. Notifications received through these channels are reviewed by the relevant Internal Audit, acts as an independent and authorities and necessary actions are taken in objective assurance and consulting activity accordance with relevant procedures.*** function designed to evaluate compliance with Notes: the policies and procedures to add value and *Detailed information regarding QNB Finansbank’s improve the Bank’s operational effectiveness. Committees can be reached through QNB Finansbank 2019 Annual Report. Risk Management, organized under four **In 2019, regular refresher trainings were provided on AML/ groups (market risk, credit risk, operational CFT , Operational Risk and Law on Personal Data Protection risk and model validation), is responsible for in addition to Legal Department’s trainings on Banking Law, Commercial Law, Obligations Law as well as other topic identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling specific trainings (such as law on securities, implementations and managing the relevant risks. The duties of distrain, and negotiations with public institutions). of the risk management include ensuring ***A sample of the policies can be reached here. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 27 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain Risk Management In order to achieve so, our Bank ensures the establishment and continuity of an At QNB Finansbank, we consider effective effective reputational risk management risk management as a vital and essential framework. Accordingly, “The Reputation part of our strategy and business longevity. Risk Management Policy” was prepared as the Within this scope we allocate substantial high-level document of the Bank and approved resources to upgrading our policies, methods by the Board of Directors in 2017. In order to and infrastructure to ensure compliance with comply with regulation and “best practice regulatory requirements, best international guideline” published by the BRSA (Banking practices and the guidelines of the Basel Regulation and Supervision Agency), The Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Reputational Risk Management Committee, Committee”). (reporting to the Risk Committee), was Risk management governance in our Bank established and continues its duties. starts with the Board, which determines the As for Human Resources risks, Disciplinary general risk policy and the risk appetite. Risk Committee is responsible for evaluating any Committee, Asset/Liability Committee (ALCO), act or practice deemed to be in contradiction Operational Risk Management Committee with laws, regulations, banking practices, (ORMC), Reputational Risk Management ethical principles and our Bank’s policies Committee (RRMC), and the Risk Management and procedures, to ensure necessary actions Division are main bodies of the risk are taken pursuant thereto. In addition, an management structure at QNB Finansbank. “Ombudsman” role was established under our Human Resources Organization to provide Reputation and Human fast, effective and fair resolutions for any Resources Risks organization-employee, manager-employee or inter-employee disputes. QNB Finansbank recognizes the importance of active management of reputation risk. Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management 2017 2018 2019 Confirmed Incidents of Bribery or Corruption 0 0 0 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 28 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain 4.2 Talent Attraction, Development and Retention At QNB Finansbank, Human Resources Policy according to annual recruitment planning is shaped around four pillars to ensure we reports and expand talent pool through discover, employ and retain best talents, reaching out the best talents. As a Bank become an employer of choice and improve hiring more than 80% of candidates among potential of our employees, while giving utmost new graduates, we attach great importance importance to employee engagement: to understanding new generation. Hence, we conduct surveys on university students to find > Human Resources Strategic Planning, out their career choices and carry out social Recruitment and Career Management media and university activities based on results > Performance Management of such accordingly. As for talent acquisition > Talent Management and Organizational activities, QNB Finansbank runs various programs for the recruitment of young talents Development such as Finans Up Career Club, Finans Career, > Engagement and Rewarding Finans Pro, Audit Pro and Finans 101. Human Resources Planning and Recruitment Performance Management: At QNB manages employer brand, work force Finansbank, semi-annual performance reviews becomes easier to find more suitable candidates and “Career Consulting activities. Within and recruitment in alignment with QNB are conducted to determine employees’ for managerial roles both on-site and in head the scope of “Development Architecture”, Finansbank’s strategy to be an employer of potential, and strengths and areas of office positions. Within the scope of Career which aims at internal appointment for choice through analysis, reports and projects development are assessed per employee with and talent management activities our Bank branch manager roles, assessment center supporting recruitment processes, a customized performance model. A road map provides its employees with the opportunity and personalized development programs are Performance Management ensures that is created to identify and follow the actions to lead their own career path through “Career applied, respectively. employee performance is assessed with for areas of development, and results are Architecture” and “Career Bulletin” practices measurable criteria by a transparent and fair transparently shared with all employees. system that will also help increase employee Talent Management and Organizational engagement, Workforce Overview 2017 2018 2019 Development: Our Bank offers personalized development plans for its employees to Workforce by Age and Gender Talent Management and Organizational empower their leadership talents and Total Number of Employees 12,007 12,276 12,087 Development help improve technical and managerial skills of employees, focuses on managerial skills, who are managers or have Female Employees 6,627 6,847 6,721 retaining talents with high performance, and potential for managerial roles in future through Male Employees 5,380 5,429 5,366 contributes to development of our employees. different programs such as, manager/MT Employees Age 18-30 5,241 5,364 4,607 training programs under “Finans Master”, Employees Age 31-50 6,619 6,754 7,254 Engagement and Rewarding establishes training programs supporting “Coaching” Employees Age 51+ 147 158 226 and policies focusing on increasing employee approach in management, Executive Hiring and Turnover engagement. Development Program under “Leaders New Employee Hires 2,567 3,328 2,054 Within this scope, our human resources Club”, coaching and mentorship processes, Employee Turnover (Voluntary) 1,501 1,847 1,444 practices focus on the following subjects: MBA programs and international/domestic Performance Reviews conferences. Furthermore, with the help of Workforce and Employer Brand practices such as executive development Employees Who Received a Performance and Career Management: Our Bank aims to recruit talents Development Review (%) 78 89 88 program and Head Office Assessment Center, it Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 29 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain factors also affect their personal lives) we for each premise, and regularly organize Employee Development and Engagement 2017 2018 2019 implement various programs and practices to occupational health and safety committee foster employee satisfaction and engagement, meetings.* Learning and Development and help them to achieve work-life balance. Workplace physicians are present at our Total Number of Training Hours Provided 654,231 834,793 654,103 Average Number of Training Hours Provided per Employee 53 69 53 In 2019, QNB Finansbank employees got premises with 50 or more employees** and together over 500 activities organized in in addition to activities conducted by our Total Value Invested in Employee Learning and Development (TRY) 17,210,093 22,640,220 28,968,216 different provinces by HR Engagement Unit, health offices, topic-specific seminars and Employee Engagement and Satisfaction which helps “Finansçı’s to keep the balance conferences are held to inform about an active Employee Engagement Rate (%) 53 62 64 between their professional and private and healthy lifestyle. Our Bank also organize Number of Engagement Activities 362 402 627 lives, and aims at increase in motivation by seasonal flu vaccinations and routine ocular contributing to employee engagement and health examinations, and offer life and health satisfaction as well as the privileged feeling insurance for all our employees. of becoming a Finansçı. In addition to the As for security practices, Security Services Occupational Health and Safety 2017 2018 2019 activities, discount agreements were settled Unit takes physical and electronic security Employee Fatalities 1 0 0 with over 200 companies during the year and measures via establishing security policies Employee Absenteeism Rate (%) 3.45 2.9 3.4 Finansçı’s were provided with advantages in against threats aimed at the Bank’s employees, shopping. Created to appreciate the employees customers and premises. with perfect behaviors complying with the Training and Development Management: At talents, and enhance employee engagement, Notes: values of the Bank and to encourage such QNB Finansbank, our employees are supported satisfaction, motivation and synergy. In *In 2019, in addition to regular occupational health and actions, “Artı1” Appreciation and Recognition safety trainings a topic-specific e-learning on “Earthquake” through various programs customized for addition to benefits provided within the scope Program continued its activities was provided to all employees. their specific needs, with the assistance of of remuneration and recognition practices **Head Office (Kristal Kule Building), Erzurum and Istanbul international and local training companies, employees are provided with other benefits Operations Centers (EROMER and FOMER) where a Health universities, internal and external trainers. such as health insurance, allowance packages Occupational Health and Safety Office serves our employees. Employees can also use “Development Catalog” and employee assistance services. In 2019 One of our Bank’s top-priority is to provide our and “Finarmoni Portal” to select any trainings/ within scope of the Bank’s premium and bonus employees with a healthy and safe working training materials (classroom trainings, models, each employee received a bonus environment. To this end, e-learning trainings, articles, videos, book amounting to approximately two salaries we conduct our occupational summaries, etc.) for their needs. Average period according to their performance. health and safety practices of training provided in 2019 per employee was Employee Engagement and Satisfaction: in accordance with QNB 7.6 days with a participation rate of 97%. At QNB Finansbank employee engagement Finansbank Occupational In 2019, QNB Finansbank received 11 awards survey has been conducted since 2007 Health and Safety Guidelines, for its training programs “Finansçı 360” and with the purpose of evaluating effects of related regulations in effect and “Branch Manager Development Programs” at the satisfaction factors shaping employee best practice examples. two separate employer awards, namely the engagement. Survey results are assessed and Within this context, we provide Brandon Hall Group Excellence Awards and actions are taken accordingly. We consider training on occupational health Stevie Awards for Great Employers, which are employee engagement and satisfaction and safety (regular and topicamong the most prominent business awards as the crucial factors affecting teamwork, specific) to all employees, around the globe. job performance, communication between conduct risk assessments Remuneration Management: QNB employees and senior management and overall in all our premises, prepare Finansbank applies a fair and transparent corporate culture. In order to ensure that our emergency plans, assign remuneration methodology to gain new employees are content, motivated and satisfied employee representatives with their professional environment, (such Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 30 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain 4.3 Diversity and Inclusion At QNB Finansbank, we actively promote a assist our employees how to incorporate such culture of respect, equality and mutual trust values into their daily business activities. across our organization. Hence, we conduct Such policy is also supported by other relevant our activities in line with universally accepted policies, guidelines and Internal Audit’s and human rights principles, ethical banking Ombudsman’s activities. We will continue our practices and internal policies and procedures. efforts to promote diversity and inclusion both Within this scope, QNB Finansbank Employees within and outside the workplace, in alignment Code of Conduct has been established to with our core values and HR practices. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2017 2018 2019 Female Employment Number of Female Employees 6,627 6,847 6,721 Female Employment Rate (%) 55 56 56 Female Employees in Senior Management 8 7 10 Parental Leave Return to Work Rate (%) 99.6 98.2 99.1 Retention Rate (%) 95.8 94.8 91.8 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 31 > QNB Finansbank Corporate Governance, Talent Attraction, Environmental Responsible gelişmeleri Önemli sürdürülebilirlik Procurement Diversity and Inclusion ve 2018 performans özeti Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Development and Retention Impact of Operations and Supply Chain 4.4 Environmental Impact of Operations 4.5 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain At QNB Finansbank, we to reduce energy and paper We define responsible procurement as, taking seek to increase operational consumption. into consideration environmental, social, efficiency and reduce ethical and reputational matters when making In this context, in 2019, some environmental impacts of a purchasing decision, thus, mitigating risks changes were made in heating our operations by taking associated with our supply chain, being vigilant systems of our branches different measures. While and mindful in our relations with suppliers, and for energy savings, and all we recognize our greatest ensure that our procurement practices do not improvements within the environmental impacts have adverse effects on society, environment scope of digital transformation are ‘indirect’ through our and our Bank’s reputation. Within this scope, and paperless banking financing activities, we also in 2020, we aim to review our procurement practices were completed. need to responsibly manage practices within the scope of our Sustainability Thus, 94% of the transactions the ‘direct’ environmental Policy. in our branches have been footprint associated with executed through the Digital QNB Finansbank’s operations. Approval Platform, without Procurement 2017 2018 2019 Hence, we aim to reduce our using paper. The project, environmental impact through Total Number of initiated with the intention Suppliers Engaged 1,273 1,340 1,377 various measures such as to measure our bank’s carbon selecting environmentally footprint continued in 2019, friendly devices for electrical Notes: and scope-1 and scope-2 and mechanical projects, 1Procurement activities are conducted in alignment with emissions are expected to be QNB Finansbank Purchasing Policy. Certain criteria (such as controlling our premises reported in 2020. supplier’s reputation, certifications provided by the supplier) through automation systems is used to assess potential suppliers and performance and taking specific actions evaluation. 2In case of a service procurement (support service) falling under the scope of “Regulation On Banks’ Procurement of Support Services”, our support service procurement process is conducted and ultimately the service subject to procurement is submitted to the opinion and Environmental approval of the Audit Committee. Detailed information is Impact of Operations 2017 2018 2019 available in QNB Finansbank 2019 Annual Report. Energy Consumption Total Electricity Consumption (Kwh) 66,940,698 64,379,177 63,195,106 Natural Gas Consumption (M3) 2,082,057 1,708,776 1,793,148 Water Consumption Total Water Consumption (M3) 191,838 170,756 177,973 Materials and Waste Total Paper Consumption (Kg) 839,000 749,000 388,030 Note: Our head office building (Kristal Kule) has LEED silver certificate. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 32 > QNB Finansbank Önemli sürdürülebilirlik gelişmeleri Social and Community Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu 2019 Investment ve 2018 performans özeti 5. Beyond Banking Contents: 5.1 Social and Community Investment Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 33 > QNB Finansbank Önemli sürdürülebilirlik gelişmeleri Social and Community Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu 2019 Investment ve 2018 performans özeti 5.1 Social and Community Investment At QNB Finansbank, we see social and by our cooperation with the Community Thanks to our “Tales Math Museum & We continued our “Success is Everywhere” community investment as an effective tool Volunteers Foundation, we continued to reach Mobile Exhibition Truck” sponsorship, project, that we had launched in eight state for value creation. Therefore, we thrive on out to elementary school children between children rediscovered mathematics schools with relevantly lower academic reflecting our core strengths and unique values the ages of 6-10, through story-telling method through games and Q&A activities and success levels in Ankara and Adana, in in every single project that we develop and to strengthen their communication skills, had the opportunity to observe the effects association with the Turkish Education offer to the use of community. With awareness equip them with self-expression ability, as of mathematics in daily life by attending Association (TED) and concerned National of our social responsibility, we are focused on well as competence in written expression, workshops. Through this program, Education Directories, with the intention areas we can contribute to the most. To date, imagination, reading and creativity. children had the opportunity to learn about to create equal opportunity in education we have realized various projects in a wide mathematics with enjoyable activities. by enabling our children to increase their range of areas such as culture, art, sports and academic, social, cultural and sport success. education. We helped our children experience music, Within this context, In 2015, putting speech and dancing, as well as the feeling children at the heart, we established a social of rhythm arising from the combination of responsibility platform, namely Small Hands these, as part of the “Anatolian Orff Musical Big Dreams with the intention to prepare our Education” under the leadership of Güher children for the future. The projects that we and Süher Pekinel, in association with Turkey foster under the roof of this platform are: Orff Music Center. In the 2016-2017 academic year, three young music teachers selected Tiny Hands are Coding by the Orff Center Turkey completed their By the Power of Imagination education at the Carl Orff Institute of The QNB Finansbank Tales Math Museum & University of Salzburg Mozarteum with the Mobile Exhibition Truck support of our bank to reach out to other Success is Everywhere music teachers in different cities to share Orff Anatolian Orff Musical Education training method. In 2018-2019 academic year, three new teachers began to receive training. In 2019: As of year-end 2019, 360 music teachers in We offered Scratch coding trainings to our 12 cities learned the Orff training and we children between the ages of 8-12 with our reached out to 60.000 children. project “Tiny Hands are Coding” that we In 2019, we interacted with 83,801 children launched in association with the Habitat through various projects with our 726 Foundation, with the aim to introduce volunteering bankers across 39 cities. In children to programming, develop children’s addition, we maintained our scholarship creativity, computer skills, and raise the support program for our bankers’ children and awareness of code literacy. reach out to 377 children. Within the scope of our project “By the Power of Imagination”, launched in 2018 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 34 > QNB Finansbank Önemli sürdürülebilirlik gelişmeleri Social and Community Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu 2019 Investment ve 2018 performans özeti Volunteering have been extended for three more seasons. Our Bank’s business and sustainability strategy supports our goal to leave a Memberships Since 2015, we reached out to livable world for future generations. 530,000 children in 63 cities through A brief list of QNB Finansbank’s Hence, we encourage our employees, to take part in corporate social membership to initiatives, foundations more than 30 projects focusing on and associations is provided down responsibility projects through either education, culture, sports, art and below: creating a new project or participating science thanks to our volunteer in ongoing ones. At QNB Finansbank, United Nations Global Compact we organize a competition among our (UNGC) employees. employees which they can participate Banks’ Association of Turkey (TBB) with their social responsibility projects developed for children Turkish Capital Markets Association between the ages of 4 and 14, and we (TSPB) provide financial support for three Credit Registration Bureau (KKB) projects. Within this scope, in 2019, Interbank Card Center (BKM) we supported three projects, namely, Düzce Forest School, An Armful of Call Centers Association (ÇMD) Happiness, So the Kids Can be Happy. International Chamber of Commerce Turkey Sponsorships Community Volunteers Association In addition to our CSR projects, as (TOG) QNB Finansbank, we support social and economic development through Habitat Association various sponsorship activities. To Turkish Education Association (TED) name a few, in 2019, within the scope Contemporary Education Association of the support of Turkish sports, QNB (ÇEV) Finansbank’s sponsorship agreements with Trabzonspor Soccer team and Orff-Schulwerk Education & Fenerbahçe Men’s Basketball team Consultancy Music Center (Turkey) Social and Community Investment 2017 2018 2019 Total Number of Employee Volunteering Hours 5,123 7,521 7,089 Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 35 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index 6. Disclosures and Further Information Contents: 6.1 Sustainability Performance Summary 6.2 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Content Index 6.3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 36 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index 6.1 Sustainability Performance Summary Pillar Material Topic Key Performance Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Sustainable Finance Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services Total Value of Renewable Energy Portfolio (TRY)* 374,040,246 533,901,135 458,296,878 Supporting SME’s and Entrepreneurship Total Value of Loan Portfolio by Microenterprise and SME** (TRY Thousand) 22,654,803 20,113,416 20,454,153 Total Number of Microenterprise and SME Customers 1,302,807 1,376,647 1,523,336 Financial Inclusion Number of ATMs 2,817 2,941 2,941 Customer Experience and Satisfaction Net Promoter Score (NPS) % Enpara.com 74 77 75 Responsible Customer Communication and Marketing Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning Marketing Communications 0 0 0 Customer Privacy and Data Security Data Security Breaches 0 0 0 Digital Transformation and Innovation Total Number of Online And Mobile Transactions 323,792,939 354,164,226 359,128,527 Total Number of Online And Mobile Customers (Active) 3,628,752 4,018,934 4,332,132 Sustainable Operations Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management Confirmed Incidents of Bribery or Corruption 0 0 0 Talent Attraction, Development and Retention New Employee Hires 2,567 3,328 2,054 Employee Turnover (Voluntary) 1,501 1,847 1,444 Total Number of Training Hours Provided 654,231 834,793 654,103 Employee Engagement Score (%) 53 62 64 Diversity and Inclusion Female Employment Rate (%) 55 56 56 Return to Work Rate After Parental Leave (%) 99.6 98.2 99.1 Environmental Impact of Operations Total Electricity Consumption (Kwh) 66,940,698 64,379,177 63,195,106 Total Water Consumption (M3) 191,838 170,756 177,973 Total Paper Consumption (Kg) 839,000 749,000 388,030 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Total Number of Suppliers Engaged 1,273 1,340 1,377 Beyond Banking Social and Community Investment Total Number of Employee Volunteering Hours) 5,123 7,521 7,089 Notes: *According to the eligibility criteria for hydroelectric sources in QNB Green and Social Bond Framework hydroelectric sources, previously reported figures have been revised. **The numbers in the table is provided for Microenterprise and SME customers only for easy reference. Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 37 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index 6.2 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization QNB Finansbank A.Ş. GRI 102: General 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Message from the CEO Disclosures Disclosures opportunities 102-2 Activities, brands, products, QNB Finansbank at a Glance and services Primary Brands, Products and Services 102-16 Values, principles, QNB Finansbank at a Glance standards, and norms of behavior Vision, Mission, Values 102-3 Location of headquarters Esentepe Mahallesi Büyükdere Caddesi Kristal Kule Binası No:215 Şişli Istanbul QNB Finansbank Employee Code of Conduct 102-4 Location of QNB Finansbank at a Glance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Stakeholder Engagement and Communication operations concerns about ethics Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management 102-5 Ownership and legal form QNB Finansbank at a Glance Shareholder Structure 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Governance Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk 102-6 Markets served QNB Finansbank at a Glance Management Primary Brands, Products and Services Annual Report 2019 102-7 Scale of the organization QNB Finansbank at a Glance 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability Governance Primary Brands, Products and Services Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk 2019 Performance Summary and Sustainability Management Highlights Annual Report 2019 102-8 Information on employees Talent Attraction, Development and 102-20 Executive-level Sustainability Governance and other workers Retention responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Diversity and Inclusion environmental, and social topics Management Sustainability Performance Summary 102-21 Consulting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 102-9 Supply chain QNB Finansbank at a Glance on economic, environmental, and Materiality Assessment Primary Brands, Products and Services social topics Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Sustainability Performance Summary 102-22 Composition of the Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk highest governance body and its Management 102-10 Significant changes to the No material change occurred relating to committees Annual Report 2019 organization and its supply chain ownership or supply chain during the reporting period. 102-23 Chair of the highest Annual Report 2019 governance body 102-11 Precautionary principle or QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental approach Policy 102-24 Nominating and selecting Annual Report 2019 the highest governance body QNB Group Sustainability Policy 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report 2019 102-12 External initiatives External Commitments Memberships QNB Finansbank Conflicts of Interest Policy 102-13 Membership of Memberships 102-26 Role of highest governance Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk associations body in setting purpose, values, Management and strategy Annual Report 2019 102-14 Statement from senior Message from the Chairman decision-maker Message from the CEO Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 38 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI 102: General 102-27 Collective knowledge of Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk GRI 102: General 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Disclosures highest governance body Management Disclosures stakeholders Materiality Assessment Annual Report 2019 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 102-28 Evaluating the highest Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk engagement governance body’s performance Management 102-44 Key topics and concerns Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 raised General Assembly 102-29 Identifying and managing Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 102-45 Entities included in the About This Report economic, environmental, and Materiality Assessment consolidated financial statements Subsidiaries and Affiliates social impacts Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Annual Report 2019 Management 102-46 Defining report content and About This Report Annual Report 2019 topic boundaries 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk 102-47 List of material topics QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and management processes Management Strategy Customer privacy and data security Materiality Analysis Annual Report 2019 102-48 Restatements of 3.1 Sustainable Investments, Lending, 102-31 Review of economic, Stakeholder Engagement and Communication information Products and Services: According to the environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk eligibility criteria for hydroelectric sources in QNB Management Green and Social Bond Framework, previously Annual Report 2019 reported figures have been revised for hydroelectric 102-32 Highest governance body’s Sustainability Governance portion of “Renewable Energy Portfolio”. role in sustainability reporting 102-49 Changes in reporting No change. 102-33 Communicating critical Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 102-50 Reporting period About This Report concerns 102-51 Date of most recent report December 2019 (2018 Sustainability Report) 102-34 Nature and total number of Annual Report 2019 critical concerns 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-35 Remuneration policies Talent Attraction, Development and Retention 102-53 Contact point for questions sustainability@qnbfinansbank.com Annual Report 2019 regarding the report 102-36 Process for determining Annual Report 2019 102-54 Claims of reporting in About This Report remuneration accordance with the GRI standards 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Annual Report 2019 102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards in remuneration Content Index 102-38 annual total compensation ratio Annual Report 2019 102-56 External assurance No external assurance was received. 102-39 Percentage increase in Annual Report 2019 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy annual total compensation ratio Management topic and its boundary Materiality Assessment Approach 103-2 The management approach QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement and Communication and its components Materiality Assessment 102-41 Collective bargaining QNB Finansbank A.Ş. respects the right to agreements unionize. Currently, there is no employee covered 103-3 Evaluation of the QNB Finansbank Sustainability Framework and Strategy by a collective bargaining agreement. management approach Materiality Assessment Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 39 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Relevant Section/Explanation GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Sustainable Financial Performance GRI 401: 401-3 Parental leave Diversity and Inclusion Economic generated and distributed 2019 Performance Summary and Sustainability Employment Sustainability Performance Summary Performance Highlights GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates Occupational Health and Safety Annual Report 2019 Occupational of injury, occupational diseases, Sustainability Performance Summary 201-3 Defined Benefit Plan Annual Report 2019 Health and lost days, and absenteeism, and Obligations and Other Retirement Safety number of work-related fatalities Plans GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per Talent Attraction, Development and Retention 201-4 Financial assistance received No financial assistance was received from and Education year per employee Sustainability Performance Summary from government government in the reporting period. 404-2 Programs for upgrading Talent Attraction, Development and Retention GRI 202: Market 202-2 Proportion of senior Annual Report 2019 employee skills and transition Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Presence management hired from the local assistance programs community 404-3 Percentage of employees Talent Attraction, Development and Retention GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure Investments Annual Report 2019 receiving regular performance and Sustainability Performance Summary Economic and Services Supported career development reviews Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect Sustainable Financial Performance GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance Talent Attraction, Development and Retention economic impacts Annual Report 2019 Diversity bodies and employees Diversity and Inclusion GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training All policies and procedures are communicated to and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and There is no gender based wage discrimination in Corruption about anti-corruption policies and our employees as “reading tasks” via e-mail, and Opportunity remuneration of women to men our Bank. procedures such documents are accessible 24/7 through our GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination No such case in the reporting period. intranet “Finansçı”. Discrimination and corrective actions taken 205-3 Confirmed incidents of No such incidents in reporting period. GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions QNB Finansbank does not provide political corruption and actions taken Policy contributions. GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for antiNo such incidents in reporting period. GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance No such case in the reporting period. Competitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, 417:Marketing concerning product and service Behavior and monopoly practices and Labeling information and labeling GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within Environmental Impact of Operations 417-3 Incidents of nonNo such case in the reporting period. the organization Sustainability Performance Summary compliance concerning marketing 302-4 Reduction of energy Environmental Impact of Operations communications consumption Sustainability Performance Summary GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints No such case in the reporting period. GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with No such case in the reporting period. Customer concerning breaches of customer Environmental environmental laws and Privacy privacy and losses of customer Compliance regulations data GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and Talent Attraction, Development and Retention GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws No such case in the reporting period. Employment employee turnover Sustainability Performance Summary Socioeconomic and regulations in the social and 401-2 Benefits provided to fullPart-time employees are provided with the same Compliance economic area time employees that are not benefits as full-time employees. provided to temporary or part-time employees Introduction and QNB Finansbank’s Sustainable Sustainable Beyond Disclosures and Business Overview Approach to Sustainability Finance Operations Banking Further Information < 40 > QNB Finansbank Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Summary Standards Content Index Communication on Progress Index 6.3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index Main Main Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Category Category Human Principle 1: External Commitments Labor Principle 6: External Commitments Rights Businesses should Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management Businesses Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management support and respect should uphold Diversity and Inclusion QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental Policy the protection of the elimination QNB Finansbank Employee Code of Conduct internationally QNB Finansbank Employee Code of Conduct of discrimination proclaimed human in respect of QNB Group Sustainability Policy QNB Group Sustainability Policy rights employment and occupation Principle 2: External Commitments Businesses make Corporate Governance, Compliance and Risk Management Environment Principle 7: External Commitments sure that they are not Businesses Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental Policy complicit in human should support Environmental Impact of Operations rights abuses QNB Finansbank Employee Code of Conduct a precautionary Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain QNB Group Sustainability Policy approach to QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental Policy environmental Labor Principle 3: GRI: 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements challenges QNB Group Sustainability Policy Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 8: External Commitments of association and the Businesses should Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services effective recognition undertake initiatives Environmental Impact of Operations of the right to to promote greater QNB Group Sustainability Policy collective bargaining environmental responsibility Principle 4: External Commitments Businesses Principle 9: External Commitments QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental Policy Businesses should Sustainable Investments, Lending, Products and Services should uphold the elimination of all QNB Group Sustainability Policy encourage the Environmental Impact of Operations forms of forced and development QNB Group Sustainability Policy compulsory labor and diffusion of environmentally Principle 5: External Commitments friendly technologies Businesses should QNB Finansbank Social and Environmental Policy AntiPrinciple 10: Corporate Governance, Compliance, Risk Management uphold the effective abolition of child QNB Group Sustainability Policy Corruption Businesses should Talent Attraction, Development and Retention labor work against GRI: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption corruption in all its policies and procedures forms, including QNB Finansbank Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy extortion and bribery QNB Finansbank Employee Code of Conduct QNB Group Sustainability Policy Head Office QNB Finansbank A.Ş. Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Cad. Kristal Kule Binası No: 215 34394 Şişli / Istanbul Phone: +90 212 318 50 00 www.qnbfinansbank.com For sustainability related inquiries: sustainability@qnbfinansbank.com
