CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Build. Connect. Power. Protect. Services. Worldwide. Table of Contents Statement of Support 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 4 Human Rights 5 Labor 7 Global Sustainability 12 Environmental Product Compliance 24 Health, Safety and Security 27 Quality Management Systems 30 Charitable and Social Responsibility Programs 32 Anti-Corruption 36 About Anixter 42 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 2 Statement of Support To Our Stakeholders, I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter’s ongoing support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and their integration into our business. Since joining the Global Compact in January 2012, Anixter continues to successfully maintain its GC Active status and highlight the ongoing organizational accomplishments attained within the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in our annual Corporate Responsibility Reports. This marks the eighth consecutive year of submitting our Corporate Responsibility Report to the United Nations Global Compact, the third consecutive year highlighting our three UN Sustainable Development Goals and the second consecutive year as a Signatory to the Global Compact. Our Blue Book states, “We are often pleased, but never satisfied.” As we seek continuous improvement in all that we do, we remain committed to implementing organizational improvements that will make a difference. Bill Galvin President and Chief Executive Officer 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The contents of this report detail how Anixter has incorporated the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact into its strategies, policies and procedures. The Ten Principles are as follows: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 3: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support and Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should support a precautionary respect the protection of internationally of association and the effective recognition approach to environmental challenges; proclaimed human rights; and of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 2: PRINCIPLE 4: undertake initiatives to promote greater make sure that they are not complicit in the elimination of all forms of forced environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 9: PRINCIPLE 5: encourage the development and diffusion of the effective abolition of child labor; and environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 6: ANTI-CORRUPTION the elimination of discrimination in PRINCIPLE 10: respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations has set forth 17 Sustainable Development Goals. According to the UN, the goals are “a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.” While Anixter’s corporate and charitable initiatives apply to several of the Sustainable Development Goals, throughout this report, you will notice the company has chosen to focus its corporate responsibility efforts on three in particular: #3 GOOD HEALTH #4 QUALITY #11 SUSTAINABLE AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 4 HUMAN RIGHTS 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Anixter is committed to the fair and ethical treatment of people within its organization and throughout the world. With company policies that clearly state a commitment to human rights and efforts undertaken to strive toward conflict-free supply chains, Anixter complies with applicable employment laws and regulations around the globe and does not tolerate human rights violations or discrimination of any kind. HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS Anixter upholds human rights based on its policies and regular • Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce and management reviews combined with regularly engaging with eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the peers and experts in the field. The following is a list of related Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, policies and programs that support these ongoing efforts: which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible • Global Human Rights Principles for human rights violations. • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy • Anixter is committed to fully complying with the conflict minerals requirements included in the U.S. Securities and • Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd-Frank Act, which requires • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the • Anti-Harassment Policy existence and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. Anixter successfully filed its Form SD and Conflict Minerals • Anti-Retaliation Policy Report with the SEC in 2019 for the 2018 calendar year. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy • In 2019, Anixter’s Conflict Minerals Policy Statement was • Policy on Confidentiality the third most downloaded item from Anixter’s corporate • Privacy Policy responsibility webpage. • Global Health and Safety Policy • Anixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict minerals by using a risk-based approach to support its annual SEC • Non-discrimination in employment and personnel practices reporting obligations. • Comprehensive health and welfare benefit programs Additional conflict minerals accomplishments can be found in • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. the Environmental Product Compliance section on page 24. All human rights policies and programs are administered by the executive compliance committee, chief compliance officer, regional compliance officers and the human resources, legal and internal audit organizations. ANTI-HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND MODERN SLAVERY The slavery and human trafficking statement was posted on the corporate responsibility webpage in 2019, highlighting the steps taken during 2018 to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our business or supply chain. The statement was made on behalf of all Anixter entities because the same policies and compliance framework relating to slavery and human trafficking exist across our entire business globally. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 6 LABOR 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 7 LABOR Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect by: • Supporting and upholding the elimination of discriminatory practices particularly with respect to employment and occupation • Promoting and embracing diversity in all aspects of business operations • Supporting the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor • Supporting the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired • Providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees • Condemning all forms of child exploitation and supporting the elimination of exploitative child labor. EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT A nixter’s labor policies and programs are communicated Anixter believes in employees taking charge of their careers through its: and cares about their professional development and goals. All • Anti-Harassment Policy employees have access to It’s Your Move, a career exploration • Anti-Retaliation Policy tool for employees launched in 2017. The online tool includes tips, videos and other resources to teach employees about the • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy different departments and career opportunities within Anixter. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy Employees are also able to schedule meetings with “Career • Global Health and Safety Policy Champions” to discuss their career goals and help them plan their next move. In addition, Anixter helps employees learn and • Privacy Policy grow through formal and informal mentoring programs. • Competitive employee benefit programs EMPOWERING THE WOMEN OF ANIXTER • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices In 2017, a team of women and executive leaders at Anixter • Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes created Anixter CONNECT, a professional development and of collective bargaining, if desired networking group for women with the goal of empowering the women of Anixter in their professional and personal lives. • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis CONNECT provides a framework for both established and • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. up-and-coming leaders to share professional resources and knowledge as well as networking, education and mentorship opportunities. As of 2019, the group has over 520 members across 26 countries. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 8 LABOR EMPLOYEE CONCERNS U.S. MILITARY VETERAN RECRUITING In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local Being a multinational company headquartered in management, human resources, the legal department or a compliance officer, employees can use an internal email the U.S., Anixter supports and values those who account or call a toll-free number or access the Business have served our nation and actively recruits U.S. Integrity Line website to ask ethicsor compliance-related questions or report a suspected issue. Communications can military veterans as they transition out of careers be made anonymously where permitted by local laws. The call within the Army, Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard and center and website are managed by an independent, thirdparty provider and all submissions or conversations are kept Marines. Throughout our organization, U.S. military confidential and shared only with those necessary to respond veterans are not only making a difference, but are to or investigate a report. also embarking on rewarding careers. Within the INFORMATION SECURITY Information security is a critical part of Anixter’s business U.S. in 2019, Anixter hired 41 U.S. military veterans, environment. As a result, Anixter has a robust information bringing our organizational total to more than 260. security program, with policies and controls that are aligned with well-known security standards, such as ISO 27001 and NIST SP 800-53. Anixter’s information security program includes security awareness initiatives designed to educate employees about computer security to help protect their personal information as well as company information. ARMY AIR FORCE MARINE CORPS NAVY COAST GUARD 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 9 LABOR EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION In the Anixter Blue Book, the first item listed under “Our Philosophy” is “People come first” and this is demonstrated across the organization in the various ways in which employees are recognized for their outstanding contributions. One way employees are recognized is through awards. The information below provides examples of the various employee recognition awards given to select Anixter employees throughout the year: TECHNOLOGY FELLOW AWARD AWARD OF EXCELLENCE The Anixter Technology Fellow Award promotes leadership Nominated by fellow co-workers, the Award of Excellence is among Anixter’s technical professionals who have contributed Anixter’s most prestigious honor and is awarded to the top extensively to driving innovation in alignment with Anixter’s 1 percent of all employees globally. These employees business strategies and is awarded to one person each year. demonstrate Anixter’s philosophy to provide excellence for co-workers, customers and partners. In 2019, the Award of Excellence was given to 82 people to honor their outstanding President’s Club performance in 2018. PRESIDENT’S CLUB Anixter’s President’s Club is a prestigious group of people who embody the drive, spirit and achievement that constitute the best at Anixter. Through dedication, customer service and an incredible work ethic, the members of the President’s Club have earned the opportunity to be recognized. In 2019, 145 AWARD OF EXCELLENCE: BLUE SKY AWARD people were inducted into the President’s Club for outstanding In the past, Anixter’s practice has been that once an performance in 2018. employee has received the Award of Excellence, they cannot be nominated again. This was to ensure a broader group of people would be recognized for their efforts. However, many employees continue to provide outstanding support, excellent service and truly embody our goal of Excellence in Execution. As such, in 2017, Anixter introduced the Award of Excellence: Blue Sky Award. Anyone who has previously received the Award of Excellence is now eligible to be nominated and possibly selected again. In 2019, four Anixter employees were awarded the Blue Sky Award for their exceptional work in 2018. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 10 LABOR HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS The following provides select examples of the various health and • An active shooter training module—which aligns with the See wellness events held for Anixter employees throughout the year: Something/Say Something campaign, created by the vice • Anixter held its annual health and wellness fairs at its president of global environmental, health, safety and security Glenview, Ill. headquarters and at its Alsip, Ill. campus, where and approved by the Glenview, Ill., police department and various healthcare benefit providers were available to provide the Department of Homeland Security—was distributed as information and free flu shots to more than 1,200 employees. mandatory training to more than 4,900 U.S. employees • Anixter’s São Paulo location held several events throughout • More than 220 new hires from three North American business the year where free eye exams, discounted eye glasses, units had the opportunity to learn from and interact with medical screenings and safety, accident prevention and health various subject matter experts from across the business that presentations were offered to more than 60 employees. included informational overviews on the global sustainability, environmental product compliance and corporate TUITION REIMBURSEMENT responsibility programs and highlighted how the programs Anixter offers a tuition reimbursement program to eligible support their positions and customers employees. In 2019, Anixter reimbursed more than $100,000 in •Within the U.S., an online harassment-free workplace training employee tuition costs. was completed by more than 5,700 employees. EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING HEADQUARTERS INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES The following provides select examples of the various employee Anixter believes in building a strong workforce through handscertification and training programs distributed to Anixter on learning experiences. Every year, a variety of internship employees throughout the year: opportunities are made available to allow high school and • Online training and certification acknowledging compliance college students to gain real-world experience and evaluate with the Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy is issued different career fields. These internship programs help align to all employees the right people with the right positions, thus building a strong, • Affirmation of adherence to Anixter’s security policies is talented workforce. In 2019, Anixter employed a total of required for all employees 17 interns across multiple departments at its headquarters, including marketing, finance, legal and operations. • Security awareness training • As part of its worldwide trade compliance program, LEADING THE ANIXTER TEAM Anixter delivers a comprehensive online export compliance A great workforce starts with great leaders. As part of Anixter’s training course to a majority of its global employees on a focus to continually improve, the company relaunched the scheduled basis Leading the Anixter Team program in 2018. This program is a three-day learning and development course which focuses on • Anixter’s Lichfield, U.K., location successfully conducted coaching and leadership for managers across all departments. both online and classroom environmental awareness and Prior to enrolling in this course, managers are required to procedural training for targeted staff in support of their ISO complete an online training session, personality assessment, 14001:2015 certification coaching assessments with all direct reports and review an assigned case study. In 2019, a total of 116 managers successfully completed the program. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 11 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 12 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY Through its global sustainability program, Anixter seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources, and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using the A Sustainable PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances environmental responsibility and return on investment. PROGRAM GOALS ENERGY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS ENERGY Anixter continues to operate and evaluate additional facilities for various Anixter reduces energy use through green building certifications based upon lease durations and payback innovative technologies, equipment calculations. Green buildings help lower operational costs, minimize carbon and control systems. emissions and provide a comfortable environment for employees. Anixter’s green building certified portfolio consists of the following facilities: WASTE • The 214,000-square-foot Lichfield, U.K., facility completed in March Anixter minimizes waste by 2018 is rated BREEAM® Very Good (Building Research Establishment capitalizing on opportunities to Environmental Assessment Method®). The facility has also achieved The reduce, reuse and recycle. Planet Mark™ certification with a lifetime carbon reduction of 17 percent. • The 61,000-square-foot annex office building located next to Anixter’s MATERIALS AND headquarters in Glenview, Ill., attained U.S. Green Building Council LEED® NATURAL RESOURCES (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in 2014. Anixter consumes fewer materials • The 21,000-square-foot multitenant facility in St. John’s, Newfoundland, and natural resources by increasing attained LEED Silver in 2014. recycled content in consumables while simultaneously pursuing source • The 195,000-square-foot facility in Edmonton, Alberta, attained LEED reduction strategies. Silver in 2011. • The 457,000-square-foot Alsip, Ill., facility attained LEED certification in 2007. TRANSPORTATION U.K. PHASE TWO ENERGY AUDITS Anixter lowers transportation emissions by utilizing third-party In 2019, physical audits were conducted at Anixter’s Chesterfield, Lichfield carriers, fleet vehicles and equipment and Bracknell, U.K., locations as part of Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme that meet current environmental standards, maintaining a global noPhase Two. These sites collectively represent 25 percent of the in-scope idling policy at warehouse locations Anixter U.K. locations that used more than 5.5 million kWh of energy in and leveraging technology to 2018. The audits produced valuable recommendations to improve each eliminate the need to travel. building’s energy efficiency as well as suggestions to apply across the remainder of the network. All audit recommendations are under review for implementation consideration. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 13 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY HIGH-FREQUENCY BATTERY CHARGERS FIELD SERVER VIRTUALIZATION Several Anixter locations around the world use high-frequency Anixter’s global field locations continue to consolidate and battery chargers to recharge forklift and other material handling virtualize servers. In 2019, Anixter eliminated 13 field servers equipment batteries. These advanced battery chargers not only by migrating the data and any virtual machines into existing monitor the health and condition of the batteries, but they also equipment within the Glenview, Ill., and Bracknell, U.K., data reduce charging time and are up to 94 percent efficient, which centers. Each field server eliminated helps to conserve energy saves energy. Anixter continues to add these battery chargers in the location and improves backup and recovery operations across its global network, deploying 12 new units in the U.S. as these functions are now controlled within a data center. alone in 2019. ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND ADVANCED LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEMS STATE-OF-THE-ART DISTRIBUTION CENTER IN ALSIP, ILLINOIS Energy-efficient lighting solutions remains one of the simplest, In 2018, Anixter expanded the footprint of its North American most cost-effective ways to improve efficiency and reduce flagship distribution center in Alsip, Ill., with the addition of a operating expenses. Anixter is a fully authorized valuenew 238,000-square-foot facility, equipped with an intelligent added distributor of lighting products and solutions and is conveyor system and voice-picking technology, making it committed to improving the lighting efficiency of both our Anixter’s smartest distribution center. Some of the key energyand our customers’ facilities. Anixter lighting experts perform saving features include motion-activated LED lighting systems lighting audits to determine the project scope and create an and a 5,500-foot smart conveyor system, which only operates energy-efficient lighting solution specifically designed for each when objects are placed on it, making it more energy efficient customer’s unique lighting needs. than typical belt-driven systems. In our facilities, energy-efficient lighting systems can range from advanced systems that include daylight harvesting, zone scheduling, dimmable ballasts/drivers and advanced occupancy control sensors to energy-efficient systems that include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. Anixter continues to increase the use of energy-efficient LED lighting and advanced wireless technologies to reduce energy consumption and increase lighting system controls. In 2019, Anixter added LED lighting to 21 global locations covering more than 992,000 square feet of space. In prior years, Anixter has added LED lighting to 51 global locations to illuminate more than 3.6 million square feet of office and warehouse space. ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES In 2019, Anixter replaced the 87 percent efficient battery backup UPS units in its data center with new 96.1 percent efficient units, significantly improving energy efficiency. Anixter continues to consolidate and virtualize servers in its data center as well as increase migration to the cloud and is now more than 90 percent virtualized. Currently, virtualized servers host more than 1,600 virtual machines. Due to the decrease in data center cooling requirements, combined with more than a 40 percent decrease in server space, Anixter continues to successfully use an air conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of three air conditioning units each month. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 14 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SOLAR ENERGY The 130,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility— WASTE Anixter’s largest in continental Europe—successfully started NEW GLOBAL RECYCLING INITIATIVES attaining solar energy from rooftop solar panels in 2011, In 2019, Anixter implemented 29 new global recycling which continues to power approximately one third of the programs that successfully diverted more than 354,500 lb. of facility today. wood, metal, plastics, cardboard, food waste, glass and singleAdditionally, since the facility opened in 2018, the stream/mixed recyclables from landfills. 214,000-square-foot Lichfield, U.K., facility has been successfully utilizing solar energy to help heat the hot water RECYCLING EMPTY PRINTER CARTRIDGES system, thus reducing the facility’s energy consumption. By returning empty printer toner and ink cartridges to global office supply providers for reuse, Anixter prevents HIGH-SPEED DOCK DOORS thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering Several Anixter locations around the world use high-speed landfills annually. Anixter’s global locations continued to dock doors that are motion-sensor activated to open and close successfully recycle empty toner cartridges from single boxed within seconds. The speed of these dock doors helps to control units to pallet load quantities. For example, in 2019, the Alsip, warehouse temperatures and conserve energy. Ill., and Willebroek, Belgium, facilities returned more than 240 DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES lb. and 260 lb. respectively. Anixter’s Infrastructure as a Platform (IaaP) approach SUPPLY CHAIN SERVICES addresses the key building blocks for data center Anixter’s Supply Chain Services team provides more than interoperability that can provide agility for budgets, scalability 7,200 global customers with various value-added services that for demand and flexibility for technology choices. The building include, but are not limited to: blocks of power optimization and thermal efficiency specifically • Kitting of multiple line items into a single finished good part identify product solutions and best practices that enable number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and customers to achieve energy savings by deploying state-of-theimprove job site receiving art infrastructure. • Preassembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall project costs • Providing job site waste diversion documentation, when requested, for performing the above services to help earn points for green building certification projects. For example, eight Anixter locations across eight countries collectively diverted and documented more than 36,800 lb. of cardboard, wood and plastic for customer-specific green building projects in 2019. In addition, Anixter locations in 15 countries completed more than 2,240 customer-specific product enhancement and packaging services that diverted and recycled packaging waste prior to it reaching job sites in 2019. The weight of this diverted packaging waste is included in the North American and global recycling snapshots. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 15 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY 2.7 million lb. of wood 5.3 million lb. 264,130 lb. NORTH AMERICAN of single-stream of paper and commingled RECYCLING SNAPSHOT recyclables 104,165 lb. Anixter’s North American operations maintain of batteries 376,300 lb. the largest square footage building footprint of construction/ 1.3 million lb. demolition and contain the largest number of employees. 22,420 lb. of cardboard of plastics materials This graphic provides a 2019 snapshot of key North American recycling volumes based on 39,625 lb. of obsolete annualized tonnage calculated from fixed and electronic 24,410 lb. equipment of organic intermittent services. Where service providers 136,500 lb. food waste 199,720 lb. cannot provide actual weights, they utilize of material of scrap handling metals industry guidelines for commodity weights and equipment waste container capacity utilization. GLOBAL COMPLEX PROGRAMS Anixter’s complex programs team focuses on providing of wood reels from landfills, while completely eliminating the integrated solutions within customers’ complex global supply associated landfill hauling and disposal expenses. chains. By partnering with Anixter, complex program customers REEL CONSOLIDATION realize significant improvements in customer satisfaction, Anixter’s reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling reels can working capital and cash flow, while also reducing overall accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same supply chain risk. As a result of Anixter’s engagement, gauge on a single multichambered wooden reel. Because complex program customers are able to improve their each PARAPULL reel is reused an average of six times, their balance sheets and use the improved cash flow to invest ongoing use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating in ongoing business expansion. These tangible benefits are empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. Customers driving substantial growth and expansion within Anixter’s using a single PARAPULL reel can eliminate two to four complex program business as Anixter currently operates individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces 25 dedicated and 12 shared facilities, which are staffed by shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor more than 250 employees to support 13 complex programs productivity. In 2019, Anixter shipped more than 1,250 within 25 countries. Most complex programs also incorporate reusable PARAPULL reels to customers across North America. various value-added services from within Anixter’s Supply Chain Services offering to further support customers’ global RECYCLING AUDITS operations and job site requirements. In 2019, Anixter’s internal ISO audit team reviewed 23 global office and warehouse locations to ensure the locations’ recycling WOOD REEL LANDFILL DIVERSION programs—which can consist of paper, cardboard, wood, metal In Q2 and Q3 2019, Anixter’s Suwanee, Ga., and Alsip, Ill., and plastic—were being effectively supported by management locations started diverting 53-foot trailers of disassembled and used by staff. Once again, all the locations successfully wood reels from landfills to a custom wood reel manufacturing passed the audit team’s screening criteria. company. The discarded reels are either modified and refurbished for resale or, if they are too damaged, they are shredded for poultry bedding or other commercial uses. By year end, both locations successfully diverted more than 90,000 lb. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 16 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY PAPER SHREDDING REUSE PROGRAMS While Anixter endeavors to minimize paper consumption as Anixter locations around the world successfully harvest and much as possible, paper use is often a business necessity. reuse select inbound packaging and shipping materials By leveraging location-level paper recycling and shredding received from supplier partners when they are in like-new programs, Anixter seeks to minimize its overall environmental condition and meet our strict quality standards. In addition, impact. In 2019, 79 U.S. and Canadian locations collectively Anixter locations receive cable reels from suppliers safely shredded and recycled more than 252,200 lb. of paper. All secured to wooden reel cradles. All reel cradles that pass recycled paper is sent to mills where it is pulped and de-inked Anixter’s integrity inspections are reused to ship cable reels to to make recycled paper products like paper plates and paper customers. This has lowered freight claims and costs as well as towels. According to our shredding partner, Anixter’s program improved operational efficiencies and customer satisfaction. In saved more than 2,150 trees from being harvested. 2019, Anixter’s Chesterfield, U.K., location installed a cardboard shredding machine to reprocess discarded packaging into protective packing material to help secure adhesives during transport. Doing so also helped reduce the location’s annual replacement packaging purchasing costs. SELECT GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT The following 2019 snapshot of key international recycling volumes is based on fixed and intermittent disposal services. Where service providers cannot provide actual weights, they utilize industry guidelines for commodity weights and waste container capacity utilization. • Anixter’s Brisbane and Perth, Australia, locations recycled more • Six Mexico locations recycled more than 49,850 lb. of cardboard, than 86,820 lb. of paper, cardboard, metal and wood paper, plastic, wood and obsolete electronic equipment • The Dubai, UAE, location recycled more than 16,580 lb. of paper, • The Santiago, Chile, location recycled more than 225,250 lb. of cardboard and plastic cardboard, paper, plastic, wood and obsolete electronic equipment • The Willebroek, Belgium, location recycled more than • The Lima, Peru, location recycled more than 67,000 lb. of plastic, 109,600 lb. of paper, cardboard and wood wood and obsolete electronic equipment • The Stuttgart, Germany, location recycled more than • The Bogota, Colombia, location recycled more than 25,970 lb. of 39,100 lb. of wood, paper, and plastic cardboard, paper, plastic, wood and obsolete electronic equipment • The Barcelona, Spain, location recycled more than •  The Buenos Aires, Argentina, location recycled more than 4,240 3,100 lb. of cardboard, plastic and paper lb. of cardboard, wood and paper • The Milan, Italy, location recycled more than 46,290 lb. of wood, • The San Jose, Costa Rica, location recycled more than 3,840 lb. of paper, plastic, metal and obsolete electronic equipment cardboard, paper, plastic and obsolete electronic equipment • The Lichfield, U.K., location segregated over 748,870 lb. of waste • The Sao Paulo, Brazil, location recycled more than 42,000 materials for recycling and waste-to-energy generation lb. of cardboard, wood, paper, plastic and obsolete electronic • The Singapore location recycled more than 28,600 lb. of equipment cardboard, paper and obsolete electronic equipment • The Saint Michael, Barbados, location recycled more than 640 lb. • The Dublin, Ireland, location recycled more than 81,910 lb. of of cardboard and wood wood, paper and obsolete electronic equipment • In five countries alone, Anixter successfully recycled more than • The Chesterfield, U.K, location recycled more than 172,000 lb. of 2.6 million lb. of scrap copper and metals. cardboard, wood and metal, while the remaining general waste went to a waste-to-energy facility, making the location a zerolandfill site for the third consecutive year 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 17 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY CABLE CUTTING In 2019, Anixter processed more than 2.6 million custom MATERIALS AND NATURAL cable cuts for customers from 143 global warehouse locations. RESOURCES By providing cable cut to the exact length required by the WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM customer, job site cable waste is virtually eliminated. Job The Anixter-developed and Anixter-supported next-generation site costs are also reduced as the need to purchase, cut WMX warehouse management system uses state-of-the-art and control master cable reels and the resulting short cable technology and was designed to quickly incorporate operational lengths, or leftover cable, no longer exists. system enhancements to meet customer and market demands. ASSET TRACKING The WMX system also significantly reduces paper and printing Anixter Trakr™ is a proprietary, patented asset-tracking solution waste generated throughout the entire order processing cycle. that incorporates multiple technologies to track, locate and In 2019, the Anixter WMX team continued to successfully provide visibility to high-valued assets along with incorporating incorporate more enhancements that improved performance, an inventory management component to help customers locate increased operational efficiencies and expanded user assets in large laydown yards and complex project sites. Trakr functionality in the facilities across North America that currently helps customers reduce labor costs by efficiently locating use WMX. The largest accomplishment attained in 2019 was assets via its mobile app. Trakr also reduces the potential to consolidating two separate locations into the new Montreal, cut from incorrect reels or overbuy due to misplaced products, Quebec, location and converting them both to WMX. This was the further reducing material waste. In addition, Trakr provides most complex WMX conversion completed to date. Roughly 75 visibility of the cut lengths of cable remaining on master locations have been converted to the WMX platform with most of reels throughout the job site, which helps minimize scrap and these locations utilizing the new point-of-sale storefront option. identify reorder points. REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE In 2019, Anixter attached more than 200 Trakr beacons to Anixter’s Supply Chain Services offers a layering service that large DC and medium-voltage cable reels, valued at more reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job site than CAD$9 million, allowing the customer to locate and by adding multiple layers of cable to a single reel chamber. As manage the inventory in their warehouse as well as track more layers are added, fewer reels are needed. Having fewer each reel’s movement across their 12-mile, 25-station, reels at a job site reduces transportation costs, transportation light rail transit system in Toronto, Ontario. Anixter and Trakr emissions and, when wood reels are used, timber consumption. helped the customer reduce time, labor costs and scrap over This service provides further value when combined with Anixter’s this 1.5-year project. PARAPULLSM or PARASPINSM services that use returnable reels. In 2019, Anixter’s North American locations shipped more than 4,200 layered reels to customers’ job sites. RAINWATER HARVESTING Anixter’s Lichfield, U.K., facility is equipped with a water harvesting system, which collects and filters rainwater. The filtered rainwater is distributed on demand to various points of use, reducing the amount of water the facility uses from public water mains. The water harvesting system is compliant with BS8515 and the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations of 1999. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 18 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUSING ON PLASTIC • By working closely with their just-in-time delivery customer in • Anixter Belgium continues to reduce plastic usage in its 2019, Anixter’s Plymouth, U.K., location successfully migrated packaging materials. Unless requested otherwise, all from using single-use plastic bags to reusable plastic totes to customers utilizing Anixter’s Supply Chain Services’ fiber patch manage on-site material deliveries. cord labeling services since August 2018 have received their • In 2019, Anixter’s Alsip, Ill., facility began a plastic spool products wrapped in 100 percent recycled paper rather than recovery program, where more than 11,000 lb. of material in plastic bags. In 2019, Anixter Belgium shipped more than was diverted from landfills and sent to recycling and waste18,800 pre-labeled fiber patch cords in 100 percent recycled to-energy processing centers. paper that can either be reused or recycled. REUSABLE METAL REELS • In 2019, Anixter’s Barcelona and Madrid, Spain, locations Anixter offers electrical contractors the option of receiving changed their coffee machines to eliminate the use of cut-to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that disposable plastic cups as well as added refillable water have five independent spinning chambers from which to pull dispensers to eliminate the use of plastic water bottles. cable. Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate • To help eliminate disposable cups and reduce waste, 13 four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces Anixter locations in the U.K. collectively purchased and shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor distributed more than 460 reusable mugs to employees. productivity. As the PARASPIN reel eliminates the use of wood • Anixter’s Willebroek, Belgium, location changed from using and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel plastic water bottles to using water stations and helped waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. Anixter employees transition by distributing refillable water bottles to also offers SLIM-SPIN reels, which are PARASPIN reels designed each employee. to fit through standard doorways. In 2019, Anixter shipped and retrieved more than 2,900 reusable PARASPIN reels and more • An Anixter U.K branch that operates an on-site vendorthan 480 SLIM-SPIN reels from customers’ job sites across managed inventory program consisting of more than 15,000 North America. material bins worked closely with the customer to begin two single-use plastic bag reduction trial programs in 2019. As REUSABLE WOODEN REELS the Anixter location makes two material deliveries a day, any The INSTA-REEL by Anixter consists of a standard wooden reel personal protective equipment or workware items brought to that has oversized flanges attached to both sides. INSTA-REEL’s the site in plastic bags are removed before being placed into inner reel spins independently of the outer flanges, creating the material bins and all plastic bags are then taken back to a reel with a built-in payout stand. After use, the INSTA-REEL the Anixter location for recycling. This program is projected is returned to Anixter and is reused. The reuse of each INSTAto recycle more than 50,000 single-use plastic bags per REEL helps preserve natural resources while eliminating empty year. The second program underway helps the customer’s reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. In 2019, Anixter staff eliminate using plastic bags for carrying bin hardware shipped more than 5,850 INSTA-REELs to customers in four and other small items around the facility by instead using countries, which were then returned to Anixter to be reused. washable cotton drawstring and recyclable paper bags. COLLECTING AND REUSING EMPTY WOODEN REELS This program is targeted to eliminate the use of more than IN THE U.K. 150,000 single-use bags per year. Several other recycling In 2019, Anixter’s Lichfield, U.K., location deployed 4,261 programs have been proposed to the customer to recycle wooden cable reels to customers wrapped with cable and, in single-use items. turn, collected 4,198 empty reels—or 98.5 percent—for reuse. This is a 5 percent collection improvement from 2018. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 19 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY ELECTRONIC EXPENSE REPORTING E-BUSINESS In 2019, Anixter’s electronic expense reporting system, which is Anixter’s e-business offerings allow global customers and now used in 41 countries and includes a mobile app, processed suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business more than 54,800 expense reports that eliminated more than transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. 329,000 sheets of paper. Anixter’s e-business highlights include: GREEN OFFICE SUPPLIES • E lectronic data interface (EDI): In 2019, Anixter successfully Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that processed more than 1.9 million global EDI transactions, contain green attributes where feasible. Green attributes can of which more than 816,800, or approximately 41 percent, include, but are not limited to, products that contain recycled or resulted in the elimination of a paper transaction, such as an plant-based materials, are remanufactured or contain ecolabels invoice, purchase order or forecast or third-party certifications. • E-delivery: Anixter offers its customers the ability to receive Accomplishments include: invoices, credit memos and statements via email as PDF documents and/or customizable formats such as CSV, XML, • Anixter’s 18 U.K. locations spent more than 62 percent of their Quickbooks™, Sage 300/Timberline, Sage 50/Peachtree, total office supply expenditures on products that contain green Forefront Construction Suite and Viewpoint Construction. In attributes, as identified by the office supply partner 2019, Anixter sent more than 2.4 million PDF documents • Anixter’s global locations continued to use remanufactured via email and has more than 100,000 customers set up for toner and ink cartridges for printers instead of new OEM e-delivery, of which more than 1,100 customers are using cartridges, where available customizable formats. In addition, Anixter provides various • More than 58 percent of print production jobs utilize e-delivery invoices to local governments, which are extensively soy-based inks. utilized across Latin America in countries like Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Costa Rica and Uruguay, as well DIGITAL MARKETING as in Portugal and Spain. Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives in 2011 by focusing on the promotion of Anixter and its products and services over RECYCLED CONTENT various digital channels, such as web, mobile, social media and Anixter seeks to use recycled content in consumables where email. Anixter’s website is a useful tool for customers to access feasible. Two examples include: their accounts, view real-time pricing and inventory, place orders, • Anixter’s U.S. warehouses, which collectively process the largest request quotes, track order and shipment status, and download outbound line volume in the global network, shipped more invoices. Part of the digital marketing strategy has been the than 1.7 million lb. of corrugated boxes, packing paper, paper migration of traditional print materials into digital formats for tape and related packaging items that are made from recycled use by sales representatives and customers. The materials content ranging from 40 to 100 percent converted into digital formats include print catalogs, case studies, • All of Anixter’s North American business cards and marketing fact sheets, reference guides, product specification sheets and collateral are printed on 100 percent recycled paper that is various other documents. Anixter has roughly 370,000 parts certified by the Forest Stewardship Council. with accompanying product specification sheets in digital format for easy access on anixter.com. Being able to perform all these business functions online reduces paper usage for both Anixter and its customers. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 20 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEBPAGE AND DOWNLOADS ANIXTER MOBILE APP Since launching the corporate responsibility webpage on In 2016, Anixter released its mobile app, making it easy for anixter.com in recognition of Earth Day 2014, the site continues customers to shop and manage their accounts on the go. to add new content and draw global stakeholders, as measured By digitizing the order and account management processes, through page views and document downloads. In 2019, the Anixter is helping customers work more efficiently and webpage exceeded 6,000 visitors and Anixter’s Corporate eliminating the paper usage associated with the traditional Responsibility Report, Supplier Code of Conduct, Conflict ordering process. Using the Anixter app on their mobile device, Minerals Policy Statement and the Business Ethics Guide customers can now perform the following tasks from anywhere: remain the page’s most frequently downloaded items. • Search through 370,000 products and place orders online E-CARDS • Download manufacturer specifications With more than 9,300 global employees, Anixter continues to • Find and contact the nearest Anixter location to request offer staff the option of sending animated e-cards to customers a quote and supplier partners rather than using traditional printed paper holiday cards. Each year, a variety of e-cards are created in eight • Explore Anixter services and customized solutions. different languages for employees to choose from. ELECTRONIC FUND PAYMENTS JUST-IN-TIME SCANNING SOLUTIONS Anixter’s accounts payable team continues to successfully Anixter has developed several automatic replenishment tools migrate various material and service suppliers onto electronic where customers or Anixter field representatives can scan payment platforms, which eliminates check fraud as well as product or rack labels to automatically create orders to Anixter. the paper usage associated with printing and mailing paper Users have the flexibility of digital input methods, such as checks. In 2019, more than 328 global suppliers were newly scanning, web portal or file uploads, to generate orders. These set up or converted to begin accepting electronic payments. electronic submission and reporting methods reduce the use Currently, more than 2,990 suppliers now accept electronic of paper on site since the orders can be tracked without any payments. In total, Anixter processed more than 144,420 handwritten order forms, sheets or cards. By leveraging Anixter’s electronic payment and remittance transactions in 2019, solutions, customers can reduce time and resources allocated eliminating approximately 327,900 sheets of paper, to purchasing inventory in addition to reducing the number envelopes and postage. of shipments received and excess inventory. In 2019, Anixter CANADA CUSTOMS PAPERLESS INVOICING AND PAYMENTS received more than 942,000 digitized sales order lines through Anixter has embraced a program with Canada Customs called its various just-in-time scanning systems. Accounts Receivable Ledger (ARL), an online tool for viewing INVENTORY CONTROL SOFTWARE and downloading invoices, which eliminates the need for paper Anixter offers an inventory management software application invoices to be picked up from Canada Customs every day. The called RapidFire, which allows customers to scan and track program also enables electronic funds transfers, removing inventory purchased from Anixter and other suppliers. Rather the need to print and mail checks to Canada Customs, which than keep manual paper logs using a pen and clipboard, eliminates more than 800 checks annually. this web-based software can be accessed from a PC or mobile device, allowing Anixter customers the ability to view inventory status in real time. In addition to helping customers use software to reduce stock outs, excess inventory and loss, Anixter, upon request, can remove and recycle all product packaging prior to shipping to help customers attain their environmental goals. Currently, Anixter customers are collectively managing over 27,000 SKUs through Anixter’s RapidFire inventory control software. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 21 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NO IDLING PROGRAM TRANSPORTATION Anixter continues to operate a global no idling A Sustainable PathSM program at its warehouses and headquarters. LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLES Truck drivers are required to turn off their engines Anixter’s global transportation team continues to successfully while waiting for materials to be loaded or leverage third-party carriers’ longer combination vehicles unloaded from their vehicles. Anixter-designed (LCVs) that increase the cargo capacity of combination trucks “No Idling” signs are placed on driver entrance doors as well as by using longer and/or multiple trailers. According to the EPA’s in select yard and loading dock locations. The no idling program SmartWay program, LCVs generally have much better ton-mile seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and fuel economy than other combination trucks as they carry more increase safety. In 2019, more than 50 “No Idling” signs were cargo per trip, which results in lower fuel consumption and posted at U.S. locations. reduced greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. SMARTWAY CARRIERS VEHICLE MONITORING AND ROUTE OPTIMIZATION Close to 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international Anixter continues to leverage technology to monitor select transportation spend is with EPA-certified SmartWay carriers fleet vehicles to help increase fuel economy, lower carbon for products shipped to and from the United States. SmartWay emissions and improve driver productivity and safety while carriers focus on reducing emissions and fuel consumption. ensuring compliance. For example, Anixter U.S. utilizes electronic logging devices SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION (ELD), a congressionally mandated rule that is intended to help Anixter continues to successfully utilize third-party transportation create a safer work environment for drivers by making it easier partners to collect, consolidate and ship products from global and faster to accurately track, manage and share records of suppliers to Anixter and customer locations around the world. duty status (RODS) data. An ELD synchronizes with a vehicle By leveraging supplier shipment consolidations at various origin engine to automatically record driving time for easier, more points, Anixter reduces operating expenses, increases material accurate hours of service (HOS) recording. Anixter currently has visibility and lowers emissions. 60 delivery vehicles that utilize ELDs. TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES In addition, Anixter continues to implement GPS route Anixter’s global engineering teams work with customers to optimization tools for those locations that operate final mile efficiently develop standards and compliant solutions that deliveries. These tools not only improve customer service, but respond to change, drive innovation and deliver customer value. also increase operational efficiency and reduce total delivery These teams use the latest in video and voice conferencing costs by consolidating routes, enhancing driver utilization, tools to provide instant support for customers’ unique minimizing route miles and reducing fuel usage. Anixter U.S., application needs. This reduces the need to visit customers in Canada and the U.K. currently operate more than 400 delivery person, thus reducing the emissions associated with travel. vehicles that utilize route optimization tools. EXPANDING EMISSIONS-REDUCING AND FUEL-EFFICIENT COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM FLEET VEHICLES Since 2009, Anixter has offered U.S. employees a commuter In 2019, Anixter in the U.K. replaced six light commercial benefits program that allows qualified public transportation vehicles with the Euro 6.2 standard, which aims to reduce and/or parking expenses to be automatically deducted nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and pre-tax from paychecks. The program continues to grow and particulates from the exhaust gas. Within North America, encourages staff to use public transportation, which helps Anixter replaced 41 vehicles with more aerodynamic and protect the environment while saving users money. fuel-efficient models. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 22 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY ANIXTER’S UNIQUE CANADIAN CUSTOMS OPERATIONS ONLINE EMPLOYEE EDUCATION As Anixter electronically clears all its own products that ship Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its to Canada under a self-clearance designation, U.S. imports learning and development programs. Web-based virtual moving by truck that pre-clear before reaching the border workshops, classes and e-courses are delivered via a global do not have to stop and await processing, thereby helping learning management system (LMS). The LMS helps to to reduce overall exhaust emissions. The self-clearance reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and designation also gives Anixter a distinct advantage as the also helps to preserve natural resources as printed training custom clearance transaction is faster since it does not materials are often eliminated. In 2019, Anixter employees need to pass through an outside customs broker. In addition successfully completed more than 65,000 courses from to improving the speed of transaction, it also improves the 1,400 online modules. visibility and accountability of every international import Anixter ONLINE CUSTOMER EDUCATION brings into Canada. For example, in 2019, Anixter’s Canadian Through Anixter University, Anixter creates and offers universitylocations processed more than 69,000 import entries like courses to educate customers globally on the latest containing more than 116,000 lines. In addition to handling standards and industry best practices for data centers, physical the Canadian imports from the U.S., Anixter’s Canadian security, building technologies and industrial infrastructure. transportation team is responsible for shipments leaving Course examples include power distribution and thermal Canada and has processed more than 5,800 export shipments management, which covers energy-efficient design, metering containing more than 9,900 lines in 2019. and monitoring of power using the power usage effectiveness (PUE) metric established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Courses are available in live or on-demand formats. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Anixter’s environmental product compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: • Determining the compliance status of products to applicable environmental regulations in the countries where Anixter conducts business • Fully complying with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Identifying, monitoring and complying with new and existing environmental product compliance, international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations • Working with the global sales teams and partner suppliers to ensure our obligations in relation to customer environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met • Continuously improving processes and training team members and stakeholders • Reviewing and providing input to the commercial legal contracts team for the negotiation of both supplier and customer contracts • Advancing the use of technology to help fulfill the above. ONGOING COMPLIANCE ENHANCEMENTS Anixter continues to enhance existing procedures and systems The purpose of the steering committee is to: to further reduce the risk of potentially shipping products that • Provide corporate governance on the environmental product may not meet international substance regulations from U.S. compliance function facilities. Anixter continues to successfully survey suppliers for • Create awareness about forthcoming regulations and compliance to the updated REACH candidate list, among other compliance trends regulations. Furthermore, Anixter continues to develop processes to proactively collect environmental product compliance • Approve proposed compliance initiatives data from suppliers at the point of purchase and at part • Monitor the status of existing programs. setup. Anixter’s continued focus on refining and streamlining The environmental product compliance team developed new its product classifications has simplified the environmental processes and added new team members to further support product compliance team’s ability to identify impacted parts for Anixter’s extended producer responsibility compliance program. compliance with various environmental regulations. Under the RoHS Directive, the restriction of four additional CUSTOMER SUPPORT substances became effective in July 2019. Anixter’s In 2019, the environmental product compliance team environmental product compliance team was proactive implemented a business analytics tool to analyze customer about the change to ensure continued uninterrupted supply requirements, trending customer requests for applicable of compliant products to our applicable customer base. parts and supplier combinations. This tool helps Anixter better predict forthcoming requests and obtain the required supplier In 2019, Anixter established an environmental product documentation before customers request it. Additionally, the compliance steering committee. The steering committee consists environmental product compliance team developed a shared tool of representatives from the following functions: legal, category for Anixter salespeople to collect already obtained manufacturer management, quality, corporate audit, global process owner and compliance declarations to provide responses to customer environmental product compliance. requests as soon as possible. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 25 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE ONGOING CONFLICT MINERALS ACTIONS Anixter continues to partner with a third-party provider for all supplier outreach, follow-up activities and data management. The provider analyzes all inbound supplier response documentation and provides various performance-based activity and status reports in support of Anixter’s annual Conflict Minerals Report. Highlights of the status report for 2019 include: • Anixter improved supplier contact data quality to improve • The North American and corporate environmental product responsiveness and reduce duplication compliance teams continued to provide content that helped • Anixter continued to translate our communications to match create Anixter’s annual: 1. Company-level CMRT customer that of the supplier’s country language during the annual response 2. SEC Form SD 3. Conflict Minerals Report conflict minerals survey campaign • Anixter continues to communicate to suppliers, through • Anixter participated with our third-party provider to send a our third-party service provider, discrepancies in supplier letter to 3TG smelters, petitioning them to participate in the CMRTs as they submit them in real time, allowing suppliers Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) to understand their reporting errors and provide an accurate CMRT before the submission is completed • Anixter continued generating a conflict minerals reporting template (CMRT) that better reflects the supply chain for each • Anixter ensures that suppliers are alerted of risk in their supply specific customer when required chain as soon as possible, upon receipt of the supplier’s CMRT. This is done through an automated receipt that identifies the • Utilizing its software partner, Anixter distributed conflict smelters/refiners that have been reported and thus allows the minerals training materials throughout its supply chain to supplier an opportunity to resubmit a customer-specific CMRT increase knowledge and awareness of suppliers’ obligations and perform additional due diligence in a timely manner. under the rule 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 26 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 27 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY The health, safety and security program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. Anixter’s global health, safety and security teams work to make sure compliance elements are met and that the guidelines of the global safety and environmental management system are followed. These teams make resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workplace while also protecting the environment. ENSURING A SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT FACILITY INSPECTIONS Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and In 2019, Anixter used an external auditor to voluntarily complete healthy work environment through its: human element inspections at 19 global facilities. These • Global Health and Safety Policy inspections focused on fire protection systems, sprinklers, sprinkler control valves and hot work areas. • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms • Global safety and environmental management system WORKPLACE VIGILANCE Anixter’s vice president of global environmental, health, safety • “Start of Shift” weekly safety communication and security continuously monitors global operations and reviews • Continuous location management education the global safety action list with management on a quarterly • Monthly “Safety Toolbox Talks” via Anixter’s learning basis. This allows Anixter to address any current concerns and management system prioritize future actions. • Equipment safety training AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training • All four of Anixter’s Edmonton, Alberta, facilities successfully on policy modifications completed internal and external compliance audits and received • Department of Transportation driver safety training the province’s Certificate of Recognition in 2019. This is awarded to companies who have health and safety programs that meet or • “Safety Alert” and “Safety Reminder” communications in exceed standards established by Occupational Health and Safety. response to serious or potentially serious injuries and incidents • In 2019, Anixter U.K. went through a robust health and safety • Certification or compliance to the ISO 14001:2015 Standard audit process to become Alumcus SafeContractor certified. This • Certification or compliance to OHSAS 18001, accreditation demonstrates Anixter’s continued commitment to International Standard for Occupational Health offering health and safety excellence to our customers. and Safety Management System • Internal and external compliance audits were also successfully • Monthly driver safety communication completed at two international locations for ISO 14001:2015 • Global security and asset protection program. in 2019. ONGOING TRAINING AND EDUCATION • Anixter’s Dubai, UAE; Chesterfield, U.K., and Lichfield, U.K., In 2019, the health, safety and security teams: locations are certified to ISO 14001:2015 – Environmental • Provided oversight on five continents and in ten languages Management Systems. • Distributed 357 health and safety topics for local “safety huddles” globally • Completed 18 compliance site audits • Assigned 2,600 training modules, trained 3,128 employees on site in group settings and had 405 employees complete written certification tests. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 28 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY GLOBAL SECURITY AND ASSET PROTECTION The global security and asset protection program is designed to create, implement and maintain physical security programs and measures to protect our employees and assets while mitigating loss. Anixter’s global security and asset protection team partners with employees, suppliers and contractors to make sure our facility security standards and guidelines are compliant to Anixter’s physical security standards. As Anixter faces new business challenges and opportunities every day, Anixter’s global security and asset protection team utilizes various risk assessments, analytics, proactive measures and advanced technologies, as well as collaborates with external global security practitioners specializing in the protection of assets, people, property, business fraud and security in the workplace, to provide greater visibility to our operational and business realities and help keep the organization safe and secure. This team seeks to identify, prioritize and manage key risks by utilizing various tools and programs, such as the: • Global daily opening and closing security checklist report • Global incident report • Business Integrity Line • Fraud awareness training and best practices • Anixter physical security standards • Internal and external investigations • Monthly compliance report • Workplace security and safety training. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 29 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 30 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Anixter’s quality management system provides global support to all business divisions and segments through a variety of services by the corporate quality team. A commitment to continuously improving processes and maintaining the best quality practices drives Anixter’s focus to meet or exceed customers’ expectations. ENSURING ONGOING QUALITY CONTINUED QUALITY MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS Anixter’s quality management system is supported by its: In 2019, the quality management teams: • Global quality manual • Continued to bring all global certifications under a single • Mandatory staff training on policy and procedure updates sample plan and registrar for better management, efficiency • Quality procedures and oversight • Global on-site training and support for quality management • Completed the full implementation of global quality system functions management system auditing in Singapore; Bogota, Colombia; Lima, Peru; Brisbane, Queensland, Sydney, New South Wales, • Standard operating procedures Melbourne, Victoria and Perth, Australia • New business and customer audit support • Completed on-site support for operational processes in Lima, • Formalized change management protocol to support Peru; Montreal, Quebec, and Poole, U.K. improvement initiatives • Completed internal ISO 9001:2015 lead auditor training • Continuous employee education in best practices for the Asia-Pacific, Caribbean and Latin America, and • Certification or compliance to the ISO 9001:2015 and North America regions AS9120B Standards • Completed 45 internal location audits and site reviews • Operations help desk. to improve Anixter’s quality management system and ISO STANDARDS location certification • 45 locations certified to ISO 9001:2015 • Created more than 37 standard operating procedures • 142 locations compliant to ISO 9001:2015 or work instructions to address new processes and • Three locations certified to ISO 14001:2015 customer requirements • Three new locations certified to ISO 9001:2015. • Updated more than 128 existing standard operating procedures policies to include revised best practice OPERATIONS HELP DESK instructions derived from feedback obtained from customers, Anixter’s operations help desk is a support group available to all health and safety team members and suppliers. Anixter employees to analyze internal systems and provide assistance to address customer or internal inquiries. In 2019, the team: • Completed more than 390 customer and supplier quality questionnaires or surveys • Created and assigned 156 quality training modules addressing new or changing procedures • Processed 16 operational change announcements via change management • Completed 140 ISO auditor and awareness training assignments • Addressed more than 5,000 individual internal support calls. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 31 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 32 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS Around the world, Anixter is powered by employees who have the talent and dedication to address the most challenging opportunities and problems, and their efforts go beyond business and into the communities where they work and live. Anixter believes it is important to support global communities and encourages employees to get involved with the causes and charities they care about. The Anixter Cares program is powered by these people and supports various charitable organizations. Anixter provides company-matching gifts to select charities and institutions of higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offers time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. Anixter also believes in promoting diversity and is committed to the participation and advancement of small businesses and business enterprises owned by minorities, women and disabled veterans. AMERICAN RED CROSS BERNIE’S BOOK BANK Anixter was a sponsoring member of the 17th annual Chicago In 2019, Anixter’s corporate teams volunteered more than Red Cross Heroes Breakfast, an event that honored 12 local 100 hours during four community service outings at Bernie’s people for their heroic actions in 2019 and raised money Book Bank in Lake Bluff, Ill., where they helped sort and pack to provide disaster victims with basic necessities, as well as books for students in need. Anixter employees also contributed vaccinations for children, volunteer training and other lifesaving more than 300 used books to the students. In addition, Anixter skills. Additionally, the Anixter headquarters hosted a blood was a contributing sponsor in Bernie’s “Birdies and Books” drive in which employees voluntarily donated enough blood to fundraising golf event. Bernie’s Book Bank is a nonprofit save 84 lives. organization that provides new and gently used children’s books to school districts throughout Chicagoland. In 2019, the KOHL CHILDREN’S MUSEUM number of children’s books Bernie’s Book Bank had sourced, Anixter encourages the next generation of scientists by processed and distributed reached 15 million and they are sponsoring the Tinkering Tuesdays educational program at currently on target to distribute 3.6 million books annually to Kohl Children’s Museum in Glenview, Ill. Tinkering Tuesdays 360,000 at-risk children. aim to get more children interested in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math through a variety of fun MISSION 500 and educational activities. In addition to making a $10,000 Anixter is a continuing sponsor of Mission 500, a nonprofit sponsorship donation to the program, Anixter engineers work organization that works closely with the security industry to with the program’s directors to develop Tinkering Tuesday serve the needs of children living in severe poverty across the sessions geared toward exploring the world of engineering. U.S. In 2019, Anixter employees raised money and sponsored various fundraising events for Mission 500, including a 5K and HABITAT FOR HUMANITY softball game. In 2019, Anixter employees once again volunteered with Habitat for Humanity on a total of 12 build projects throughout JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT Chicagoland. The approximately 115 Anixter volunteers hung In 2019, employees from Anixter’s headquarters participated drywall, installed flooring, built porches and performed a in the Junior Achievement program, in which they met with multitude of other tasks to build affordable homes for families local high school students to teach them the basics of the in need. Anixter was also a sponsor of the Chicagoland Habitat workforce, such as how to create a resume, apply for jobs and Hero Award Dinner, donating $50,000 to the organization. answer interview questions. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 33 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS NATIONAL MERIT SCHOLARSHIP In 2019, Anixter expanded its Anixter Cares offering under education with the National Merit Scholarship, which honored ANIXTER CARES two deserving students—both children of Anixter employees— with college scholarships. The scholarships are renewable each In 2019, donations generated year of the students’ four-year college program. Each year, the through Anixter Cares included: National Merit Scholarship Corporation partners with companies ANIXTER EMPLOYEE MORE THAN like Anixter to provide scholarships to approximately 7,500 young men and women who are entering college. There are more CONTRIBUTIONS $19,700 than 1.6 million students each year who meet the requirements to enter the competition for recognition and college scholarships. Winners are selected based on their abilities, skills and + ANIXTER CARES MORE THAN accomplishments. EMPLOYEE MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS $19,700 + ANIXTER MORE THAN CORPORATE DONATIONS $80,500 TOTAL ANIXTER MORE THAN EMPLOYEE AND ANIXTER CARES IMPACT $120,000 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 34 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS Diversity Anixter is committed to promoting participation of minority-, womanand disabled-veteran-owned business enterprises (MWDVBE) in our distribution business. We will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities to certified MWDVBEs through purchasing or reselling opportunities, mentor-protégé programs, teaming arrangements and subcontracting whenever practical. DIVERSITY PURCHASING DIVERSITY SALES • Within the U.S., Anixter spent over $830 million with more than Through a combination of long-term and recently established 3,000 MWDVBEs in 2019 partnerships with a vast array of diversity organizations located • Anixter continued to help U.S. customers report on their across the U.S., Anixter’s and our partners’ strengths are indirect diversity purchases from Anixter by distributing combined to collectively help our mutual customers achieve their electronic diversity purchasing reports each quarter. Anixter diversity business engagement goals for both large projects and has been supporting customers with quarterly diversity day-to-day operations. In 2019, Anixter sold more than $147 purchasing reports since 1999 million in products to various strategic diversity partners. • As a General Services Administration (GSA) contract holder since 2000, Anixter continuously strives to attain annual small business subcontracting goals. The small business subcontracting initiative focuses on increasing subcontracting opportunities for disadvantaged businesses, HUBZone-certified businesses and MWDVBEs to receive maximum practical opportunities in federal government subcontract awards. The program seeks to ensure that domestic small businesses receive a fair and equitable opportunity to compete for and receive subcontracts. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 35 ANTI-CORRUPTION 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 36 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, suppliers and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in company policies such as Anixter’s Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy), Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy (Anti-Bribery Policy), Supplier Code of Conduct and Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy. As clearly stated in its policies, Anixter takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and other forms of corruption and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships. It upholds all laws countering bribery and corruption wherever it operates. No Anixter employee or anyone acting on Anixter’s behalf may promise, offer, give, authorize, request, agree to receive or receive, directly or indirectly, a bribe to or from anyone. COMPONENTS OF ANIXTER’S GLOBAL ANTI•CORRUPTION PROGRAM Anixter promotes responsible business practices at every level of the company. It strives to conduct business ethically, honestly and in accordance with its Ethics Policy (anixter.com/ethics), and expects all employees and business partners to meet these high ethical standards. Countering bribery and corruption is one of Anixter’s standards and a primary focus area of its global compliance program. The anti-bribery and corruption program is comprised of the following ten components: • Policies • Oversight, autonomy and resources • Commitment from senior management • Third-party due diligence • Incentives and discipline • Training and communication • Confidential reporting and investigations • M&A diligence and integration • Risk assessment • Periodic testing and review. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 37 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES In support of Anixter’s high ethical standards, its global The Anti-Bribery Policy, Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, compliance program provides guidance and training for Anixter the Overview Presentation and Supplier Code of Conduct are employees worldwide on a variety of policies and topics, such available in 11 languages. as but not limited to, business ethics and conduct, anti-bribery All employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which drives the and corruption, government contract compliance, fraud, company’s culture by outlining Anixter’s core beliefs and guiding conflicts of interest, prevention of workplace harassment and principles. Created over 50 years ago, the Blue Book continues export compliance. The policies that reinforce Anixter’s zero to influence and shape Anixter’s overall culture. The Blue Book tolerance of bribery and corruption include, but are not limited is frequently quoted in companywide trainings and internal to, the Ethics Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy, Government Contracts communications. For a copy of the Blue Book, visit anixter.com/ Policy and Conflicts of Interest Policy. See “Relevant Policies” on bluebook. page 41 for more information about these policies. All new employees globally are made aware of the Ethics Policy, Additionally, as part of Anixter’s anti-corruption program, the Anti-Bribery Policy, Conflicts of Interest Policy and the Blue Book company has implemented a business partner compliance during their onboarding process. They also receive the other program (anixter.com/bpcompliance) that includes the Global policies if applicable to the employee’s position. Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy (anixter.com/bppolicy) and a business partner due diligence screening process. OVERSIGHT, AUTONOMY AND RESOURCES The Audit Committee of the Anixter International Inc. Board Anixter has adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct available at of Directors oversees the global compliance program, including anixter.com/suppliercode. This code incorporates the key Ten the anti-corruption. Anixter’s chief compliance officer, who Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and specifies reports directly to the company’s CEO, updates the Audit how Anixter expects its suppliers to conduct business. This code Committee quarterly on the company’s anti-corruption program also emphasizes Anixter’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and initiatives. and corruption. Anixter’s internal audit department reports to the Audit The Anti-Bribery Policy is an internal policy that applies to Committee of the Board of Directors. It provides independent all Anixter employees worldwide. The Business Partner Antiand objective advisory services designed to add value and Corruption Policy applies to Anixter’s suppliers, contractors, improve Anixter’s operations. The department helps Anixter integrators, resellers, channel partners, consultants, accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined professional advisers, joint venture partners, custom brokers, approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of freight forwarders, sales agents and any other parties with enterprise-wide risk management, internal control systems whom Anixter does business (business partners). For a copy of and governance processes. The internal audit department, Anixter’s Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, visit anixter. in collaboration with other key departments, also provides com/bppolicy. oversight and guidance related to applicable laws, regulations Anixter’s anti-corruption policies are designed to comply with and company policies to foster a positive and ethical work anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the countries where environment for employees. Anixter operates or conducts business, including, but not Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee (ECC) is led limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. by the chief compliance officer and is comprised of the Bribery Act. No bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, regional compliance officers and senior leaders from various given, requested or accepted in the course of doing business departments within the company. The ECC administers the for Anixter. Anixter’s policies also prohibit facilitation payments. compliance program, oversees and assists in implementing the Anixter’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is compliance program initiatives and monitors the effectiveness not limited to government officials; it also extends to bribes of the compliance program. The ECC meets at least twice a year involving commercial parties. and will hold additional meetings as needed. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 38 ANTI-CORRUPTION Regional compliance committees are responsible for identifying risk and compliance matters within their respective regions, and for overseeing the regional compliance initiatives. These TRAINING AND EDUCATION committees are comprised of senior leaders from various Employees are required to complete training explaining departments within the company. The committees meet at least Anixter’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and other once a year and are led by regional compliance officers who are in-house regional attorneys. The regional compliance officers are compliance program policies. All new hires receive these also members of the Executive Compliance Committee. assignments, along with the “Blue Book Living the Anixter Culture” module, upon beginning their employment with COMMITMENT FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT Anixter. Company policies, including the Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy, clearly state Anixter’s commitment to conducting Live training sessions and manager-led discussions business ethically and with integrity and include Anixter’s covering compliance program policies and related topics zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. These are are also conducted throughout the company. These endorsed by our president and CEO, Bill Galvin, and chairman of the board, Sam Zell. Commitment to the company’s culture sessions are tailored to the particular audience. of ethics and integrity and compliance program is supported The compliance program policies are posted in various by Anixter managers, who include topics such as bribery, locations on Anixter’s intranet site and are easily corruption, ethics and integrity in their leadership-driven discussions with their teams throughout the year. accessible by employees. News about and updates to the compliance program are communicated to employees via THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE companywide newsletters and email blasts. Anixter expects its business partners to act professionally and ethically at all times in carrying out their services and To help business partners better understand Anixter’s contractual obligations to Anixter or on Anixter’s behalf to an zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, they Anixter customer or any other third party. Business partners are encouraged to review the “Understanding Anixter’s must undergo a qualification and screening process if the Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy” presentation business partner is (1) located in or doing business in a “highrisk country” identified by Anixter or (2) performing services available at anixter.com/bpoverview (the “Overview for or on behalf of Anixter in one of the “high-risk categories” Presentation”). This presentation summarizes Anixter’s identified by Anixter, regardless of country. Red flags identified expectations of its business partners to comply with its during this process are referred to a regional compliance zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. officer for review and further investigation. Business partners that refuse to participate in the screening process or an investigation will not be approved to do business with Anixter. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 39 ANTI-CORRUPTION CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING AND INVESTIGATIONS RISK ASSESSMENT Anixter’s employees, business partners and other third parties The internal audit department reviews business practices for can ask questions or report possible ethics or bribery and anti-corruption risks during the audits they conduct throughout corruption violations through various means, including Anixter’s the year. Also, business partners that represent a greater risk, Business Integrity Line, which is hosted by an independent such as those in high-risk countries or high-risk categories third party. Where permitted by local laws, these reports can identified by the company, are required to complete Anixter’s be made anonymously. Reports made at anixter.ethicspoint. business partner qualification process. This qualification com are managed and responded to by members of the process includes due diligence screening. Business partners legal, human resources and internal audit departments, as who are approved are continuously monitored by the company. appropriate. Anixter does not tolerate any form of retaliation PERIODIC TESTING AND REVIEW against employees who, in good faith, report a concern The anti-corruption program is monitored by a combination of regarding illegal or unethical activities. Anixter’s Anti-Retaliation audits, reviews, risk assessments and internal investigations. Policy and the Safe to Speak FAQs are available in 11 The internal audit, global shared services, finance and legal languages and posted on its intranet sites. departments are engaged in these processes. Anixter takes all reports of possible misconduct seriously. Anixter An annual ethics questionnaire is distributed to all directors, promptly, thoroughly and confidentially investigates all reports officers, senior management and members of select of misconduct and takes appropriate corrective action, which departments and functions and is available in 11 languages. may include disciplinary action, dismissal or other penalties. All Any report of possible violations of the company’s compliance reports and investigations of misconduct are held in confidence program raised in a questionnaire is promptly investigated. and disclosed only to the extent necessary to effectively investigate and resolve the matter. To further monitor the compliance program, Anixter distributes and analyzes a culture survey. This survey is issued every M&A DILIGENCE AND INTEGRATION two years and was last conducted in 2019. All employees Prior to an acquisition, Anixter conducts a due diligence review worldwide were invited to participate in the survey. Participation that includes reviewing the targeted company’s anti-corruption is voluntary and all responses are anonymous. The results of compliance program and controls. Anixter also looks for prior this survey were reported to the Audit Committee, Executive anti-corruption issues or violations. Post-acquisition integration Compliance Committee and senior management. efforts include effectively communicating and implementing training on Anixter’s compliance program, including all policies and procedures. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 40 ANTI-CORRUPTION RELEVANT POLICIES GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS GLOBAL TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT POLICY AND CONDUCT POLICY • Emphasizes prohibition of entertainment and gifts • Reflects current industry best practices, to government personnel emphasizes zero tolerance of bribery and restates • Adopted in 1999; last revised in 2019 commitment to anti-retaliation • Posted on intranet sites • Earliest version distributed in 1998; last revised in 2013 • Available in three languages • Posted on intranet and external sites • Distributed with training to all employees who travel and entertain on behalf of Anixter. • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with training annually to GLOBAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY all employees. • Identifies the most common types of activities that may result in a conflict of interest and the GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY AND disclosure and approval process for each type ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY of activity • Provides guidance on what bribery and corruption are and how to avoid them • Adopted in 2014 • Revised in 2015; first adopted in 2012 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in 11 languages • Available in 11 languages • Distributed to all employees globally with targeted live training. • Distributed with training to employees. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS POLICY • Provides guidance for meeting ethical and legal obligations as a supplier to U.S. federal, state and local governments • Adopted in 2011 • Posted on intranet sites • Available in English • Distributed with training to employees involved with U.S. government contracting in the U.S., United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 41 ABOUT ANIXTER CORPORATE SNAPSHOT EMEA ENTERED REGION YEAR FOUNDED 1972 1957 NORTH ENTERED REGION AMERICA 1991 APAC ENTERED REGION 1990 CALA ANIXTER PRESENCE GLOBAL REACH. LOCAL ADVANTAGE. With Anixter, you get a true local partner around OVER OVER APPROXIMATE A LY L FOUNDED IN OVER the world. No other distributor of our kind can 9,300 $8.4 BILLION 50 300 claim an in-country presence in approximately 1957 EMPLOYEES O IN SALES COUNTRIES CITIES 50 countries and in over 300 cities. We do business in more than 35 currencies and 30 languages, which means we are A LY APPROXIMATEL OVER OVER FORTUNE STOCK SYMBOL 130,000 600,000 $1 BILLION 500 uniquely positioned to help facilitate your project in the local environment, reduce risks CUSTOMERS PRODUCTS INVENTORY COMPANY P AXE and keep costs down. About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter International Inc. Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 20G0018GL © 2020 Anixter Inc. • 02/20 1.224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Build. Connect. Power. Protect. Services. Worldwide.
