2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In This Report Our Approach...........................................3 Corporate Overview............................................. 4 Whirlpool Corporation At-A-Glance............... 5 Message From Our CEO..................................... 6 Refreshed Materiality Assessment................. 8 A Revised ESG Framework............................ 10 Our Purpose........................................................ 11 Our ESG Approach............................................ 12 Our Commitments & Goals............................. 15 About This Report............................................. 16 Environmental....................................... 17 Our Environmental Approach........................ 18 Scorecard............................................................. 19 Products................................................................ 22 Plants..................................................................... 31 Practices............................................................... 39 Social....................................................... 43 Our Social Approach......................................... 44 Scorecard............................................................. 45 Workforce Development & Engagement... 48 Occupational Health & Safety........................ 50 Diversity & Equal Opportunity....................... 54 Local Communities............................................ 57 Governance............................................ 64 Board of Directors............................................. 66 Compensation Policies..................................... 67 Global Ethics & Compliance............................ 68 Our Integrity Manual......................................... 69 Global Ethics & Compliance ­ Program Operations..................................... 70 We Design and Manufacture Safe and High-Quality Products............... 72 We believe in Global Human Rights................................... 73 We Do Not Tolerate Corruption.................... 74 We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically........................ 75 A Century-Old Commitment to The Whirlpool Way...................................... 77 Appendix................................................ 78 Awards & Recognition..................................... 79 GRI Index.............................................................. 80 SASB..................................................................... 86 Additional Financial Information/ Forward-Looking Statements................... 87 Our Approach In This Section Corporate Overview...............................5 Whirlpool Corporation At-A-Glance.........................................6 Message From Our CEO........................7 Refreshed Materiality Assessment.....9 A Revised ESG Framework............... 11 Our Purpose.......................................... 12 Our ESG Approach.............................. 13 Our Commitments & Goals................ 16 About This Report............................... 17 Our Approach Corporate Overview Whirlpool Corporation is the leading major appliance manufacturer in the world1 with approximately $20 billion in annual sales, 77,000 employees, and 59 manufacturing and technology research centers in 2019. The company markets Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Maytag, Consul, Brastemp, Amana, Bauknecht, JennAir, Indesit, and other major brand names in nearly every country throughout the world. OUR VISION OUR MISSION Be the best kitchen and laundry Earn trust and create company, in constant pursuit of demand for our brands in improving life at home a digital world OUR VALUES INTEGRITY RESPECT INCLUSION & ONE SPIRIT OF DIVERSITY WHIRLPOOL WINNING 1. B  ased on most recently available publicly reported annual revenues among leading appliance manufacturers. 6th SENSE, affresh, Amana, Bauknecht, Brastemp, Care Counts, Consul, Hotpoint*, Indesit, JennAir, KitchenAid, Maytag, Whirlpool and the design of the stand mixer are trademarks of Whirlpool Corporation or its wholly or majority-owned affiliates. *Whirlpool Corporation ownership of the Hotpoint brand in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas. 4 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Whirlpool Corporation At-A-Glance OUR PERFORMANCE NORTH AMERICA #1 STRONG GLOBAL FOOTPRINT #1 POSITION IN six OF OUR TOP 10 COUNTRIES BY REVENUE1 WESTERN COMPANY IN ASIA #2 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA LATIN AMERICA #1 #2 31% REFRIGERATORS & FREEZERS Sales by 30% Sales by Product LAUNDRY Region Category 23% COOKING APPLIANCES 16% OTHER SIX 59 BRANDS WITH 67M 77,000 $1B+ MANUFACTURING & TECHNOLOGY EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS SOLD RESEARCH CENTERS IN NET SALES 1. Based on 2019 Euromonitor data. 5 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Message From Our CEO Sustainability is an essential part of Whirlpool Corporation’s heritage of innovative, efficient products, and our long-term commitment to our communities. Our enduring promise began over 50 years ago when former Whirlpool Corporation CEO Elisha “Bud” Gray wrote his “Letter of Sustainability” to shareholders. In this letter, Gray articulated the company’s need to engage in social issues including the human impact on the environment. Gray’s vision of a more sustainable enterprise is the foundation on which we build today and tomorrow. Today, our pledge to support sustainability is deeply rooted in our culture. This work is guided by a clear mission to earn trust and create demand while in constant pursuit of improving life at home. It’s a commitment that is brought to life through the choices and investments we make in the safety and wellbeing of our employees, in the environmental efficiency of our products and our operations, and in our support for the communities we call home. “2019 was a record year Our experience and results prove sound corporate citizenship for Whirlpool Corporation’s and environmental performance are fundamentals of good business. In 2019, we focused on raising the bar in terms of plant efficiency.” our commitments to global targets, accelerating the pace of Marc Bitzer, Chairman and CEO sustainable practices at our plants, and increasing our efforts around governance and management. The following are some of our key achievements throughout the year: • Our emissions reduction targets were approved by the Science Based Targets initiative to meet and exceed the levels required by the Paris Agreement Throughout Whirlpool Corporation’s operations, we continue to make progress toward the goal of zero waste to landfill across the enterprise, with manufacturing facilities in multiple regions already achieving zero-waste status. • We officially rolled out our new Code of Ethics known better as “Our Integrity Manual.” It not only identifies what we cannot do but more importantly it focuses on how we do business the right way. It also highlights key principles that help inform our ESG approach. 6 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Message From Our CEO • Through implementation of World Class Manufacturing We embrace our responsibility as the largest employer in (WCM) methodology, our plants were able to decrease the many small communities where we do business and energy, water, and waste in all regions. We were able support programming that will make positive impacts for to decrease our Scopes 1 & 2 emissions by 18% in generations to come. You will see evidence of this support the last four years. WCM methodology and principles through the many stories in this report. Through the delivery are embedded across all 36 manufacturing plants in of our commitments, we have made great progress. We’re 13 countries as of 2019, creating operational excellence excited to develop and commit to even more aggressive across a uniform global platform and enabling significant goals in 2020 and beyond, raising the bar for our company improvements in our Safety, Delivery, Quality, and and our industry. Cost metrics. 2019 was a record year for Whirlpool Corporation’s plant efficiency. • On behalf of Whirlpool Corporation, I was very proud to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Marc Bitzer to reinforce our global commitment to the Ten Principles Chairman and CEO in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In addition to supporting and taking action to match the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, Whirlpool Corporation will push to further the UN’s broader goals, including the Sustainable Development Goals, which idealize fundamental, impactful change. 7 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Refreshed Materiality Assessment In 2019, Whirlpool Corporation collaborated with a third-party consultant to conduct a refreshed materiality assessment, using a standardized step-by-step procedure to prioritize environmental, social, and governance factors that have the greatest impact on our performance and that are of utmost importance to our stakeholders. The previous materiality assessment was completed in performing a stakeholder mapping and prioritization exercise. 2016, and helped us define areas of focus for informed The third-party consultant conducted an assessment of the decision making by our Sustainability Steering Committee. aggregate feedback from internal and external stakeholders, We refreshed the materiality matrix in consideration of the which included our senior executives and management-level broader sustainability trends impacting our company and employees, as well as suppliers, investors, trade customers, our industry. The analysis also sought to identify critical and associations, non-governmental organizations, priorities, risks, and opportunities in our industry over the governmental agencies, peer companies, communication coming years. agencies, and external frameworks, comprising a total of 168 interactions. In response to stakeholder feedback, We started the assessment with an analysis of industry we have included new reporting in the appendix of this trends and benchmarks of external frameworks such as report that addresses the Sustainability Accounting the GRI Standards, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Standards Board (SASB) disclosure topics and we will Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Sustainable Development continue to evaluate the Task Force on Climate-related Goals (SDGs), and other relevant frameworks, which resulted Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework for future in an initial list of potential topics. The next step was sustainability reports. 8 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Refreshed Materiality Assessment The assessment resulted in a preliminary materiality assessment. The final matrix was then validated by our matrix that was reviewed by the ESG task force which Sustainability Steering Committee and will inform our then adjusted certain items based on an internal impact ESG objectives and strategies moving forward. Product Life Cycle and Technology & Innovation End of Life (Recyclability Inclusive of Design for and Remanufacturing) Environment 2.0 Greenhouse Importance to Stakeholders Product Safety Gas Emissions & Quality Energy Management Occupational Diversity & Health & Equal Safety Opportunity Local Communities Corporate Governance & Ethics 1.0 Responsible Sourcing 0.0 0.0 1.0 2.0 Impact to Our Business THE MATERIALITY PROCESS IDENTIFIED 10 ESG PRIORITIES FOR WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION: ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE •T  echnology & Innovation Inclusive • Diversity & Equal Opportunity • Product Safety & Quality of Design for Environment • Local Communities • Corporate Governance & Ethics •P  roduct Life Cycle and End of Life • Occupational Health & Safety • Responsible Sourcing (Recyclability and Remanufacturing) •G  HG Emissions From Products and Plants • Energy Management 9 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach A Revised Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Framework Following the refreshed materiality assessment, we redefined our ESG framework to align priorities across the three ESG pillars: Our ESG task force oversees progress against the framework, identifies and addresses challenges, enhances disclosure, and monitors emerging ESG trends. The task force provides reports of progress to our leadership team, the Board, and the Sustainability Steering Committee. The Sustainability Steering Committee consists of senior leadership from our product, sourcing, manufacturing, legal, government relations, communications and technology functions, and regional business leaders. The Committee reviews the results of Whirlpool Corporation’s Materiality Assessment and meets once every quarter to set and oversee the company’s strategic priorities and progress on critical environmental and social issues. Producing Producing Producing Producing Producing sustainable Producing Producing Producing Producing Producing Producing sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable tnatnntanltatlantalatllal l products products products products productsproducts products products products using using using using usingusing using responsible using using using responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible responsible Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing Nurturing aaaa aasafea safe asafe asafe safe safe a asafe safe safe and and and safe safe and and and inclusive and and and and and inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive inclusive products using responsible practices practices practices practices practices and and practices practices practices practices practices and and andand environmentally and and and and environmentally andenvironmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally environmentally nn ee ee eee culture culture culture culture culture culture where culture culture culture culture workers workers workers workers workers workers where workers where where where where where where where culture where our people, and andand and and and our our where and our our our our communities people, people, our our our our communities communities people, people, people, people, communities communities communities people, people, people, people, communities friendly friendly friendly friendly friendly friendly facilities facilities facilities facilities facilities friendly facilities facilities facilities workers workers workers workers, and and and and communities communities communities communities friendly friendly friendly facilities facilities facilities Env EEEEEnnnnnvvvvviiiriirrrrooooonnnmm can can can can can cancan can can thrive canthrive thrive thrive thrive thrive thrive thrive can for for thrive thrive thrive for for for for forlong long for for for long forlong long long term, long long long long term, term, term, term, long-term,term, term, term, term, term, sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable success sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable success success success successsuccess success success success successsuccess Enviirroonnnmmm To To ToTo ToTo Tobe To be bebe be To bethe be be the the the bethe thethe the the best best thebest best best bestbest best best best ociiaall SSoooccciiiaiaaallll nmm kitchen kitchen kitchen kitchen kitchenkitchen kitchen kitchen kitchen and and and and and andand and and and SSSSSoooocccciiaall S Energy Energy Energy Energy Energy Energy GHGGHG GHG GHG GHG Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Product Product Product Product Product LifeLife LifeLife LifeCycle Cycle Cycle Cycle Cycle laundry laundry laundry laundry laundry laundry laundrylaundry laundry company, company, company, company, company, company, company, company, company, company, in constant pursuit Energy GHG GHG Technology Technology Product Product LifeLife Cycle Cycle in in constant constant pursuit pursuit Energy Energy Energy GHGGHG GHG Technology Technology Technology Product Product Product Life Cycle Life Life Cycle Cycle Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions & &Innovation Emissions Emissions Emissions & Innovation &Innovation && &&Innovation Innovation & Innovation Innovation Innovation Innovation &Innovation &End End & &End & &&&End of End & End Life ofof End & of End &End Life of of Life End ofofLife Life Life Life of ofLifeLife Life inininconstant constant ininin constant constant constant constant pursuit pursuit pursuit pursuit pursuit pursuit pursuit Diversity &&&& &Occupational Diversity Diversity Diversity & && Diversity Diversity Diversity Diversity Occupational Occupational Occupational & & Occupational Occupational Local Occupational Occupational Local Local Local Local Local Local Local of of of improving improving improving lives lives lives Diversity Diversity Occupational Occupational Local Local ofofofofimproving improving of improving ofimproving improving improving improving lives lives lives lives lives lives lives Equal Equal Equal Equal Equal Opportunity Equal Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Equal Equal Opportunity Equal Opportunity Opportunity Equal Opportunity Opportunity Health Health Health Health Health &Safety Health Health Health Health& Safety && &Health &Safety && Safety Safety Communities Communities & Safety Safety Safety &Safety Safety Communities Communities Communities Communities Communities Communities Communities Communities at atatat at home at at home home home at home home at home home home home GGoGGovoGovGovo everevernvrenrnearnanraanaancncnaenccecneceecee Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting Adopting and and and and and and following and and and following following and following following following following following following sound sound sound following sound sound sound sound sound sound sound governance governance governance governance governance governance governance governance governance governance governance policies policies policies policies policies policies policies policies policies policies and andand and and and and practices, practices, practices, practices, practices, practices, and and and practices, practices, practices, practices, practices, and andand andand andaand aand and and aaculture culture aaculture aaaculture culture culture culture ofof ofofof integrity culture aculture culture culture ofintegrity integrity of of integrity integrity of integrity integrity integrity of integrity that that that integrity that that that that that enable thatenable enable enable enable enable that enable enable enable enable enable aahigh a aahigh high ahigh high aahighhigh a high ahigh functioning functioning functioning functioning functioning high functioning functioning functioning functioning functioning and and and andand and ethical and ethical ethical ethical ethical and and and business business ethical ethical ethical ethical ethical business business business business business business business business business Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate Responsible Responsible Responsible Corporate Responsible Responsible Product Product Product Product Product Safety Safety SafetySafety Safety Corporate Corporate Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible Product Product Product Product Product Safety Safety Safety Safety Safety Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance Governance & Ethics &Ethics && & &Ethics &Ethics Ethics & Ethics EthicsEthicsSourcing Sourcing Sourcing Sourcing Sourcing Quality &Quality && Quality Quality Governance Governance & &Ethics Ethics Sourcing & &Quality Sourcing Sourcing Sourcing Sourcing & Quality && & Quality Quality &Quality Quality 10 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Our Purpose At Whirlpool Corporation, a simple vision guides us: “be the best kitchen and laundry company, in constant pursuit of improving life at home.” It’s the driving force behind everything we do, and Development Goals. While we know it is often hard, it’s why we’re fiercely committed to developing our compass points the same timeless way: Doing innovative products, continuously improving our the right thing, the right way, with integrity. processes, and operating a more efficient business that uses resources wisely and creates value for By making all our products and plants more sustainable, all stakeholders. we are driving better life at home for everyone. Our scale enables us to deliver better environmental Today, this vision calls us to confront a new type of performance for all. This is central to upholding our challenge. To improve lives at home means recognizing promise to earn the trust of our stakeholders every day. that we need to be in constant pursuit of improving conditions for people and our planet. How Whirlpool Corporation participates in sustainability initiatives will impact our long-term success. Now more than ever, business can and must play a more central and effective role in addressing fundamental human and planetary needs in line with the UN Sustainable 11 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Our ESG Approach While conserving natural resources and protecting the environment have been and will always be part of our sustainability commitment, we have developed a broader ESG approach that includes commitments to social and governance leadership. Whirlpool Corporation’s commitment to sustainability Products, plants, and people are the center of our began half a century ago, in 1970, when we approach, enabled by a strong focus on practices established our Office of Environment. Today we that utilize life cycle thinking, data systems, and are accelerating our progress by delivering on our process integration to make progress toward our commitments to improve the environmental efficiency key metrics and outcomes. We continue to invest in of our products and plants while making a positive new ways of driving innovation into all that we do. impact on people and the planet. Our sustainability We utilize the results of our materiality assessment agenda is informed by stakeholder engagement to prioritize the most important ESG matters for and science-based methodology to focus on actions our stakeholders and our business. In parallel, we that drive absolute and positive environmental and have strengthened our processes to measure and social impact. We measure our outcomes and assess key environmental performance and social have a proven track record of success in driving engagement, drive strategic decisions, and better environmental performance, social good, and sound assess opportunities for impact. governance. Senior Leadership is accountable for our progress and oversees ESG initiatives. 12 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Our ESG Approach Environmental insights from our materiality outcomes related to key life cycle impacts and assessment and measurement processes helped to the United Nations Sustainable Development guide our products, plants, and practices approach Goals (SDGs). to focus on five key programs: Carbon, Plant Efficiency, Circular Economy, Design for Environment, In addition, we continue to make progress on and Sustainable Home Innovations. Each program our commitment to improve the lives of people was assigned with a senior leadership sponsor in our communities. We work with community and a global sustainability leader. partners in constant pursuit of improving lives through house and home. Our emphasis on These global programs will drive outcomes and House focuses on providing shelter and security opportunities, while assessing and mitigating risks for individuals and families as the first step in enterprisewide. We are also working to integrate their journey toward a better life in the home, these programs and their key initiatives into critical while our emphasis on Home focuses on internal functions, utilizing governance structures developing resilient communities through such as our new ESG task force, a dedicated education and community development. responsible sourcing team, and a sustainability IT program focused on data systems and analytics. Additionally, we have mapped our programs to 13 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach Our ESG Approach HOW OUR ESG APPROACH GUIDES OUR EFFORTS TOWARD THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The topics identified in our materiality assessment align with the UN SDGs as follows: • Diversity & Equal Opportunity Diversity & Equal Opportunity Energy Management • Occupational Health & Safety • Corporate Governance & Ethics • GHG Emissions • Product Life Cycle & End of Life •T echnology & Innovation Local Communities • Responsible Sourcing Inclusive of DfE • Product Safety & Quality GHG Emissions Corporate Governance & Ethics 14 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Our Approach OUR COMMITMENTS • In 2019, we expanded our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) at the Participant level, reinforcing our commitment to the Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. • We also committed to the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change, to drive gender diversity and equality. •W  e are committed to the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi). In 2019, SBTi approved our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions science-based targets that meet and exceed the Paris Agreement goals. OUR GHG emissions reduction from our products in use (Scope 3 category 11) of GOALS 20% BY 2030 VS. 2016 BASELINE GHG emissions reduction from our plants ZERO (Scope 1&2) of waste to landfill in all manufacturing sites 50% BY 2030 VS. 2016 BASELINE BY 2022 Requesting full material disclosure from ZERO 100% Fatalities and serious OF OUR GLOBAL incidents in all SUPPLIERS BY 2020 manufacturing sites 15 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT About This Report This report covers the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, for Whirlpool Corporation’s home appliances operations. The boundary of this report includes 100% of our manufacturing sites and owned offices and 100% of our workforce in all countries in which we operate. Wherever possible, we have guided readers to additional sources of information, including our corporate website and annual financial reports. Our previous annual sustainability reports can be found at: whirlpoolcorp. com/environmental-sustainability/. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are the first and most widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting. They are developed with true multistakeholder contributions and rooted in the public interest. For more information about this report: ESG@whirlpool.com 16 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental In This Section Our Environmental Approach........... 18 Scorecard............................................... 19 Products.................................................. 22 Plants....................................................... 31 Practices................................................. 39 Environmental Our Environmental Approach Our environmental approach includes a strong set of long-term goals along with yearly targets that cut across our products, plants, and internal design and sourcing practices in five areas: • Plant Efficiency: With leadership focus, we drive toward • Circular Economy: We are aiming to deliver solutions our yearly intensity goals and absolute targets, moving that allow Whirlpool Corporation to implement more closer to our 2030 emissions goals. Our key initiatives closed-loop models, drive recycled content, and overall include rapid expansion of renewables on-site and circularity across the value chain at a global level. off-site, as well as factory efficiency programs in support • Sustainable Home Innovations: One of our most of our World Class Manufacturing (WCM) system. transformational initiatives, the Sustainable Home • Carbon: We are focusing our efforts on assessing our Innovations program, looks at what is next in sustainable carbon-related risks, developing carbon offset strategies living and how to make net zero living possible utilizing and governance practices, and reporting against our new ecosystems and connected appliances. The program approved science-based targets. utilizes public private partnerships, including the ReNEWW •D esign for Environment: We are focused on driving House (see page 28 for more) to deliver disruptive full material transparency to reduce the use of technology innovations and knowledge around better substances of high concern. In addition to better living at home. tracking these chemicals, we are working with our internal design teams and external suppliers to drive Each of these programs is led by subject matter experts new alternatives and practices to improve product who drive initiatives directly into our business. With support environmental performance and identify and deploy from functional leaders, they make strategic and resource new material alternatives. decisions in real time along with monthly reviews for progress. Each program has annual targets, three-year targets, and long-term goals. “In 2019, we delivered our best environmental results in almost every single category, and we expect to continue on this accelerated pace in 2020.” Ron Voglewede, Global Sustainability Director 18 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Scorecard HIGHLIGHTS >96% <3.5% OF OUR WASTE OF OUR WASTE Goes to Recycling Goes to Landfill Achieved <0.5% ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL OF OUR WASTE Goes to Incineration IN 8 OF OUR PLANTS GHG EMISSIONS Scopes 1 & 2 Scope 3 (metric tons of CO2eq in thousands) (metric tons of CO2eq in millions) 910 833 809 753 155.5 72.3 71.7 66.2 67.61 684 .416 416 57.8 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 Target Target ENERGY CONSUMPTION MATERIALS AND WASTE Total Energy Total Waste Total Waste to Landﬁll (gigajoules) (metric tons) (metric tons) 8,694,868 8,426,585 8,060,536 7,851,315 374,702 387,352 363,271 365,2451,2 16,557 15,633 13,503 12,554 2016 2017 2016 2018 2017 2019 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 1. A  bsolute Scope 3 emissions increased slightly this year. This year we updated emissions calculations to include the most accurate set of emissions conversion factors. This leads each previous year’s emissions to be lower than previously reported. We expect that 2019 data will adjust as new emissions factors are released for that year. Along with our newly approved Science Based Targets, we are looking into ways for each product platform to decrease the emissions in their product portfolio. 19 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Scorecard NORMALIZED ENVIRONMENTAL KPIs 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Intensity 148.2 144.7 145.4 137.8 (megajoules/product) Water Intensity 0.0979 0.1016 0.0958 0.0854 (m3/product) GHG Emissions Intensity Scopes 1 & 2 0.0142 0.0139 0.0139 0.0122 (metric tons of CO2eq/product) GHG Emissions Intensity Scope 3 1.22 1.21 1.19 1.18 (metric tons of CO2eq/product) Waste Intensity 6.39 6.65 6.55 6.53 (kg/product) Waste to Landfill Intensity 0.2823 0.2685 0.2436 0.2229 (kg/product) GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2eq) GHG EMISSIONS (metric tons of CO2eq) GHG Emissions 1,000,000 832,631 (metric tons of CO2eq) 808,956 753,572 684,411 opes 1+2 750,000 GHG Emissions 18% 625,000 591,405 613,682 (metric tons of CO2eq) 574,713 502,314 1,000,000 832,631 808,956 GHG Emissions Scope 2 500,000 753,572 Scopes 1+2 750,000 SCOPES 1 & 2 684,41 375,000 Emissions reduction 241,226 195,274 (metric tons of CO2eq) in the last four years 250,000 625,000 591,405 1,000,000 178,859 613,682 832,631 182,097 Scope1 808,956 574,713 753,572502,31 125,000 Scope 2 500,000Scopes 1+2 750,000 0 2016 375,0002017 625,000 591,405 20181,000,000 832,631 2019613,682 808,956 574,713 241,226 195,274 Scope1 250,000Scope 2 500,000Scopes 1+2 750,000 178,859 182,09 125,000 375,000 625,000 591,405 613,682 0Scope1 241,226 Scope 2 195,274 250,000 500,000 178,859 WASTE GENERATION 2016 2017 2018 20 125,000 375,000 241,226 195,274 2016 Scope1 0 2017 250,000 2018 2019 Total Waste 2016 2017 2018 374,702 125,000 387,352 363,271 362,083 (metric tons) Total Nonhazardous Waste 0 369,629 382,021 356,169 355,135 (metric tons) 2016 2017 Total Hazardous Waste 5,073 5,332 6,186(3) 6,948(1,2) (metric tons) 1. We are still on track to meet our targets. 2. E ach region and country has their own regulations on what is considered hazardous waste. As these regulations change, our hazardous waste values adjust to match regulations. 3. Hazardous waste values for 2018 were restated due to improved data accuracy. 20 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Scorecard WATER CONSUMPTION Water (megaliters) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Municipal water 3,434.84 3,551.37 3,567.37 3,289.88 Groundwater 2,188.31 2,059.71 1,496.68 1,330.69 Recycled water 203.49 164.38 164.72 176.49 Surface water 91.65 280.24 222.19 187.27 Rainwater 26.23 22.33 22.46 33.99 WATER DISCHARGE Destination (megaliters) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Wastewater on-site chemical 946.40 1,003.78 999.86 1,034.091 physical treatment Wastewater on-site 252.29 290.93 291.32 306.541 biological treatment Wastewater off-site treatment 1,809.13 1,844.71 1,888.07 1,710.73 Wastewater surface water 523.65 496.86 500.64 605.422 Wastewater evaporation 116.85 97.78 131.00 135.90 1. Increases in on-site water treatment volume in 2019 are due to a shift in the treatment methods from off-site to on-site as sites build their capacity to properly and efficiently treat water at their sites. 2. M ore water in general is being released to surface water after being properly handled, which allows the water to be returned to the source. This reduces water depletion and positively impacts ecosystems that rely on those water sources. 2018 2019 2018 2019 67% | 72% 9% | 19% % Sites % Sites ISO 14001 ISO 50001 Certified Certified 21 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products OUR APPROACH Our Design for Environment (DfE) program serves the products piece of our sustainability approach. Designing and building high-performance goods and services that take less from the Earth requires a deep understanding of the materials and components that make up our products. Transparency has been, and continues to be, a key pillar of the DfE strategy. Product design teams are guided by our Product Attribute Leadership Scorecard (PALS), which incorporates resource-efficiency attributes into the planning and product design phase. Additionally, the global Critical Materials Management (CMM) team coordinates and monitors our Restricted Material List. Suppliers are required to adhere to our Restricted Material List and report on banned, restricted and monitored substances of concern. The list is updated annually to reflect new legislation and customer requirements and woven into all supplier contracts and approval processes. Packaging also plays a vital role in delivering quality products to consumers’ homes, but it can quickly become “waste” immediately upon delivery. 22 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products HIGHLIGHTS WE WILL CONTINUE TO RAISE THE BAR on disclosure requirements by requesting Full Material Disclosure (FMD) from our global suppliers in 2020. IN EMEA, we made an industry-leading voluntary pledge toward employing over 44,500 tonnes of recycled plastics into our products by 2025. WE ARE ON TRACK to phase out halogenated flame retardants and PVC in all plastic parts and in our products’ control boards by 2030. We are working to change this through comprehensive design, education, supply chain solutions, and thoughtful IN 2019 material selection. 1,100+ SUPPLIERS WERE TRAINED Finally, increasing the connectivity of our products ON THE CMM PORTAL AND OUR to make them smarter allows consumers to control RESTRICTED MATERIALS LIST and monitor performance in ways that are more environmentally responsible. Features like adaptable mineral due diligence framework that conforms use allow consumers to choose different modes and to the Organization for Economic Cooperation settings when operating the appliance—reducing and Development (OECD) guidelines. Our efforts overall energy, water, and detergent demand while have continued to improve overall supply chain increasing performance. transparency and create further awareness within to ur organization that will allow us to further improve CONFLICT MINERALS due diligence and mitigate risk in the future. Please Whirlpool Corporation is committed to complying see the Whirlpool Corporation Conflict Minerals Policy with federal laws and regulations requiring disclosure for more. of the use of conflict minerals. We developed a conflict 23 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products NEW TARGETS TO REDUCE GHG EMISSIONS IN OUR PRODUCTS Our commitments to reduce our emissions through the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) extend to the emissions from products in use. In 2019, we set a new target to reduce GHG emissions from products in use 20% by 2030 from a 2016 baseline. This Scope 3 target was developed with the support of an Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps Fellow. Our global emissions management system for Scope 3 emissions improves our ability to act strategically to lower the footprint of our product portfolio. TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION INCLUSIVE OF DESIGN FOR ENVIRONMENT Resource efficiency attributes, including energy and water consumption, have been on our PALS for many years. The PALS is used by our marketing and engineering teams to inform the early stages of product design. In 2019, we added materials to the scorecard to encourage product design teams to include post-consumer recycled content, packaging, and material alternatives in our products as often as possible to further reduce our environmental impact. 24 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products NEW PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION TOOL ENABLES TRANSPARENCY PRODUCTS WIN PRESTIGIOUS AWARDS In 2019, we deployed a new online product stewardship 17 Whirlpool-branded kitchen and laundry products tool throughout the EMEA region to track, map, and store chemical composition data throughout our received prestigious iF Design Awards in 2019, complex supply chain. selected for best-in-class production efficiency, carbon footprint, social responsibility, and universal design. The stewardship tool generated more than 39,000 materials compliance requests to more than 900 suppliers The Whirlpool FreshCare+ Washing Machine around the world, which included the opportunity to was awarded Product of the Year at the 2019 engage with the Full Material Disclosure survey. As the Huishoudbeurs Fair in Amsterdam, the world’s database grows, it will enable us to make bolder design largest consumer-voted award for marketing decisions, serving as the foundation for our dematerialinnovation. The new FreshCare+ system gently ization efforts, alternative material sourcing plan, and chemical and material phase-out strategies. We look massages laundry with regular, slow movements forward to deploying the tool globally in 2020. alternated with steam, letting air circulate inside the garments to keep clothes fresh, which allows consumers to wash their clothes less frequently, thereby saving water and energy. Additionally, Whirlpool 6TH SENSE Technology intuitive sensors adapt resources according to the size and type of load, guaranteeing optimal performance as well as savings in energy, water, and time. Our Whirlpool and Bauknecht products have been honored with prestigious Red Dot Awards for Product Design. The W Collection Four Door fridge freezer from Whirlpool and the new Bauknecht Built-In Suite—Class 9 ovens and microwave oven impressed an international jury of 40 experts at one of the world’s largest design competitions. Each year, the Red Dot Award winners are selected by an international jury of designers, leading academics, and respected journalists. In 2019, the winners of the coveted Product Design awards were chosen from among 5,500 submissions, with judges seeking out distinctive, high-quality products that epitomize the Red Dot Awards’ mission in “search of good design and innovation.” 25 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products DISHWASHER CLEANER NETTOYANT POUR LAVE-VAISSELLE Cleans inside your machine while your VALUE PACK | ENSEMBLE DE VALEUR detergent cleans your dishes** CAUTION: IRRITANT. MAY IRRITATE Nettoie l'intérieur de votre lave-vaisselle N° 1 Recommandé par :* EYES. MAY IRRITATE SKIN. KEEP OUT OF pendant que votre détergent lave vos assiettes** REACH OF CHILDREN. Dangerous fumes form when mixed with other products. Do not mix with liquid bleach. Do not get in eyes. Do not CLEANER get on skin or clothing. AVE-VAISSELLE FIRST AID TREATMENT: Contains Citric Acid and Sodium Bisulfate. If swallowed, call a Poison Control Center or doctor immediately. LE À UTILISER : Do not induce vomiting. If in eyes, rinse with water for 15 minutes. If on skin, rinse well s can cause unsightly mineral your dishwasher and dishes. with water. If irritation persists, seek medical limescale and mineral build-up, treatment. glassware. DISHWASHER CLEANER s types de détergent peuvent NETTOYANT POUR LAVE-VAISSELLE dans votre lave-vaisselle et tre vaisselle. Le nettoyant pour ATTENTION: IRRITANT. PEUT IRRITER lcaires et les résidus minéraux, LES YEUX. PEUT IRRITER LA PEAU. DÉGAGE HOW2RECYCLE LABELS ssiettes et les verres. DES ÉMANATIONS DANGEREUSES LORSQUE Powers away limescale MÉLANGÉ AVEX D'AUTRES PRODUITS. Ne pas and mineral buildup mélanger avec un javellisant liquide. Éviter le ur un nettoyage SANS CONTINUE TO ROLL OUT contact avec les yeux. Éviter le contact avec la Septic Safe | Sans danger pour les fosses septiques ISSELLE, placez une Déloge les dépôts peau ou les vêtements. Garder hors de portée stille dans le distributeur détergent. Descales dishes and glassware, leaving them sparkling calcaires et l'accumulation des enfants. Détartre les assiettes et verres et les rend étincelants de résidus minéraux. PREMIERS SOINS: Contient de l’acide citrique es dépôts sont très importants, s pouvez placer une seconde et de bisulfate de sodium. En cas d’ingestion, ille dans le fond du appeler immédiatement un centre antipoison -vaisselle. ) ou un médecin. Ne pas provoquer le ur un nettoyage AVEC vomissement. En cas de contact avec les yeux, rincer avec de l’eau pendant 15 Whirlpool Corporation is a proud supporting ISSELLE, placez une minutes. En cas de contact avec la peau, bien stille dans le fond du e-vaisselle. Placez le Use monthly or as needed to maximize machine performance.† Utiliser une fois par mois ou selon les besoins pour Cleans inside all machine models Nettoie l'intérieur de tous rincer avec de l’eau. Consulter un médecin si l’irritation persiste. member of How2Recycle, a labeling system tergent dans le designed to provide easy-to-understand maximiser la performance du lave-vaisselle.† les modèles de lave-vaisselle tributeur principal. **Check manufacturer's suggested cleaning instructions on all dishwasher-safe items. recycling instructions to consumers in North TTEZ EN MARCHE **Consulter les directives de nettoyage suggérées par le fabricant pour tous les articles ave-vaisselle sur le allant au lave-vaisselle. †Heavily soiled machines may require extra cleaning cycles. CAUTION ATTENTION 6 Visit www.affresh.ca for complete Safety † Les lave-vaisselle très entartrés pourraient nécessiter plusieurs programmes de lavage. 6-Month Supply TABLETS ogramme normal. Data Sheet and Ingredient Disclosure. 6-Month Supply PASTILLES IRRITANT IRRITANT America. Already, a number of our affresh Visit www.affresh.ca for more information Read cautions on side. Lire les avertissements au dos. Consulter la fiche signalétique de sécurité du produit et la divulgation Visiter le www.affresh.ca pour plus d’informations 6 x 20 g *affresh® brand products and the recommending brands’ products are all owned and distributed by Whirlpool Corporation. *Les produits de marque affresh et les produits des marques qui la recommandent sont la propriété de Whirlpool Corporation et sont distribués par celle-ci. des ingrédients au www.affresh.ca ® / ™ © 2019 Whirlpool. Used under licencse in Canada. products are using the How2Recycle label, All rights reserved. Made in the U.S.A. of foreign and domestic and we look forward to extending our components. Utilisée sous licence au Canada. Tous droits réservés. Fabriqué aux É.-U. de composants d'origine étrangère et nationale. Patents/Brevets 8,859,482; 9,068,146 pending/en instance. Whirlpool Corporation. Benton Harbor, MI 49022 portfolio of How2Recycle labels on our 1-800-807-6777 direct-to-consumer products in the North #W10549851B America region throughout 2020. SMARTWAY FOR ENERGY EFFICIENT SHIPPING We consider sustainability, not only in the design and development of our products, but also in how we deliver products to our customers and retailers. We ship nearly all (97%) of our products in North America using SmartWay® carriers. As part of the U.S. EPA SmartWay program, certified SmartWay drivers commit to increasing their energy efficiency and fuel economy. We won the EPA SmartWay Excellence Award for our freight supply chain energy and environmental performance for the fifth consecutive year in 2019. 26 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products “Our efforts to optimize the environmental performance of our supply chain play an important role in reducing our carbon footprint.” Jim Keppler, Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain, and Quality PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE AND END OF LIFE We look at products from a complete life-cycle Research published in 2019 by the U.S. Association perspective, including design, production, use in of Home Appliance Manufacturers (AHAM) found home, and collection and recycling. We design our that about 90% of all major appliances in the U.S. new products by considering specific attributes to and Canada are recycled. Additionally, research improve resource efficiency, which includes energy from APPLiA (Home Appliance Europe) shows and water efficiency (impacting the use phase of that approximately 90% of end-of-life material our products) and materials efficiency (impacting collected is recovered/recycled across the EU the design and end-of-life phases of our products). and that the industry reduced both water and Overall, we want to provide consumers with energy consumption per product. Across the products that are designed using materials with world, Whirlpool Corporation, along with our the lowest environmental impact possible, that are retail partners, participates in over 45 appliance efficient in their electricity and water consumption, take-back programs in different states, provinces, and that can be easily recycled at the end of life. and countries, where a majority of our products are recycled or reused at the end of life. 27 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products An EPA-funded study is using the ReNEWW House as its first test case to better understand on-site water usage data and water quality metrics to assess the impact of its water-efficient and low-flow homes on water quality and health. The results of this study, which is being conducted by Purdue University with support from other universities, will be published in 2020. R e NEWW: INNOVATION DESIGNED FOR THE ENVIRONMENT On the campus of Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, In 2019, the ReNEWW House continued studying innovative Whirlpool Corporation’s ReNEWW (Retrofitted Net-zero techniques for tracking and disposing of traditional waste, Energy, Water and Waste) House continues to accelerate our including developing a smart bin that gives immediate talent and innovation pipeline, driving ecosystem development feedback to consumers on the quantities and types of trash across our products and the home. The house represents that they are producing. ReNEWW is also studying how to the aspirational vision for the project: to convert a home, use waste energy, with research ongoing into how to reuse originally built in 1928, to offset all its energy use with solar waste heat that is generated throughout the home. Our power, relying on locally available water sources and have engineers also continued making improvements to the waste-handling systems that prevent any household waste design and control systems of ReNEWW’s Biowall, installed from going to the landfill. Our work with the ReNEWW House in 2017 using plants and phytoremediation to filter the indoor is providing valuable insights for our homebuilder collaborators air supply of the ReNEWW House. and customers on technologies that enable sustainable living. We leverage the world-class facilities and collaborate with Another continuing initiative at Purdue is the DC House, Purdue researchers to accelerate the development of the which was set up to conduct research into energy-efficiency next generation of ultra-high-efficiency appliances that best practices. Whirlpool Corporation engineers and increase core performance while lowering their impact Purdue Engineering researchers continue to work on better on the environment and cost to operate. understanding how to convert all in-home electrical power from alternating current (AC) to direct current (DC), thus increasing in-home energy efficiency. Traditional homes operate on AC circuitry, but are comprised of devices, 28 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products appliances, and electronics that require a conversion to DC power. Each of these conversions incurs a loss, which restricts energy availability and efficiency, and leads to higher costs. Alternative energy sources, on the other hand, naturally produce DC power, and thus suffer multiple conversion losses in order to be used within an AC system. A graduate thesis study was completed in 2019 at the ReNEWW House related to the production and dispersion of nano aerosols in Net Zero Energy Buildings (NZEB). An important step toward improving indoor air quality in NZEBs is understanding how occupants, their activities, and building systems affect the emissions of nanoaerosol. 29 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Products OTHER PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS Perfect for tight spaces or for families looking to remove an extra step in their laundry process, the Whirlpool Smart All-In-One Washer & Dryer completes a load of laundry in the same machine. Additionally, using one machine for two processes reduces consumption of resources. Whirlpool dishwashers include intelligent 6TH SENSE Technology that intuitively detects the soil level on dishes and optimizes cleaning resources accordingly. This range of dishwashers uses only 9.5 liters of water per cycle and falls in the A+++ class for energy efficiency. Dishwashers save water and energy and have lower emissions compared to handwashing according to a recent study. As some consumers in India move from handwashing to dishwashers, the environmental impact from the dishwashing process has the potential to decrease. Our Consul Inverter air conditioner in Brazil achieves energy savings of up to 35% compared to other air conditioners in its class. 30 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants OUR APPROACH The Whirlpool Production System (WPS) is the uniform global platform we use to drive manufacturing excellence throughout our 36 plants in 13 countries. Photo courtesy of Alessandro Imbriaco Today we are embedding WCM principles into our WPS, including environmental and energy pillars. These pillars integrate sustainability into our daily operations by guiding all manufacturing processes across our locations globally. In practice, this means that all Whirlpool Corporation employees—from senior leaders to the people on the shop floor—are responsible for identifying and implementing ways to increase resource efficiency through initiatives such as zero waste to landfill, energy-efficiency, and water-efficiency projects. All of our manufacturing sites around the globe utilize WCM methodology to detect and attack waste and losses, enabling significant improvements in our safety, delivery, quality, environmental, and cost metrics. 31 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants World Class Manufacturing Whirlpool Corporation uses WCM to maintain the highest standard of manufacturing across our plants. WCM is a process-driven approach that sets one of the global manufacturing industry’s highest standards for integrated management of manufacturing plants and processes. OUR GOAL: To become the benchmark for global manufacturing excellence, deliver best-in-class manufactured products at competitive cost and create a sustainable advantage for our company. GOAL: Zero defects and breakdowns FOCUS: Improve daily work in production and processes GOAL: Zero factory injuries FOCUS: Develop process improvements to minimize risks and increase the safety of our employees GOAL: Zero factory waste FOCUS: Use innovation and technological upgrades to reuse, repurpose and eliminate waste 32 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS IN OUR PLANTS Our consistent efforts to reduce emissions in our plants have shown encouraging results. In 2019, we achieved record low levels of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. We are proud of the progress we have made year over year and continue to improve in our plants. In 2019 we set new, more aggressive GHG emissions goals through the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We developed a target to reduce GHG emissions from our plants (Scope 1&2) by 50% by 2030 from a 2016 baseline. We will continue to share progress on emissions reductions in future reports. ENERGY MANAGEMENT In 2019, we continued to accelerate progress toward improving energy efficiency in our operations and strengthened our commitment to renewable energy. Seeking continuous improvement in energy consumption in our plants is inherent to our WCM strategy, and the WCM Energy Pillar has been actively pursuing projects toward significant efficiency improvements for our plants. For example, our Mexican sites implemented LED lighting and machine improvements which contributed to a local 15% reduction in energy use for the year. In 2019, we achieved our best rate of emission and energy reductions in over a decade. Since 2015 we have reduced approximately 12% of the energy intensity in our plants. Additionally, since 2015, we have reduced our absolute emissions by over 20% in our plants. We achieved this by investing in efficiency and renewable energy. In fact, Whirlpool Corporation is one of the largest Fortune 500 consumers of on-site wind energy in the United States and we are investing in renewable energy solutions in other countries such as India and China. We plan to continue to explore on-site opportunities and will investigate off-site opportunities as well. 33 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants Magnifying the impact of renewable energy Four North American manufacturing facilities with nine wind turbines: source an average of powering 20% OF ELECTRICITY = 3,500 HOMES For each turbine, Whirlpool Corporation gives one $5,000 MEGAWATT SCHOLARSHIP FOR STEM EDUCATION PER YEAR IN USE EXPANDING USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AROUND THE WORLD Four of our North American manufacturing facilities source an average of 20% of their electricity from on-site wind Additionally, we invested in several solar plants in 2019, turbines, which are highly efficient generation systems and especially in India, where energy disruptions can often produce zero GHG emissions. Our total on-site renewable cause production to slow or stop. Our Pune plant sources energy program in the U.S. includes nine wind turbines at 1.39 million kWh of electricity from on-site solar panels four plants, with total generation capacity equivalent to annually, resulting in an average decrease of 1,144 metric powering 3,500 homes. tons of CO2eq in GHG emissions, while our Faridabad plant now sources 0.875 million kWh of electricity annually We magnify the community impact of our renewable energy from on-site solar panels, resulting in an average decrease investments with an accompanying program to support of 718 metric tons of CO2eq in GHG emissions, which education in the fields of science, technology, engineering, corresponds to the annual consumption of approximately and mathematics (STEM). For each North American turbine, 155 passenger vehicles1. Whirlpool Corporation gives one $5,000 Megawatt Scholarship, which is awarded for each year that the turbine is in operation. These scholarships support students as they pursue twoor four-year college degrees in STEM 1. A  ccording to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) fields, preparing them for the technologies and industries Greenhouse Gases Equivalencies Calculator. of the future. 34 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants EMPLOYEE INNOVATION DRIVES ENERGY SAVINGS… Our team is always looking for ways to drive In 2019, Whirlpool Corporation joined the U.S. efficiency and save energy by implementing better Department of Energy’s Better Plants Program practices and new technologies. At our Marion, Ohio (BPP), as well as the Environmental Protection plant, our employees recognized the company could Agency’s (EPA) Green Power Partnership in an save on costs and reduce emissions by lowering effort to help accelerate the adoption of energythe temperature of ovens used to dry appliance efficient practices. As part of our partnership, parts before painting. Employees also implementwe participated in multiple BPP training sessions ed a new process that automatically controls oven and hosted a BPP-affiliated research associate temperature when in standby mode. As a result, from Oak Ridge National Laboratory in our Clyde, ovens now use 62% less natural gas. Ohio facility to share he opportunity provided by BPP for energy efficiency. Similarly, our teams in EMEA improved the energy efficiency of the packaging process by adding smart sensors to automate the system. The solution was expanded to the whole assembly process, leading to a reduction of 6,760 kWh each year. 35 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants …AND WATER EFFICIENCY The environment team in Marion, Ohio developed an innovative way to save 31 million gallons of water each year—enough to fill 46 Olympic-sized swimming pools. The team determined that the largest consumption of water in the plant was part of a WATER OPTIMIZATION rinse process that required 80 gallons of cool water per minute. IN BRAZIL The team concluded that the water needed for the process could be sourced from an existing chiller rather than using fresh Our Joinville plant in Brazil received water. The simple change resulted in a 20% decrease in water the “2019 Expressão de Ecologia” use for the plant. Later, the team identified another process Award for its water optimization and improvement using overflow water from another stage instead efficiency program in 2019. Since the of fresh water, leading to a further reduction in water usage. program began in 2011, the facility has reused 290,000 m3 of water, with At our Cassinetta, Italy plant the team implemented a project 17% of the water used in the plant to reduce water withdrawal and consumption in the plastics coming from industrial water reuse department. To prepare plastic sheets for the foam injection and 7% from collected rainwater. process, liquid runs through a pump at high speed, creating a vacuum effect. The Cassinetta team studied the system Our Rio Claro, Brazil plant previously and installed a new type of pump—a rotary screw instead of used an average of 21,000 m3 of a liquid ring—leading to an annual reduction of 6,000 m3 of water. The new design will be implemented in two additional water each year to cool factory extruders in 2020. equipment through cooling towers before site engineers found they could reuse water from a nearby wastewater treatment plant. The wastewater treatment plant’s storage has since been increased, which led to a 5,000 m3 reduction in water used for cooling. 36 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants Our Manaus plant in Brazil celebrated World Environment Day in 2019 with an employee campaign designed to increase awareness of environmental issues. The campaign achieved a 21% increase in the number of ACHIEVING ZERO WASTE improvement suggestions sent TO LANDFILL1 in by employees, with 52 ideas implemented in 2019. In 2012, Whirlpool Corporation officially established a zero waste to landfill goal for all of our global manufacturing facilities by 2022. To meet this goal, we are seeking waste management alternatives, such as reducing, reusing, recycling, composting, and, as a last alternative, incinerating. Our journey to zero Our Cleveland, Tennessee, and Tulsa, Oklahoma plants waste to landfill helped us reach a recycling rate exceeding performed investigative “dumpster dives” to better under96% in 2019, with plants in India, EMEA, and Latin America stand the waste being sent to landfills. After finding many leading the way. Our recycling rate is best-in-class among items made from recyclable cardboard and plastic being global appliance manufacturers. Additionally, eight of our thrown away, teams launched an awareness campaign and global manufacturing facilities achieved zero waste status, assigned an employee to help separate recyclable materials, including three in EMEA, two in India, and three in Brazil. resulting in a significant increase in the recycling rate. These improvements reflect not only robust waste diversion processes, but also increased awareness and sharing of In Mexico, multiple plants reduced over 15 tons of waste information among Whirlpool Corporation employees. each year by replacing plastic packaging for parts with returnable options. Some of the plants also sent organic In 2019, we conducted a zero waste to landfill pilot at our waste to a compost facility, while our Supsa plant Findlay, Ohio plant, starting with an internal audit of possible rerouted contaminated materials to a heat recovery process recycling opportunities. The findings led to a program to that turns waste into energy. Additionally, all rags and recycle personal protective equipment (PPE) such as earplugs cleaning supplies used in our plastics plant are now sent and sleeves that employees are required to wear while through a washing process and then reused, and our working on the factory floor. Through its efforts, the Findlay Ramos plant began an office paper reuse program team was able to divert a significant amount of PPE from to reduce administrative waste. Together, these projects led landfill within months. to a 13% reduction in waste to landfill for all Mexico sites. 1. W  hile our current Zero Waste to Landfill target is focused on the waste in our manufacturing sites, we are also seeking improvements in the disposal of end-of-life products. 37 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Plants Many of our EMEA sites continue to move beyond zero waste to landfill to reduce and reuse their waste. At our Wroclaw, Poland site, approximately 60 tons of plastic waste from injection molding, extruders, and thermoforming is sent to recycling each year. Additionally, plastic waste is sent to a plastic grinder, then mixed with raw material to cut down on the need for new plastic for production, leading to 95% of scrapped plastic components being remilled and reused with raw materials. The result: 57 tons of plastic reused each year. While several of our facilities in Latin America have achieved WCM Principle of 5Rs and maintained zero waste to landfill since 2015, plants continue to improve waste management procedures by following the WCM principle of 5Rs: Recover, Recycle, Reuse, Reduce, and Refuse. Our teams are encouraged to follow the methodology by rerouting wastes from landfill RE FU to recycling or heat recovery. Then, wastes can be reused SE or reduced and, finally, materials that may become waste are refused, or kept from entering our facilities. Our Latin America plants invested in logistical improvements in 2019 RE and found new suppliers that helped reduce the amount DU CE of waste being incinerated by 90%. Today, only medical waste is sent to incineration, while all other types of waste are reused or recycled. RE US E RE CY CL E RE CO VE R 38 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Practices OUR APPROACH At Whirlpool Corporation, we believe that sustainable practices are just as important as sustainable products and plants in creating a sustainable business. The way in which we carry out our everyday business through sound environmental practices is critical to our continued success. Our environmental commitment must be embedded in our business practices everywhere we operate, including how we design, source, manufacture, distribute, market, and manage end of life for our products. We utilize tools and processes to make our practices more sustainable. 39 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Practices build product innovations to meet those trends. A growing middle class globally means there is a larger demand for our products, and we must meet this demand while reducing our impact on limited natural resources. Similarly, as we ship more products, our absolute emissions may grow, making it even more critical that we use innovation to meet demand while lowering emissions. The development of GEMS was so successful that, in 2019, it was integrated into a broader program called the Sustainability Analytics Global Ecosystem (SAGE). SAGE is a platform for the systems we use for environmental stewardship, including GEMS and three other programs: a NEW TOOLS AND SYSTEMS system for tracking Eco-Fees, a program for Critical IMPROVE SUSTAINABILITY Materials Management, and a tool to calculate emissions related to potential carbon credits. With DECISION MAKING the integration of GEMS into SAGE, we can now deploy solutions to more complex data problems We launched the Greenhouse Gas Emissions and enable more long-term and data-driven Management System (GEMS) in 2018 to determine decision making. our global emissions footprint in all regions and models for products in use. GEMS combines over We have also been partnering with Schneider 12 unique systems into one data source that is Electric since 2010, adopting Schneider’s able to track data from a baseline year of 2016. sustainability management platform, Resource GEMS uses the energy and water consumption of Advisor, to monitor and track data across our products to calculate lifetime product emissions. facilities worldwide. The data collection is consistent To accurately convert energy consumption to and accurate, including metrics related to waste, emissions, GEMS considers International Energy water, energy, and plant emissions. Global sites Agency (IEA) provided emissions factors and a use Resource Advisor to report environmental data product lifetime of 10 years. In 2019, data quality in a centralized system, compare key performance improved to a point where over 90% of the energy indicators with other sites, and review all data from and water attributes come from published or previous years. Our decade-long relationship reputable internal sources. with Schneider Electric has led to continuous system improvements and sharing of key insights GEMS covers over 250 million products produced that can better optimize the data to meet our since 2016 and their emissions, providing essential sustainability goals. data to encourage innovation around energy and water efficiency. For example, we are able to track changes and demographic trends in our regions and 40 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Practices EMPOWERING EMPLOYEE INNOVATION AND ENGAGEMENT In 2019, employees at our Benton Harbor, Michigan location launched the Photo courtesy of NTICS Projetos ECHO (Eco-Conscious in the Home and Office) group to encourage small actions that improve sustainability practices through education and events. To start, ECHO was split into two committees, one focused on reducing plastic waste in cafeterias, and the other focused on community cleanup volunteering. These initial focus areas will allow the group to make an impact and experiment before expanding to other locations. In Brazil, Whirlpool Corporation employees helped raise awareness of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by partnering with NTICS Projetos in a community engagement project. The project impacted nearly 25,000 people in the Joinville, Manaus, and Rio Claro communities where Whirlpool Corporation’s plants are located. Participants had the opportunity to interact through 238 activities focused on increasing awareness, learning about the importance and impacts of the SDGs, and reflecting on actionable initiatives for individuals and the community. The project had 12 strategic partners, 55 local partners, and generated more than 100 temporary jobs. 41 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Environmental Practices #PlasticLess and a New Plastic-Free Commitment Each year one Seabin can collect 16.5K 90K 1-LITER, OR PLASTIC BAGS 33K 0.5-LITER PLASTIC BOTTLES Each Seabin can operate 24/7/365 WITH MINIMAL HUMAN EFFORT REDUCING PLASTIC WASTE IN WATERWAYS LifeGate PlasticLess is a project designed to safeguard the health of waterways and combat plastic pollution in ports and marinas. In 2019, Whirlpool Corporation EMEA helped install 11 new Seabins along Italy’s coast. Seabins are devices that catch plastic waste as the water’s current passes through. Seabins are capable of capturing around 1.5 kg of plastic a day—the weight of 100 bottles—or over 1,100 pounds of waste a year, including microplastics from 2 to 5 mm in diameter and microfibers as small as 0.3 mm, which get caught in the algae that fish ingest, thus directly entering the food chain. Once captured, the waste is collected and disposed by waste management operators selected by municipal authorities. Our engagement with municipalities is In 2019, Whirlpool Corporation also began supporting the producing major results in terms of raising awareness among LifeGate PlasticLess campaign in southwestern England. citizens and public administrations. Whirlpool Corporation A Seabin was installed in Portishead Quays Marina near EMEA’s participation in the project has led to the installation Whirlpool Corporation’s Yate facility, which has maintained of 13 Seabins in Italy to date. zero waste to landfill since 2015. We will continue collaborating with LifeGate PlasticLess in 2020 as we roll out Seabins around the U.K. coast. 42 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social In This Section Our Social Approach........................... 44 Scorecard............................................... 45 Workforce Development & Engagement.......................................... 48 Occupational Health & Safety........... 50 Diversity & Equal Opportunity.......... 54 Local Communities.............................. 57 Social Our Social Approach It is a core belief at Whirlpool Corporation that people are our greatest asset and remain our ultimate differentiator. As we unleash individual and collective talents and build a culture that is inclusive and rewarding, employees feel empowered to do their best and be their authentic selves at work. This energy, passion, and enthusiasm is what ultimately strengthens our competitiveness and positions us well for long-term, sustainable success. 44 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Scorecard HIGHLIGHTS 63% 100% On average, our white-collar employees attend OF WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION EMPLOYEES OF WHITE-COLLAR EMPLOYEES 45 hours OF TRAINING PER YEAR attended at least one of the globally receive a supporting professional development, 25 inclusion week events around performance review ethics, leadership, and other the globe functional training EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND CONTRACT TYPE 1 North America (NAR) Regular 95% Asia Regular Temporary 5% EMEA 61% Regular Temporary 96% 39% Temporary 4% Latin America (LAR) Regular 99% Temporary 1% 1. Data reflect our total number of employees at year end. 45 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Scorecard EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND CONTRACT TYPE1 94% 6% 84% 16% Regular Temporary Regular Temporary EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEES 1 EMPLOYMENT TYPE 1 40 40 FEMALE 6% PART TIME 19% PART TIME FEMALE 40% 60% FEMALE 22% 60% MALE UNDER 30 MALE 16% Gender Age 58% LATIN AMERICA 31-50 16%94% LATIN FULLAMERICA TIME 81% FULL TIME 7% 20% Male Female ASIA 60% 51+ 7% MALE ASIA NEW HIRES 1 0 EMALE 44% 36% 22% 0% FEMALE 55% LAR NAR ALE UNDER 30 Gender 31% 11% 6% Age 41% Region ASIA EMEA ATIN AMERICA 30-50 % 56% 4% MALE 50+ SIA TURNOVER 1 44% 34% 20% FEMALE 45% ASIA NAR UNDER 30 Gender 32% 14% Age 47% Region LAR EMEA 30-50 56% 9% MALE 50+ 1. Data reflects our total numbers at Dec. 31 2019. Percentage of employees who were hired or left Whirlpool Corporation cumulative throughout 2019. 46 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Scorecard Celebrating 20 Years with Habitat for Humanity Served More Than 104,000 Donated Approximately Projects in FAMILIES Sponsored Nearly 198,000 RANGES AND REFRIGERATORS 45 190 IN THE U.S. AND CANADA COUNTRIES HOMES Donated Product to More Than Partnership 76,000 Lifetime Giving of Approximately FAMILIES IN EUROPE, MIDDLE $110M 9,000 EAST, AND AFRICA EMPLOYEES Donated Time • Supported students in need across 18 cities and 82 schools around the U.S. • Provided access to clean clothes for more than 38,000 students •3  ,981 people directly and indirectly benefited •5  60 community businesses advised, generating a gross Total giving $4,651,167 income of $2.3 million impacting 214,587 people1 •6  8% increase in revenue in 24 months •4  3% increase in income in 24 months •6  ,000 Whirlpool Corporation employee volunteers • Presence in 15 states and • Impacted more than 107,000 young people 37 cities in Brazil • Maytag brand has donated over $8.4 million • Whirlpool Corporation’s investment: $900,000 United Way, Habitat for Humanity, Smart Way, and certain other trademarks are owned by their respective companies. 1. Impact based on % of campaign totals at each of our U.S. locations. 47 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Workforce Development & Engagement At Whirlpool Corporation, we believe that all our employees need high-quality tools and training to do their best work. Our people have always been our greatest asset—and we work hard to ensure they are professionally challenged and always learning. We provide a wide variety of flexible learning opportunities For the second year in a row, around the globe to enable our employees to develop and grow at Whirlpool Corporation. One of the primary channels Whirlpool Corporation EMEA we have implemented for employee learning is Whirlpool was recognized as a Top Employer University, our resource for professional development and in Europe by the Top Employers building best-in-class knowledge and skills. It provides access to instructorand self-led courses and learning content aligned Institute for our innovative with Whirlpool Corporation’s Strategic Imperatives, and is practices in human resources designed to create robust and personalized learning plans management, high-standard for our employees. development programs, and Across our global manufacturing operations, Whirlpool positive working environment. Corporation is integrating the WCM Lean manufacturing methodology. One of the WCM Pillars is the “People Development” (PD) Pillar, which is focused on employee development and training. A function of the PD Pillar in each operation is to establish and manage a training matrix to identify training requirements (regulatory, legal, or other) for site personnel. 48 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Workforce Development & Engagement INSPIRING EMPLOYEES TO GIVE THEIR BEST Each year, Whirlpool Corporation conducts an employee engagement survey to assess employee opinions on various topics such as the success of training and development programs, company culture, and inclusion and diversity. This year, 95% of employees participated in the survey with 86% favorable employee engagement, up 2% compared to last year. Employee positive response to one statement improved more than any other: “Whirlpool Corporation inspires employees to give their very best.” After the survey, anonymous results are delivered to people leaders to ensure that they are able to respond to any areas needing improvement and continue to raise engagement for all employees. EVERYDAY PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE Everyday Performance Excellence (EPE) is the new Whirlpool Corporation employee performance system. The primary objectives of EPE are to enable people leaders to bring out the best in their teams and to create an environment where employees can do their best work every day. Tools and training enable people leaders and employees to perform better. With the rollout of the new system, over 10,000 employees attended “Experience Check-Ins” and training sessions. The EPE system focuses on both the “What” and the “How” of performance. Employees create objectives in each of four performance categories (Business Performance, Strategic/Project Impact, Organization and Talent, and My Leadership and Values). Formal reviews at mid-year and yearend are supplemented with continuous coaching and feedback from people leaders and cross-functional partners to drive results. Performance management processes for our hourly workforce vary by geography and incorporate various manufacturing plant metrics for performance measurement. 49 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social a safe and inclusive here our people, and communities e for long term, le success Occupational Health & Safety We continuously strive Occupational Localto maintain a healthy and safe environment for all Whirlpool y Health Corporation & Safety employees Communities across all our global operations. With this goal in mind, we are integrating the WCM methodology into safety practices. Sites are audited semiannually to track progress and achievement against a set of manufacturing standards of which safety is the first pillar. The WCM Safety Pillar sets minimum expectations for investigation of all recordable and first-aid incidents, including standardized forms for incident investigation and a standard set of analytical tools to be used during incident investigations. Whirlpool Corporation’s Global KEY METRICS Environment, Health, and 2016 2017 2018 2019 Safety (EHS) Policy reinforces Recordable Case Rate 0.89 0.71 0.72 0.73 our commitment to protect our Lost-time Incident Rate 0.26 0.18 0.21 0.23 employees by preventing workrelated injuries and illnesses, Fatalities—Contractors 2 0 0 0 fostering active participation at Fatalities—Employees 0 0 2 1 all levels in our EHS processes,  .S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration accidents reported x 200,000 U hours/total hours worked and adopting behaviors that improve our performance In 2019 and culture. 69% OF OUR SITES were OHSAS 18001 certified, View policy. up 2% from 2018 50 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Occupational Health & Safety NEW EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In 2018, Whirlpool Corporation implemented Gensuite, a global enterprise health and safety information management system. Among the many functions of Gensuite is its “Concern Reporting” module, which allows employees to electronically (from a computer or mobile device) report an unsafe act, unsafe condition, or near miss, which is observed in or related to a Whirlpool Corporation operation. Employees can also report “Safe Acts” observed in order to facilitate positive reinforcement for safe acts modeled by employees. Concern reports can be run to identify concerns by facility, department, shift and time, or by type of concern. This data increases the sites’ ability to manage safety risks and allows regional leads to identify areas of concern where specific policies or training and education are needed. Due to more robust processes and encouraging more reporting, we expected our metrics in these areas to improve, which drives future changes and safety enhancements. ENHANCING OUR RISK ANALYSIS PROCESS In 2019, we enhanced our global risk analysis process, Countermeasures identified during incident investigations which establishes minimum expectations for conducting are tracked using the Gensuite Action Tracking System risk assessments to identify and document task-based (ATS) module, which escalates notifications to senior hazards that could cause or contribute to occupational managers when countermeasures are not completed illnesses and to facilitate creation of appropriate controls. on time. Efforts are also made to train a specialized team Any hazard identified as “very high” or “high” requires in each operation to conduct risk assessments, driving immediate countermeasures and action to mitigate the consistency in execution of these assessments, with risk hazard. The task is then reevaluated with controls in assessments reviewed periodically and following any place to confirm that the risk has been mitigated. injury or illness to ensure hazards have been identified and controls are in place. Our global risk analysis procedure emphasizes the hierarchy of controls and implementation, where possible, of engineering controls to eliminate hazards. 51 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Occupational Health & Safety Safety at Whirlpool Corporation 140,371,368 TOTAL HOURS WORKED IN 2019 0.02 SERIOUS INCIDENTS PER 100 EMPLOYEES SAFETY AND ILLNESSES 0.72 OSHA RECORDABLE Generally, hazards identified in our operations which INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES have caused or contributed to occupational illnesses include repetitive motion injuries and occupational noise, leading to occupational hearing loss. Whirlpool Corporation has implemented hearing conservation programs in all operations which have high noise levels, We regrettably had one work-related fatality and with all employees working in high noise areas required 11 serious incidents in 2019. For us, even one fatality to wear hearing protection, undergo annual audiometric is too many and we are tirelessly working toward our testing and receive annual training regarding hearing goal of zero fatalities and zero serious incidents in loss. All Whirlpool Corporation operations have programs all manufacturing sites, focusing on the safety of to identify and minimize repetitive motion, either through our employees. In 2019, we experienced 506 OSHA engineering controls or through administrative controls recordable injury cases, with the most common such as job rotation. In 2019, we experienced 19 recordable types of injuries including sprains and strains to illness cases globally. upper extremities and back, and lacerations to the hands and arms, in our manufacturing operations. 52 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Occupational Health & Safety OPTIMIZING INNOVATION AND HUMAN POTENTIAL We do what it takes to strike the right balance between optimizing the latest technology and best utilizing our people. One way we strike this balance is by investing in technology to improve the working conditions of our employees. Rather than replacing employees with technological solutions, Whirlpool Corporation has turned to collaborative robotics (co-bots) to increase the efficiency and safety of our workforce. The co-bots assist employees in risky or repetitive tasks such as installing glass for oven doors. With co-bot support, the chances of injury are drastically reduced and product quality is increased. We are also using co-bots for conducting inspections to make work easier and quicker. Many times, our employees suggest tech solutions that would free time up for other tasks or increase safety. We believe that technology improves the work life of our employees, positively impacting safety, reducing stress, and improving processes. We also believe this digital transformation creates tremendous opportunities across the value chain with productivity gains. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF SAFETY MEASURES Whirlpool Corporation employees experienced Driven by our commitment to reduce serious incidents 11 serious incidents related to interaction with involving interaction with machinery, a focused team machinery, slips, and falls, and while handling has been assembled to drive improvement in materials (forklifts and cranes) in 2019. We machinery safety and employee interaction consider serious incidents those that result in with machines. hospitalization and for every serious incident that occurs, a root cause analysis is conducted, Additionally, all regions understand and discuss the and corrective actions are identified and tracked “Stop Work” attitude with workers: if a task cannot through the Gensuite ATS module. Actions taken be executed safely, the task should immediately to reduce serious incidents included: cease until a safe solution is identified. Further, • Improvements in machine guarding; through the Gensuite “Concern Reporting” module, employees are encouraged to report unsafe acts, •R evisions in risk assessment and unsafe conditions, and near misses so that they standard operating procedures; and can be resolved quickly at the site. • Improvements in our training process. 53 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Nurturing a safe and inclusive culture where our people, workers and communities can thrive for long term, sustainable success Diversity & Equal Opportunity At Whirlpool Diversity & Corporation , we value allLocal Occupational people, regardless of gender, race, Opportunity Equalethnicity, Health nationality, & Safety age, Communities sexual orientation, religious beliefs, physical ability, thinking/leadership style, or any other visible or invisible diversity. We believe that it is these differences, as well as our unique backgrounds and experiences, that provide the diversity of thought, ideas, and innovation necessary to succeed as a business. 54 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Diversity & Equal Opportunity OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS •A  wareness of Visible and Invisible Disabilities (AVID): The AVID Employee Resource Group is dedicated to providing Whirlpool Corporation professionals with disabilities the opportunities to reach their full potential. •F  OCUS Network: The African American network is working hard to build a culture of excellence within our local communities and the company through professional development, coaching, and advancement. •H  ispanic & Latino Network: Members come together to share work experiences, provide career development opportunities, and support local communities. •P  ride Network: Whirlpool Corporation has become GLOBAL INCLUSION WEEK known as a great workplace for LGBT employees. Our in-house Pride Network aligns our values of In 2019, we held our first Global Inclusion Integrity, Respect, Inclusion and Diversity, One Week, hosting more than 25 events at sites Whirlpool, and a Spirit of Winning. around the world centered on creating an inclusive environment for employees. •A  sian Network: Cultivates Asian culture and infuses its vast benefits into our business and communities. •V  eterans Association: Recruits, trains, and retains veteran talent and involves their families. 63% •W  omen’s Network: Empowers and engages women at all levels within Whirlpool Corporation OF WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION EMPLOYEES and our communities to ensure that all voices attended at least one event during the 2019 global inclusion week. Speakers are heard. Activities like Speak Up for Diversity and training sessions focused on topics fishbowl exercises, Mentor Power Hours, and like inclusive behaviors, unconscious bias, and team engagement. career compass workshops provide exposure to leadership and promote career success. • Young Professionals Network—YP! People of all ages join the YP! to achieve extraordinary results within their career and community. 55 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Diversity & Equal Opportunity EARNING RECOGNITION AS AN INCLUSIVE ORGANIZATION We are proud to be recognized for our leadership in inclusion and diversity: • 2019 Disability Equality Index: Third year in a row • Perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign’s U.S. Corporate Equality Index for 16 consecutive years • Forbes “Best Companies for Diversity” • Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency “Veteran Friendly Employer”: Fifth year in a row • 2019 Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index • “Socio de la Inclusión” from the Manpower Group for Whirlpool Corporation Argentina’s commitment and actions to inclusion and diversity 56 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social inclusive ople, ities m, Local Communities Whirlpool Corporation is committed to maintaining Local y strong, lasting connections in the communities in which Communities we do business. We utilize a global collective impact model that centers local nonprofit boards and volunteer on committees that around improving life at home. Our giving focuses in the conduct social impact assessments, including gender areas of house and home to create thriving communities. impact assessments. Our social impact programs are reported in detail on our website, our annual report, HOUSE. Our House initiatives focus on shelter and and in this sustainability report. We collaborate with security for individuals and families as the first step in community organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, the journey toward a better life at home. United Way, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, and Red Cross. HOME. Our Home initiatives focus on developing resilient, vibrant communities through education and WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION community development. EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEERED One hundred percent of our operations participate in 400,312 HOURS IN 2019, local community engagement activities such as annual supporting more than 500 organizations United Way campaigns and volunteer opportunities within and benefiting 1,172,741 people local communities. Many of our employees also serve on around the globe. 57 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities HABITAT FOR HUMANITY In 2019, we celebrated 20 years of supporting Habitat for Humanity. To mark the occasion, Habitat and Whirlpool Corporation teamed up with Chef Roshara Sanders—who grew up in a Habitat home—to launch “Home Cooking with Love.” Keeping affordability and simplicity in mind, Chef Sanders presented two recipes at Habitat’s national conference. She also attended the Indiana University Habitat for Humanity build to share her story with student volunteers and show her appreciation. She offered our social media audience her favorite recipes at holiday times. To end a year of celebration, Chef Ro cooked lunch for employees while Jonathan Reckford, CEO of Habitat for Humanity, shared heartwarming stories of Habitat homeowners and volunteers. CELEBRATING 20 YEARS OF SUPPORTING HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 58 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities WHIRLPOOL COMMUNITY DAY GOES GLOBAL In 2019, we celebrated the third Whirlpool Community Day with employees dedicating a full work day to volunteering for nonprofit organizations. The initiative started in Italy and was globally adopted in 2019 with employees in 15 countries working with 32 nonprofit organizations for more than 21,000 hours spent in community service. Whirlpool Community Day gives us the opportunity to celebrate the pride we have for the communities where we work and live. RAISING FUNDS FOR ASSOCIAZIONE CAF The Milano Relay Marathon is an opportunity to raise funds for Associazione CAF—an organization whose mission is to provide support and care for kids and young people who have been removed from their families due to violence or neglect. In 2019, over 80 Whirlpool Corporation EMEA employees participated in the marathon, with the funds raised used by Associazione CAF to buy a bus to transport kids from their communities to schools and afternoon activities. Whirlpool Corporation employees also raised an additional 10,000 euros to support the organization. 59 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities CARE COUNTS PROGRAM EXPANDS NATIONALLY According to teachers in the U.S., 1 in 5 students lack access to clean clothes1. The stigma and shame of not having clean clothes can lead students to miss school, and students who miss school are seven times more likely to drop out. The Care Counts laundry program by Whirlpool brand is committed to helping remove one small but important barrier to attendance—access to clean clothes—by installing washers and dryers in schools in the U.S. Now in its fifth year, the Care Counts laundry program has grown to support students in need across 18 cities and 82 schools around the country, providing access to clean clothes for more than 38,000 students. In 2019, Whirlpool brand launched a program in the U.S. offering a limited number of laundry pairs to qualifying elementary schools. This expansion will allow Whirlpool Corporation to scale Care Counts more quickly moving forward, with expectations to enroll an additional 100 schools in 2020. To complement the launch of the UNITED WAY expansion program, we hosted events in Chicago and New York where researchers, educators, and others Our current and retired U.S. employees participate every learned about the Care Counts laundry program and year in raising funds for local United Way campaigns in its impact to date. Attendees were able to participate their respective locations. The Whirlpool Foundation by assembling Care Kits of laundry supplies that were offers a dollar-for-dollar match on contributions made then donated to participating schools. to these campaigns. In 2019, with matched funding from 1. B  ased on a survey conducted by phone within the United States the Whirlpool Foundation, employee, and retiree giving by Braun Research from April 25 – May 8, 2019 among 600 public was more than $4.5 million. Our Chairman and CEO, school teachers (18 years or older). Marc Bitzer, joined United Way Worldwide’s Board of Trustees in 2019. 60 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities INSTITUTO CONSULADO DA MULHER Since 2002, Whirlpool Corporation has supported the Instituto Consulado da Mulher, which works to improve and empower the lives of socially vulnerable women, eradicate poverty, and promote gender equality in Brazil. With our support Consulado da Mulher is: •D eveloping the entrepreneurial and employment skills of low-income women, supporting their business path to a steady income. •P reparing transgender women for the job market and to start their own businesses, while also teaching them about ACCELERATING WOMEN-OWNED their basic rights. BUSINESSES IN SÃO PAULO •S upporting a network of women entrepreneurs to supply snacks to local businesses. In 2019, all of Whirlpool Whirlpool Corporation Brazil launched a new Corporation’s sites in Brazil installed on-site cafeterias run program—AMEI (Aceleradora de Mulheres by these local businesses to provide food and beverages to Empreendedoras de Impacto)—in 2019 to help our employees. accelerate the creation of small women-owned businesses in São Paulo. More than 30 women participated in meetings on finance and marketing with eight selected for mentoring and receiving a $300 grant to invest in their business. MOMENTS NOT TO BE WASTED For the sixth National Day Against Food Waste, Whirlpool Corporation EMEA launched the third edition of Moments not to be Wasted in 2019, a project that aims to contribute to the fight against food waste through a captivating educational and informative project in schools. We participated in Zero Waste, a European awareness campaign for sustainable consumption conceived by Last Minute Market in partnership with the Italian Ministry of Environment. Participation almost doubled from 2018 with more than 1 million people, including students, teachers, and families from more than 1,600 primary schools from Italy, Poland, and Slovakia taking part in this edition. To make participation in the project even more effective and stimulating, the students were involved in an educational contest in which they expressed their ideas on sustainability through photos, videos, and drawings. As part of the initiative, Whirlpool Corporation EMEA also made a donation to Banco Alimentare to support the organization’s projects concerning the collection and redistribution of food surplus to charitable organizations. 61 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities YOUTH INNOVATION CHALLENGE We hosted 100 high school students from schools surrounding our corporate headquarters for the Youth Innovation Challenge, where students were tasked with identifying an unmet consumer need, finding a solution, and determining how to market and sell their solution. Whirlpool Corporation employees acted BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA as both mentors during the ideation process and judges Since 2010, we have teamed up with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America for the final presentation of the to build great futures for youth. Almost 6,000 Whirlpool Corporation idea and prototype. The challenge employees volunteer their time at various Clubs across the U.S. each exposed students to a variety of year. Whirlpool Corporation employees and local Clubs come together business functions and helped for games and team-building activities during the Club’s annual Day grow their problem-solving skills. of Dependability event. In 2019, a Whirlpool Corporation catering team and other employee volunteers served a Thanksgiving meal to 170 Boys & Girls Clubs members for the event. FXB INDIA SURAKSHA Since 2015, our teams in Pondicherry, India, have developed community projects in partnership with nonprofit FXB India Suraksha focused on improving structures in rural schools located near Whirlpool Corporation factories. Some of the programs implemented include Life Skill Education software, yoga classes, and sport activities that aim to improve the educational conditions and lives of more than 750 children in five schools. 62 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Social Local Communities LAUNCHING FIRST® LEGO ® LEAGUE IN THE U.K. The Peterborough, U.K. Whirlpool Corporation team hosted an event to launch the FIRST® LEGO® League tournament for schools in the local area. The initiative was in response to the global science and technology challenge FIRST® LEGO® League, in which over 310,000 young people (in 38,800 teams), from across 100 countries came together to develop their STEM skills. FIRST® LEGO® League helps students engage in their education and nurture important teamwork, problem-solving and life skills. The 2019 theme, CITY SHAPER, was based on architecture and the spaces that we live in. For the Innovation Project, teams were invited to explore issues such as transportation, accessibility, and natural disasters, answering the question: How can we shape a better future for everyone? INNOVATION AT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN’S BLUELAB For many years, Whirlpool Corporation has sponsored projects through BLUElab—Better Living Using Engineering Laboratory—at the University of Michigan, which creates multidisciplinary teams to build sustainable solutions for local and international needs. Currently, BLUElab has 10 project teams comprised of approximately 300 total students. One Whirlpoolsupported project aims to ease the water transport process in rural India. Women typically travel several kilometers to the nearest water source carrying water pots weighing up to 30 pounds on their heads. The team designed a cart to transport water that would help mitigate back pain and shoulder issues for these women. Further, Whirlpool Corporation’s financial support allowed the team to build a prototype and implement it in a community. Another BLUElab team supported by Whirlpool Corporation designed a sewer system to decrease flooding during the rainy season in Thailand. The existing sewer systems in Northern Thailand route rainwater to rivers, but when the water level gets high there is significant flooding. BLUElab partnered with Chiang Mai University to build a prototype that includes a catch basin and systems to remove sediment from the sewers resulting from these floods. 63 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance In This Section Board of Directors................................ 66 Compensation Policies........................ 67 Global Ethics & Compliance.............. 68 Our Integrity Manual .......................... 69 Global Ethics & Compliance Program Operations......................... 70 We Design and Manufacture Safe and High-Quality Products........... 72 We believe in Global Human Rights...................... 73 We Do Not Tolerate Corruption....... 74 We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically........... 75 A Century-Old Commitment to The Whirlpool Way......................... 77 Governance Whirlpool Corporation is committed to creating value through the highest standards of ethical and legal conduct while operating sustainably to create shareholder value over the long-term. Our Board of Directors, sound corporate governance structure, and values-driven integrity culture support us in delivering on this commitment. A STEADFAST COMMITMENT TO SOUND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & ETHICS Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Our Values: Integrity, Respect, Inclusion & Diversity, Board Review of Strategy One Whirlpool, Spirit of Winning Board Oversight of ESG Our Integrity Manual (translates our integrity into action • Review of strategy and empowers employees to lead with integrity) • Updates on long-term initiatives Our Integrity Principles: We do what is right for consumers, Proxy Access our people, our company, and do business the right way Annual Director Elections and Board Refreshment Executive Oversight & Tone at the Top Executive Sessions of Nonemployee Directors Integrity Channels (including Integrity Line (global hotline) Shareholder Engagement and Investor Days Supplier Code of Conduct 65 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Board of Directors The Board of Directors provides effective oversight of the company and represents our shareholders’ interests. Whirlpool Corporation is governed by a highly engaged and diverse Board of Directors and fully independent committees, who meet regularly throughout the year. Our Board is composed of 13 independent directors, including an independent Presiding Director, and one employee director, our Chairman and CEO Marc Bitzer. Our Board is composed of individuals with experience and demonstrated expertise in many substantive areas that impact our business and align with our strategy. Committees include the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Human Resources Committee, and the Finance Committee. Each Board committee consists solely of independent directors. Board Refreshment and Diversity The Board, with the assistance of the Corporate Governance We believe it is important to have a diverse Board membership and Nominating Committee, selects potential new Board reflecting differences in viewpoints, professional experiences, members using predefined criteria and priorities. We believe educational background, skills, race, gender, ethnicity, national it is valuable to have directors with varying lengths of service origin, and age. The Board and Corporate Governance and in order to strike the right balance between continuity and Nominating Committee is committed to seeking qualified renewal. The four independent directors who joined the diverse candidates, including diversity of race, gender, and Board in the past four years and our new director nominee, ethnicity in each independent director search, and instructs Jennifer A. LaClair, bring fresh perspectives to the Board, any search firm that it engages accordingly. while our experienced directors have deep knowledge of In 2019, the Board of Directors elected Patricia K. Poppe, our operations and the evolution of our strategy. President and Chief Executive Officer of CMS Energy Corporation, to the Board. Given her extensive experience in TENURE, EXPERIENCE, AND DIVERSITY consumer-facing industries and environmental stewardship, Our 2020 independent director nominees reflect an effective mix of business expertise, company knowledge, she brings a valuable perspective to the Board. The Board 5 and diverse perspectives. also nominated Ms. LaClair, Chief Financial Officer of Ally Financial Inc., for election at our 2020 annual meeting. She will bring significant finance, accounting, and capital markets 4 5-8 YEARS Board Tenure 9+ YEARS expertise to the Board. 3 of 2020 Independent Board and Executive Oversight of ESG Director Nominees Our Board is committed to overseeing the integration of ESG principles throughout Whirlpool Corporation. The Board 0-4 YEARS 5 6 50% reviews and receives updates on our sustainability strategy 4 33% 3 25% WORKED OUTSIDE OF THE U.S. and key long-term ESG initiatives. In addition, regional FEMALE business leaders and senior leaders in our product, sourcing, RACIAL/ETHNIC manufacturing, legal, communications, government relations, MINORITIES and technology functions comprise our Sustainability Steering Committee. The committee evaluates our strategic 8 67% priorities on relevant ESG issues based on results of our ESG CURRENT OR Materiality Assessment and input from our ESG task force. FORMER CEOs 66 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Compensation Policies The Human Resources Committee of the Board has responsibility for determining the compensation amounts for each of the company’s senior executives, and maintaining oversight of the company’s executive compensation policies and programs. The Committee evaluates the overall effectiveness of our compensation philosophy and programs in supporting our business strategy and human resources objectives. To achieve our objectives, the Committee oversees and we •C omponents of compensation should be linked to the drivers manage to a pay-for-performance philosophy based on the of sustainable stockholder value over the long-term; and following guiding principles: •C ompensation should be tied to an evaluation of business •C ompensation should be incentive-driven with a focus on results and individual performance. both short-term and long-term results; •A significant portion of pay should be performance-based, Each of our senior executives has elements of our ESG with the portion varying in direct relation to an executive’s priorities included in their individual objectives for the level of responsibility; purposes of individual performance ratings, which influences each executive’s incentive compensation. What We Do What We Don’t Do Pay for performance Allow hedging or pledging of Whirlpool stock by executive officers, employees, or directors Use an independent compensation consultant that is solely engaged Provide excise tax gross-ups to provide executive compensation services to Whirlpool Cap short-term and long-term incentive award payouts at Enter into employment contracts except as market-competitive levels required by local law or prevailing local market practice Maintain robust stock ownership guidelines for our executives Pay dividends or dividend equivalents on (7x salary multiple for CEO) grants of any Performance Stock Units (“PSUs”) or Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) prior to vesting Subject all variable pay to a compensation recovery “claw-back” Reprice or reload stock options Have “double-trigger” change-in-control agreements Carefully manage risk in our compensation programs to protect against unintended outcomes Provide market-competitive perquisites deemed necessary to attract and retain top talent 67 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Global Ethics & Compliance We conduct all aspects of our business in an honorable way, recognizing there is no right way to do a wrong thing. We always act responsibly and maintain the highest levels of ethical and legal conduct. Our values are the enduring character of our Whirlpool Corporation’s Global Ethics & company and an important part of our heritage. Compliance Program is focused on enhancing They are the moral compass of everything we do. and sustaining our culture of winning with integrity If our enduring values of Integrity, Respect, Inclusion within a risk-based framework, empowering and Diversity, One Whirlpool, and Spirit of Winning employees with tools and resources to act are the foundation of who we are as a company, with integrity. A cornerstone of our program then our culture for more than 100 years is reflected is Our Integrity Manual. in our commitment to Winning with Integrity, because there is No Right Way to Do a Wrong Thing. This commitment is the foundation for our Global Ethics & Compliance Program. OUR VALUES INTEGRITY RESPECT INCLUSION & ONE SPIRIT OF DIVERSITY WHIRLPOOL WINNING 68 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Our Integrity Manual Our culture of integrity is put into action OUR INTEGRITY MANUAL PRINCIPLES every day by our 77,000 global employees. Our code of ethics, which was enhanced We do what is right for our CONSUMERS and renamed Our Integrity Manual, represents • We keep the consumer at the center how we translate our integrity into action. of everything we do • We design and manufacture safe and Our Integrity Manual is intentionally designed into two high-quality products sections: a cultural section and a principles section. The • We honor the promises we make cultural section describes our values, while the principles • We respect privacy section translates our integrity value into everyday actions. Whirlpool Corporation’s commitment to integrity begins with We do what is right for our PEOPLE its leadership. All of Whirlpool’s top leaders globally attended training in which they reviewed and committed to action all • We respect each other and promote inclusion and diversity of these principles. In turn, these leaders actively led similar • We are committed to provide a safe and training, in which nearly three quarters of our 77,000 healthy workplace employees participated. This commitment set the tone • We believe in global human rights for our belief that how we achieve our goals is just as • We are committed to sustainability and important as what we accomplish. the environment The Integrity Manual Training Sessions emphasized that Our We do what is right for our COMPANY Integrity Manual is a resource for them to be empowered to lead and win with integrity every day, including tools, such • We report our work accurately as a decision tree when faced with an ethical question. • We use company assets properly • We safeguard confidential information • We avoid conflicts of interests • We represent the company properly We do business the RIGHT WAY • We prevent bribery • We compete fairly • We do not tolerate money laundering • We manage our global business appropriately • We expect our suppliers to conduct business ethically 69 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Global Ethics & Compliance Program Operations Whirlpool Corporation’s Global Ethics & Compliance Program is designed with a comprehensive risk-based framework that is sustained through the efforts of a committed global team, policies, procedures, and systems for sustaining organizational integrity. Oversight of the Global Ethics & Compliance Program principle, our ethics and compliance program encourages is governed by the Global Ethics & Compliance Steering all of us to participate and play a key role in our culture Committee (“E&C SteerCo”), composed of members of of integrity. the Executive Committee, including our Chairman and CEO. The E&C SteerCo sets the tone for ethics and Another critical component of the Global Ethics & compliance at Whirlpool Corporation, and oversees Compliance Program are the risk-based ethics and the program. compliance communications and training, including training on all of the principles of Our Integrity Manual, This commitment to winning with integrity is also which during 2019 was delivered to virtually all reflected by strong cross-functional leadership and employees globally. For example, in 2019, 99% of partnerships between Compliance professionals and approximately 13,000 employees globally representing partners such as Internal Audit, Human Resources, high-risk roles or functions completed the Annual Ethics Product Safety, Global Sourcing, and other teams. & Compliance Certification, wherein they certified their These partnerships permit Whirlpool Corporation to review and understanding of our Global Compliance leverage resources to sustain program integrity and Policies, including our anti-corruption policy. Of the functionality. With clear ownership of compliance risks 13,000, 1,000 represented employees at the Director and related policies, procedures, and systems, and by level and above with 100% completion. 70 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance Global Ethics & Compliance Program Operations With over 77,000 employees and thousands of third-party business relationships, Whirlpool MAKING ETHICAL DECISIONS Corporation continually and systematically reviews compliance risks its business faces. We are aware of these risks, and, continually and systematically take proactive actions to respond to them. Whether through risk-based audits, managing There is no right way to do a wrong thing the global third-party due diligence program, or implementing Integrity Channels that aid It is our responsibility to win with integrity and earn trust every day. The following basic questions are especially helpful for situations not specifically addressed in this manual, our employees to speak up and/or seek support, our policies, or other standards. the Ethics & Compliance Program brings all ASK CAN WE DO IT? of its operations and resources to bear to Not Find the right way. Do not DON’T DO IT N0 Is it consistent with our values? sure act until you confirm that advance Whirlpool Corporation’s culture Is it consistent with the law, our policies, and procedures? the decision is aligned with our values, the law, our policies and procedures. of integrity. Yes SHOULD WE DO IT? ASK We encourage our employees to ask questions Does it feel right? Would you want Not Before acting, understand the DON’T DO IT N0 your actions to become public? sure appearances and implications of your actions. Act as if your and voice concerns. As stated in Our Integrity Does it reflect positively on Whirlpool actions will appear in the news. and your reputation? Manual, speaking up is our responsibility. Our Yes Integrity Channels serve as resources our ASK WILL WE DO IT? employees can use to ask questions or raise a Do you understand the Not You are accountable for DON’T DO IT N0 consequences? sure your actions. Make sure you understand the possible concern. Through our integrity channels, including Are you willing to be accountable for this decision? consequences. Only act when you have authority to do so. our global hotline, which we call our Integrity Line, Yes we ensure that our employees will be listened to ACT and heard. Following The Whirlpool Way Our global Integrity Line is administered by an independent third party, and translated into 16 languages, that can be accessed in several ways externally and internally for reporting of concerns about potentially unethical or unlawful INTEGRITY CHANNELS behavior of any employee, or raising questions about ethics and compliance matters. Whirlpool Corporation also has Regional Compliance Professionals embedded within Whirlpool You can also send an e-mail to Corporation’s global locations, that lead crossglobalcompliance@ functional teams ensuring in-person advice, whirlpool.com strategic legal and compliance counseling, Contact our Integrity Line training, and guidance on doing business You can find contact details, with integrity. including the local phone number for each country, at www.whirlpoolintegrityline.com 71 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance We Design and Manufacture Safe and High-Quality Products Product safety and quality is at the forefront of everything we do: from designing the first electric-powered wringer washer to Our governance model is implemented through the Global the latest connected technology, nothing Product Safety (“GPS”) system, which defines clear roles matters more to us than earning and and responsibilities for all employees, requires pre-market keeping the trust of our consumers. risk assessments, post-sale monitoring of product safety, and defines required communication protocols for any risks The first principle of Our Integrity Manual is that we that are identified. Our management approach is based on keep the consumer at the center of everything we do. the international standards defined by ISO 9001 and 58% Our consumers trust us in their homes, so we are of our sites are certified to their quality management systems. passionate about bringing them products that are safe and high quality. Finally, our governance model also includes supplemental product safety standards designed to exceed industry Whirlpool Corporation has a strong, multi-decade record standards. These standards include requirements for of a proactive approach to premarket safety design and electrical shock hazards, fire/explosion hazards, suffocation/ testing, monitoring the field safety performance, and choking hazards, and entrapment hazards, among others, timely conducting corrective actions, when necessary, and are required for every new product that Whirlpool to help protect consumers. Whirlpool Corporation has Corporation sells around the world. Our governance a comprehensive safety system which includes policies, model includes rigorous processes and techniques for procedures, and guidelines in place for risk assessment, our engineering teams to help identify and assess potential field monitoring, field safety investigations, analysis, and safety and quality issues. As a result of these robust product reporting potential safety hazards. safety and quality protocols, we proactively implemented corrective action campaigns related to certain legacy-Indesit washers and dryers primarily sold in the U.K. 72 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance We Believe in Global Human Rights Whirlpool Corporation supports human rights in everything we do. We respect freedom of association and personal political involvement. We believe in global human rights. Our business practices throughout the world reflect our commitment to ensure every person who works for Whirlpool Corporation throughout all of our global operations does so of his or her own free will, in a safe and healthy environment. We oppose discrimination, slavery, and child labor, and ensure we have controls and protections to avoid them. We support diversity and wage parity. We also respect the rights of our employees to associate with whom they choose and to be involved in politics outside of work. These values are also reflected in Our Integrity Manual. In addition to our internal commitment to human rights, we also hold our suppliers and business partners accountable to comply with these same principles through our Supplier Code of Conduct. 73 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT We Do Not Tolerate Corruption Whirlpool Corporation is committed to sustained and proactive anti-corruption efforts throughout the entire global enterprise, including all business units, operations, and teams. We do business the right way. This means that we do not tolerate bribery or corruption of any kind. Moreover, it means that we are active in adhering to this principle in all aspects of our business. In addition to Our Integrity Manual, Whirlpool Corporation maintains a global anticorruption policy (the Global Compliance Policy on Business Conduct, Anti-Bribery, and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), which provides guidance and details of our anti-corruption commitment and expectations. With leadership driven by our Executive Committee and the Global Ethics & Compliance team, and leveraging global and cross-functional resources, Whirlpool Corporation deploys an anti-corruption program to identify and mitigate potential corruption risks. This includes risk-based policies and procedures, online and inperson facilitated training, and risk-based audits to monitor, mitigate, and eradicate corruption risks. Our global third-party due diligence program evaluates potential and future ethics and compliance risks, including risks of corruption, that may be presented through our third-party relationships. Whirlpool Corporation continually updates, improves, and enhances its Global Ethics Program to ensure appropriate and necessary resources (economic and talent-based) are available and used to identify and respond to current and future corruption risks. 74 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT ure of integrity that enable ctioning and ethical business Governance We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically We hold ourselves Responsible Product to high standards, and we expect our suppliers and third parties Safety hics Sourcingacting on behalf of Whirlpool Corporation to do business the right way as well. & Quality Doing business the right way means we expect We require all of our suppliers to abide by the SCoC. our business partners to do the same. Our suppliers Whirlpool Corporation is committed to preventing are key to our success and to maintaining the high human rights abuses in its operations and supply chain. standards and reputation of our brands. We require The SCoC states, in part, that suppliers must recognize our suppliers not only to be technically qualified, but and respect human rights, including any rights of also to commit to our ethical standards and workers to exercise lawful rights of free association, business practices. compliance with local and international laws regarding young workers, compliance with laws prohibiting Our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) outlines human trafficking in any form (e.g., forced labor, debt the standards required to conduct business with bonded slavery), providing safe and healthy work Whirlpool Corporation. In 2019, we established a environments, and respecting any legal right of global dedicated team with the main focus on driving workers to bargain collectively. our responsible sourcing program that considers ethics, labor rights, and social and environmental We have a robust supplier auditing program, which issues when sourcing products and services across is mandatory for all new suppliers. We also deploy all purchasing categories and regions. Our goal is risk-based on-site audits for existing Whirlpool to minimize negative impacts and make a positive Corporation suppliers. One hundred percent of contribution to the businesses, people, and suppliers that were found to have a high risk audit communities we support. result implemented a corrective action plan. In certain THE NUMBER OF SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT AUDITS CONDUCTED PER REGION Year NAR EMEA LAR Asia Total 2016 17 10 31 126 184 2017 21 9 19 128 177 2018 27 21 14 79+1361 277 2019 54 45 24 85+451 253 1. E  nvironmental-specific audits 75 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically circumstances, follow up audits were completed to verify An additional requirement of our suppliers is the prohibition that the findings were closed. against the use of any type of involuntary or forced labor. Where there is no local legal requirement, or if a local legal Our environmental assessment requires suppliers to comply requirement is not as strict as the requirement included in with all local environmental laws applicable to the workplace, the SCoC, suppliers are required to follow the requirements the products produced, and the methods of manufacture. in the SCoC. In 2019, our audits identified one instance of Additionally, suppliers must not use materials that are child labor in a supplier, which implemented a corrective considered harmful to the environment, but should encourage action plan. We also identified three vendors that had the use of processes and materials that support sustainability significant social findings, and we demanded an immediate of the environment. In 2019, 20 supplier audits identified corrective action plan. Evidence was provided to show the improvement areas related to the environment and corrective findings were resolved. action plans were approved by Whirlpool Corporation and implemented. We also continued our special focus on China Material failures to comply with our SCoC may result in suppliers in response to the China Air Pollution Action Plan, the termination of our relationship with a supplier, as may in which we supported our suppliers’ actions to reduce the be permitted by applicable law. In order to ensure our amount of air, water, and noise pollution. suppliers are meeting our standard of integrity, we will continue to conduct independent audits of a sampling Through our robust efforts in auditing suppliers and of our suppliers’ practices. performing environmental assessments, including monitoring and conducting third-party audits of top-tier suppliers, we have strengthened and sustained our requirements that suppliers comply with our SCoC. This resulted in no discovered instances of corruption, or terminating any supplier contracts. 76 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Governance A Century-Old Commitment to The Whirlpool Way For more than 100 years, our enduring values have guided us and reflected our character as a company committed to integrity. Since our founding in 1911, how we conduct ourselves customer doubled its order. This simple but extraordinary in all we do remains our most important measure of act, a reflection of our founders’ character, set the bar success. In 1912, Whirlpool Corporation (then known for the next 100 years and beyond. As our Chairman as Upton Machine Company) received its first electric and CEO says, “We might not be remembered for wringer washer order and contract with the Federal WHAT we achieved, but we will be remembered Electric Division of Commonwealth Edison. This was for HOW we achieved it. Success without integrity a major milestone for the fledgling business in more is failure.” ways than one. Whirlpool Corporation unknowingly delivered an early order of its washing machines By keeping The Whirlpool Way at the forefront of with defective transmission gears. Upon learning our actions, our culture of compliance and ethics is of the defect, Whirlpool Corporation recalled all of strengthened and sustained. Acting with integrity the machines and replaced the faulty parts at no and following The Whirlpool Way helps us earn cost. The show of integrity and commitment to trust every day. For 100 years and counting, we quality so impressed Federal Electric that the have earned trust by acting with integrity. 77 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix In This Section Awards & Recognition........................ 79 GRI Index................................................ 80 SASB....................................................... 86 Additional Financial Information/ Forward-Looking Statements...... 87 Appendix Awards & Recognition World’s Most Admired Companies The Just 100: America’s Best Corporate Citizens FORTUNE magazine Forbes magazine Tenth consecutive year America’s Most Responsible Companies World’s Best Employers Newsweek Forbes magazine Disability Equality Index Dow Jones Sustainability Index, North America 100 percent score Global corporate sustainability index Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index Corporate Equality Index Top 15 in leading companies Perfect score of 100 from the Human Rights Campaign Motor Transport Award 17th consecutive year Business Excellence Award, Whirlpool UK Global CR RepTrak Best Places to Work Top 100 ranking Great Places to Work (Canada) Seventh consecutive year CIO 100 Award Top Employer Europe International Data Group Top Employer Institute, in six countries 50 Best Companies to Sell For Best Employer for Diversity Selling Power magazine Forbes magazine Military-Friendly Employer EPA SmartWay Excellence Award ® Victory Media, Bronze Status (United States) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Fifth consecutive year; IF Design Award 2020 High Performer third consecutive year KitchenAid, Whirlpool, and Bauknecht brands Top 100 Best Corporate Citizens Corporate Responsibility magazine 79 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index with key indicators for our business Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Whirlpool Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services See Corporate Overview, page 4 102-3 Location of headquarters 2000 North M-63, Benton Harbor, Michigan 102-4 Location of operations Operations data in this report is from majority-owned subsidiaries, but excluding the manufacturing operations of Embraco, which was sold by Whirlpool Corporation in July 2019. Countries where Whirlpool Corporation operates and that are relevant to the topics covered in this report are: Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Russian Federation, Slovakia, South Africa, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Whirlpool Corporation is a publicly traded company, listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange 102-6 Markets served See Corporate Overview, page 4 102-7 Scale of the organization See Corporate Overview, pages 4-5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers See Social Scorecard, pages 45-46 The vast majority of our workforce are Whirlpool Corporation employees, with the exception of China where the majority of the workers are in-store promoters who perform selling services on our behalf. Our contract employee workforce is less than 4% of our total workforce; therefore it is an insignificant portion of our population. The data for this disclosure was compiled based on a combination of leveraging our internal HRIS and consulting with various Centers of Excellence within our HR function. There are no significant variations in the numbers reported in 102-8A, B, or C. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its In July 2019, we completed the divestiture of our Embraco compressor supply chain business. For more information, please see our 2019 Annual Report. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Whirlpool Corporation’s Global Policy on Environment, Health, and Safety points to maintaining high environmental standards by identifying aspects, threats, and opportunities, and the conservation of natural resources, waste minimization, and prevention of pollution. We manage our operations and develop products according to our capabilities, with a commitment to avoid negative impacts on the environment. We apply the precautionary principle where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage to the environment, acting according to our capabilities to prevent risks. 102-12 External initiatives See Our Commitments, page 15 102-13 Membership of associations Whirlpool Corporation’s main memberships of industry associations are held with APPLiA, AHAM and ELETROS. 80 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See CEO Message, pages 6-7 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior See Corporate Overview and Our Purpose, pages 4 and 11 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics See Global Compliance & Ethics Program, pages 70-71 102-18 Governance structure See A Revised ESG Framework, page 10 Proxy Statement 102-19 Delegating authority See A Revised ESG Framework, page 10 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, See A Revised ESG Framework, page 10. The ESG Task Force environmental and social topics members report directly to the highest governance body. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Proxy Statement and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body See Board of Directors, page 66 Proxy Statement 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Proxy Statement governance body 102-25 Conflicts of Interest Proxy Statement Integrity Manual Corporate Governance Guidelines and Policies 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting See Board Oversight of Our ESG Strategy, page 66 purpose, values and strategy 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance See Board Oversight of Our ESG Strategy, page 66 body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, See Board Oversight of Our ESG Strategy, page 66 environmental and social impacts 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in See Board Oversight of Our ESG Strategy, page 66 sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies See Compensation Policies, page 67 Additional details on our Board of Directors compensation, and our executive compensation policies and programs can be found in our Proxy Statement as filed with the SEC. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration See Proxy Statement, page 35 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 50.38% 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Majority-owned entities are included. statements Form 10-K, Exhibit 21 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 102-47 List of material topics See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 81 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 102-48 Restatements of information The base year for emissions is now 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. 102-49 Changes in reporting The Materiality Assessment was redone in 2019, so the material topics and Materiality Matrix has changed from last year. This is done to reflect changing stakeholder priorities and impacts to the business. 102-50 Reporting period 2019 (complete year) 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report See About This Report, page 16 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance See About This Report, page 16 with the GRI Standards 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. We have internal control systems in place for managing and reporting information and we work with a third-party consultant company in the process for defining the report content, including the application of the Materiality principle and the stakeholder engagement process. We are considering implementing an external assurance process in the future. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 103-2 The management approach and its components See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See Refreshed Materiality Assessment, pages 8-9 The effectiveness of our management approach to material topics is evaluated through the monitoring process of our goals, external benchmarkings and frameworks, and strategy guidance from external consultancy companies, which analyze our programs and initiatives. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Form 10-K, page 18 opportunities due to climate change 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender The ratio of the standard entry-level hourly wage to local minimum compared to local minimum wage wage varies from location to location around the world. This variation is necessary to comply with local market conditions and with wage minimums in countries or municipalities that set the minimums. Whirlpool Corporation complies with local minimum wage laws in each jurisdiction in which we operate. Whirlpool Corporation does not vary entry-level compensation by gender. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related See We Do Not Tolerate Corruption, page 74 to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about See Our Integrity Manual, page 69 anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and We had zero confirmed incidents of corruption in 2019. actions taken 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Form 10-K, pages 69 and 70 anti-trust and monopoly practices 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Metals (non-renewable): 1,305,194 Metric Tons (68.57%) Plastics (non-renewable): 598,287 Metric Tons (31.43%) Cardboard Packaging (renewable)1: 103,900 Metric Tons (54.52%) EPS Packaging (non-renewable): 48,480 Metric Tons (23.86%) Recycled Paper Packaging (renewable): 32,000 Metric Tons (16.79%) Film Packaging (non-renewable): 9,200 Metric Tons (4.83%) 1. The  recycled content in our cardboard packaging vary from 25% to 100%, depending on the region. Note: these data are estimated based on engineering and sourcing estimates. 82 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 The disclosure includes renewable and non-renewable sources of energy. 302-3 Energy intensity See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 The disclosure considers energy consumption within the organization and the denominator is the total number of products manufactured in 2019. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See Energy Management, page 33 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 and services See Energy Management, page 33 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource We use the WRI Aqueduct tool suggested by CDP Water to analyze our water impacts and sites with the highest water risk. This information informs future priorities for action and water-related projects. The Aqueduct tool is a model based on the location of company locations rather than current water use or water trends. We have taken steps to include the current state and trends at our sites in our analysis to focus our efforts on the sites where we can have the largest impact. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts See Environmental Scorecard, page 21 303-3 Water withdrawal See Environmental Scorecard, page 21 See Water Efficiency, page 36 303-4 Water discharge See Environmental Scorecard, page 21 See Water Efficiency, page 36 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See GHG Emissions, page 33 No gases were excluded from the calculation. The baseline year is 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. Emissions Factors are from IPCC. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 The baseline year is 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. Emissions Factors are from IEA. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See GHG Emissions, page 33 The baseline year is 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. Emissions Factors are from IEA. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See GHG Emissions, page 33 Denominator is production. No gases were excluded from the calculation. The baseline year is 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See GHG Emissions, page 33 No gases were excluded from the calculation. The baseline year is 2016 based on the SBTi methodology. 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination See Environmental Scorecard, page 21 See Water Efficiency, page 36 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method See Environmental Scorecard, page 19 See Achieving Zero Waste to Landfill, page 37 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using See We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically, page 75 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply See We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically, page 75 chain and actions taken 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover See Social Scorecard, page 46 83 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Whirlpool Corporation’s compensation and benefits philosophy supports the business strategy by attracting, motivating and retaining top talent by being market competitive, aligning rewards to both individual and company performance, and remaining flexible to support changing business needs. In every country we provide life insurance, disability coverage, and parental leave. In coordination with each country’s health care system, and in addition to any required local health care participation, we may provide additional benefits based on the market competitiveness in that country. We meet all local regulations related to benefits 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding In any jurisdiction where there is a legally mandated notice we comply operational changes with all local laws and requirements. Whirlpool Corporation also provides severance where applicable based on local law and or company policy. 403-1 Occupational health and safety management See Occupational Health & Safety, pages 50-53 system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and See Occupational Health & Safety, page 51 incident investigation 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety See Workforce Development & Engagement, page 48 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked See Occupational Health & Safety, page 51 by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and See Occupational Health & Safety, page 50 safety management system All our workers are covered by the occupational health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries See Occupational Health & Safety, page 50 Whirlpool Corporation does not draw a distinction between regular employee hours worked and temporary employee hours worked. Temporary employees or “contract” employees are employees who are employed by another employer but supervised on a day-to-day basis by a Whirlpool Corporation employee. Therefore, the total number of employee hours worked (140,371,368) is comprised of both Whirlpool Corporation employees and non-employees supervised by a Whirlpool Corporation employee. The only workers who are not included in this disclosure are contractors and contract workers who work (temporarily) at a Whirlpool Corporation operation and are not supervised by a Whirlpool Corporation employee, but instead by a member of his/her own organization. 403-10 Work-related ill health See Occupational Health & Safety, page 50 Only workers who are not supervised by a Whirlpool employee are not included in Whirlpool Injury and Illness records. This would include contractors executing a temporary project at a Whirlpool location that are supervised by their employer. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee See Workforce Development & Engagement, pages 48-49 Training is offered at Whirlpool Corporation to all employees based on development needs and company requirements regardless of race, gender, and ethnicity. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and See Workforce Development & Engagement, pages 48-49 transition assistance programs Severance and job placement services and transition assistance are available on an ad hoc basis in the U.S. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular See Everyday Performance Excellence, page 49 performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees See Board of Directors, page 66 See Social Scorecard, page 46 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of See Whirlpool Corporation At-A-Glance, page 5 women to men 84 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix GRI Content Index Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective We had 67 internal incidents of which 28 were substantiated and actions taken we took corrective actions. We also had 21 external cases opened, of which 9 closed. 100% of incidents are reviewed by Whirlpool Corporation's legal and employee relations teams as a part of our standard process. No findings of wrongdoing have been determined for the remaining incidents. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Whirlpool Corporation respects the rights of its employees to associate freedom of association and collective bargaining with whom they choose. When employees properly elect a trade union, may be at risk we bargain in good faith with that union. We do not believe that violations or significant risks exist either at any operation, regardless of country or geographic region. The Company employs experts who understand compliance with laws related to association and collective bargaining. Those experts work within the business to ensure compliance, including providing periodic training. 408-1 and Operations and suppliers at significant risk for See We Believe in Global Human Rights, page 73 409-1 incidents of child labor, forced or compulsory See Global Ethics & Compliance, page 68 labour 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human See We Believe in Global Human Rights, page 73 rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies See Our Integrity Manual, page 69 or procedures Whirlpool Corporation expects all employees to respect human rights across the globe and offers appropriate training tailored to specific locations and local laws and regulations 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, See Local Communities, page 57 impact assessments and development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using See We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically, page 75 social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and See We Expect Our Suppliers to Conduct Business Ethically, page 75 actions taken 415-1 Political contributions In 2019, $154,000 in political contributions were made. No in-kind political contributions were made in 2019. https://www.whirlpoolcorp.com/us-political-contributions/ 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of See We Design and Manufacture Safe and High-Quality Products product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the We have not identified any non-compliances based on internal health and safety impacts of products and search conducted. services 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Form 10-K, pages 69 and 70 social and economic area 85 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix Sustainability Accounting Standards Board The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) connects businesses and investors on the financial impacts of sustainability. Our 2019 Sustainability Report marks the first time that Whirlpool has reported to the SASB framework against the Consumer Goods Sector—Appliances Manufacturing Standards. SASB—SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD Consumer Goods Sector—Appliance Manufacturing Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics: Unit of Topic Accounting Metric Category Measure Code Response Number of (1) recalls issued Quantitative Number CG-AM-250a.1 2 voluntary recalls issued in 2019, with a and (2) total units recalled total of 565k units that were subject to these recalls. No involuntary recalls were issued. Discussion of progress to Discussion n/a CG-AM-250a.2 Product Safety and Quality identify and manage safety and Analysis Product Safety risks associated with the use of its products Total amount of monetary Quantitative Reporting CG-AM-250a.3 $5.6M losses as a result of legal currency proceedings associated with product safety Percentage of eligible Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AM-410a.1 44% (United States only) products by revenue certified by revenue to the Energy Star program (Excludes licensed products and products without an Energy Star label) Percentage of eligible Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AM-410a.2 0% in 2019, due to competing retailer products by revenue certified by revenue sustainability labels and lack of usage to an Association of Home in market. Appliance Manufacturers Product Life Cycle (AHAM) sustainability Environmental standard Impacts Description of efforts to Discussion n/a CG-AM-410a.3 Product Life Cycle and End of Life manage products’ end-of-life and Analysis impacts Annual production Quantitative Number of CG-AM-000.A 67,405 (in thousands) units — 86 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT Appendix Additional Financial Information Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Certain statements contained in this report, and other written and oral statements made from time to time by us or on our behalf do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may contain forwardlooking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. As such, they are considered “forward-looking statements” which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “possible,” “plan,” “predict,” “forecast,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “believe,” “may impact,” “on track,” and similar words or expressions. This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Whirlpool”) that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding Whirlpool Corporation’s emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and other environmental targets, external ESG commitments, and operational strategies. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool Corporation’s forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers, and the impact of the changing retail environment, including direct-to-consumer sales; (2) Whirlpool Corporation’s ability to maintain or increase sales to significant trade customers and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) Whirlpool Corporation’s ability to maintain its reputation and brand image; (4) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, and cost control objectives, and to leverage its global operating platform, and accelerate the rate of innovation; (5) Whirlpool Corporation’s ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (6) acquisition and investment-related risks, including risks associated with our past acquisitions, and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets; (7) risks related to our international operations, including changes in foreign regulations, regulatory compliance and disruptions arising from political, legal and economic instability; (8) information technology system failures, data security breaches, data privacy compliance, network disruptions, and cybersecurity attacks; (9) product liability and product recall costs; (10) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (11) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (12) the impact of labor relations; (13) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (14) Whirlpool Corporation’s ability to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (15) impacts from goodwill impairment and related charges; (16) triggering events or circumstances impacting the carrying value of our long-lived assets; (17) inventory and other asset risk; (18) the uncertain global economy and changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products; (19) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and postretirement benefit plans; (20) changes in LIBOR, or replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate; (21) litigation, tax, and legal compliance risk and costs, especially if materially different from the amount we expect to incur or have accrued for, and any disruptions caused by the same; (22) the effects and costs of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; and (23) changes in the legal and regulatory environment including environmental, health and safety regulations, and taxes and tariffs. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, and investors are advised to review disclosures in our filings with the SEC. It is not possible to foresee or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. Therefore, investors should not consider the foregoing factors to be an exhaustive statement of all risks, uncertainties, or factors that could potentially cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements. 87 Whirlpool Corporation | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY RE PORT
