2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT VISION MISSION VALUES To build world-class businesses that We will partner with our host Leadership are catalysts for development in the communities to provide a Sustainability communities we serve consistently high standard of Innovation service to our customers, look Accountability after the welfare of our employees Integrity and deliver sustainable returns Hard Work to our shareholders, at all times upholding the highest standards of corporate governance in all our businesses CO N T E N T S 2 An Overview of Our Business 4 Our Board’s Vision for SM’s Sustainability 6 Our President’s Report on Our Sustainability Progress 9 Our Financial Management Strategy for Growth 10 Our Value Creation Story 12 SM’s Path to Sustainable Growth 18 Focusing on What Matters 22 Driving Meaningful Performance Our People in Our Dynamic World Our Green Responsibility The Communities We Serve 32 Sharing the Value We Generate SM Retail | Transforming the Philippine Retail Landscape THE SM STORE | Providing Excellent Stakeholder Experience SM Markets | A Bonus for the Filipino Family SM Prime | The Defining Difference of Resilience SMDC | Redefining Urban Living BDO | Finding Creative Ways Towards Financial Inclusion China Bank | 100 Years of Sustainable Banking Relationships 52 Together Towards a Sustainable Philippines UNGC – GRI Sustainability Summit 54 Our Governance Culture 58 In Pursuit of Continuous Improvement About this Report | GRI Content Index 2 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T An Overview of Our Business SM Investments Corporation (SM) is one of the largest Philippine conglomerates that is invested in market leading businesses in retail, property and banking. It also invests in ventures that can capture high growth opportunities in the emerging Philippine economy. Our businesses serve as catalysts for development in the communities we serve and create longterm shared value for all our stakeholders. PHP1.26tn 2019 Year-End Market Capitalization Percent Ownership 77% 50% 45% 23% SM Retail SM Prime BDO China Bank 26% 30% 34% 63% Belle Corp. 2GO Atlas Mining Philippines Urban Living Solutions, Inc. (PULS) 95% 34% 34% 35% Neo Buildings CityMall Goldilocks GrabPay Our Equity Investments A developer of premium One of the largest tourism and leisure producers of copper destinations in the concentrate in the Philippines Philippines PULS is a leading developer The largest integrated and operator of urban supply chain enterprise dormitory spaces under in the Philippines the MyTown brand S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 3 Our Core Businesses The country’s leading retailer with a nationwide One of the largest integrated property developers portfolio of department stores, supermarkets and in Southeast Asia that develops innovative and specialty stores sustainable lifestyle cities comprising malls, residences, offices, hotels and convention centers TOTAL NUMBER TOTAL NUMBER OF STORES 19% 38% OF DEVELOPMENTS Contribution to Contribution to SMIC's Net Income SMIC's Net Income 65 74 7 THE SM STORE Malls in the Malls in PHP366.79bn PHP1.22tn Philippines China Revenue Market Capitalization 52 70 SM Hypermarket PHP118.31bn Residential Projects 58 Revenue 12 SM Supermarket Office Buildings 201 60 8 Savemore WalterMart Hotels 754 1,609 4 3 Alfamart Specialty Stores Convention Trade Centers Halls The largest bank in the Philippines in terms of Incorporated in 1920 as the first privately owned market capitalization, consolidated resources, local commercial bank in the Philippines assets under management and capital TOTAL NUMBER OF BRANCHES PHP692.22bn 43% PHP67.28bn TOTAL NUMBER OF BRANCHES Market Capitalization Consolidated BDO Market Capitalization and China Bank 1,434 2 Contribution to 631 Philippines Foreign PHP119.9bn SMIC’s Net Income PHP26.1bn Philippines Net Interest Income Net Interest Income 4,466 PHP60.6bn PHP8.4bn 1,002 ATMs ATMs Other Income Other Income 4 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR BOARD'S VISION FOR SM'S SUSTAINABILITY Dear Stakeholders: The responsibility of corporates to under these principles and we manage their businesses sustainably welcome this trend. and for the greater good of all their stakeholders has increased Our long-standing vision is to in recent years. Customers, build world-class businesses that employees, investors, regulators are catalysts for development and business partners have high in the communities we serve. expectations that leading companies Our sustainability principles, will be responsible and follow an our corporate policies, how we integrated approach to running their have embedded them in our businesses and creating shared operations and how we report them value. At SM, we have long operated transparently are all aligned with this. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 5 We help address the unmet needs of millions of Filipinos and their communities, driving national development and creating value. Building World Class Serving as a Catalyst Compact (UNGC), of which we were Businesses for Development particularly honored to co-host the first joint UNGC-Global Reporting We recognize that SM has a We carry the legacy of our Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Summit significant role in the Philippines due founder Henry Sy, Sr. that social in the Philippines. to its extensive assets, footprint and development and business growth the number of people we touch every go hand in hand. Our developments As we carry on in our sustainability day. The group is responsible for must continue to energize local journey, we commit to making real creating over 157,000 jobs this year communities and advance social concerted efforts across the SM throughout our businesses, provides inclusion. We make sure that we group to create significant impact opportunities for entrepreneurs do this responsibly throughout towards sustainable development. through our supply chain and our employment practices, supply serves millions of customers. As we chain management and resource continue to grow, we bring our goods utilization. Through our foundations, and services to new parts of the we also promote social development country, build modern lifestyle city by providing better access to JOSE T. SIO developments and create inclusive education, healthcare, food security Chairman access to financial markets. All and shelter wherever we are together, we help address the unmet present. needs of millions of Filipinos and their communities, driving national We will pursue our vision in line development and creating value. with the principles of our founder. TERESITA T. SY-COSON In doing so, we are aware that we Vice-Chairperson Furthermore, we ensure that also have a role as a leader and our businesses are built on good an advocate in driving sustainable corporate governance practices development in our country. adhering to global standards and That being so, last year we signed advancing our compliance to the on to uphold the Ten Principles HENRY T. SY, JR. ASEAN Corporate Governance of the United Nations Global Vice-Chairman Scorecard initiative. 6 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR PRESIDENT'S REPORT ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS In 2019, we made significant income by 10% to PHP12.5 billion progress, both as a growing as we opened 412 new stores, 68% business and as a responsibleMESSAGE FROM of which are outside Metro Manila. THE CHAIRMAN sustainability partner, particularly in areas that are most material to Our Property group, SM Prime, posted revenue growth of 14% to our ability to create stakeholder PHP118.3 billion and net income value. growth of 18% to PHP38.1 billion. While our Banking businesses Our business delivered PHP501.7 posted a 35% growth in net income billion in revenues, representing to PHP44.2 billion for BDO Unibank growth of 12% over 2018 and net and 24% to PHP10.1 billion for income growth of 20% to PHP44.6 China Bank, as we rolled out billion. Results were strong across branch expansion plans. all three of our core businesses. Our Retail business grew revenues Underpinning these strong results by 9% to PHP366.8 billion and net is our integrated thinking to S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 7 business sustainability: pursuing bank agents, making banking small and medium enterprise (SME) our customer-centric approach convenient for unbanked segments mall tenants also bounce back while addressing the unmet in the far-flung provinces of the faster, SM Prime launched the SM development needs of the Filipino Philippines. BDO was recognized Resilience Center in SM City Clark through our core businesses more at the Asian Banking and Finance which serves as a data storage equitable access to organized Awards in Singapore for this facility and a capacity building retailing for micro, small and breakthrough. center. To date, 1,627 SMEs have medium enterprises (MSMEs), availed of this complimentary inclusive financial products and The country faces rapid service. On a national scale, we services, and city developments urbanization with populations partnered with the National that support the national economic predicted to live increasingly Resilience Council in its “Adopt-aagenda. in cities in the next 20 years. City” campaign focusing on building Our residential group, led by local government units' capacity to First, we leveraged the synergies SM Development Corporation, mitigate climate risks. of our businesses, stimulating continued to meet the demand local economic activity wherever for quality urban housing options. Third, we promoted climatewe operated. This is reflected in the 24% increase friendly solutions across our in our residential revenue sales, operations. This year, we continued to build a demonstration that our model integrated lifestyle cities, anchored of redefining urban living spaces In all our developments, we on our mall developments that with larger common areas versus incorporate innovative urban serve as hubs for us to help individual spaces, is an effective solutions such as energy, water stimulate economic activity, and solution to meeting housing needs and waste management systems, complemented by our retail and while ensuring a good quality facilities promoting mobility and banking businesses. of life. smart space allocations to address the rising urbanization needs of the Our retail business continued to Second, we employed a holistic communities, while managing our develop its programs for MSMEs, approach to disaster risk impact on the environment. engaging them in organized reduction, building the resilience retailing and helping them be of our businesses and our At the center of our developments competitive alongside leading stakeholders. are our malls which take the lead brands. SM Markets’ in-house in sustainable operation practices brand, SM Bonus, serves as a With the Philippines facing an through the use of recycled platform for MSMEs to penetrate average of 20 typhoons a year, water to meet as much as 33.6% the retail market, with 120 of our businesses and stakeholders of our requirements, proper its 122 partner-suppliers being are at substantial risk. We have characterization, segregation and MSMEs. Moreover, we continue an enterprise risk management disposal of our waste, supporting to bring daily grocery shopping program in place and make the use of environmentally convenience and small business targeted investments in building friendly refrigerants for chillers opportunities into neighborhoods the resilience of both our and promoting renewable energy through our minimart format, businesses and our communities. through our rooftop solar panels Alfamart, which opened 228 new which have a total capacity of stores this year. The 10% capital expenditure we 9.2 MW. allocate for disaster resilience Our bank, BDO, strives to innovate enables our malls to continue Through BDO, we have also funded to develop financial inclusion operating during times of PHP43.4 billion in renewable with a ground-breaking “Cashcalamities, providing services energy projects through its Agad” program, allowing bank and relief efforts to our host Sustainable Finance Framework transactions through registered communities. In order to help our aligned with the ASEAN Green 8 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Underpinning these strong results is our integrated thinking to business sustainability. Bond Principles. These projects health center, the Butuan Medical To further strengthen our have a total installed capacity of Center in Butuan City, Mindanao. commitment to the UN Sustainable 2,168 MW and provide clean energy We also continued to provide Development Goals, we signed up to 1.9 million households per year. college and technical-vocational as a member of the United Nations scholarship grants to help the Global Compact (UNGC) and coFourth, we worked on building a youth attain gainful employment. hosted the UNGC-GRI Sustainability globally competitive workforce. Summit in Manila. The summit In addition, BDO Foundation brought together leading private We strive to be an employer of launched the largest financial and public sector agents to show choice, fostering an empowering literacy program in the country by best practices to build strong work culture where professionals incorporating financial education advocacy and action towards the can hone their skills, build fulfilling in the Philippine public school national development agenda. careers and find purposeful work. curriculum and extending trainings Aligned to the global human to teaching and non-teaching As our businesses continue to and labor principles of the personnel, using creative teaching grow, we uphold and increasingly United Nations Global Compact modules. This takes a long-term emphasize the principles of (UNGC), we uphold the principles approach to effecting change in transparency and accountability, of inclusion, diversity, fairness the country’s financial literacy and work to ensure economic and meritocracy, serving as an performance, which registers below value creation for all our relevant equal opportunity provider. This our Asian counterparts. stakeholders. Going forward, we year, we were placed among the will utilize our whole network Forbes Global 2000 World's Best Lastly, good governance is engaging our customers, suppliers Regarded Companies 2019 for embedded in our culture. and employees, capitalizing on the second consecutive year and our nationwide footprint, making we have also been ranked among We strive for compliance to the targeted social investments the Forbes Global 2000 World's ASEAN Corporate Governance and leveraging our brand to Best Employers 2019 for the third Scorecard (ACGS), having ten of our drive greater impact and create consecutive year. companies recognized in the ACGS meaningful long-term value for initiative this year. everyone we touch, in hopes of Fifth, we continued to invest in achieving a more sustainable social development. In addition to this, we were future. included as part of the This year, we turned over our 100th FTSE4Good Index Series, earning school building donation, the Looc a seal of approval for our strong Elementary School in Nasugbu, environmental, social and FREDERIC C. DYBUNCIO Batangas and our 160th public governance practices. President and CEO S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 9 Our Financial Management Strategy For Growth At SM, we have diverse businesses opportunities to further engage This allows us to invest in new that each require their own our customers and deliver higher businesses apart from the core financial strategy. The Property growth and lower costs. while paying regular dividends to and Banking Groups need capital our shareholders. This is outlined as they pursue their growth The Philippines remains in our Economic Value Table below. agenda. The Retail Group on the underserved in our core other hand employs a capital light business sectors, providing Overall, we implement an model to keep costs variable and enormous opportunities for us integrated financial strategy across enable them to navigate through to develop modern retailing, our businesses – a strategy that is a competitive and low margin property and banking markets aimed at growth, that is flexible in environment. in underpenetrated regions. the face of market developments Economic and demographic growth and that benefits from the interWe look at each of our businesses remains high, especially outside relatedness of our core businesses. on a stand-alone financial basis. Metro Manila, and we believe this By adopting a long-term We use sector-specific metrics to will be sustained over the longapproach, we are able to meet our measure performance and validate term. As we pursue growth, all financial requirements, fulfill our that their financing plans are businesses are guided to maintain stakeholder objectives and deliver appropriate to capital expenditure a strong balance sheet that our business goals. Our financial needs and financial capacity. In provides financial flexibility. At the strategy helps us to remain strong, this way, they remain competitive end of 2019, the Group’s Net Debt sustainable, responsible and a and relevant in the markets they to Total Equity ratio stood at 36:64. leading player in all our markets for operate in. At the same time, we The Group’s debt profile is skewed the long-term. encourage our group businesses to towards longer term fixed rates to work together, using cross-sector reduce volatility amidst uncertainty. 2016-2019 Economic Performance (Figures in PHP millions) SM Investments Corporation and Subsidiaries 2016 2017 2018 2019 Economic Value Generated 367, 205 400,345 453,900 506,011 Economic Value Distributed 333,789 366,098 412,832 453,706 Operating Costs 269,510 290,795 328,108 355,292 Employee Wages and Benefits 18,838 20,393 24,911 31,070 Payments to Providers of Capital 26,170 31,420 34,249 40,705 Payments to Government 18,857 23,026 24,899 25,933 Community Investments 414 464 665 706 Economic Value Retained 33,416 34,247 41,068 52,305 10 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our Value Creation Story Our Valued Resources How We Create Shared Value CUSTOMER FOCUSED, Our Brand BRAND ENHANCING INNOVATIONS Our passion to anticipate the evolving needs of our customers is our driver in pursuing innovative solutions, providing products and services that cater to our diverse customers across all our businesses. Our Relationship with Our Customers OUR BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM We optimize the value of our businesses by harnessing the synergy of our business Our People ecosystem, providing access to both financial and non-financial resources that amplify business growth and collective positive impact. Our Developments DYNAMIC WORLD OF OUR PEOPLE Our diverse, agile and innovative network of teams enable us to capture opportunities and drive our growth. Our Connection to Our Communities RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Our Natural Our holistic approach to corporate Resources responsibility allows us to create impact in environmental sustainability and social development at scale. Our Supply Chain Network GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our commitment to practice prudent judgment in the management of our financial Our Financial and non-financial capitals provides a stable Resources resource and capital base. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 11 We harness the synergies of our businesses to create shared value for all our stakeholders. How We Distribute The Value We Generate We generate value for all our stakeholders manifesting in both financial and non-tangible benefits. Product Delivery to Our Customers We deliver quality, affordable and suitable products to our customers in PHP506bn a responsible way. Total Economic Value Generated Purposeful Work for Our People We provide a conducive environment for our people to harness their talents, develop their skills and find a meaningful career path. These skills allow our people to thrive amidst rapidly changing markets. PHP453.7bn Total Economic Social and Financial Inclusion Value Distributed for Our Communities We find innovative ways to promote social and financial inclusion, providing opportunities for entrepreneurship and access to basic social services. 78.3% 6.8% 9.0% Environmental Responsibility Total operating Total employee Total payments to costs wages and benefits providers of capital for Our Natural Habitats We find innovative ways to minimize our operational impact to the 5.7% 0.2% Total payments to Total community environment and help protect and government investments conserve our natural resources and habitats. Active Engagement with the Global Sustainable Development Agenda PHP52.3bn We mobilize our resources in upholding Total Economic regulatory standards and in pursuing Value Retained the sustainable development goals. 12 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T THE THE IMPACT IMPACT WE CREATE WE CREATE 13 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Job Creation SM’s PATH TO #183 Forbes Global 2000 World's Best #172 Forbes Global 2000 World's Best Regarded 157,288 employed in 2019 SUSTAINABLE Employers 2019 Companies 2019 GROWTH We Provide Inclusive Economic Opportunities Conservation and Preservation of More than Natural Environs and Biodiversity 3 3.4M tree saplings marine protected planted areas monitored 122 bird species protected in 10 hectares of Hamilo Coast estate and mangroves Carmen Copper Mine Site preserved 12,475 college and 8,506 technical-vocational scholars supported with graduates We Create Positive 14 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Inclusive Supply Chains Innovative Banking Products and Services 10,000 19,153 registered current tenants of 21.9M+ 2M transactions made new BDO checking PHP51.5bn outstanding BDO SM Retail suppliers SM Supermalls through and savings account SME loans BDO’s CASH AGAD holders in 2019 1,500 MSMEs engaged by THE SM STORE China Bank BDO Responsible Green Operations Finance 55% of Atlas Mining's total 33.6% of SM Prime's total PHP43.4bn total BDO funding for renewable water consumption in 2019 was recycled equivalent to water consumption in 2019 was recycled equivalent to 9.2 MW capacity of solar panels energy projects with 2,168 MW 3,376 2,031 total installed capacity installed in SM Supermalls Olympic-size Olympic-size swimming pools swimming pools Mall of ASIA We Promote Environmental Responsibility Holistic Community Development 8.8M patients served through Promoting Social Inclusion rehabilitated health centers to date 64,076 students beneﬁtted 1.2M patients served 36,393 participants for the Happy from public school through Walk for Down Syndrome buildings to date 255 medical missions 26,903 farmers trained and the Angel's Walk for Autism in 2019 conducted to date to date Community Impact S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 15 Infrastructure Building and Rehabilitation 156 public school 258 health centers 85 community buildings with renovated health centers 635 renovated with PhilHealth TB-DOTS* classrooms accreditation constructed We Facilitate Development Integrated Disaster Risk Reduction Lifestyle Cities and Management 4 convention 8 hotels 70 residential 74 malls in the 5 integrated 1,627 Philippines SMEs availed of free data centers projects lifestyle cities storage service of the built SM Resilience Center Contribution to National Development Goals PHP25.9bn SMIC taxes paid in 2019 PHP62.1bn loans disbursed by BDO in the past 5 years for national projects, airports and road networks We Drive Sustainable Growth *Tuberculosis Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 16 1,000 houses turned over by 12,659 SHDC* socialized SM Cares for Yolanda housing units made Housing Project available to the market 10% 37 of CapEx allocated to SM malls are Business incorporate disaster Continuity Management resilient features System (BCMS) certiﬁed Contribution to Global Sustainability Goals Co-host Signatory Signatory UNGC-GRI Regional UN Global Compact UN ARISE Philippines Sustainability Summit *Summerhills Home Development Corporation S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 17 SM'S PATH TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 18 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Focusing on What Matters With SM’s footprint today, we recognize the critical role we play and the responsibilities we have in our journey towards creating a more sustainable way of life for everyone. Since 2015, we established an SM Group-wide Steering Committee and an SM Group-wide Technical Working Group (TWG), reporting directly to the Executive Committee of the Board. The Group-wide Sustainability Steering The SM Group-wide Sustainability Steering Committee Committee serves as the primary proponent of sustainability and ESG Board Oversight SMIC Executive Committee (environmental, social and governance) principles and roadmap. It has oversight over the strategic objectives, Group-wide Steering Frederic C. DyBuncio, President and CEO performance and outcomes of the Committee Chairman SM Investments Corporation implementation of the sustainability road map. The Group-wide TWG Secretariat and Koleen D. Palaganas, VP Sustainability is tasked to create a sustainability TWG Coordinator SM Investments Corporation road map, implement and monitor Sustainability Team Leads in coordination the company's sustainability impact with various departments such as Human and present recommendations to Group-wide Technical Resources, Facilities, Supply Chain and Working Group Members advance the company's sustainability Procurement, Compliance, Governance, performance and agenda. Finance and Corporate Communications Our Framework VISION MISSION FOCUS PERFORMANCE RESULT Create and deliver value to our business • Inclusive Supply Chain partners and INCLUSIVE • Job Creation and shareholders ECONOMIC Career Development OPPORTUNITES Opportunities Provide high quality • Innovative Products products and standard of and Services service to our customers Integrate disaster • Disaster Risk Reduction To build ENVIRONMENTAL and Resiliency Sustained Growth resilience and world-class sustainable practices RESPONSIBILITY • Climate Change businesses that in our operations Action Plan Shared Value are catalysts for Generation development in the Look after the welfare • Performance Positive Impact communities of our employees Management System on Society and the POSITIVE SOCIAL • Customer Service Program we serve Environment Partner in the • Education Programs IMPACT development of host • Health Programs communities • SM Cares Social Programs • Leadership Developement Uphold highest • SM Code of Ethics standard of corporate GOOD CORPORATE • Enterprise Risk governance GOVERNANCE Management • Human and Labor Rights • Anti-corruption Program S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 19 Our Materiality 102-46, 102-47 High Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions Medium Low Low Medium High Significance of impact to the economy, environment and society Material Topics Boundaries Description Inclusive Economic Opportunities Within SM, host How we deliver sustained returns to our shareholders, create communities, business Economic Performance economic value to our stakeholders and contribute to the partners, government, economic development of the country investors Within SM, customers, How we make the SM brand accessible and inclusive to a broad Market Presence business partners and diverse market Inclusive Supply Chain Within SM, business How we provide opportunities for MSMEs to be competitive in (MSME Inclusion) partners organized retailing How we protect the rights, welfare and dignity of our employees Employee Rights and through decent working conditions, fair compensation and Welfare benefits and employee engagement programs Employee Training, Development How we develop talents, recognize contribution and and Career Pathing Within SM achievements and provide long-term professional development How we ensure the health and well-being of our employees, Occupational Health and Safety providing adequate health and insurance benefits Diversity, Equal Opportunities How we provide inclusiveness in our manpower selection and and Job Creation employ equal remuneration regardless of gender, race or creed Positive Social Impact How we protect the data of our customers, look after their safety, Customer Rights and Welfare Within SM listen to their feedback and engage them in initiatives for social good Within SM and host How we support community development through social programs in Community Involvement communities education, healthcare, livelihood, shelter and disaster relief support Environmental Responsibility Within SM, business Sustainable Operations and How we efficiently utilize resources and minimize our impact on partners and host Business Continuity the environment communities Good Corporate Governance How we promote good governance in our policies, practices and Leadership, Policy and Within SM code of ethics and how we comply with all relevant laws and Due Diligence regulations 20 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Progressing with Our Commitments 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Our People They drive performance, propel innovation and stir ways for SM to create shared value as a natural by-product of everything we do, wherever we are present. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress Performance-based Economic compensation and Internal awareness campaigns Performance We maintain a balance of openness and benefits professionalism and create a motivating working environment. Our engagement Targeted benefits Broader employee benefits Market Presence styles are conducive to various throughout SM network cross-businesses personality types. We engage them Signatory of the UNGC through surveys, dialogues, meetings, Employee Rights Uphold their rights and upholding human and labor volunteerism activities and performance and Welfare dignity of labor rights assessments and rewards. Occupational Health Focused Health and ISO 45001 in multiple business and Safety Wellness programs units Our Business Partners, Suppliers and Service Providers They complete the value chain of how we deliver our mission to provide excellent customer experience across all SM businesses. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress We see our suppliers as long-term partners for mutual growth. This Ethical and transparent Corporate motivates us to deal with them with supplier and service SM Code of Ethics Governance the highest ethical business standards engagement process through our vendor selection process, get feedback through surveys, engage them in capacity building programs and Increased awareness campaign demonstrate our appreciation of their Ecosystem for MSMEs on how MSMEs can join SM product’s positive performance from Market Presence to thrive in organized various programs like the Customer's retailing SM Resilience Center Choice Awards. Our Investors, Shareholders and Providers of Capitals They are SM’s providers of capital essential for us to drive expansion with expectations for SM’s delivery of sustained returns and generated shared value. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress We provide accurate and relevant Economic Deliver sustained returns 12% Revenue Growth and information for our investors to make Performance and generated shared 20% Net Income Growth informed decisions through Annual value Stockholders' Meetings, investor Uphold highest standards roadshows, analyst briefings and ESG Corporate Ten of SM's companies are listed of good corporate ratings and reports. Governance in the ACGS Initiative governance Our Media Partners They are our partners in circulating accurate reports about SM’s activities that are of relevant concern to the general public be it in business, lifestyle, social development, sustainability or the economy. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress Economic Accurate and timely Press Release of Quarterly We invite them to all our public events, Performance reporting Performance provide press kits, access to interviews and engage with them in fun activities. Engagement in lifestyle Market Presence Media presence in mall events events S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 21 Our Customers and Clients Their evolving needs and our objective to deliver beyond their expectations are what drive us to innovate our products and services and find more convenient ways to deliver them at scale. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress Our customers come first. We aim to Ensure customer data Customer Rights Developing on digital avenues be their partner of choice in providing privacy and excellent and Welfare for shopping convenience products and services that meet their customer service evolving needs and their aspired lifestyles. We find creative ways to engage them through customer Engagement through satisfaction programs and other social Provide social and SM Cares, SM Foundation, Community development programs where they environmental customer BDO Foundation, The Share Involvement can experience the SM brand in more engagement programs Movement and other Corporate meaningful ways. Responsibility Programs Our Community Partners They embrace SM as part of their daily lives, looking to experience the shared value we generate to build stronger communities. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress We share their vision of better standards of living, more equitable access to Targeted social PHP706M of Community basic social services and empowered Community investments in education, Investments in 2019 communities. We work with them on Involvement/CSR healthcare, food security 100th school building needs assessment analysis through and shelter 160th public health center formal and informal dialogues. Our Sustainable Development Partners and other Non-Government Organizations Local and International Sustainable Development Organizations help augment and align SM’s social development and sustainability agenda to national and international goals. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress We engage them as program partners in Community Program partnership DepEd, DOH, DSWD, BSP, WWF our social development programs while Involvement engagement partnerships we align and collaborate with global sustainable development players in Diversity, Equal Uphold human and SM is a signatory of the UN driving the global goals. Opportunities and labor rights Global Compact Job Creation Our Government Regulators Our regulators are our partners in upholding the highest standards of ethics and integrity in the way we do business. Creative Ways We Engage Them Their Concerns Our Commitment Our Progress Ten of SM's companies are listed in the ACGS Initiative Full compliance to We support their mission of raising the Corporate regulations and active All SM publicly listed bar of transparency and accountability by Governance participation in multicompanies issue annual participating in stakeholder consultations stakeholder consultations Sustainability Reports aligned and providing avenues that facilitate to SEC guidelines and GRI public-private sector dialogues. Standards Diversity, Equal Full compliance to labor SM is a signatory of the UN Opportunities and laws Global Compact Job Creation 22 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 23 DRIVING MEANINGFUL PERFORMANCE 24 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our People in Our Dynamic World With our company having diverse businesses growing at an accelerated pace, it is critical for us to build a highly dynamic working culture. That is why we go beyond expectations in providing an empowering and nurturing working environment for our people to enable them to perform at their best, contribute to the company’s growth objectives, develop our leadership succession potential and ultimately find their life’s work purpose with us. Total Headcount 0.5% 0.5% SM Markets 1.0% 0.9% 0.3% 0.3% 1.6% 1.5% BDO 0.02% 0.02% 2.3% 1.8% THE SM STORE 6.4% 6.2% 25.2% 25.9% SM Retail Affiliates 8.4% 8.6% SM Prime China Bank 12.3% 12.4% 2018 2019 2GO Total Headcount Total Headcount Atlas Mining 151,709 157,288 Belle Corp. SM Retail (Parent) SMIC (Parent) 18.1% 17.3% SM Foundation 24.0% 24.5% We aim to create jobs wherever we operate, providing skills development and career growth opportunities. In all our businesses, we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that all our businesses are not complicit in any form of human rights abuse. By Gender By Employment Type and Gender Permanent 96,376 Fixed Term 152,093 5,195 36.6% Male Female 55,717 3,336 63.4% 1,859 Male Female S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 25 By Rank and Gender Rank and File Middle Management Senior Management 125,693 28,546 3,049 79,301 18,631 1,795 9,915 46,392 Male 1,254 Female By Age By Region 3.3% 0.5% 6.9% 11.3% 66.1% 44.8% NCR 30.6% Luzon Below 30 Visayas 30-50 Mindanao Above 50 36.5% Abroad Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining 102-41 We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In line with our commitment to international human and labor standards, we support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor and the promotion of equal opportunity, eliminating discrimination of any forms in respect of employment and occupation. 8.6% 48% 53.4% 14.8% 60.5% THE SM STORE BDO China Bank Belle Corp. Atlas Mining Employee Appraisal Training Hours 92.1% 4,234,110 hrs 26.9 hrs of eligible employees Total Training Hours Average Training were appraised Hours per employee 26 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our People Culture For a company as diverse as ours, we recognize that having a strong culture anchored on common values is essential for us to achieve concerted effort in creating shared value. As the parent company, we understand our role in cultivating a culture that develops leaders within our group who possess both the skills required for business growth and the values that promote the greater good of our stakeholders. We focus on key areas that are critical in shaping our culture to help us meet the needs of our dynamic business and create meaningful value for our people. Having a strong culture is no longer an option. Joann P. Hizon, VP for Human Resources SM Investments Corporation Balancing Supportive Growth and Effective Oversight In everything we do, we strive to achieve the right balance of empowering our people while maintaining effective oversight. This mirrors how we approach our role in supporting our businesses achieve their growth objectives while providing safeguards for good governance practices. Embedding the Entrepreneurial Spirit We provide a conducive environment for our people to engage in challenging projects while ensuring a safe environment for learning and development. By promoting a project management culture, we provide our people various assignments within our group, allowing us to incubate ideas and processes that lead to best practices, while grooming our people for higher leadership roles. We encourage open communication of ideas, motivating our people to be more engaged and do their best. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 27 Upholding the Principles of Equal Opportunity We protect the dignity of our people, look after their welfare and protect their rights. We promote fairness and the culture of meritocracy through appraisal systems and constructive discussions. We uphold the global principles of human and labor rights, actively demonstrating our commitment as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and promoting the culture of good governance and sustainability in our workplace, as exhibited in our policies and code of ethics. “When your employees are happy, they will thrive, and so will your company.” Joann P. Hizon, VP for Human Resources SM Investments Corporation Nurturing a Sense of Community We make every effort to provide our people with a sense of safety and well-being and create a fun and nurturing environment where our people can build supportive work relationships, promoting a sense of belonging where everyone looks out for each other. Working with a Larger Purpose We empower our people with opportunities to develop their full potential, try different roles and participate in community building activities so they can create meaningful experiences at work. We also celebrate their accomplishments and recognize their contributions to the company, appreciating their significance to the greater goal. In all this, we hope that our people will continue to choose us as their partner in achieving their life’s work purpose. 28 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our Green Responsibility We need to have a healthy environment in order for us to sustain the social and economic progress we are aspiring for. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives that promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies throughout SM businesses. We recognize the urgency of the climate change crisis. As such, we are working towards a concerted effort among our businesses to implement solutions to reduce our carbon footprint, conserve natural resources, protect biodiversity, help rehabilitate nature's balance and provide more sustainable operational approaches moving forward. Adhering to Proper Waste Management We adhere to the standards set by the Republic Act Disposal Method in kilograms 9003 or the Ecological Solid Waste Management Act, adopting a systematic, comprehensive and ecological Collected by Accredited Haulers 4,854,652 waste management program to ensure the protection Recycled or Sold to Recyclers 6,491,867 of public health and the environment through proper Composted 250,925 segregation, collection, transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid waste. Stored on-site 1,702 Reused 639 Solid Waste Generated Hazardous Waste in kilograms in kilograms Residuals 2,781,965 Used Oil 1,226,605 Busted Bulbs Recyclables 7,001,559 38,766 and Lamps Compostables 1,816,261 E-Waste 10,695 Responsible Use of Water Average Percentage SM Prime, our property group, installed Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) that treat and recycle water of Water Recycled for our non-potable operational water requirements. We strictly follow the guidelines of the Philippine Clean SM Prime 33.6% Atlas Mining 55% Water Act on effluent quality parameters set by DENR. By Water Source Total Water Consumption in million cubic meters 40.2% Surface Water 2019 38.6 54.9% Water utility 4.5% Groundwater/ 2018 39.1 provider Deep well 10 20 30 40 0.4% millions Water hauling S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 29 Managing Our Energy Consumption We implement energy efficiency programs that directly Another critical factor is our use of fuels and chemicals. help reduce our consumption and our emissions. We use diesel for our generators, while SM Supermalls SM Prime engaged an Energy Savings Company (ESCO) utilizes LPG for its food tenants’ requirements. which introduced EBASTM, a building management Meanwhile, our businesses utilize diesel, gasoline and enhancement system which allows remote and dynamic compressed natural gas for its company-owned vehicles. control of air-conditioning systems to ensure energy To ensure that 2GO's shipping vessels run on fuelefficiency in the malls. We also invested in renewable efficient engines, its fleet undergoes regular dry-docking. energy sources with 10 of our malls having rooftop solar energy panels with a 9.2 MW capacity. Fuel Consumption Electricity Consumption within the Organization within the Organization in million liters in million kilowatt-hours 2019 139 2019 1,878 2018 119 2018 1,791 30 60 90 120 150 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 millions millions Minimizing Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions* We aim to minimize our GHG emissions, doing our in MT CO2e share to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5ºC as we align with the Paris Agreement and 2,357,088 2019 adhere to RA8749 or the Clean Air Act standards. We 16.5% 57.8% 25.7% seek innovative solutions and technologies as part of our air quality management initiatives, in support of 2,287,957 the Integrated Air Quality Improvement Framework 2018 14.6% 56.6% 28.8% enacted by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 millions Scope 1 – Emissions arising from the use of diesel, gasoline, liquefied petroleum and compressed natural gas in facilities fully owned and controlled by the company including generator sets and company-owned vehicles Scope 2 – Emissions arising from our use of purchased electricity in facilities that are fully controlled and operated by the company Scope 3 – Emissions arising from sources that are neither owned nor controlled by the company such as third party transportation and use of sold or leased products, services and property *Calculated following the operational approach of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Moreover, Scope 2 emissions were computed using the 2015-2017 National Grid Emission Factors provided by the Department of Energy. 30 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T The Communities We Serve We serve our communities wherever SM is present, providing better access to education, health care, food security through farmer’s training and social inclusion. Aligned with the first four global goals, our programs aim to provide equitable access to basic needs which are essential to achieve zero poverty. We help Filipino youth achieve their dreams by We help families in our communities develop giving them better access to education through our sustainable farming techniques through our farmers scholarship and school building programs. training programs. Impact to Date Impact to Date 26,903 12,475 farmers 156 total number of scholars trained public school of which buildings with 4,764 7,711 217 635 are college are technicalfarmers training sessions conducted classrooms scholars vocational constructed scholars 2019 Accomplishment 2019 Accomplishment 3,633 3,350 farmers 15 total number of scholars trained public school buildings with of which 1,262 2,088 30 70 are college are technicalfarmers training classrooms scholars vocational sessions conducted constructed scholars S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 31 Business growth and social development go hand in hand. We help our communities enjoy better quality of We want SM to become a “Mall for All” – a place life by addressing their medical needs through our where everyone can feel at home, be safe, enjoy free medical missions and renovation of public and feel special. health centers and medical facilities. Impact to Date 2019 Accomplishment 27,280 258 255 participated in Angels’ Walk to raise health centers and medical missions awareness for autism medical facilities conducted serving renovated 1,175,771 patients 9,113 participated in Happy Walk to raise awareness for Down Syndrome 2019 Accomplishment 14,300 participated in Global Youth Summit 29 87 Program health centers and medical missions medical facilities conducted serving renovated 5,000 79,738 participated in patients Coastal Clean Up 32 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SHARING THE VALUE WE GENERATE S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 33 34 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Transforming the Philippine Retail Landscape With a nationwide footprint carrying 28* store brands in our portfolio, we are in a unique position to influence our suppliers and our customers, serving as the gatekeeper of the Philippine consumer market. We take on this role with great responsibility and genuinely want to make a difference to the millions we touch every day. 1 We build heritage store brands We built brands that have become part of the Filipino way of life and serve as platforms for local products to gain wider reach. For more than 60 years, the award-winning THE SM STORE has been the number one choice of Filipinos for their fashion essentials. Starting out as a shoe store in downtown Manila in 1958, it has grown to be the largest department store in the country with a wide range of products. We offer world-class holistic shopping with a complete range of merchandise and basic services at the most accessible, convenient and practical means. Kultura is the shop for all things Filipino. We showcase local artistry and craftsmanship, and sustainably made products from all over the Philippines for a unique shopping experience. *pertains only to Non-Food S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 35 2 We develop Filipino specialty store brands We develop Filipino specialty stores that display an array of local and international brands, showcasing distinct features and latest trends, meeting the niche market needs and unique interests of our discriminating customers. Baby Company emerged as a leading baby specialty store Toy Kingdom makes children's dreams come alive Home World brings color into your home Pet Express meets the needs Sports Central caters to of furry friends fitness enthusiasts 3 We are the gateway for international specialty store brands We provide an avenue for international brands to enter the Philippine retailing landscape and serve as the window to the world for Filipinos to have the convenience of global brands within their reach. Miniso provides customers with quality, creative and low-price products Forever 21 brings practical Body Shop daily wear promotes health and well-being while protecting animal rights Watsons makes you look good and feel good Ace Hardware is your local, global hardware that remains helpful to the local community 4 We create shared value for our stakeholders* almost 1.3M 50,000 10,000 7M items collected for employees registered SM Advantage The Share Movement suppliers Card holders since its inception in 2015 *pertains only to Non-Food 36 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Providing Excellent Stakeholder Experience We serve millions of customers everyday, dedicated to providing exceptional customer experience by incorporating sustainable business practices from the product brands we carry, our store design and operations, and our customer service. Beyond our customers, we also aim to provide exceptional brand experience for all our partners cultivating an empowering work environment for our people, promoting the culture of sharing to help our communities and providing opportunities for MSMEs to grow their businesses all to generate shared value for our stakeholders. Our People The power behind our exceptional customer experience is our people. We place value in their development and well-being through many training and recognition programs. The Customer Service Rewards Program The SM Academy Now on its 7th year, the CSRP recognizes exceptional THE SM STORE develops its leaders through the SM performers and rewards them during a night of glamorous Academy, providing on-line and on-the-job development celebration and a long-term career path. programs in pursuit of personal and professional development. Our Communities Our Entrepreneur Partners We promote a culture of sharing and purposeful giving We help promote entrepreneurship by serving as a among our shoppers and our people through THE SM market to budding MSMEs and start-ups. STORE SHARE MOVEMENT. Share Shoes We engage our customers to help give shoes to our 1,500 community partners. MSMEs engaged by THE SM STORE Share A Toy We help children develop creativity through our Share A Toy program. Donate A Book We foster the love for reading through our Donate a Book campaign. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 37 Our Customers We create exceptional shopping experience for our customers through our products, our stores and our excellent customer service. Brand Experience THE SM STORE has launched local brands such as Parisian, the Filipino shoe brand, in 1958. Today, it has evolved to SM’s iconic shoe brand and continues to reinvent itself. Innovation in Style with Filipino Designers Keeping with fashion trends, Parisian worked with Filipino designer Rajo Laurel, bringing the Filipino designer shoe culture to greater popularity. Innovation in Glam Packaging for Eco-Friendlier Shopping Habits In support to eco-friendlier shopping habits, Parisian re-designed its shoebox into a glamorous easy-tocarry box to help reduce the need for a shopping bag. Store Experience Transition to LED Lighting Water Efficiency Responsible Waste Management We aim for all our stores to be energy We installed water saving facilities in We practice responsible waste efficient. We have converted our lights all our washrooms and we continually segregation and management in all to LED to help conserve energy and participate in the water recycling our stores, and participate in all waste reduce our operational footprint. initiatives of SM Supermalls. recycling programs of the malls. Customer Service Experience At the heart of our pursuit to provide exceptional shopping experience is our excellent customer service. I am your Friend. I am your Expert. I am your Cheerleader. 38 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T A Bonus for the Filipino Family Filipinos place high regard on value for money. Accustomed to careful budgeting, our skillful shoppers require good quality products at reasonable price points. Tapping on SM’s business network and resources, we created a brand custom-fit for the Filipino family, with a bonus value for social good. A dream to give bonus value for Filipino families SM Bonus started in 1986, from a simple idea of Henry Sy, Sr., SM founder. He thought that since Filipinos worked so hard for their families, they should have access to quality basic food and household products that gave value for their hard-earned money. The SM Seal of Quality Our customers want only the best for their family, patronizing brands they can trust. With the SM brand, customers can be assured of the quality and safety of SM Bonus products, adhering to regulatory good housekeeping standards. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 39 Serving as an Avenue for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) We provide opportunities for MSMEs and budding startups to penetrate the wider retail market by supplying for SM Bonus. We help our MSME partners be more competitive A Wide Range of Budget-Friendly, by providing complimentary consulting services on Good Quality Products, Accessible basic packaging, marketing and meeting regulatory Nationwide requirements. We also equip them with entrepreneurial We offer a wide range of products, from fresh know-how, helping them grow within limited resources. produce, grocery items, health and beauty items Our partners also gain financial leverage through the and household products, to meet the diverse services of our banks. needs of our customers. 120 of 122 suppliers are MSMEs 791 SM Bonus stock keeping units (SKUs) 40 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 41 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 42 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T The Seed of Inspiration The Defining Moment a better quality of life, he then embarked on a campaign to raise A W n advocate at heart, hile SM derives benefit awareness and find sustainable Hans T. Sy, Chairman of the from integrating DRR in solutions to disaster risk reduction Executive Committee of SM its projects, many Filipino challenges. This came in 2015, when Prime Holdings, has taken a stand communities are left vulnerable Hans was elected as a member of on disaster resilience long before it as the country faces about 20 the United Nations International became a global buzzword. typhoons a year due to it being Strategy for Disaster Reduction located along the Ring of Fire. In (UNISDR) Private Sector Advisory “It all started in 1988, when we had 2013, it experienced one of the most Board. a fire in SM Makati. At that time, I devastating typhoons, Typhoon was already heading our group’s Haiyan (Yolanda), which left millions “I met Margaret Wahlstrom, the construction team. That experience of families homeless with damages head of the UNISDR at a dinner made me realize that people should up to nearly a billion US dollars, and she was listening to my not go through those kinds of even causing a dip in GDP from experiences in DRR. I told her that things. We could have prevented it 7.7% to 6.5%. Hans was moved by I’ve been involved in DRR since from happening.” the tragedy and was compelled to the 90’s. She then sent people help the communities rise above the to document the things we were Fueled by his passion for the risks of climate change. doing. She couldn’t believe that environment and designing we were active in DRR. She then buildings, he was determined to With SM Prime having a vision to formally invited me to be part of search for innovative solutions build cities that are catalysts for the private sector of the UNISDR.” that were both cost effective and environmentally-friendly. In 1995, he brought up the need to change the Freon refrigerants for chillers and invest in new equipment upon discovering its harmful environmental effects. “I realized then that the new equipment were also efficient and we were able to save on costs when the price of power went up significantly. From then on, I started using the 10% contingency costs in our projects for DRR (disaster risk reduction) initiatives.” S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 43 “I believe in an age-old adage: An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” Hans T. Sy In 2016, UNISDR launched ARISE, SM Marikina which is built on stilts “We have around 25,000 SMEs, the Private Sector Alliance for given the 100 year flood cycle of both direct and indirect. While they Resilient Societies, where Hans the area, SM Masinag and 20 other drive our business, our viability served as the only Filipino member newer malls which are all built with also drives their profitability.” of the global board, with SM Prime rain water catchment basins to hold Holdings serving as the Philippine back flood water. Lastly, Hans drives private-public secretariat. partnerships in the national, “These investments provided regional and global levels. He helps “Through my role in ARISE, I positive impacts to our build the resilience of the local tapped the United Nations to help stakeholders. We averted major government units in partnership me boost the group. When they sales loss and remained open with the NRC. On a regional level, offered the co-chairman role in the to serve the community and National Resilience Council (NRC) the public even during extreme to me, there was only one answer calamities.” – and that was yes.” Through ARISE Philippines and NRC, Making the Difference Hans continues to promote capacity building among the private sector. H is strategic and holistic SM Prime built a state-of-the art SM approach to disaster risk Resilience Center which serves as a reduction advanced the back-up operations center and data country’s road towards resiliency. storage facility for SM’s small and medium enterprise partners. He made targeted investments in disaster resilient structures with the SM Mall of Asia Complex built at an elevation of 3 meters over the regular requirement to protect it against storm surges and flooding, S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 44 “I’m simply doing my share to enrich the lives of the millions of people we touch every day. If I can get everyone to do the same, we’ll create greater impact towards a more resilient Philippines.” he works in partnership with While great milestones have been Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation achieved, Hans carries on with his (APEC) Emergency Preparedness crusade of unwavering commitment Capacity Building Center, UNDRR towards resilience. Bangkok and UNDRR Global Education and Training Institute “I’m simply doing my share to (GETI) for DRR programs. In the enrich the lives of the millions of global arena, he continues to people we touch every day. If I can promote and support ARISE Work get everyone to do the same, we’ll Theme commitments in disaster risk create greater impact towards a management strategies, education more resilient Philippines.” and training, and urban resilience. “DRR is the responsibility of both the government and the private sector, and both should work together.” S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 45 THE DEFINING DIFFERENCE OF RESILIENCE 46 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Redefining Urban Living In today’s fast paced life, Filipino extensions of personal space living habits are rapidly evolving through the concept of common with the astonishing rise of space living. We allot more than urbanization. SM Development 50% of our development's total Corporation (SMDC) takes a ground space to recreational and ground-breaking approach social living areas. This means that in addressing the impact of residents have a much larger actual urbanization as it introduced a living space beyond the privacy of paradigm shift on how we define their individual units. urban living spaces without compromising the quality of life we Facilitating Convenience are aspiring for. Mobility and accessibility have Rethinking the Concept of Space now become a prerequisite to make urban living efficient and As more people migrate to in-city more sustainable. Most of our living, the challenge of residential developments are situated in design is achieving a good density. the middle of SM’s integrated While private living spaces lifestyle cities, giving residents efficiently utilize smaller spaces, the convenience of mall and the innovation comes in creating commercial business services. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 47 Emerging New Approach to Promoting a Strong Sense We create a positive and vibrant Inter-generational Living of Community sense of community among our residents and staff, encouraging A fresh perspective on interThe need to connect is a social fun and meaningful social generational living has emerged as issue for the future of city living, interactions through social events, families find value in living within with isolation and loneliness as sports festivals and other fun close vicinity, enjoying both the threats to health and well-being, activities. benefits of family support while not only for the elderly but even maintaining a sense of personal the younger generations. We Environmentally Responsible space. Allocating more spaces promote a respectful and helpful for common use facilitates intercommunity culture among our Residential buildings of the future generational living, catering to residents. must incorporate environmental diverse needs of our residents responsibility in its design and across generations. Our residential complexes services. We integrate proper waste are equipped with ramps and management, energy efficiency special facilities for persons with designs and pocket green living disabilities. Our staff receives areas in our developments. We continuous training to be equipped also take into account disaster with the necessary skills to meet resiliency in our infrastructure the needs and protect the safety designs for long-term sustainability of residents, particularly the of investments. children, the elderly and those with special needs. As the global trend forecasts a massive migration to urbanization, we continue to push the envelope to provide suitable solutions to future-proof our residential designs for a more sustainable urban way of life. 48 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Finding Creative Ways Towards Financial Inclusion BDO Foundation brings the bank’s out-of-the-box principle of “We Find Ways” to a whole new level as it breaks ground with its ingenious approach to financial inclusion. In partnership with the Department of Education (DepEd) and the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), we launched the financial education program for public schools, in support of DepEd’s efforts to strengthen the financial literacy component of its K to 12 curriculum and enhance its capability to train teachers and non-teaching personnel on personal financial management. The initiative is also aligned with BSP’s National Strategy for Financial Inclusion. Holistic Approach to Financial Education “It’s very important that students start the habit of saving while they’re young. This is part of our strategy for greater financial inclusion among Filipinos in the long run.” Mario A. Deriquito President, BDO Foundation Financial education is not just about money. The program employs a holistic approach, incorporating financial education into the teaching of subjects like Araling Panlipunan on contrasting needs versus wants, Edukasyon sa Pagpapakatao on the value of hard work and resourcefulness, and Mathematics on the rigorous exercise of budgeting and financial planning. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 49 Comprehensive, Creative and Interactive Learning Materials Young people like watching videos. We thought it would be best to come up with financial education videos that would not just catch their attention, but more importantly, educate them. Mario A. Deriquito President, BDO Foundation BDO Foundation, in partnership with DepEd and BSP, developed resources consisting of 10 sets of educational videos, lesson plans and discussion guides covering such topics as saving, budgeting, investing, managing debt, avoiding scams and entrepreneurship, among others. These materials are now uploaded on DepEd’s learning portal, an online library where teachers get most of the learning resources they need in the classroom. Teachers and Non-Teaching Singing our Way to Personnel Learning Financial Education A survey conducted by Standard & Poor's reveals that Harnessing the Filipino's love for music, BDO only 25 percent of Filipino adults are financially literate. Foundation found a way for pupils to learn make This is lower than the global average of 33 percent. It is them sing the lessons to the tune of familiar folk songs necessary for us to equip our teachers with knowledge, like “Tong Tong Pakitong-kitong” and “Magtanim ay tools and resources on financial literacy so they can 'Di Biro.” serve as role models to our children. 50 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 100 Years of Sustainable Banking Relationships The year 2020 marks the 100th anniversary of China Bank. With the theme Celebrating the Past. Embracing the Future , we commemorate this milestone by preserving our legacy while moving forward to better serve our stakeholders. The Bank’s leaders have built a reputation for uncompromising integrity, service excellence and commitment to clients' financial success. Over the years, China Bank has helped businesses succeed and families prosper, while doing its part for the country, society and the environment. Corporate Developments 1920-1930 1931-1940 1941-1950 1951-1960 1961-1970 We opened in 1920 When the Great We shut down We breached We became the first and moved to Depression during the Japanese PHP100M in bank in Southeast Binondo Building hit, China Bank occupation and assets and are Asia to process in 1924; opened in weathered the reopened in 1945, still the biggest deposits online. Xiamen & Shanghai; crisis. with the first branch local private We built the Makati lists on the Manila in Cebu. commercial bank. building in 1969. Stock Exchange Sustainability We combined Eastern banking values with We lent heavily to various industries to help in post-war Western banking practices and enabled the reconstruction; initiated the Liberty Wells project, building 20,000 country's Chinese community, unserved by artesian wells and developing over 2,000 springs to provide rural the banks at that time, to start and grow villages with potable water; and continued to give many upstart their businesses. merchants, who eventually became future taipans, their first credit line. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 51 1971-1980 1981-1990 1991-2000 2001-2010 2011-2019 We increased Filipino We introduced We acquired a We offered internet We acquired Unity ownership to 70% Tellerphone, the universal banking banking and Bank; launched China and embarked on a first phone banking license; accessed remittance services; Bank Capital and branch expansion in the Philippines; offshore capital completed the China Bank Securities; program. transferred our markets for the first international launched a credit headquarters to first time with USD53M secondary card business; got Makati; became USD50M floating rate share offering; investment grade credit part of BancNet and certificate of deposit started rapid branch rating from Moody's; launched an ATM (FRCD). expansion; entered raised funds via PHP15B card with a network a bancassurance stock rights offer and of 10 ATMs. JV with Manulife; PHP10.25B long-term acquired Manila negotiable certificate of Bank and launched deposit (LTNCD). China Bank Savings. We modernized the organization, beefed We leveraged technology to increase We further strengthened up capabilities, and improved governance efficiency and productivity and provide governance, becoming a PSE Bell to build resilience; continued to support greater customer convenience while awardee for 6 years and one of customers whose businesses were hit using less resources. We provided easy the top 50 listed companies in during the economic crisis following access to credit to more SMEs, increased ASEAN. We continued to automate Ninoy Aquino's assassination. financing for infrastructure projects that processes and transformed business positively impact the economy. to be more digitally-capable. We also went into green financing. 52 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Together Towards a Sustainable Philippines UNGC-GRI Sustainability Summit Philippines We strengthened our commitment towards a sustainable Philippines by signing up as a member of the United “We uphold ourselves to the highest degree Nations Global Compact and upholding its Ten Principles of responsibility and accountability to create surrounding the themes of human and labor rights, shared value for all, most especially in the environmental responsibility and anti-corruption practices. communities we serve. Although we still In celebration of this milestone, we served as co-hosts face a long journey ahead of us, we are of the first joint UNGC-GRI Sustainability Summit in the committed to doing our share in creating the Philippines. The summit encouraged a dialogue between sustainable future we all aspire for.” the private and public sectors in forging a concerted effort Frederic C. DyBuncio, President and CEO towards achieving the country's national sustainable SM Investments Corporation development agenda. SM Group Senior Leaders enjoin the company’s commitment to uphold the Ten Principles. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 53 As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, SM corporate principles aligns with the UNGC Ten Principles. The company supports: Principle Principle Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 1,2 & 3 4&5 The The The The adoption Access ClimateCorporate responsibility elimination recognition of instruments to clean, friendly Governance to protect of all forms of the role that help renewable solutions and the dignity of of forced and of women quantify, energy sources opportunities every person compulsory in achieving manage and services for business and uphold labor and child economic and report labor rights labor growth and the carbon and human poverty footprints of rights reduction its businesses As a new UNGC signatory, SMIC President and CEO, UNGC Chief of Outreach and Engagement, Sue Allchurch, Frederic DyBuncio, highlights the company’s Path to emphasized the critical role of public and private Sustainable Growth. partnerships. UN Resident Coordinator and GCNP Board Member and UN SDG Pioneer and City Developments Limited Chief Adviser, Kristin Dadey, enlightened the audience on navigating Sustainability Officer, Esther An, shared their journey in through the complex network of the various UN bodies. building sustainable cities for Singapore. 54 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our Governance Culture SM understands the importance of good corporate which enables it to fulfill its roles and responsibilities governance and has established practices that deliver and respond to the needs of the organization based financial sustainability in a manner that upholds the on the evolving business environment and strategic principles of fairness, accountability and transparency. direction. In line with this, the Company adheres to a Through the guidance of the Company’s Board of Directors board diversity policy that ensures that there is always and Management, SM continues to foster a corporate a diverse composition of directors on the Board which governance culture that ensures that the long-term assists in advancing the SM’s strategic objectives. Per success of the Company remains balanced with the longthe said policy, SM commits to have a diverse collection term best interests of its various stakeholders. of directors, in terms of age, ethnicity, culture, skill, competence, knowledge, gender, among other Tone from the Top qualifications. To monitor progress in achieving the SM’s Board of Directors is composed of eight (8) Board’s diversity goals, the relevant board committee highly-qualified directors, three (3) of whom are nonutilizes a Board Matrix, which provides for the mix executive independent directors. The Board ensures of attributes, skills, competencies, experience and that it has an appropriate mix of competence and affiliations the Board currently possesses and needs to expertise and that its members remain qualified complement its existing composition. for their positions individually and collectively, Board of Directors Jose T. Sio Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Director Teresita T. Sy-Coson Vice Chairperson Non-Executive Director Henry T. Sy, Jr. Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director Frederic C. DyBuncio President/CEO Executive Director Harley T. Sy Executive Director Executive Director Alfredo E. Pascual Lead Independent Director Non-Executive Director Tomasa H. Lipana Independent Director Non-Executive Director Robert G. Vergara Independent Director Non-Executive Director Board Independence at Board meetings, monitor and provide feedback Per SM’s Manual on Corporate Governance, the on Management’s performance and safeguard the Company shall have at least three (3) independent interests of the Company’s various stakeholders. directors, who must be free from management Furthermore, the roles of the Chairman of the Board responsibilities, substantial shareholdings and and the President are held by separate individuals. material relations, whether it be business or otherwise, Their functions and responsibilities are clearly defined which could reasonably be perceived to impede the in the Company’s By-Laws and Manual on Corporate performance of independent judgement. Independent Governance. directors are tasked to encourage impartial discussions S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 55 In photo, from left to right: Tomasa H. Lipana, Alfredo E. Pascual, Frederic C. DyBuncio, Jose T. Sio, Teresita T. Sy-Coson, Henry T. Sy, Jr., Robert G. Vergara, Harley T. Sy Board Performance and timelines of information provided to them, the In accordance with the Manual on Corporate frequency and conduct of regular, special or committee Governance, the Board meets at least six (6) times meetings, their accessibility to Management, the annually. Board meetings are scheduled a year in Corporate Secretary and Board Advisors as well advance to encourage higher participation. Special as training/continuing education programs or any board meetings may be called by the Chairman, the other forms of assistance that they may need in the President or Corporate Secretary at the request of performance of their duties. The Board then reviews any two (2) directors. A director’s absence or nonthe results of the evaluation and agree on action plans participation for whatever reason in more than 50% to address the issues raised. The forms used for the of all meetings, both regular and special, in a year evaluation may be viewed via the Company’s website. may be a ground for temporary disqualification in the succeeding election. Furthermore, non-executive Board Committees directors meet at least once a year, without any To further enhance its corporate governance executive directors or representatives of Management programs, as well as to address specific tasks and present. Board papers and other materials used during responsibilities, the Board adopted six (6) board Board meetings are distributed to the relevant parties committees, namely the Executive Committee, the at least one (1) week before the actual meeting. Audit Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Related Party Transactions Committee, the To measure its performance, the Board conducts Corporate Governance Committee, and the an annual performance evaluation of the Board, Compensation Committee. Each committee has a the Board Committees, individual directors, the Charter which defines its composition, roles and Chairman of the Board, the President/CEO and other responsibilities based on the provisions found in key officers. The evaluation criteria is based on the the Manual on Corporate Governance. The Charters duties and responsibilities of the respective evaluees include administrative provisions on the conduct of as provided for in the Company’s By-Laws and Manual meetings and proceedings, reportorial responsibilities on Corporate Governance. Directors are also asked and provide the standards for evaluation of the to identify areas for improvement, such as the quality respective committee performance. The Board 56 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Committee Charters are reviewed annually and were or appears to have a direct or indirect personal interest developed to ensure that each Committee is equipped in any transaction, which may deter or influence him/ with what is necessary to attain its objectives. For the her from acting in the best interests of the Company. full details on the Company’s Board Committees, kindly Any director, officer or employee involved in an actual or refer to SM Investments Corporation’s 2019 Annual potential conflict of interest is required to immediately Report. disclose said conflict to the Company. Governance Related Policies and Programs Guidelines on Gifts/ Hospitality/ Entertainment SM’s corporate governance culture is anchored on (Anti-Corruption) its Manual on Corporate Governance, Code of Ethics Based on the provisions of the Code of Ethics, SM’s and other governance related policies and programs. directors, officers and employees are prohibited The Company regularly reviews and enhances its from soliciting or accepting gifts, hospitality, and/or governance related policies and programs to keep pace entertainment in any form from any business partner. with global best practices. The term gift covers anything of value, such as but not limited to cash or cash equivalent. The guidelines Manual on Corporate Governance provide exceptions such as corporate giveaways, The Manual on Corporate Governance institutionalizes tokens or promotional items of nominal value. In the the principles and best practices of good corporate same manner, travel sponsored by any current or governance in the organization and remains prospective business partner is prohibited. a testament to the belief that good corporate governance is a critical component of sound strategic Insider Trading Policy business management. In addition to the provisions Directors, officers and employees are prohibited from relating to the Board of Directors and Management, trading in the Company’s shares, five (5) trading days the Manual also contains the Company’s policies before and two (2) trading days after the disclosure on disclosure and transparency, and mandates the of any material, stock price-sensitive information. conduct of communication, and training programs on SM issues reminders of the “trading ban”, before corporate governance. It also outlines the rights of the release of financial reports or the disclosure of all stakeholders and the protection of the interests of other material information to ensure compliance with minority stockholders. There have been no deviations the policy. All directors, officers and employees are from the Manual since it was adopted. SM certifies that required to report their dealings in company shares the Company, its directors, officers and employees within three (3) business days of the transaction. have adopted and fully complied with all leading Reports should indicate the date of the trade/s and practices and principles of good corporate governance number of shares traded, at least, and should be as provided by the Manual. submitted to the Company’s Compliance Officer. Code of Ethics Related Party Transactions Policy SM’s Code of Ethics is the backbone of the Company’s SM discloses in detail the nature, extent and all ethics and corporate governance program. All other material information on transactions with directors, officers and employees are required to related parties in the Company's financial statements adhere to the Code in the performance of their and quarterly and annual reports to regulators. duties and responsibilities. The Code highlights Management regularly presents the details of the importance of integrity in all the dealings with transactions entered into by SM with related parties investors, creditors, customers, contractors, suppliers, at the meetings of the Related Party Transactions regulators, co-employees, and the Company’s other Committee. This is to ensure that SM conducts all various stakeholders. It also highlights the Company’s related-party transactions at an arms' length basis. duties to its employees, shareholders and the Likewise, related party transactions that are considered importance of corporate social responsibility. “material” in nature, or exceed the materiality threshold provided for by the Company’s Policy on Conflict of Interest Policy Material Related Party Transactions are subject to the SM’s Conflict of Interest Policy defines a conflict of interest process of review and approval as provided by the as a situation wherein a director, officer or employee has same policy. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 57 Policy on Accountability, Integrity and Vigilance Supplier/Contractor Selection (Whistleblowing) The Company also ensures that the goods and SM’s whistleblowing policy, referred to as the Policy services it provides meets all agreed upon and/or on Accountability, Integrity and Vigilance (PAIV), was legally required standards for consumer health and adopted to create an environment where concerns safety, including those pertaining to health warnings and issues, made in good faith, may be raised freely and safety information. Furthermore, the Company within the organization. Under the policy, any SM strives to meet the needs of its vulnerable and/or director, officer or employee may accomplish an disadvantaged customers. The Company observes incident report on suspected or actual violations of the propriety and acts with fairness and transparency Code of Ethics, the Company’s Code of Conduct or any in dealing with business partners (i.e., contractors, other applicable law or regulation. Upon receipt of an suppliers, creditors and other entities that engage in incident report, Management conducts an investigation business with the Company). The Company adheres to on its merit, subject to due process and applicable its principles of healthy competition, equal opportunity penalties and sanctions thereafter. Furthermore, the and fair treatment of business partners. The Company policy invokes a “No Retaliation” section for those that has a bidding committee to screen, review and approve have reported in good faith. major contracts with contractors and suppliers to ensure that it is conducted on an arm’s length basis. Environmentally Friendly Value-Chain Existing and potential vendors and suppliers are The Company ensures the environmental friendliness required to conform to the Company’s Code of Ethics of its operations, and contributes to the overall as a pre-requisite for the accreditation process. sustainability of the physical environment where the Company operates. The Company is committed to the Employee Welfare protection of the environment and complies with all SM provides for the health, safety and welfare of its applicable environmental laws and regulations. The employees. The Company has established policies Company also assesses and addresses the foreseeable and programs that promote a safe and healthy work environmental, health and safetyrelated risks environment that caters to all cultures and creeds and associated with the delivery of the company’s, goods encourages employee development and growth. and services and strives to avoid or, when unavoidable, mitigate them. The Company continually seeks to A Culture of Good Governance improve its corporate environmental performance The practice of corporate governance remains an through its supply chain by adopting technologies, integral part of the Company’s business operations. developmental practices and other related programs SM will continue to support the governance related that encourage an environmentally friendly valueinitiatives of regulators and advocacy groups in chain. the development of corporate governance, while strengthening its own sustainability practices and Customer Welfare fostering its corporate governance culture. In this The Company provides its customers with quality way, SMIC hopes to keep stride with the continuous care and service in the provision of goods and development of domestic, regional and global best services under terms and conditions that are fair and practices, while also directing its efforts on making satisfactory. All customers are given fair and proper a positive impact on the environment and the treatment and are provided with complete, correct and communities it serves. actual information. 58 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T In Pursuit of Continuous Improvement 102-48 As we expand the scope of our sustainability performance, we continue to fine-tune our levels of precision in pursuit of creating measurable positive impact to society, the economy and the environment. GRI Disclosure Disclosure Title 2018 Disclosed in 2018 Report 2018 Restatement in 2019 Report Page 102-8 Information on employees Total Headcount and other workers 118,020 employees 151,709 employees 24 302-1 Energy consumption within Electricity Consumption the organization 2,478 million kWh 2,534 million kWh 29 Company-controlled premises: 67% Within the organization: 1,791 million kWh Tenant-controlled premises: 33% Outside the organization: 743 million kWh Fuel Consumption 84 million liters 180 million liters 29 Within the organization: 119 million liters Outside the organization: 61 million liters 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water Consumption 39.2 million cubic meters 39.1 million cubic meters 28 305 Emissions GHG Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 5,063,060 MT CO2e 2,287,957 MT CO2e 29 Emissions Scope 1: 2% Scope 1: 14.6% Scope 2: 55% Scope 2: 56.6% 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) Scope 3: 43% Scope 3: 28.8% GHG Emissions 305-3 Other Indirect Energy (Scope 3) GHG Emissions Our Reporting Process 102-46 Steps Taken 1 Capacity Building 2 Materiality Assessment 3 Data Gathering 4 Management Review Continuous training on Review of business model and Collection of stories and Affirmation of reported sustainability impacts data disclosures GRI Reporting Stakeholder Inclusiveness Materiality, Stakeholder Stakeholder Inclusiveness Stakeholder Inclusiveness and Principles Applied and Sustainability Context Inclusiveness, Sustainability and Completeness Completeness Context and Completeness About Our Report 102-49, 102-54 This is SM Investments Corporation's 6th Sustainability Report covering January–December 2019. It reports SM’s progress in its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR). This report incorporates REPORT an integrated thinking approach, adheres to the Communication on Progress reporting guidelines of the UNGC and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Philippines Memorandum Circular No. 4, Series of 2019. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It has completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service which confirms that the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The companies included in this report are SM Retail Inc., SM Prime Holdings, Inc., BDO Unibank Inc., China Banking Corporation, Belle Corporation, 2GO Group Inc. and Atlas Consolidated Mining and Development Corporation. S M I N V E S T M E N T S C O R P O R AT I O N 59 GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. Page number(s), direct Reason for GRI Standard Disclosure answer and/or URLs Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: Organizational Profile General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2-3 102-3 Location of headquarters Inside back cover 102-4 Location of operations 2-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 102-6 Markets served 2-3 102-7 Scale of the organization 2-3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 24-25 102-9 Supply chain 27 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply None to report chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 57 102-12 External initiatives 13-16, 52-53 102-13 Membership of associations Inside back cover Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5, 6-9 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Inside front cover, 54-57 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 18, 54-57 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 25 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Holding company and statements subsidiaries 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 19, 58 102-47 List of material topics 19 102-48 Restatements of information 58 102-49 Changes in reporting 58 102-50 Reporting period 58 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 (published in 2019) 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 58 Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index 59-60 102-56 External assurance No external assurance 60 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Page number(s), direct Reason for GRI Standard Disclosure answer and/or URLs Omission Material Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 9-11, 19 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 9-11 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9-11 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 9, 11 Economic Performance 2016 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 9, 11, 19, 24 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 9, 11, 13, 24 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 13, 24 GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 24 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 28 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 29 Energy 2016 Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 28 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 28 Water 2016 Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 29 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 29 Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 29 305-3 Other indirect energy (Scope 3) GHG emissions 29 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 28 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 28 Effluents and Waste 2016 Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 25-27 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 25-27 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25-27 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 25 Training and Education 2016 Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 30-31 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 30-31 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30-31 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 30-31 Local impact assessments, and development programs Communities 2016 LIST OF MEMBER ASSOCIATIONS CORPORATE INFORMATION SM INVESTMENTS CORPORATION MEMBERSHIPS COMPANY HEADQUARTERS ASEAN Business Advisory 10th Floor, One E-Com Center Asia Business Council Harbor Drive, Mall of Asia Complex Asia Society Philippine Foundation Pasay City 1300, Philippines Canadian Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines East Asia Business Council STOCKHOLDER INQUIRIES Financial Executives Institute of the Philippines Good Governance Advocates and SM Investments Corporation’s common stock is listed Practitioners of the Philippines and traded in the Philippine Stock Exchange under the Institute of Corporate Directors symbol ‘SM’ Inquiries regarding dividend payments, Philippine Trade Foundation account status, address change, stock certificates Makati Business Club and other pertinent matters may be addressed to the Management Association of the Philippines company’s transfer agent: People Association of Management Accountants Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry BDO Unibank, Inc. Tax Management Association of the Philippines Stock Transfer Unit United Nations Global Compact Network Philippines 15/F South Tower, BDO Corporate Center World Economic Forum 7899 Makati Avenue, Makati City 0726 Trunk Line: 8840-7000 SM FOUNDATION, INC. MEMBERSHIPS Direct Lines: 8878-4961, 8878-4963 to 4965 Fax: 8878-4056 Association of Foundations E-mail: bdo-stock-transfer@bdo.com.ph League of Corporate Foundations Philippine Council for NGO Certification SUSTAINABILITY INQUIRIES Inquiries regarding SM Investments Corporation’s sustainability may be addressed to: Koleen D. Palaganas Vice President for Sustainability E-mail: sustainability@sminvestments.com 62 2 0 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SM INVESTMENTS CORPORATION 10th Floor, One E-Com Center Harbor Drive, Mall of Asia Complex Pasay City 1300, Philippines
