Sustainability Report 2019 Responsibility for tomorrow Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CONTENTS 2 Contents 2 Customers and products Key figures on sustainability 03 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies 24 Message from the shareholders 04 2.2 Product quality and safety 29 Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer 06 2.3 Customer satisfaction 30 Magazine 3 Environment and energy Shaping change: alternative 3.1 Environmental management 32 drives, intelligent repair 3.2 Energy and emissions 32 solutions, and driving the 3.3 Material and resource management 34 energy transition 07 3.4 Logistics 36 1 Strategy and management 4 Employees and society 1.1 Company profile and business model 14 4.1 Employee advancement and 1.2 Corporate strategy and values 15 development 38 1.3 Sustainability management and 4.2 Occupational health and safety 41 organization 15 4.3 Diversity and equal opportunity 43 1.4 M ateriality and stakeholder 4.4 Corporate citizenship 44 management 16 1.5 Corporate governance 18 5 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain 20 Appendix 5.1 Key figures on sustainability 47 5.2 G NFK index und and GRI content index 51 5.3 Sustainability targets 52 5.4 About the report 53 5.5 Report of the Independent Auditor 55 Contact information/Imprint 57 Note on non-financial reporting The Sustainability Report 2019 also includes the the CSR Directive Implementation Act Sections 289, combined separate non-financial report (GNFK) of the 315 German Commercial Code. GNFK-relevant content Schaeffler Group. Schaeffler thereby discloses the is marked in the report with the following symbols: required non-financial information in accordance with Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 KEY FIGURES ON SUSTAINABILITY 3 Key figures on sustainability Strategy and management 14,021 14,241 14,427 0 100% 2017 2018 2019 Total revenue Confirmed cases of human rights Coverage rate of certified EUR millions violations1) smelters in the supply chain2)3) Customers and products 58 65 66 7,784 100% 2017 2018 2019 Awards for customer R&D employees4) Coverage rate of quality satisfaction/product management systems5) quality 3,290 GWh 1,045,627 1,026,057 Environment and 1,008,985 98.0% energy 2017 2018 2019 Greenhouse gas emissions , total7) 6) Total energy consumption8) Coverage rate for ISO 50001 in tCO₂ certification9) Employees and society 7.1 6.2 5.2 87,748 99.0% 2017 2018 2019 Accident rate (LTIR)10) Number of employees, total Coverage rate of OHSAS 18001/ ISO 450019) A complete overview of all key figures on sustainability is shown on page 47 et seq. 1) Contraventions of the prohibition on forced labor and child labor and cases of discrimination by origin, skin color, or gender. 2) Survey period from March to February of the following year. 3) Risk areas as defined in the RCOI. 4) The values reflect the workforce headcount at the end of the year. 5) According to the scope of the Schaeffler Group's management manual and valid certification rules. 6) The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions is based on the emission factors of the VDA (2017) and the Probas database of the German Federal Environmental Agency. Emission sources covered: Scope 1 (natural gas, fuel oil, propane) and Scope 2 (electricity, district heating). 7) As from 2018: Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based). 8) Energy sources included: Electricity, natural gas, district heating, propane, fuel oil, without the amount of electricity produced by the gas-powered CHP. 9) Relating to employees on the production sites. 10) Measurement: Lost Time Injury Rate, LTIR = occupational accidents from one lost day per 1 million hours worked. Employees incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and trainees. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE SHAREHOLDERS 4 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE SHAREHOLDERS 5 As a global technology company, the Schaeffler Group is actively shaping the far-reaching transformation of mobility and energy systems. Together with its customers, the company is using the potential for new solutions ranging from climate-friendly power generation, alternative drives, and intelligent repair solutions to new mobility concepts. In order to shape the transformation successfully, it is necessary to focus on long-term values and objectives. The Schaeffler values “Sustainable”, “Innovative”, “Excellent”, and “Passionate” are now more than ever a central compass that points the way. These values sum up what characterizes the Schaeffler Group and makes it successful: the willingness and ability to face challenges, to constantly explore new ideas, to strive for the highest quality, and to pursue long-term goals. As family shareholders, we stand for these values and live out our responsibility for the sustainable orientation of the Schaeffler Group. Schaeffler's innovative strength is the key to actively and successfully shaping the upcoming transfor­ mation. More than 2,000 initial patent applications in the last year portray the outstanding inventiveness of the Schaeffler Group. Today, the Schaeffler Group is able to outline the development and the entire industrialization of the construction of electrical motors within the company in the field of alternative drives and new mobility concepts. This is a good basis for the future that has also gained external recognition. Last year, the German Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure awarded the Schaeffler Group the German Mobility Prize. It honored the electrically powered Schaeffler Mover, an innovative solution for transporting people and goods in cities. We can be justifiably proud of this. To ensure that the Schaeffler Group continues to be successful in the future, the company places the highest demands on itself and its business partners. This includes ensuring that the Schaeffler Group's values and ethical principles are incorporated throughout the company and along the entire value chain. This is based on the globally valid Schaeffler Group's Corporate Code of Conduct. We are convinced that the Schaeffler Group, together with its partners, is helping to manage the current transformation and find solutions that offer true added value for our society. Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler-Thumann Georg F. W. Schaeffler Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 INTRODUCTION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 6 Sustainability has been deeply rooted in the values and actions of Schaeffler for many years. At the same time, the perception of the public on the importance of sustain­ ability has significantly increased. We have reviewed and relaunched our sustainability strategy in the current financial year on this basis. I am pleased to present our Sustainability Report 2019 on behalf of my col­leagues of the Executive Board. The report should give you an insight of our understanding of sustainability at Schaeffler, how we make it measurable, and what targets we have set ourselves. Based on the requirements of our relevant stakeholders obtained from a worldwide stakeholder survey, we have restructured our sustainability management. Additionally, we have reconsidered our own standards for a viable sustainability management, and – where necessary – have developed it self-criti­ cally, open-minded, and future-oriented. This includes the establishment of a Sustainability Committee consisting of the members of the Executive Board and selected leaders of the first-level management. The committee has met once a quarter since mid-2019 to decide on sustainability topics. One of the most important decisions made by the Sustainability Committee concerned the realignment of our goals. We have replaced targets that are not coherent with this realignment with new targets for energy efficiency, renewable energies, accident prevention, and sustainable supply chain. As an example, we will implement measures to increase cumulated annual energy efficiency by 100 gigawatt hours until 2024 and to obtain 100% purchased power from renewable sources. We have also set ourselves the goal of reducing the number of accidents involving lost time by an average of 10 percent per year by 2024. The taken measures are already having an impact. This is reflected in the improvement in our sustainability ratings. One example is the CDP climate rating, where we have significantly improved our score from “D” to a solid “B-”. For 2021, we have set ourselves the goal of achieving a score of A -. Sustainability has highest priority at Schaeffler. Sustainability targets were integrated into the variable remuneration of upper management for the first time in 2020. This is an important step towards anchoring the issue of sustainability even more firmly and encouraging our senior executives to make sustainability a natural part of their management work and the corporate culture at Schaeffler. My col­leagues on the Executive Board and I are firmly convinced that we are on the right track with the realignment of our sustainability strategy in 2019. We will continue along this path consistently. We would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank all employees who are committed to this path, as well as to all partners who contribute to it. I hope you find reading our Sustainability Report 2019 informative and interesting. Klaus Rosenfeld Chief Executive Officer Schaeffler Groupe I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 7 Shaping change Global challenges such as climate change are determining how the mobility and energy sectors are being transformed. Schaeffler, together with its partners, is creating new products and solutions to meet these challenges, ranging from climate-friendly power generation to alternative drives and intelligent repair solutions to new mobility concepts. In doing so, Schaeffler keeps an eye on all future-oriented technologies. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 8 Alternative drives As a partner to the automotive industry, the Automotive OEM division is meeting the challenge of significantly reducing CO₂ emissions in the mobility sector. Schaeffler sees the current change as an opportunity to use its technologies to make the powertrain and chassis more climate-friendly – and to transform mobility together with its customers. At the same time, the company remains open to new technologies and Thinking ahead on e-mobility focuses, among other things, on electrifying the powertrain and Future consumption and emission Beginning in 2021, targets can be achieved by electrifying technologies for fuel cells. we will start series the powertrain. With its understanding production of electric of systems, Schaeffler offers the right motors worldwide solutions for every degree of electrification – for example, both for hybrid powertrains and for purely electric axle drives in the power classes from 15 to over 300 kW. Wide range of applications: electric motors from Schaeffler for hybrid modules, hybrid transmissions, and purely electric axle drives. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 9 Progressive urbanization is also influencing the mobility of tomorrow. Electric, agile, autonomous, and networked – Schaeffler is shaping this megatrend with innovative mobility concepts like the Schaeffler Mover. Various superstructures can be flexibly mounted on the Schaeffler Mover vehicle platform, from robo-taxis to autonomous delivery vehicles. The Mover development platform, awarded the German Mobility Prize by the German Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure in 2019, uses Schaeffler Mover: award-winning platform numerous new Schaeffler technologies light is the Schaeffler Intelligent Corner for electric and autonomous driving for such as the Space Drive drive-by-wire Modules. In the four wheel modules, urban mobility. technology, the key technology for all drive and chassis components autonomous and networked driving including the electric wheel hub motor that is being further developed for are combined in one space-saving unit. large-scale production. Another highUsing the potential of fuel cells With the goal of maximum sustainabiltion, energy, mobility, and technoity and CO2 neutrality, Schaeffler, as an logical innovation and to utilize the automotive and industrial supplier, is potential of hydrogen technology as designing mobility and the associated an energy source of the future. energy chain. The company is investing in the enormous future potential of green hydrogen along the entire value chain. In addition to all-electric vehicles, fuel cell technologies can also contribute to reducing emissions in the transport sector. The inconsistent availability of renewable energy emphasizes the need for new energy sources and Schaeffler has recognized the great potential of hydrogen as one energy source of the future and developed key components for fuel cells and fuel cell stacks called metallic bipolar plates. To help advance the development of this hydrogen technology, Schaeffler founded the “Bavarian Hydrogen Alliance” with the Free State of Bavaria and other alliance partners in 2019. The goal is to combine climate protecStacked bipolar plates are an important component of the fuel cell system. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 10 Intelligent repair solutions The transformation is accelerated by the CO₂ limits set by the European Union for new passenger-car registrations that are mandatory for the first time in 2020. The classic combination of combustion engine and transmission is increasingly being supplemented by hybrid and electric components. The advanced technical complexity of these vehicles also requires innovative repair solutions and spare parts with which the Automotive Aftermarket division offers resource-saving solutions for the spare parts market. The INA FEAD KIT enables efficient repair by replacing all affected components in a single work step. Climate-friendly repairs Technologically, Schaeffler is excellen­ 7% tly positioned for hybrid vehicle gene­ rations with its original equipment expertise. The 48-volt mild-hybrid technology is key to developing repair solutions: For the first time in automopotentially saved tive history, this technology transforms Energy-saving repair C0₂ emissions the engine's auxiliary drive from an solutions for hybrid energy consumer to an energy supplier. vehicles are a central Here the starter and alternator are With the INA FEAD KIT, Schaeffler is the component for a holistic replaced by a belt alternator starter. In first supplier in the spare parts market transformation of combination with a 48-volt battery, the to offer a repair solution for the front vehicle can “coast” with the combusmobility end auxiliary drive (FEAD) in hybrid tion engine completely switched off, vehicles with 48 volts, which enables which saves up to 7% of CO₂ emissions stricter CO₂ regulations to be met. in road traffic. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 11 Driving the energy transition A holistic transformation of mobility also requires a transformation of the energy supply. After all, not only industrial machinery, but also increasingly electric vehicles all over the world need to be supplied with electricity – and this should ideally come from renewable sources. At the same time, it is important to use our resources sparingly and make energy consumption as efficient as possible. The Industrial division supplies the necessary components for this. Durable wind turbines Against the backdrop of major climate conventional spherical roller bearings. challenges, the global demand for As a partner of the This way, Schaeffler helps to make renewable energies is growing. As wind turbines more reliable and to energy industry, we a partner of the energy industry, reduce the cost of renewable energy promote the expansion Schaeffler supports the expansion of production. renewable energy production. From of renewable energies bearing solutions for wind turbines to solutions for the solar and hydropower The portfolio now also includes presectors, Schaeffler offers its customdictive monitoring for variable speed ers a comprehensive product portfolio drives in wind turbines. Together with to make the production of renewable a partner, Schaeffler has developed energy more economical. An example is a compact Industry 4.0 solution. It the asymmetrical spherical roller bearcombines different measuring systems ings for wind turbines. The bearing of with a new condition-and-torque monthe rotor shaft is of central importance itoring system. The system not only because all of the forces generated by identifies and limits peak loads and the wind have a direct effect on that their frequency, but it also allows early bearing. The design of the new spherdetection of incipient damage. Repairs ical roller bearings, which has been can therefore be planned in advance specially optimized for rotor bearing Spherical roller bearings are designed for for windless days. systems in which high loads must be supported. arrangements, increases the nominal They deliver extremely high performance and are service life by about 70% ­compared to designed to carry extreme loads. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 MAGAZINE 12 Rolling bearing systems are used in airplanes and spacecraft construction resulting in increased performance, safety and reliability. Efficient engines Rolling bearings in aviation must operate with maximum reliability even 1.2 m tons of fuel can be under the most critical operating conditions, while at the same time keeping saved annually fuel consumption as low as possible. Schaeffler Aerospace fulfills these requirements with its new engine bearings. Together with a cooperation partner, the company has developed ball bearings that exceed the speed parameter of four million millimeters per minute for the first time. Because the bearings require only small quantities of cooling oil, there is a considerable increase in mechanical and thermal efficiency. The bearings represent a significant technological leap forward in the development of more efficient engines and have the potential to reduce the consumption of the global passenger aircraft fleet by up to 1.2 million tons of fuel annually. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 13 1 Strategy and management The Schaeffler Group is a publicly listed family business with a strong foundation in its values that shapes its entrepreneurial activity and corporate culture. Economic success, long-term orientation, and awareness of the social and environmental concerns of its own business are traditionally closely interlinked at Schaeffler. The corporate values are the compass that Schaeffler, together with its stakeholders, uses to set the course for the future and implement the strategy “Mobility for tomorrow”. To this end, the Schaeffler Group has established management structures and processes with the aim of ensuring that all business activities along the entire value chain are legally compliant and meet high ethical standards. CONTENTS With its activities and measures in the Strategy and Management field of action, Schaeffler contributes to the 1.1 Company profile and business model 14 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) “Sustainable economic growth and humane working conditions for 1.2 Corporate strategy and values 15 all” (SDG 8) as well as “Strengthening the means of implementation and global partnerships” (SDG 17). 1.3 Sustainability management and organization 15 1.4 M ateriality and stakeholder management 16 1.5 Corporate governance 18 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain 20 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 14 1.1 Company profile and business model 1.1 Company profile and The Schaeffler Group's business is managed globally by the three operational divisions Automotive OEM1) , Automotive business model Aftermarket, and Industrial. The Automotive OEM division is headquartered in Bühl, the Automotive Aftermarket division AT A GL ANCE is managed from Langen, and the Industrial division is located in Schweinfurt. The corporate headquarters of the • S  chaeffler offers innovative product solutions in the Schaeffler Group is in Herzogenaurach. industrial, automotive, and aftermarket sectors •  round 87,700 employees work together across A  ore information on the organizational and management strucM divisions and countries at around 170 locations ture as well as the legal structure of the Group can be found on worldwide page 3 et seq. of the current Annual Report. Locations and production network Organizational structure and business activities With its approximately 170 locations worldwide, 77 proThe Schaeffler Group (also referred to as “Schaeffler” duction facilities in 22 countries, 20 research and developbelow) is a global automotive and industrial supplier. ment centers, and a tight-knit sales and service network, the Employing a workforce of approximately 87,700, the comSchaeffler Group ensures customer proximity. Cooperation pany develops and manufactures high-precision components across divisions and countries thus leads to a high degree and systems in engine, transmission, and chassis applicaof flexibility in solving new customer requirements and the tions, as well as rolling and plain bearing solutions for a large opportunity of anticipating emerging trends early on. number of industrial applications. These include innovative and sustainable technologies both for vehicles with only an internal combustion engine and for hybrid and electric 170 vehicles, as well as components and systems for rotary and linear movements, and services, maintenance products, and monitoring systems for a large number of industrial applications. Additionally, the company provides repair solutions in original-equipment quality for the automotive spare parts locations worldwide market worldwide. The Schaeffler Group is characterized by a three-dimensional organizational and leadership structure which differentiates between divisions, functions, and regions. Schaeffler Group organizational structure since January 1, 2020 Schaeffler Group Divisions Functions Regions Operations, Automotive Automotive CEO Finance Human Greater Asia/ Industrial R&D SCM 1) & Europe Americas OEM Aftermarket Functions & IT Resources China Pacific Purchasing Simplified presentation for illustration purposes. 1) Supply Chain Management 1) Original Equipment Manufacturer, OEM Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 15 1.2 Corporate strategy and values 1.2 Corporate strategy and values To execute the strategy “Mobility for tomorrow”, the company also launched its program for the future, the “Agenda AT A GL ANCE 4 plus One”, with the Schaeffler Group's 16 most significant strategic initiatives in 2016. The program was expanded to • S  ustainability is an integral part of include four additional initiatives, increasing the number Schaeffler's corporate values of initiatives to 20 effective January 1, 2018. The strategic • T he strategy “Mobility for tomorrow” creates the initiatives are grouped in 4 + 1 categories: Customer focus, foundation for sustainably profitable growth Operational excellence, Financial flexibility, Leadership and talent management, and – as “plus One” – Securing longterm competitiveness and value creation. Corporate values M  ore information on the four focus areas in the current Sustainable Innovative sustainability report can be found on page 24 et seq. A long-term view and For (nearly) every problem continuity will foster the there is a solution. If not, growth of the Schaeffler we will create one! Roadmap 2024 Group, thereby enabling a future worth living. Given the changing environment and a persistently challenging competitive environment, the Schaeffler Group will continue to press ahead with its transformation in the coming years. Excellent Passionate We develop solutions that Our biggest driver is our are of the highest quality passion for innovative The Schaeffler Group will announce its Strategy 2024 on based on our extensive technologies and joint March 24, 2020. One of the main focal points of the strategy expertise. success with our customers. will be on identifying business fields in which the Schaeffler Group can grow profitably in the long term and on how this growth can be generated. The capital allocation management framework will play an important role in addressing these issues. Guiding values of a global family business The Schaeffler Group is a global automotive and industrial supplier and a listed family business – a company with a strong foundation of values, established by its founders. Schaeffler particularly identifies with the corporate values 1.3 Sustainability management “Sustainable”, “Innovative”, “Excellent”, and “Passionate”. These values form an important basis for the success of the and organization Schaeffler Group for the benefit and in the interest of its customers and business partners, employees and managers, as AT A GL ANCE well as its shareholders and family shareholders. • T he Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety (SEHS) department under the HR function is Strategy – “Mobility for tomorrow” responsible for sustainability management With the strategy of “Mobility for tomorrow”, Schaeffler is • T he Sustainability Committee is the central setting the foundation for sustainably profitable growth. In decision-making body response to global challenges – especially climate change, urbanization, globalization and digitalization – the company has defined four focus areas: Sustainability management strengthened • Eco-friendly drives The Schaeffler Group sees sustainable action as a cross-­ • Urban mobility sectoral issue that is relevant in all business divisions. To lend more weight to the issue, Schaeffler has established a • Interurban mobility central decision-making body in the form of the Sustainability Committee, which consists of the eight members of the • Energy chain Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 16 1.4 Materiality and stakeholder management Board of Managing Directors, the four regional CEOs, and the performance indicators, conducts internal and external functional managers of sustainability-relevant departments. sustainability reporting, and supports the dialogue with key The Sustainability Committee meets quarterly. Supported stakeholders. by the preparatory Sustainability Coordination Council, the Sustainability Committee makes central strategic decisions The operational implementation of sustainability-related for the sustainable development of the Schaeffler Group and topics is decentralized in various functions, divisions, and sets non-financial corporate targets. regions of the Schaeffler Group. The supply chain was particularly in focus in 2019. Against this back­ground, the PurThe SEHS department – as part of the HR function – has chasing & Supplier Management Sustainability department been responsible for sustainability since 2019. Among was created in May 2019. other things, it manages the sustainability strategy, defines Sustainability organization Sustainability Committee Board of Managing Directors Regional CEOs Function Heads Sustainability Coordination Council Corporate Function Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Functions Divisions Regions S  takeholder involvement: Evaluation of the topics with 1.4 Materiality and stakeholder • regard to their relevance for stakeholders and Schaeffler's management impact on the environment, employees, and society by carrying out an online survey AT A GL ANCE •  ateriality workshops: Discussion of the results of the M •  n online survey was conducted in 2019 with A online survey with relevant departments taking into around 300 external and internal stakeholders account the business perspective and preliminary determination of the material topics •  s a result, eleven issues have been identified as A material for non-financial reporting in 2019 •  alidation: Validation of the identified material issues by V the Executive Board Materiality analysis 2019 As a result, eleven material issues were identified for the Schaeffler Group. These are relevant both for understanding Specifically, the following steps were taken: the core business, business results, and the company situation as well as understanding the impact on non-financial • R  eassessment of the sustainability context: Research of aspects. Schaeffler reports on further topics in the context of potentially relevant topics based on a competitive analysis the extended sustainability reporting. and current sustainability frameworks •  onsolidation: Consolidation of the findings and compilaC tion of a list of 14 topics Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 17 1.4 Materiality and stakeholder management Material non-financial topics in 2019 Compliance Social matters • Corporate compliance • Customer satisfaction • Information security • Product quality and safety Responsibility for tomorrow Environmental matters Employee matters • Innovative mobility solutions • Employee advancement and • Innovative solutions for the industry development and energy sector Human rights • Occupational health and safety • Environment and climate protection • Social and ecological • Diversity and equal opportunity standards in the value chain As a result of the materiality analysis, the topics “compenRatings and indices sation and retirement benefits” and “work-life balance” are no longer part of the non-financial report as compared to For analysts and investors, the sustainability performance the previous year. Other topics were partly reorganized or of a company is an important guide for assessing the susrenamed. tainability of a business model. Therefore, they rely on the results of sustainability ratings assessing the activities of Schaeffler regularly maintains a close dialogue with its stakethe evaluated companies in the environmental, social, or corholders. Key stakeholders include customers, employees, porate governance fields. Schaeffler achieved the following and suppliers, as well as non-governmental organi­zations, results: policy-makers and government agencies, residents, associations, trade unions, investors and analysts, universities, Ranking/rating Result Year research institutes, and the media. As an example, the following opportunities for exchanging ideas were offered in 2019: • Climate: Score of BCDP 2019 • Water: Score of B •  takeholder online survey as part of the materiality S • Silver status analysis EcoVadis 2018 • 60/100 points • Customer workshops in the automotive sector Sustainalytics 19.5 (“low risk” category) 2020 • D  ialogue with industry associations, for example with the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) TARGET • Exchange of professional expertise with universities CDP score “A-”-rating for CDP Climate Score by 2021 and at least “B” by 2020 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 18 1.5 Corporate governance 1.5 Corporate governance Risk reporting AT A GL ANCE To achieve its corporate objectives, Schaeffler takes deliberately calculated business risks in order to implement • The  Group Compliance & Risk Committee is a its corporate strategy and realize the associated opportucentral pillar of the governance structure nities. The risk management system aims to identify these •  o reportable non-financial risks were identified in N risks at an early stage and to manage them in accordance 2019 with the risk strategy. The Schaeffler Group's opportunity and risk reporting in the group management report provides comprehensive informaResponsible corporate governance tion about the company's risk management system as well as significant risks that have a medium or high negative impact Trusting customer relationships and acting with integrity on assets, finances or income. It also includes risks related are an integral part of corporate governance. In principle, to the Schaeffler Group's business operations, business business dealings and relationships are only entered into relationships, or products and services. if they are in line with the corporate values “Sustainable”, “Innovative”, “Excellent”, and “Passionate”. The governance M  ore information on the Schaeffler Group's opportunity and structure of the Schaeffler Group promotes transparency, risk reporting can be found in the current Annual Report 2019 starting on page 47 et seq. supports the corporate values, and creates the necessary transparency in internal structures, the organization, and responsibilities. It also ensures that these components work With the integration of the non-financial risk assessment into together in an organized manner. the Schaeffler Group's risk management system, the assessment of the non-financial risk impact of the five reportable The Group Compliance and Risk Committee (GCRC) aspects – in addition to the evaluation of their financial risk represents a key governance component in this regard, impact – is carried out using a similar assessment logic. increasing transparency in internal structures, the organization, and in responsibilities. The GCRC is chaired by The risk survey showed that there were no reportable risks in the Schaeffler Group's Group Chief Compliance Officer. It 2019 in accordance with CSR-RUG (Section 289c, paragraph consists of the heads of the relevant governance functions 3 HGB). As proactive risk management, the EnEHS (Energy, (including Compliance, Legal, Risk Management, Internal Environment, Health and Safety) management system serves Control System, and Controlling). The GCRC is responsible to identify and avoid systematic risks and potential negative for assisting the Board of Managing Directors with its orgaimpacts from Schaeffler on the environment, energy, and nizational responsibilities with respect to compliance and occupational health and safety at an early stage. As a further risk management. Among the key objectives of the GCRC development in the analysis of climate-related risks, the are defining and delineating responsibilities and interfaces recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Finanand preventing redundancies in the process. In addition, it cial Disclosures (TCFD) – an expert commission of the G20 is expected to create a consistent and complete view of the Financial Stability Council – are being followed. risk situation in the divisions, functions, and regions based on a uniform measurement and prioritization methodology. Corporate compliance A further objective of the GCRC is developing and monitoring risk mitigation activities. The Compliance & Risk Working Integrity is a significant cornerstone of the Group, consisting of staff representatives from the functions Schaeffler Group's manner of conducting business. Schaeffler represented on the GCRC, provides operational support to adheres to high standards of compliance, especially in prethe GCRC. venting corruption. Schaeffler sets high expectations for data protection, information, and IT security. The elements of the governance structure – the internal control system, the compliance and risk management system, and Internal Audit – work together according to the internally recognized “Three Lines of Defense Model”. It assigns clear responsibility for dealing with risks to Schaeffler's continued existence and development and is based on the principle that primary responsibility for a risk lies with its originator. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 19 1.5 Corporate governance The compliance management system (CMS) is a part of the Training topics in 2019 were in particular: Schaeffler Group's overall corporate governance structure. The management and all employees are obliged by the • Integrity/Code of Conduct Schaeffler Group Corporate Code of Conduct (CoC) to comply • Anti-corruption with all applicable local, national, and international laws and • Antitrust and competition law regulations. The entire worldwide compliance organization of the Schaeffler Group provides support in doing this. The • Conflicts of interest Schaeffler Group's CMS is based on national and international standards. In 2018, an independent auditing company The training courses are continuously developed to meet confirmed the appropriateness and implementation of the best standards. 6,461 participants2) (prior year: 9,578) took Schaeffler Group's compliance management system in accorpart in web-based training on compliance in the reporting dance with the IDW AsS 980 standard for auditing compliance period. Furthermore, 8,091 employees (prior year: 8,793) management systems. were trained in face-to-face trainings and workshops. The CMS serves the purpose of:  ore information on the individual subsystems of the govM ernance structure and the compliance management system • T he prevention and early detection of legal violations in of the Schaeffler Group can be found in the current Annual the areas of corruption, money laundering, competition, Report 2019 starting on page 76 et seq. and antitrust law as well as economic crime. M  ore information on material compliance can be found in the •  ctive risk control and as a protective function for both the A “Responsibility in the value chain” chapter on page 20 et seq. company and its employees. The Schaeffler Group's Group Chief Compliance Officer heads up the compliance organization and reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Group Chief Compliance Officer Participants2) in compliance training also has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and reports to the chairman of the audit committee on a regular basis. The Schaeffler Group Corporate Code of Conduct and corporate policies on competition and antitrust compliance, Face-to-face fighting corruption, the protection of confidential informatraining 14,552 E-Learning tion, and conflicts of interest include requirements to prevent 8,091 6,461 compliance violations. A compliance helpdesk is available for consultation on specific compliance issues. In addition, Schaeffler has taken measures to detect any compliance violations. These include controls as well as a globally accessible whistleblowing system which allows anonymous reporting of alleged violations. As a part of the central competence team for compliance at the headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Due diligence processes: systematically securing the “Forensics & Investigations” department is responsible lawful behavior for the independent investigation of alleged violations. In order to systematically avoid legal and reputational The  Schaeffler Group Code of Conduct is available at: risks, the Schaeffler Group further strengthened its meawww.schaeffler.com/code-of-conduct sures in the fiscal year 2019. The competitor contact register was digitalized. It promotes transparency and supports the Compliance training pre-approval process for competitor contacts. The IT-based Business Partner Due Diligence Workflow that had been On the basis of web-based and face-to-face trainings, integrated was transferred to ongoing operations. In the the company provides its employees with a necessary underAutomotive Aftermarket, Industrial divisions and in the Purstanding of compliance issues. chasing department, the process was already implemented in selected areas and countries. The rollout for the remaining areas and countries will take place in 2020. The process 2) Employees incl. temporary staff, apprentices, interns, and contract workers. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 20 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain primarily focuses on risks associated with corruption and HIGHLIGHT export control and aims to facilitate and improve business Compliance conference on information and partner reviews. cyber security Data protection, information, and IT security In 2019, Schaeffler dedicated its compliance conference to the important Protecting personal rights is a high priority for Schaeffler and is part of the Group Code of Conduct. It handles the profield of information and cyber security cessing of data belonging to business partners and employin addition to the topic of optimizing the ees with the greatest care and sensitivity. The corresponding control landscape. During the conference, processes comply with legal data protection requirements. senior executives at management level The data protection officer at Schaeffler AG plays a central completed an executive education promanaging role. He is assigned to the “Compliance & Corpogram on information and cyber security rate Security” department and thus to the Chief Executive Officer's function. in cooperation with the Goethe University Frankfurt and external experts. Business The Schaeffler Group's information security measures are and internal IT experts discussed the topic based on the ISO/IEC 27001 standard and take national of cyber security intensively with senior and industry-specific regulations and compliance with the Schaeffler executives and provided valuVDA-ISA standard within the framework of TISAX (Trusted able insights. Information Security Assessment Exchange) into account where necessary. These measures are designed to protect Schaeffler's intellectual property and the business secrets of business partners from theft, loss, unauthorized disclosure, unlawful access or misuse. As part of the “Information & Cyber Security Program”, the regulatory framework has been consolidated and prepared for a global rollout in 2019. 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain Preventive measures to protect against cybercrime in particAT A GL ANCE ular will be gradually systematically expanded as part of the “Information & Cyber Security Program”, among others, and •  The Supplier Code of Conduct sets minimum accompanied by training and information offerings. requirements for suppliers • A  new central function manages and develops the An “IT Security by Design” process based on national and topic of sustainability in the supply chain international standards has been introduced at Schaeffler. It will secure that IT security is already taken into account when developing systems and applications. Corresponding protective measures are integrated in the process depending Social and ecological standards in the value chain on the protection requirements. The implementation of the “IT Security by Design” process in the regions was started Social and environmental issues such as working conin 2019. The global introduction will be completed in 2020. ditions, fair wages, freedom of association, occupational health and safety, and environmental protection in the supply chain are part of many national laws and internaBusiness continuity and crisis management tionally recognized policies. As a global family business, the Schaeffler Group supports these efforts and aims at ensurIn 2018, Schaeffler has begun to coordinate business ing compliance with these aspects in its supply chain. In its continuity activities at the corporate level. Elements such as effective emergency and crisis management have been established. A unified approach to a business impact analysis was created and piloted at a plant in China in 2019. The introduction into relevant business areas will take place by 2021. Different measures prepare the members of the crisis management teams to deal with crisis situations. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 21 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), Schaeffler has formulated service provider. If required, on-site audits and assessments minimum requirements for suppliers based on the principles at selected suppliers follow. of the United Nations Global Compact and the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). TARGET On May 1, 2019, Schaeffler created the new central function Purchasing & Supplier Management Sustainability in order Sustainable Suppliers to manage the topic centrally and promote it throughout the 90% of purchasing volume of production group. material from suppliers with sustainability self-assessments by 2022. The Schaeffler Group Corporate Supplier Code of Conduct is available at: www.schaeffler.com/supplier-code-of-conduct The Schaeffler Group works closely with its production All new suppliers for the Schaeffler Group are required to material suppliers regarding the materials and substances accept the CoC and SCoC in writing. Supplier screening also used (“Material Compliance”). The Material Compliance provides the necessary emphasis. Existing suppliers who department supports the Purchasing department by conhave neither implemented a certified environmental or occutinuously evaluating the requirements that are relevant for pational health and safety management system nor accept Schaeffler and determining criteria to be taken into account the SCoC/CoC are rated down by one level by Purchasing when choosing suppliers. These include all material requirein the supplier evaluation. This procedure decreases their ments from legislation, public standards, and customer chances in the selection process for new projects or procurerequirements with regard to: ment volumes. The supplier information refers to the direct (Tier 1) suppliers of the Schaeffler Group. • Chemical substances • Preparations In 2019, 863) new suppliers of production material were checked for Schaeffler's supplier portfolio by way of an initial •  ackaging and materials in manufacturing processes P assessment. Applicants previously had to accept the SCoC, and products thus committing to the values it defines. On-site assess• Transporting the products ments were then carried out. Integral parts of this assessment are production tours during which questions are asked This also involves responsibly procuring raw materials such about production-related aspects of occupational health and as tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold, whose extraction in safety and environmental protection. At the end of 2019, the some countries contributes to financing armed conflicts or questionnaires were expanded to include social aspects. human rights violations. Schaeffler uses the “Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiries” (RCOI) procedure to ascertain If a company does not accept the SCoC or is not ready to from which regions sub-tier suppliers source components cooperate to address critical issues directly by taking immewith critical materials and, where appropriate, initiate tardiate action, the approval process is stopped. Applicants geted supply chain actions. Compared to the previous year, who fail to adequately meet the requirements of the questhe response rate4) of the suppliers surveyed fell slightly tionnaire during on-site assessments will need to identify to 93.8%5) 6) (prior year: 94.3%)6). 100%6) of the smelters appropriate actions following a root cause analysis. reported in Schaeffler's pre-supply chain that are located in affected countries under the RCOI are certified by the No serious negative environmental or social impacts in the “Responsible Minerals Initiative7)”. Material compliance supply chain were identified in the year under review. implementation is based on an audited management process that is included in the Material Compliance Management The activities planned for the systematic development of sustainability in the supply chain include the use of questionnaires which are provided in cooperation with a platform 3) Completed in 2019. 4) Response rate of relevant suppliers surveyed on the use of conflict minerals as defined under the Responsible Minerals Initiative. 5) 2019 value checked in interim status in December 2019. 6) Survey period from March to February of the following year. 7) Risk areas as defined in the RCOI. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 22 1.6 Responsibility in the value chain guideline. The progress is determined and monitored The company rejects any form of human rights violations continuously. such as child and forced labor or discrimination based on race, color, or gender. This claim applies to all Schaeffler Customers are able to request Schaeffler's Conflict Minerals locations as well as to all business partners and goes beyond Report. With further improvements to the material compliance compliance with local legal provisions. The company manprocess, the company will meet the OECD guidelines for the agement commits to the “UN Guiding Principles for Business responsible use of minerals from conflict and high-risk areas and Human Rights”, the ten principles of the “UN Global by 2021, and thus also the EU requirements in a timely manCompact”, the German government's National Action Plan for ner. As an important prerequisite for this, a Conflict Minerals Business and Human Rights (NAP), the “Dodd-Frank Act” and Policy was adopted by the Executive Board in 2019 and made the “Modern Slavery Act”. available online. The requirement to respect and uphold human rights is  The Conflict Minerals Policy is available at: part of the current group-wide Code of Conduct and the www.schaeffler.com/en/conflict-minerals-policy Schaeffler Group's Supplier Code of Conduct. They are aimed at every employee at the company and selected business partners, such as suppliers of production and non-producSupplier management at Schaeffler tion materials. Responsibility for human rights issues rests 2019 2018 2017 with the Sustainability department under the HR function. If necessary, it will also report on human rights issues as Number of new suppliers reviewed in initial part of Schaeffler AG's internal risk reporting. Any viola86 111 157 assessments1) tions of human rights topics can be reported through the Response rate of surveyed suppliers on the use Schaeffler Group's global compliance whistleblowing system. 93.8 94.3 91.2 of conflict minerals in %2) 3) 4) No violations of human rights8) were reported via the system Coverage rate of certified smelters in the in 2019. 100 100 100 supply chain in %3) 5) The employees and managers at the Schaeffler Group are 1) Completed in 2019. trained on the Code of Conduct, which demands respect 2) R esponse rate of relevant suppliers surveyed on the use of conflict minerals as defined under the Responsible Minerals Initiative. for human rights (see compliance training, p. 19). Elements 3) Survey period from March to February of the following year. for managing risks associated with human rights violations 4) 2019 value checked in interim status in December 2019. are developed and coordinated by the Sustainability 5) Risk areas as defined in the RCOI. department. To implement the NAP, the Schaeffler Group is in contact with the German Federal Foreign Office and the German Federal Initiatives and industry solutions for responsible Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. Schaeffler's goal is to meet the so far voluntary EU requirements of the NAP by supply chains 2020 by continuing to develop the human rights due diliIn national and international initiatives and associations, gence process on time. Schaeffler participates in standardizing content, processes, and measures to improve sustainability in supply chains. Compliance with international disclosure Schaeffler is a member of the “Sustainability in the Supply requirements Chain” working group, an initiative of the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA), in addition to other The “Modern Slavery Act”, which was passed in the U.K. in groups. In this context, Schaeffler significantly contributed to 2015, calls for companies to demonstrate their commitment standardizing the industry-wide sustainability questionnaire to protecting human rights along their value chain. The and sustainability protocol for sustainability-related supplier Schaeffler Group maintains business relations with the U.K. inspections. Schaeffler extended its own questionnaire for and is therefore impacted by this disclosure requirement. A new suppliers with additional social questions. corresponding statement is published for Schaeffler (UK) Ltd.  The “Modern Slavery Statement” from Schaeffler (UK) Ltd. Human rights is available at: www.schaeffler.co.uk As a global family business with a strong foundation based on its values, respect for human rights is an indispensable part of corporate responsibility for the Schaeffler Group. 8) Contraventions of the prohibition on forced labor and child labor and cases of discrimination by origin, skin color, or gender. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 23 2Customers and products The megatrends of climate change, urbanization, globalization, and digitalization are presenting the Schaeffler Group's automotive and industrial customers with new challenges. Schaeffler analyzes how the demands of stakeholders are changing due to these megatrends – and develops innovative products for the demands of the future. Schaeffler is open to new technologies and keeps an eye on promising solutions for sustainable mobility and a future-oriented industry. At the same time, the company works closely with its customers and aligns its develop­ ment work based on their expectations. Across all divisions, Schaeffler focuses on the four strategic fields of “eco-friendly drives”, “urban mobility”, “interurban mobility” and “energy chain”. CONTENTS The products of the Schaeffler Group directly contribute to achieving the SDGs. For example, technical developments for 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies 24 electrically powered cars, scooters, e-boards, and e-bikes encourage the development of “Sustainable cities and 2.2 Product quality and safety 29 communities” (SDG 11). Products in the energy chain also contribute to this development goal and addtionally help to 2.3 Customer satisfaction 30 realize “Sustainable and modern energy for all” (SDG 7). Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 24 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies AT A GL ANCE • S  chaeffler offers innovative mobility solutions as 2,057 patent applications filed2) well as solutions for industry and the energy sector • T he company actively supports its customers in designing environmentally and climate-friendly products and technologies Focus areas “eco-friendly drives” Schaeffler is working on a variety of technologies that Shaping the mobility of the future will make the mobility of the future more sustainable and efficient. With innovative ideas, creative engineering, and The Schaeffler Group offers innovative, environmentally comprehensive manufacturing expertise, the company is and climate-friendly products and technologies. The comdeveloping solutions for combustion engine driven, hybrid, pany employs 7,784 people1) in research and development and all-electric powertrains. (R&D) at 20 R&D centers and other R&D sites. The extent and success of its innovation activity is illustrated by the number Based on market analyses, a scenario was developed with of patent applications2) submitted to the German Patent and the “Schaeffler Vision Powertrain” indicating that in 2030 Trademark Office based on inventions reported throughout around 30% of new cars will be equipped with internal the Group. 2,057 patents have been submitted in 2019 (prior combustion engines, 40% with hybrid powertrains, and year: 2,417). This achievement was also recognized by the 30% with purely electric powertrains on average worldnomination for the JUVE Award as the In-House Team of the wide. Therefore, a holistic view of the powertrain and the Year for Intellectual Property (IP). interaction of electric motors, internal combustion engines, transmissions, chassis, and the associated infrastructure is Schaeffler focuses its innovative strength across divisions on of high ecological and economic importance. Based on the four focus areas where growth potential has been identified: degree of electrification – micro, mild, plug-in hybrid, or pure “eco-friendly drives”, “urban mobility”, “interurban mobilelectric vehicles – Schaeffler is developing new solutions ity”, and “energy chain”. in the engine, transmission, and electric drive subsystems in a powertrain matrix. This includes electromechanical Energy efficiency, resource consumption, and system reliabilactuators as well as 48-volt hybrid technologies and efficient ity are key issues in all transport sectors, but also in many electric drives. industrial processes. They also affect the upstream energy chain since sustainable mobility and industrial production According to the aforementioned scenario, 70% of all newly will ultimately only be achieved with energy from renewable registered vehicles will have an electric drive in 2030. sources. Therefore, Schaeffler sees e-mobility as one of the key opportunities for the future. In addition to Industry 4.0 and Customers and users must be able to fully rely on the Digitalization, it represents a cornerstone of the strategy performance and durability of the products. To ensure this, “Mobility for tomorrow”. As part of the “Agenda 4 plus One”, the company continues to develop its quality management Schaeffler has created a dedicated business division for its system. e-mobility activities. A majority of the products and system solutions for hybrid and all-electric vehicles are managed Fundamental to the Schaeffler Group's R&D activities is centrally from the e-mobility business division. the goal of helping to shape the mobility of the future with safe, economically successful products and technologies The focus on electric mobility is reflected in the development produced in an ecologically and socially responsible manner. of sector-specific revenues: They increased from EUR 493 m This goal is anchored in the company strategy via the four in 2018 to EUR 676 m in 20193). focus areas described below. 1) The values reflect the workforce headcount at the end of the year. 2) Patent applications concern first filings filed at the German Patent and Trade Mark Office. 3) Previous year's figures according to the segment structure reported in 2019. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 25 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies Schaeffler has established four competence centers for Electric vehicle innovations e-­mobi­lity since 2017: in Bühl, Germany; in Herzogenaurach, Germany; in Anting, China; and in Wooster, USA. With the Schaeffler already offers numerous innovative products competence center in China, Schaeffler is addressing the and components for specific electrification levels: The specgrowing importance of the Chinese e-mobility market, while trum ranges from electrically operated coupling devices to in Wooster, the company is working on U.S.-specific issues components and drives for mild hybrids, in which the electric such as the electrification of larger cars. motor has only a supporting function, to completely electric drives for hybrid and entirely electric vehicles. The Schaeffler Group's research-related facilities cooperate intensively with leading universities and research institutes In early 2019, Schaeffler went into series production with the in the field of e-mobility, including the Karlsruhe Institute of third generation of the hybrid module. To further increase the Technology (KIT). At the institute, a research facility is operdegree of integration and thus further reduce the installation ated as part of the “Schaeffler Hub for Advanced Research” space required, the start-up element is also integrated into (SHARE) program. The SHARE at KIT focuses on energy the module. In particular, this series rollout involves a solustorage, electric drives, and automated mobility. Schaeffler tion with an integrated torque converter developed for the US operates four different SHARE programs worldwide. market. Eco-friendly drives increasingly play an important role not Furthermore, Schaeffler entered into the production of only in mobility but also in industrial production. Schaeffler electric motors in 2019 with a modular and highly integrated supports the industry in this transformation with highly effitechnology platform. With the acquisition of Elmotec-Stacient direct drives in machine tools that can be operated with tomat, a manufacturer of stators, at the end of 2018, the the lowest possible energy consumption because the power industrialization of electric motors can be comprehensively can be generated directly at the point where it is needed. outlined within the company. Extensive skill sets with regard As a result, no mechanical transmission components are to mechanical components, manufacturing processes, and required and losses due to friction are minimized compared winding technologies, as well as an advanced understanding to conventional drives. of systems for the entire vehicle, guarantee short development times and ensure smooth processes in the production In modern machine tools, there are several direct drives of technologically sophisticated electric motors. The appliin different swivel axes and direct-driven linear drives. cation spectrum of the electric motor family, trimmed for Schaeffler's rotary and linear direct drives require less power efficiency and reliability, ranges from hybrid modules and while providing the power or torque yield that is typical in the dedicated hybrid transmissions (DHT) to electric motors for market, and they have up to 30% less power loss. This not electric axle drives. Voltage levels between 48 and 800 V and only leads directly to lower energy consumption, but also to power classes from 15 to over 300 kW are possible. Series positive indirect effects, such as less effort for cooling the production for various customer projects will start worldwide motors. Schaeffler's loss-optimized direct drives can therebeginning in 2021. fore sustainably reduce energy consumption in industrial production. In addition, Schaeffler contributes to making e-mobility more attractive and exciting with its involvement in the FIA Formula E. At the end of the 2018/2019 season, the team achieved a strong second place. This testifies to outstanding skills in the electric-based powertrain. With the “Schaeffler 4ePerformance” concept vehicle, Schaeffler also demonApproximately 37% strates how innovations from the racing environment can be translated into a pre-series drive concept. increase in revenue in the business division e-mobility Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 26 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies Low-emission internal combustion engines Schaeffler identifies high future potential in fuel cell technology for the mobility sector. Existing manufacturing In order to make internal combustion engines as technology capabilities are being used to develop and low-emission and energy-efficient as possible, Schaeffler is produce powerful bipolar plates. These plates are a central developing friction-reducing technologies throughout the component of fuel cells. The first prototypes of a fuel cell powertrain that will reduce fuel consumption, for example stack have already been put into operation and scaled up to through innovative surface coatings. Another focus is optian output of 120 kW. mizing the valve train system. The goal is to always provide the optimum amount of air at each operating point in the cylFocus area “urban mobility” inder and thus to increase efficiency and reduce emissions. In addition, Schaeffler is expanding its product portfolio in According to United Nations forecasts, two-thirds of the the area of thermal management. It is used to distribute the world's population is expected to live in cities by 2050.4) heat flow within the internal combustion engine dynamically and according to the demand. This allows the engine to reach The need for individual mobility will change the way that its operating temperature faster, among other things, which people move around the city and autonomous vehicles decreases fuel consumption. Individual smart actuators with will play an important role. Schaeffler is providing the central control (smart single valves) will be used for this as a technical basis for this kind of urban mobility concept: the standard. “Schaeffler Mover”. The electric vehicle, which is powered by four-wheel hub motors, forms the basis for various utilization Hybridization – for example by using a “belt starter generaconcepts from cars to robo-taxis to autonomous driving tor” – can reduce fuel consumption and emissions by about cargo solutions. Drive and suspension components are inte5 to 7%. In addition to comfortable and efficient start-stop grated in a compact unit, the “Schaeffler Intelligent Corner operation of the engine, the hybrid drive also enables brake Module”. energy recovery. Schaeffler conducts ongoing research on synthetic fuels proHIGHLIGHT duced using renewable energy sources. Since no fossil fuels “Schaeffler Mover” awarded are used here, these “synfuels” should be able to power internal combustion engines in a carbon-neutral manner in In 2019, the “Schaeffler Mover” was the future. awarded the German Mobility Prize from the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure and the initiative HIGHLIGHT “Germany – Land of Ideas”. Particular CO₂ reduction with CNG as fuel emphasis was placed on the universal As part of the publicly funded “GasOn” application possibilities for a wide variety program, Schaeffler made a significant of passenger or goods transport. contribution to the development of a monovalent compressed natural gas (CNG) powered internal combustion engine which enables CO₂ reduction of up to 25% in the entire engine. This means that this engine map already meets future emission limits today. 4) United Nations: World Urbanization Prospects 2018. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 27 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies Micromobility: relieving city congestion Another development focus is on predictive maintenance and servicing of wheelset bearings for railway vehicles. According In the field of micromobility, Schaeffler is also helping to Schaeffler's calculations, it is possible to save at least one to relieve congestion in metropolitan areas. Micromobility wheelset bearing maintenance operation, and in some cases includes micro vehicles such as scooters, e-boards, and even two, out of four to five over the life cycle of a vehicle. e-bikes. With the “Bio-Hybrid”, Schaeffler offers a fourThis allows the number of maintenance operations to be wheeled vehicle with a roof that is pedaled by the rider and minimized, which in turn saves resources for cleaning and supported by an electric motor. To industrialize the “Bio-Hygreasing the bearings. As a result, vehicles can be used longer brid”, the activities were bundled in Schaeffler Bio-Hybrid or their power reserves can be more fully utilized, which leads GmbH. The passenger and cargo versions were presented to a significant reduction in maintenance costs. This is not at the CES trade fair (Consumer Electronics Show) in 2019 only more cost-efficient than replacing the old bearings, but in Las Vegas. The modular concept, whose market launch also results in shorter delivery times. Schaeffler has drawn up is planned for the end of 2020, offers numerous application its own life cycle assessment in which the complete product possibilities – from transporting goods via a mobile coffee life cycle of a standard wheelset bearing was analyzed using shop to sightseeing vehicles in the tourism sector. special assessment software and compared with the bearing refurbishment. HIGHLIGHT Red Dot Award for the “Bio-Hybrid” HIGHLIGHT Climate-friendly maintenance For the innovative design concept of the “Bio-Hybrid”, Schaeffler received the Around 95% of CO₂ emissions can be renowned Red Dot Award in the reporting saved by reconditioning wheelset bearings period. compared to new production. Per reconditioned axlebox bearings, this corresponds to the emissions of an air passenger travIn addition, Schaeffler is working on innovative drive systems eling from Frankfurt to Crete, or a nearly for vehicles in urban areas, called the electronic chain. This 3,000 km journey in a typical middle class is characterized by fewer mechanical parts and therefore less car with 65 kW. wear. Because the mechanical chain is omitted, less lubricant gets into the surrounding area and the system becomes more robust. The electronic chain can help achieve a breakthrough in zero-emission city logistics, reduces maintenance Schaeffler has created its own brand called X-life to identify costs with sharing concepts, and enables economical fleet particularly high-performance bearings for industrial applicaoperation. tions. Thanks to an optimized internal design, X-life bearings achieve longer operating lives, lower friction and lower Focus area “interurban mobility” bearing temperatures under the same operating conditions. The lubricant is also subjected to less stress. Alternatively, In the course of progressing urbanization, the movethe increased performance capacity of the bearings can be ment of people and materials between urban centers is used to optimize installation space and thus reduce weight. increasing. Schaeffler is developing increasingly low-friction Rolling bearings in X-life quality are widely used in rail vehicle and highly reliable components that help to make long-disapplications, for example in wheelset bearings, drives, and tance transport, both by rail and by air, more resource and traction motors. climate friendly. Concrete developments include bearings with ceramic rolling elements, for example, which have a The operating life of rolling bearings can be significantly much lower frictional resistance than conventional rolling extended or the load even increased with special materials as elements made of steel and thus reduce losses in the drives. well. The carbonitrided high-performance Mancrodur rolling In addition, Schaeffler is investing worldwide in appropriate bearing steel is also suitable for wheelset bearings. The comproduction capacities to improve customer proximity and bination of high-performance steel and special heat treatment reduce transport distances. results in approximately 30% more load carrying capacity and thus offers a more than doubled nominal service life. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 28 2.1 Sustainable products and technologies Focus area “energy chain” Research and development as a systematic strategy and planning process The move away from fossil fuels and the transformation of mobility require a profound change in the entire energy The Technology function is responsible for research sector, creating new market potential. It ranges from generand development within the Schaeffler Group. Schaeffler's ating energy to providing energy to concepts for energy use. innovative strength is also based on its annual cross-­ Schaeffler's activities in the “energy chain” focus area are departmental strategy and planning process, which consists aimed precisely at these market segments. of several phases: The irregular availability of renewable energies requires new • T he Technology Dialogue looks at current megatrends and energy sources and electricity storage technologies. This is the resulting requirements for technologies and innovathe only way to ensure the sustainable mobility of tomorrow. tions. In this way, Schaeffler lays the foundation for future Alternatives such as hydrogen are becoming increasingly development directions and products. important. Schaeffler has recognized the potential of • I n the subsequent phases – the Strategy and Planning hydrogen technology as an energy source of the future and Dialogues – the development activities are specified. has developed key components for fuel cells and fuel cell stacks. Schaeffler has been a guiding member of the global In addition, market trends are examined from an individual hydrogen interest group “Hydrogen Council” since 2020. The customer perspective. Among other things, Schaeffler international initiative consists of 81 companies from the organizes annual “Top Technology Meetings” with key energy, transport, and industrial sectors and aims to further customers. The company uses the market analysis results for advance the industrialization of hydrogen technology. In its customer-specific requirements management. Customer addition, Schaeffler is a founding member of the “Hydrogen expectations are thereby systematically translated into susAlliance Bavaria” founded in 2019. The alliance aims at tainable products and technologies. further advancing climate protection, energy, mobility, and technological innovation and using the potential of hydrogen In order to represent customer expectations in new products, technology as the energy source of the future. Schaeffler has created a standardized product creation process (PCP). It specifies in detail which steps are necessary to In its development work, the Schaeffler Group also relies on develop a product that meets the requirements of all relevant improved and completely new products for wind turbines. stakeholders (customer, company, and legislators). This The company is one of the leaders on the world market includes proof of the product functionality, stable production depending on the type of turbine. The focus here is on bearand logistics processes, and suitable suppliers. As part of ings with lower friction and wear. Global investments in manthe PCP, customer requirements for the entire product life ufacturing capacity for these bearings are helping to support cycle are agreed upon in writing, from production to operthe shift towards renewable energies. In addition, Schaeffler ation and maintenance to disposal. The PCP also explicitly offers monitoring systems via cloud-based software. This states compliance with sustainability criteria. also increases the reliability of the systems in this area and extends the operating times, which directly leads to better Schaeffler also works with other companies across the use of resources. industry to improve the market and production conditions for future, more sustainable products. For this reason, Schaeffler In rolling bearing arrangements in hydroelectric or marine is involved in the “European Association of Automotive Supcurrent power plants as well as in pumps and compressors, pliers” (CLEPA5)). Schaeffler is involved in various working there are concepts in which lubricants are avoided and groups focusing on technology and sustainability issues rolling bearings are lubricated with media or even run dry. In such as autonomous driving, the Euro 7 emissions standard, addition to the goal of saving resources, the focus is on the and compliance. possibility of dispensing with costly and high-friction sealing systems. Rolling bearings operated in this way have the highest demands put on the robustness of the materials used and their surfaces. With this focus, Schaeffler is participating in the Poseidon II research project from the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy in which suitable materials and special surface coatings are being developed to further improve the sustainability of rolling bearings and rolling bearing systems. 5) Comité de Liaison Européen des Fabricants d'Equipements et de Pièces Automobiles. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 29 2.2 Product quality and safety • ISO 9001:2015 quality management system (industry 2.2 Product quality and safety standard) AT A GL ANCE The conformity of the products, systems, and processes is •  chaeffler has the highest standards for holistic S periodically checked and confirmed at the affected locations product quality and safety by way of internal and external audits. • A  ll production sites have certified quality management systems In 2019, product liability cases7) were able to be avoided thanks to the standard company processes and the integrated product safety management system that was introduced. “Quality for Tomorrow” initiative High standards in product safety To ensure the highest quality both today and in the future, Schaeffler has launched the “Quality for Tomorrow” Product safety is an essential quality characteristic for initiative as part of the “Agenda 4 plus One”. To ensure that industrial plants and transport systems. Schaeffler ensures both products and processes are free from errors, the followsafety through standardized and audited processes. In ing priorities have been set: July 2019, the integrated product safety management system (IPSMS) was successfully introduced. •  ontinuous improvement of products and services in the C core business •  onstant improvement of the quality management system C as well as the manufacturing and business processes • P  reventive measures in product development through product safety assessments on products selected according to the risk-based approach defined in IATF 16949 100% coverage rate of quality The “Quality for Tomorrow” Initiative will be completed management systems6) by the end of 2020. Until then, Schaeffler wants to further reduce the number of complaints as an important quality indicator from year to year. The Schaeffler Group's product safety officers are trained Schaeffler ensures and improves the quality of its products in a combined online and face-to-face training. In addition, and processes with a variety of tools: All Schaeffler Group Schaeffler conducts annual industry-related product safety production sites6) have certified management systems in days during which automotive professionals and execuaccordance with globally recognized quality standards and tives discuss safety matters with NGOs, authorities, and regulations. government organizations. The meetings serve to make product safety and compliance processes even more reliable The company has successfully implemented the requiretogether. The fourth product safety day was held in Herzoments of the following certification-relevant standards in all genaurach, Germany in March 2019. In addition to represenSchaeffler plants concerned worldwide: tatives of the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy, 28 companies from China, the USA, Brazil, France, • I ATF 16949:2016 quality management system (automotive and Germany attended the event. industry standard) • I SO/TS 22163 quality management system (with specific requirements for the application of ISO 9001:2015 in the railway sector) • S  AE AS 9100D:2016-09-20 quality management systems (requirements for aerospace and defense organizations) 6) According to the scope of the Schaeffler Group's management manual and valid certification rules. 7) P  roduct liability cases (pursuant to the product liability law) are claims by end users against Schaeffler for compensation for damage occurred to the end user as the result of a safety-related product defect. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS 30 2.3 Customer satisfaction Trademark protection in real time via an app Schaeffler uses international trade and consumer fairs and organizes individual customer events such as the Schaeffler Quality must also be protected from external threats. Colloquium as classic tools to communicate with customers. Trade in counterfeit products, for example, not only damages the manufacturer, but their use can also result in material damage to vehicles and industrial equipment or personal Global expansion of the spare parts business injury. The Schaeffler Group fights product piracy with a holistic approach. A brand protection team coordinates preSchaeffler wants to serve its customers worldwide even ventive measures against trademark infringements and the faster and more reliably, thereby further increasing the level legal prosecution of confirmed cases. In addition, Schaeffler of customer satisfaction and loyalty. To this end, the Autoprovides its customers with solutions to authenticate susmotive Aftermarket division is investing heavily in the global pected counterfeit products. In 2019, several requests from expansion of its logistics infrastructure. different countries have been identified as fake by the app. HIGHLIGHT Operative excellence Schaeffler is currently building a European “Aftermarket Kitting Operation 2.3 Customer satisfaction (AKO)” center in Halle (Saale), Germany. The level of investment is at around AT A GL ANCE EUR 180 m. The center is scheduled to be •  onsistent customer orientation is the basis C put into operation in the second quarter of for product development, service, and quality 2020. assurance •  6 awards in the reporting year for customer 6 satisfaction and product quality verify our positive The Automotive Aftermarket division continues to rely on reputation worldwide digital tools such as a global product and service platform or the expansion of the services offered for garages with the REPXPERT app. In addition, it is further developing its e-­commerce and account-based marketing activities for even closer Consistent customer orientation integration of marketing, sales, and services. Schaeffler uses a central Global Key Account ManageWinner of multiple awards ment system (GKAM) to shape its customer relationships worldwide according to standardized principles. The GKAM In 2019, Schaeffler received 66 awards for customer works closely with the regional and divisional sales funcsatisfaction and product quality. Schaeffler sees this as an tions of the Automotive OEM, Automotive Aftermarket, and indicator of its positive reputation in global markets. Industrial business divisions. The necessary expertise is pooled from the relevant divisions for each key customer. Schaeffler was named “Supplier of the Year” in March 2019 Every major customer has a contact person who takes care by NEXUS Automotive International, a global association of of all of his or her concerns according to the “one face to the leading automotive aftermarket parts dealers. This was in customer” principle. As a non-financial performance indicarecognition of the successful and trusting collaboration with tor, customer satisfaction is reported to the Executive Board the Schaeffler Automotive Aftermarket division since the during the year and monitored by it. establishment of the trade cooperation in 2014. As another control instrument, Schaeffler is using “Customer Schaeffler received further awards as the “Supplier of Relationship Management” software in order to shape its the Year” in the automotive aftermarket from the global customer relationship. Since 2019, it has mapped a cross-­ trade cooperation TEMOT International and GROUPAUTO divisional system architecture. International. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 31 3Environment and energy Schaeffler supplies products and technologies that make mobility and industrial equipment more eco-friendly and efficient. As a leading technology company, Schaeffler is also committed to creating its own processes as ­energy-efficient, eco-friendly, and resource-efficient as possible. For this purpose, Schaeffler relies on a continuous improvement process for all environ­ mental and energy-relevant processes. The worldwide standardization of the associated processes enables effective management of all relevant aspects. For example, material consumption and energy requirements are taken into account comprehensively and at an early stage during planning. CONTENTS With its energy-efficient and eco-friendly processes, the company contributes to the SDGs “Sustainable forms of 3.1 Environmental management 32 consumption and production” (SDG 12) as well as “Fighting against climate change and its effects” (SDG 13). 3.2 Energy and emissions 32 3.3 Material and ressource management 34 3.4 Logistics 36 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 32 3.1 Environmental management 3.1 Environmental management and resolved in the context of regular management reviews AT A GL ANCE with the Executive Board. •  Environmental and energy topics are organized in a In 2019, 98.1%1) of Schaeffler production sites were EMAS worldwide matrix organization certified and 98.8%1) were ISO 14001 certified. Schaeffler • T he integrated environmental management is certicontinues to develop its environmental management and has fied in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard and the system audited regularly by an external auditor. the EMAS eco-audit standard There were no violations of environmental protection laws within the Schaeffler Group during the reporting period. Accordingly, no fines or sanctions were imposed. Worldwide standardization of environmentally relevant processes The Schaeffler Group aims to set an example not only Production sites with an environmental for its products, but also for its own processes in terms of management system 2019 2018 2017 environmental protection and energy efficiency. The comCoverage rate for EMAS certification in %1) 98.1 98.1 98.2 pany pursues an ambitious environmental and energy policy on a global level. To manage its energy and environmental Coverage rate for ISO 14001 certification in %1) 98.8 98.7 98.7 issues across the company, the Schaeffler Group maintains 1) Relating to employees on the production sites. an EnEHS (Energy, Environment, Health, and Safety) management system that applies worldwide. It is based on the energy and environmental standards ISO 50001 for energy management, ISO 14001 for environmental management, and the EMAS eco-audit standard, among others. The continuous improvement of energy management and the further development of environmental services are ensured by regular internal and external audits. The company man3.2 Energy and emissions agement carries out stakeholder analyses with a subsequent opportunity and risk assessment throughout the Group and AT A GL ANCE down to each individual location. • S  chaeffler is committed to the Paris Climate Change Agreement to limit global warming to less than 2° or 1.5° Celsius 98.1% • T he basis for calculating the environmental and climate objectives will be revised to improve the validity of the indicators of Schaeffler production sites are EMAS certified1) More efficiency through data-based management The company-wide measurement and management of energy consumption forms the basis for more efficiency. The Schaeffler Group organizes its environmental and energy Therefore, Schaeffler has been gradually introducing an topics in a global matrix organization. Local environmental energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001 as protection and energy representatives, regional coordipart of its EnEHS management since 2013. In 2019, the covnators, and experts from the strategic departments work erage rate1) of this system reached 98.0% (prior year: 97.9%). closely together in a network. Key performance indicators (KPIs) are used to plan, assess, and manage environmental measures. The need for action and measures are discussed 1) Relating to employees on the production sites. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 33 3.2 Energy and emissions Internal EnEHS specialists and auditors monitor the effectiveEnergy and CO₂ emissions ness of the efficiency measures using a standardized, global 2019 2018 2017 energy data management system. Within this framework, minimum standards are defined. In addition, the plants Coverage rate for ISO 50001 98.0 97.9 98.0 certification in %1) define individual goals. Energy consumption broken down by categories Total energy consumption 3,290 3,367 3,233 in GWh2) 98.0% Electricity consumption 2,316 2,365 2,339 in GWh3) Natural gas consumption 872 877 798 in GWh of Schaeffler production sites Fuel oil consumption in GWh 7 9 8 are ISO 50001 certified1) District heating consumption 48 63 67 in GWh4) Propane/LPG consumption Starting in 2020, the company management will also carry 47 53 51 in GWh out stakeholder analyses with a subsequent assessment of Greenhouse gas emissions in t CO₂ opportunities and risks throughout the Group and down to each individual location. Total 5) 6) 7) 1,026,057 1,045,627 1,008,985 In 2019, the Schaeffler Group's absolute CO₂ emissions2) 3) Scope 15) 190,575 193,711 175,635 decreased by 1.9% compared to the previous year, from Scope 2 (market-based)5) 7) 8) 835,482 851,916 833,350 1,045,627 to 1,026,057 tons of CO₂. Projects were initiated with the support of external experts to identify, classify, Scope 2 (location-based)5) 1,179,534 1,268,082 1,233,752 and potentially reduce Scope 3 emissions. In addition, the 1) Relating to employees on the production sites. company is expanding its energy efficiency measures and is 2) Energy sources included: Electricity, natural gas, district heating, propane, fuel oil, without focusing on more sustainable alternatives, such as the use of the amount of electricity produced by the gas-powered CHP. 3) Only external electricity purchases since CHP electricity is recorded via gas consumption. renewable energies. 4) Consumption reduced in 2019 because the Wuppertal plant has been using natural gas for its heating requirements since 2019. The climate and environmental goals reported last year were 5) The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions is based on the emission factors of the VDA (2019) and the Probas database of the German Federal Environmental Agency. Emission reassessed and will be continued in an adapted form. The sources covered: Scope 1 (natural gas, heating oil, propane), Scope 2 (electricity, district heating). company's climate protection activities will be accelerated 6) As of 2018: Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based). using an improved data basis. 7) 2017 value not included in the review scope. 8) Supplier-specific emission factors were used to determine Scope 2 market based. TARGET Total greenhouse gas emissions in t CO₂ Renewable Energy 100% of purchased power from renewable 1,200,000 sources until 2024 1,000,000 833,350 851,916 835,482 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 190,575 175,635 193,711 0 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) 1) Relating to employees on the production sites. 2) The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions is based on the emission factors of the VDA (2017) and the Probas database of the German Federal Environmental Agency. Emission sources covered: Scope 1 (natural gas, heating oil, propane) and Scope 2 (electricity, district heating). 3) As of 2018: Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based). Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 34 3.3 Material and resource management Measures to increase energy efficiency Avoiding waste Schaeffler already uses a wide range of different technoloWaste should be avoided above all. If the waste cannot gies. They range from energy-saving LED lighting for producbe reduced beyond a certain level, it should be sent for tion lines, business premises, and open spaces to modern approved recycling. The aim is to achieve a recycling rate of cogeneration plants that combine power, heating, and cool95% across all waste categories at all production sites. A ing and efficient refrigeration technology in administrative, waste database has been in use since 2019 and forms the workshop, and storage areas to buffer storage that enable basis for worldwide waste reporting. All Schaeffler Group waste heat and cooling to be used later on. In addition, manufacturing sites are required to use this database to Schaeffler is continuously reducing the energy consumption document all waste operations. of its production facilities, thereby creating increased energy efficiency. Among other things, this is done through the € CO MODE button, which was specifically developed HIGHLIGHT by Schaeffler's Special Machine Construction department. “Zero Waste to Landfill” This allows components that are not constantly in use, such factory successfully piloted as lighting, compressed air, or drives, to be temporarily switched off and reactivated as required. Measurements Schaeffler Brazil has already achieved show that potential energy savings of up to 30% can be this in its own project. Before its launch achieved compared to an existing system. in March 2018, 62 tons of waste had to be disposed of in a landfill every month. An TARGET interdisciplinary team explored possible alternatives, introduced a separate waste Energy Efficiency treatment system, and instructed employ100 GWh cumulated annual efficiency gain ees on how to use it. As a result, no more through implementation of energy efficiency waste had to be disposed of at the landfill measures until 2024 (Zero Waste to Landfill) by February 2019. To ensure a consistent focus on environmental and energy management, Schaeffler organizes EnEHS conferences every Repairing, processing, and testing with virtual three to five years. In addition, regional conferences are held components at more frequent intervals. Repairing and processing used components can save valuable resources and reduce costs. Schaeffler offers its customers tailor-made products and services for this purpose. These include, for example, reprocessed components in original part quality and a digital system for predictive maintenance 3.3 Material and resource management of technical equipment. AT A GL ANCE Schaeffler also contributes to material efficiency through the use of simulation technology and virtual engineering. Many •  ne of Schaeffler's central aims is to use resources O test series for product adjustments are now being carried out sparingly virtually by the company. This saves material as test series • M  aterial and energy requirements are taken into with actual components are no longer needed. account at an early stage when designing pro­ duction processes Schaeffler also expects to save materials and conserve resources through additive manufacturing (AM). Also known as 3D printing, the manufacturing process includes many technologies that simplify manufacturing processes. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 35 3.3 Material and resource management AM speeds up the designing of manufacturing processes and port. Auditing and certification systems for buildings were is particularly suitable for the flexible production of small also included. In addition, the projects in the workstream batches. It avoids the usual waste from traditional processes include the creation of worldwide standards within the topics like machining. Every year, Schaeffler produces around mentioned. In the subproject “Alternative Drive Concepts”, 5,000 parts in Herzogenaurach via additive manufacturing. benchmarks are carried out in order to determine the most viable drive concept for Schaeffler intralogistics vehicles. Saving water in production The SEHS division has been responsible for the “Sustainable Factory” workstream since 2019. Schaeffler strives to further reduce water consumption at all locations worldwide year after year. Despite its recent One-time subprojects of the “Sustainable Factory”, such growth, the company's water consumption decreased slightly as “Wastewater-free Factory” and “Zero Waste to Landfill” by 5.0%. In the course of the revision and new formulation were reassessed and continued in an adapted forms (see of the environmental goals, various water initiatives were the chapter on avoiding waste, p. 34). Those projects aim to included to reduce the consumption of fresh water and reuse make plants independent in terms of waste and wastewater treated wastewater. The design of the production facilities in the future. Also noteworthy is the “On Campus Transporplays an important role in reducing water consumption. In tation” project. The company wants to use its own e-mobility planning new plants with a high need for water, for example, solutions such as the E-Board, Bio-Hybrid, or Schaeffler the developers generally anticipate the construction of Mover in the operating areas of its locations to transport reprocessing facilities. Existing plants are being upgraded passengers and materials for this purpose. Another project is in accordance with technical and economic assessments. dedicated to the sustainable manufacturing machine of the For example, the electroplating (electrochemical surface future. coating) production area requires large quantities of water. In order to reduce water consumption in this area, the used In a first phase, the project team looked at existing sustainrinse water is processed by means of ion exchangers and ability activities in the manufacturing sector from energy returned to the operating process. supply and use to maintenance and tool changes to material and passenger transportation. The goal is to be able to network and monitor relevant machines in a single system. In Water consumption, waste, and recycling rate addition, uniform standards for the interface to the hall infrastructure are to be developed, both for internally and exter2019 2018 2017 nally produced machines. On the one hand, this is achieved Water consumption in m³ 1) 5,783,781 6,089,564 5,964,821 through a uniform standard for the pipe systems. On the other hand, the various teams are working on a connection Recycling rate2), Germany, in % 93.1 91.1 94.9 solution so that all machines can be connected to the hall Amount of waste, Germany, in t 284,558 312,383 302,969 infrastructure in a uniform manner. Schaeffler has set itself the concrete goal of realizing the “digital, semiautonomous, 1) Water consumption includes municipal and internal company water. and sustainable factory” by 2021 at a production site as part 2) R  ecycled or recovered amount of total waste, excluding metals and scrap. of a pilot project. At individual locations, solutions for the sustainable “production of the future” are taking shape more and more. For “Factory for Tomorrow” example, a pilot project for holistic energy management was started at the Austrian plant in Berndorf. In 2018, together When designing production processes, relevant enviwith the project managers from the central energy manageronmental issues such as material and energy demands are ment, the responsible site managers developed a concept taken into account comprehensively and at an early stage. for a condition monitoring system to digitally monitor the In order to combine and further intensify the sustainabilcondition of the machines and to control the resources, for ity activities in the production environment, Schaeffler example, the coolant supply, as required. defined the additional work focus “Sustainable Factory” in August 2018 as part of the program for the future “Agenda 4 plus One” for the “Factory for Tomorrow” (F4T) initiative. This workstream includes 21 subprojects on the topics of energy generation and consumption reduction, resource efficiency, production systems, employee mobility, and material transSchaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 36 3.4 Logistics They also defined KPIs for energy consumption, vibration improves the utilization of the means of transportation used, values, and other metrics. The employees concerned will and thereby saves energy and CO₂ emissions. At the same be trained to operate the new technology. The intermediate time, the regional transport management organizations are results include KPI monitoring – for example, kWh per part continuously examining the current transport network for produced, visualizations, and solutions for a needs-based ways of optimizing capacity on individual routes and improvmedia supply. The KPIs will be used directly to control the ing the existing network through route changes. processes in the production area. The current and future results in the areas of energy management, predictive New distribution centers reduce emissions in the maintenance, and data analytics will also be used to make supply chain the condition monitoring system usable for greenfield and brownfield projects (new factory builds and renovations). The Schaeffler Group has steadily consolidated its logistics in recent years, including the reporting year. The EDC4) locaMore  information on the “Factory for Tomorrow” is available at: tion in Kitzingen was opened in 2018 as part of the new diswww.schaeffler-tomorrow.com/tomorrow/178/ tribution network for industrial products in Europe and was put into full operation in July 2019 with the product ramp-up. The investments made make the industry supply chain faster and more energy and cost efficient. In the Automotive Aftermarket division, another central European logistics center (“Aftermarket Kitting Operations”) will be built by the second 3.4 Logistics quarter of 2020. AT A GL ANCE Employee mobility electrified • T he concentration of logistics activities enables Schaeffler wants to further reduce the emissions linked efficient market supply to employee and business travel. Like in Germany, hybrid • G  lobal expansion of charging infrastructure for and electric vehicles are now available as company cars in electric and hybrid vehicles at Schaeffler locations Europe and the other Schaeffler regions. With its company enables climate-friendly employee mobility car guidelines, Schaeffler is promoting the use of vehicles with low CO₂ emissions, especially electrified vehicles, on its own initiative in addition to the existing governmental subsidy programs. Following the revision of the Framework Shorter routes and better utilization Directive for Schaeffler's European Company Car Guidelines in 2018, further nine national company car guidelines were During the reporting period, supply and traffic flows were furreleased for electric cars and hybrids in 2019. Another three ther optimized in order to improve their energy and CO₂ footare under revision and will be released soon. print. Meaningful key figures are important for the targeted reduction of CO₂ emissions in logistics. That is why Schaeffler Schaeffler is consistently expanding its charging infrastrucis working on collecting data on Scope 3 emissions across ture for electric and hybrid vehicles worldwide. By the end of the Group in the future. In addition to freight transports, this 2019, 143 charging stations were available at 28 sites. In the includes business trips and access routes. first half of 2019, charging stations for employees were also opened at the Bühl and Hagenau sites. Automated transport management The Schaeffler Group is working on introducing a group-wide transport management system (TMS) that collects transport orders and forwards them seamlessly and securely to the involved parties. The TMS facilitates freight bundling, 4) European distribution center Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 37 4Employees and society The Schaeffler Group's employees are one of the most important pillars of its success. Their expertise, their skills, their dedication, and their ingenuity ensure the continuous development of the company and thereby contribute significantly to its current and future success. In mutual interest, the Schaeffler Group supports the professional development of its employees from apprentices to specialists and executives, aims to ensure effective occupational health and safety and to promote diversity in its workforce. The Group offers them fair, performance-based payment and retirement plans and helps them to achieve work-life balance through flexible working hours. The HR strategy and the associated Roadmap 2020 with the strategic initiatives of the Human Resources (HR) department form the basis of HR work. This is based on the five pillars Employer Branding & Recruiting, Talent Management, Leadership & Corporate Values, Training & Learning, and Sustainability, Environment, Health & Safety. The overarching focus topics are Diversity, Strategic Workforce Planning, and Digitalization. In addition, the Schaeffler Group is committed to the well-being of society in the areas surrounding its many sites according to the “global company with local presence throughout the world” principle. CONTENTS The Schaeffler Group's commitment to its employees and society contributes in many ways to achieving the SDGs. This 4.1 Employee advancement and development 38 applies in particular to “Good health and well-being for all” (SDG 3), “Education for all” (SDG 4), and “Gender equality” 4.2 Occupational health and safety 41 (SDG 5). 4.3 Diversity and equal opportunity 43 4.5 Corporate citizenship 44 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 38 4.1 Employee advancement and development 4.1 Employee advancement and Compensation and company pensions development Compensation at Schaeffler is competitively positioned and the relevant legal requirements are fulfilled. In Germany, this AT A GL ANCE means observing the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG), among others. In addition, the company fulfills its obliga• A  ttracting, promoting, and retaining the best tions to provide information in accordance with the new employees worldwide are the core elements of Pay Transparency Act in Germany. Together with the Works Human Resources Management Council, the Executive Board has taken all the necessary • S  uccessful implementation of the “Qualification for measures for this act. Tomorrow”, “Leadership & Corporate Values”, and “New Work” initiatives Compensation at Schaeffler is individually based on the tasks and also includes performance-related components. Variable compensation models are also harmonized throughEmployees at Schaeffler1) out the company. The compensation-relevant key figures are 2019 2018 2017 now consistently based on the target values of “Schaeffler Value Added” and “Cash Flow”. Additionally, employees Number of employees, total 87,748 92,478 90,151 below the top management level can set individual quantitaAverage age in years 40.5 39.9 39.7 tive and qualitative goals. Average tenure in years 11.9 11.2 11.0 Employees in Germany can learn about different retirement Proportion of female employees, 22.1 22.0 21.7 plans via a company-internal retirement portal and can total in % calculate the expected income to receive from the various Proportion of female managers, retirement models. 11.5 10.9 12.4 total in %2) Labor turnover rate in %3) 4.4 4.8 3.9 Attracting talent and developing potential Permanent employees in % 91.5 90.7 90.1 In order to attract and recruit new talents, Schaeffler relies on target group-oriented measures in employer branding and Part-time ratio, Germany in % 7.1 6.3 6.5 vocational training marketing. Specific measures are: 1) U nless otherwise indicated, the employee figures refer to the reporting date of December 31 of the respective year. • P  articipation in various information days and events at 2) M anagers are defined as employees in a supervisory function. A new basis for calculation which young people receive information about careers and based on an adjusted definition of the management function results in different % values for the year 2018 compared to the previous year's report. training opportunities at Schaeffler 3) I nitiated by employees; related to the average number of employees from 1/1/ to 12/31 of the year. •  artnership-based and sustainable cooperation with P universities, student bodies, student associations, and Distribution of employees by region1) organizations • Main sponsor of Formula Student Germany for many years Asia/Pacific Greater China 3.6% An annual talent management process takes place to 13.9% systematically monitor the development of internal potential. Europe The basis of this process is the Employee Development 68.6% Dialog (EDD) between an employee and a senior executive. The interview is used to discuss behavior, performance, and potential. This information is included in the Global Talent Americas Review (GTR), which calibrates employee assessments 14.0% between senior executives. 1) The regions represent the regional structure of the Schaeffler Group. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 39 4.1 Employee advancement and development Within the framework of this GTR, Schaeffler also ensures In addition, Schaeffler offers young people in Germany the new staffing and replacement of key positions. Employvarious learning opportunities for higher education. These ees with high potential are identified at an early stage include a dual course of study, a “Two in One” course study and receive both professional and personal training. The with technical colleges, and a master's degree program. Schaeffler Academy, the company's own education and training department, is continually expanding its range of Schaeffler is preparing its apprentices for new requirements corresponding qualifications. with pioneering projects, such as the use of augmented reality concepts in the form of virtual welding simulators. The Promoting young talent: high-quality training training concept that was developed in Germany over the last two years in which apprentices build their own 3D printers is opportunities now also used at many locations abroad. Quality training and further development of young professionals has always been a high priority at Schaeffler. Focus on:“Qualification for Tomorrow” In 2019, Schaeffler employed 3,078 apprentices worldwide (prior year: 3,275) at 51 locations in 16 countries. As part of the strategic education initiative “Qualification for Tomorrow”, the Schaeffler Academy has created target group-specific training opportunities in close cooperation with the strategic business fields. This is achieved via 3,078 apprentices at 51 locations in 16 countries modern and global qualification programs, for example on agile project management, digitalization, and mechatronics as well as offerings for the Sales & Key Account Management target group. The Schaeffler Academy also has the task of identifying training needs and designing subject-specific training and educational programs together with the respective business divisions. These offerings are increasingly Good qualification of young professionals begins with their made available digitally, for example in the form of explanatrainers: All trainers in Germany have been familiarized with tory videos or online training with a gamification approach. new learning methods, the use of modern media in day-toThis decouples the learning process from time and location. day training, and the special expectations of generations Y and Z as part of a modular qualification program. At the The new forms of learning are available via the Learning beginning of 2019, the qualification program was also Management System used at Schaeffler, as are the classic launched in Eastern Europe. classroom training sessions. At the end of the reporting period, this system was already available in 27 countries and The training content is being developed to meet changing covered 93.0%1) of the total workforce. The global rollout needs, such as for trends like Industry 4.0 or Digitalization. should be completed by the end of 2020. Overall, 134 online training courses were globally available to employees (previous year: 95). In addition, 27,906 participants (prior year: 31,874) took part in classroom training sessions in 2019. Apprentices, students, and trainees1) Apprentices, total Trainees, Germany 2019 3,078 42 2018 3,275 462) 2017 3,185 49 93.0% of employees have access to the Students, Germany 3) 340 359 358 Schaeffler Learning Management System 1) U nless otherwise indicated, the employee figures refer to the reporting date of December 31 of the respective year. 2) Figures for 2018 were adjusted retrospectively compared with the previous year's report. 3) Dual students, Master's degree, and “Two in One” students. The “Two in One” study program combines a bachelor's degree with vocational training. 1) Relating to employees. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 40 4.1 Employee advancement and development Employee qualification and training The “International Management Program” was also realigned (Number in Germany)1) based on the Leadership Essentials. It serves as a blueprint 2019 2018 2017 for all other qualification programs that are available in the regions for senior executives at various levels. These will Participants in face-to-face 27,906 31,874 30,646 be successively updated in 2020 and aligned to a common, training, Germany cross-regional concept. Web-based training offers 134 95 97 Participants in e-learning In addition, the “Employee Essentials” were developed 35,780 65,580 15,593 in 2019 together with employees from different regions. courses, Germany2) These complement the Leadership Essentials and set the framework for all employees who have no management 1) U  nless otherwise indicated, the employee figures refer to the reporting date of December 31 of the respective year. responsibility. Beginning in 2020, the essentials will be 2) C  ompulsory e-learning was offered in 2018. For this reason, the number of participants in 2018 is significantly higher than in 2017 and 2019. The increased number of participants communicated and integrated into all relevant HR processes in 2019 compared to 2017 is due to an expanded e-learning offering. and training. Focus on: “New Work” Focus on: “Leadership & Corporate Values” At Schaeffler, “New Work” means open work areas and modular room concepts that enable flexible and open comAs part of the “Leadership & Corporate Values” initiamunication and promote cross-project work. These include tive, Schaeffler already introduced six Leadership Essentials multifunctional spaces that can be adapted to the users' in 2017. These describe the behavior that Schaeffler senior needs and “think tank” spaces where employees can retreat executives at all levels should exemplify in their daily work for concentrated work. with their colleagues and their employees. In 2018 and 2019, the following measures were taken to implement the LeaderThe “New Work” concept was tested at the Erlangen, Schship Essentials in the company: weinfurt, and Nuremberg locations. In order to establish the concept internationally, the Executive Board adopted a • C  onducting nine roadshows with senior executives worldglobal “New Work” strategy in 2018. Since then, the global wide and with the involvement of the CEO and all members strategy has been the basis for all upcoming pilot projects. of the Executive Board. • I n 2019, the pilot site with an area of approximately • C  onducting cascading workshops across all levels for all 12,000 m2 was completed in Nuremberg. senior executives worldwide. • I n the Shared Service Center in Wroclaw, “New Work” was •  election of all new senior executives to be hired based on S also started in 2019 and is expected to be completed in the Leadership Essentials. 2020. • I ntroduction of upward feedback in which the senior exec• I n 2019, a “New Work Toolbox” was developed that proutives see how well their employees live up to them. vides project managers with the tools to carry out projects •  lignment of all management trainings with the LeaderA according to globally standardized process and task ship Essentials. The “Leadership Reflections” training descriptions. The strategy details the goals of “New Work” course launched in 2018 is now available in all regions, for work organization, corporate culture, IT, and digitaliand the training portfolio for senior executives was further zation as well as architecture and space, and describes revised in 2019. how these can be implemented, for example in furniture design, room concepts, and change management. •  ssessment of senior executives in the annual Employee A Development Interview based on the Leadership Essentials. • I mplementation of various modern online tools for senior executives, such as a development toolbox or the leadership simulation “Mission Possible”. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 41 4.2 Occupational health and safety 4.2 Occupational health and safety Reducing stress in the workplace AT A GL ANCE The Schaeffler Group aims to effectively reduce stress at work through various measures: • T he physical and mental performance and motivation of employees are key to the success of the •  s part of “Agenda 4 plus One” with the “Factory for A company Tomorrow” initiative, the Schaeffler Group introduced a workplace register in 2018 that will be rolled out world• C  orporate health management (CHM) and occupawide. This database is used to determine and visualize tional safety are the basis for this – even in counphysical and organizational stress and stress from the tries where there are no government regulations working environment. Through a matching process, it is possible to find suitable jobs for employees whose abilities have changed in a more targeted manner, thereby positively promoting reintegration. In 2019, several locations Actively promoting health in Europe and China already had the new management CHM and occupational safety are the responsibility of tool. The tool is scheduled to be available worldwide in the head of environment, health & safety, which is organi2021. zationally assigned to the the executive board level Human • T he company gathers health-promoting measures for Resources. CHM is based on the framework guidelines of the individual employees in the “Boxenstopp Rückenaktiv” Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion of (active back pit stop) program. This includes performing the European Union. regular corrective exercises close to the workplace during working hours. Schaeffler's health and safety policy aims at safe workplaces and health-promoting and health-maintaining • T he project “Health & Ergo Scout” aims at employee conditions in the work environment and personal lifestyle. behavior in the workplace. Through a workshop, employThe starting points here are, for example, the personal care ees are made aware of the topic of ergonomic behavior of employees in the form of preventive health programs, and risk-related illnesses/complaints of the job and then including raising awareness of health-conscious behavior receive individualized advice at the workplace. at the workplace and the ergonomic design of workplaces. • “ Fit4Shift” is offered specifically for shift workers. In a day In addition, there is a wide range of health services, such workshop, employees are made aware of shift-specific as training, education and course opportunities, that all problems and how to prevent them. Schaeffler Group employees can take advantage of during and outside their working hours. • I n addition, Schaeffler assigns ergonomics officers in the plants in order to build up a powerful network on the With its Corporate Health Management, Schaeffler sets subject and to solve the challenges on site. Ergonomics standards across industries and assumes responsibility at assessment tools make the stress at workplaces transparits locations worldwide. Examples include the Health Week ent and quantifiable. in China with around 5,500 participating employees at six locations and the Health & Ergo Scout project in Brasov. The Maintaining a balance positive ergonomic behavioral changes of the employees in Brasov confirm the positive results from the German pilot Performance and time pressure as well as conflicts in the locations Herzogenaurach, Bühl, Sasbach, and Lahr. workplace can have a negative impact on employee health. Schaeffler wants to counteract these effects preventively In mid-2019, a program to improve attendance was launched and proactively. Managers can significantly contribute to at four pilot locations in Germany. The implementation was this by helping their employees to better cope with stress. structured, integrating trainings, interviews, corporate Therefore, the company offers the “Healthy leadership” semhealth management as well as documenting measures. The inar program especially for this target group. Participants program will be rolled out across Germany in 2020, after first are guided to reflect on how to deal with their own health. successes have already been recorded. They also learn how leadership styles affect the motivation, ability to work, and commitment of employees and what they Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 42 4.2 Occupational health and safety can do to align their needs and goals with the organization's regularly. The tool has already been active since the end of goals. The training “Staying balanced by recognizing and 2018 and was expanded in April 2019 to include the importstrengthening mental resources” is designed to help project ant factor “telemedicine”. This gives employees access to and technical managers better survive stressful situations medical advice around the clock. in everyday life. They learn to rethink their own behavior in stressful situations, to develop new coping strategies, and Uniformly high occupational safety standards to correctly assess their options for action, including when worldwide it comes to their own health. Schaeffler successfully piloted both programs at selected locations in Germany in 2018. In order to comply with legal requirements and to furBeginning in 2020, a seminar on stress management will also ther develop internal processes and standards for occube offered that will reflect on the consequences and causes pational health and safety, the Schaeffler Group uses a of stress. comprehensive “Energy, Environment, Health & Safety” (EnEHS) management system. It takes into account international occupational safety standards among others. HIGHLIGHT The coverage rate2) according to the ISO 45001 standard, Excellence class achieved for the Corporate which has replaced the OHSAS 18001 standard with a Health Award three-year transition period since 2018, is 99.0%. For its pioneering role in linking digital and analog offerings in corporate health management, Schaeffler achieved the excellence class for the Corporate Health Award in 2019. The innovative Schaeffler Health Coach is a unique concept on the 99.0% of Schaeffler production sites are market and received special attention. OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 certified2) Since 2009, the Corporate Health Award has been the most prestigious award in German-speaking countries for exemplary corporate health management. The group has recognized the relevance of occupaAccording to the EnEHS management system, all tional health management and has a careexecutives and employees are required to comply with ful eye on the needs and demands of its occupational safety regulations. Executives are advised employees. This is also clearly reflected in by specialists in occupational safety at the respective production sites when carrying out their responsibilities. the results of the audit process, with 91% The results of the discussions are reviewed regularly being well above the industry average. with the responsible members of the Executive Board. If necessary, further action will be taken. In this way, the EnEHS management system is being developed In addition, Schaeffler provides its employees at German continuously. This is also demonstrated by the “Innolocations with the Schaeffler Health Coach, which is a vative safety concept for a forging plant” project at the comprehensive health portal. The portal, which can be used Schweinfurt location, which was awarded the “Schlauer both as an app and as a desktop version, allows health manFuchs” (smart fox) safety prize by the Employers' Liability agement to reach all Schaeffler employees. All health offers, Insurance Association for Wood and Metal. Thanks to which are available to the employee for free registration, can intensive cooperation between internal and external spebe viewed in the Schaeffler Health Coach. Furthermore, curcialists from different departments, the workplaces at the rent news on the topic of health and health tips are uploaded forging plant have been made safer and more ergonomic. The developed safety concept has set new standards for the state of safety technology. 2) Relating to employees on the production sites. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 43 4.2 Occupational health and safety In the reporting period, the accident rate3) was reduced to 5.2 (prior year: 6.2) thus achieving the annual reduction HIGHLIGHT target of 10% for the third year in a row. Diversity Council established  ore information on occupational safety in the supply chain M In implementing sustainable diversity can be found in the Responsibility in the value chain chapter management, Schaeffler focused on anon page 20 et seq. choring the topic at the highest management level in 2019. A Diversity Council was TARGET established for this purpose, consisting of members of the Executive Board and Accident Rate senior employees. The aim of the Council 10% average annual reduction of is to integrate the topic more strongly into accident rate (LTIR) by 2024 the company and to prioritize measures. The kick-off was in November 2019. Promoting top female performers 4.3 Diversity and equal opportunity In 2018, measures were initiated for each of the four focus topics of the diversity concept. Particular attention AT A GL ANCE was paid to the focus area of “Gender” in the reporting period. Among other things, Schaeffler has started to expand • T he main topics of the diversity concept are gender, the global mentoring concept with women's mentoring. A internationality, age/generations, and people with women's mentoring pilot program in Europe targeted women, disabilities each of whom was assigned a mentor from the European •  iversity Council established to anchor the topic D Management Board. more firmly in the company In 2019, the proportion of women in the Schaeffler Group was 22.1% (prior year: 22.0%) and the proportion of female senior executives4) was 11.5% (prior year: 10.9%)5). As of Strategically promoting diversity June 30, 2017, target ratios for the proportion of women were set within Schaeffler AG. The target rates are an 8% proporIn 2019, the topic of diversity was more strongly intetion of women on the first and a 12% proportion of women grated into existing HR processes such as employer brandon the second management level below the Executive Board. ing, recruiting, and talent management and supported with Schaeffler AG should reach these goals by June 30, 2022. measures. Diversity was also included in the onboarding process – from the first brochure to the Schaeffler Basics II introductory training. With the development of a diversiThe added value of a diverse workforce ty-sensitive recruiting process, the topic will also be given greater consideration when recruiting new employees. A pilot The Schaeffler Group employs workers from 113 different program for this will be launched in 2020. nations worldwide. Internationality is therefore one of the four focal topics of diversity management. In 2019, the focus Schaeffler signed the “Charta der Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter) was on the establishment of an international network that in 2008. In 2018, Schaeffler joined the “Charta der Vielfalt” will be used to analyze diversity-related needs and identify association. In 2019, the company actively participated in diversity managers in the regions in the future. all general meetings, the diversity conference, and working groups for the internationalization of the initiative. 3) Measurement of Lost Time Injury Rate, LTIR = occupational accidents from one lost day per 1 million hours worked. Employees incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and interns. 4) Managers are defined as employees in a supervisory function. 5) Figures for 2018 have been adjusted retrospectively compared with the previous year's report. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 44 4.4 Corporate citizenship The diversity within the company is also reflected in the 4.4 Corporate citizenship exchange between the generations. Four generations currently meet in the workplace with different expectations AT A GL ANCE of work, values, standards, and priorities. To promote the exchange of experience between the generations, the • T he core areas of engagement are “Education and “Reverse Mentoring” pilot program that was introduced in science”, “Health and social issues”, and “Sports 2018 was further promoted in 2019. and culture” •  chaeffler initiated and implemented 112 CSR S projects worldwide in 2019 113 different nationalities are Common good in view Within the framework of a group-wide sponsoring guideline and an associated global management system, the represented at Schaeffler Schaeffler Group ensures that funds provided are used in a targeted manner. Funding is provided to organizations and initiatives that work towards the common good, that are non-profit, and that comply with the Schaeffler Group's The Schaeffler Group also focuses on the integration of Corporate Code of Conduct. Donations are monitored by the people with disabilities. People with disabilities need indiCompliance department, while sponsorships are managed by vidually tailored working conditions so that they can perform the Communications and Branding department. their work or continue their work after the onset of a disability. Schaeffler specifically identifies jobs that already meet In the year under review, a total of 112 CSR projects were these requirements or develops existing jobs as needed. initiated and implemented worldwide. Selected project examples are listed below. CSR projects worldwide Americas Education and science: 21 Health and social issues: 10 Sports and culture: 7 Europe Greater China Asia/Pacific Education and science: 13 Education and science: 1 Education and science: 4 Health and social issues: 10 Health and social issues: 0 Health and social issues: 1 The regions depict the regional structure of the Schaeffler Group. Sports and culture: 45 Sports and culture: 0 Sports and culture: 0 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 45 4.4 Corporate citizenship Education and science the employability of young people in the region through targeted training programs. Education, training, and scientific research are key factors for success in the Schaeffler Group's business model. The comIn the year under review, mobile health teams were again pany is therefore active in education and science through sent to Vadodara, Gujarat, where young women and girls strategic partnerships and collaborations. could take part in medical check-ups. Children were also tested for malnutrition, and treated if necessary. CommerA central issue for Schaeffler is to promote start-ups from the cial, service, and technical skills were conveyed to women's tech scene and to strengthen networks and knowledge transgroups and mixed teams in various programs. With the fer. Schaeffler is one of the founding partners of the “Zollhof ongoing project “Quest on Wheels”, trips to cultural sites, Tech Incubator”. It combines entrepreneurial spirit, courage, gardens, and exhibitions for 12,000 children from schools exchange, and team spirit. IT start-ups have the opportunity and children's homes have been organized since 2016. here to further develop their ideas and build networks with science, business, and investors. Sports and culture In 2019, Schaeffler participated in both “Hackbay” and the Schaeffler also contributes to conveying values by support“Student Ideation Camp”. At the events, the participants ing sports and cultural activities and thus generates momendeveloped ideas and concepts around the chainless drive in tum for positive social development. cooperation with Schaeffler mentors. For the first time, the partnership also included a three-month talent program. Since the first season 2014/2015, Schaeffler has been one Students of the Friedrich Alexander University Erlangen of the key actors in Formula E, also underscoring its position Nuremberg designed a database for additive manufactured as an electromobility pioneer on the racetrack. Even after components together with a Schaeffler team. With this aid, Audi's entry in the 2017/2018 season, Schaeffler continues it should be possible in the future to assess more quickly to participate in the work of the cooperation partners in the whether components can be manufactured using an additive areas of electric motor, transmission, chassis suspension, process. and power electronics. In 2019, the Audi Sport ABT Schaeffler team was the runner-up of the team title. The Schaeffler FAG Foundation, established in 1983, is a major player in the Group's involvement in education and Intercultural exchange is also one of Schaeffler's focuses. science. The purpose of the foundation is to support science, From October 2018 to the end of 2019, the comprehensive research, and teaching in scientific and technical fields information campaign “Germany Year USA 2018/19” was related to bearing technology. The foundation sees itself held to intensify the long-standing cooperation between the as a bridge between science and the economy that brings two countries. With a large number of projects, platforms for together people's visions and goals in research, teaching, dialogue, exchange, and partnerships were created, and new and the economy. Since its founding, the Schaeffler FAG momentum for diverse relationships in business, science, Foundation has distributed over EUR 1 m in funding. politics, and culture was gained, thus enabling new alliances for the future. Health and social issues Schaeffler wants to positively influence its environment and support people in need or in difficult living conditions. Furthermore, Schaeffler has been working with AfB GmbH, Europe's largest non-profit second-hand IT recycling company, for over ten years. Schaeffler supports the company's efforts to provide people with disabilities employment opportunities in the primary labor market. As part of the cooperation with AfB, Schaeffler has so far saved a total of 3,100 tons of metals and minerals, 2,100 tons of greenhouse gases, and 6,700 megawatt hours of energy. Already in its fifth year, Schaeffler India's HOPE initiative supported regional projects in four defined priority areas. This included health care, protecting the national art and cultural heritage, strengthening social institutions, and improving Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 46 5 Appendix CONTENTS 5.1 Key figures on sustainability 47 5.2 G NFK index and GRI content index 51 5.3 Sustainability targets 52 5.4 About the report 53 5.5 Report of the Independent Auditor 55 Contact information/Imprint 57 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 47 5.1 Key figures on sustainability 5.1 Key figures on sustainability Financial and non-financial key figures that are on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) for the important for measuring the sustainability perpurpose of obtaining a limited assurance engagement with respect to the information required by law as per Sections formance of the Schaeffler Group are presented 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e below. HGB. Key figures audited in this context are marked with a ü sign. Key figures marked with üü were taken from the If not otherwise indicated, the information refers to the consolidated financial statements or the combined manageSchaeffler Group. The reference period covers the business ment report. years from 2017 to 2019. The figures are generally rounded, which can lead to slight In the course of preparing the combined separate non-finandeviations in the calculation of sums. cial report of the Schaeffler Group, selected qualitative and quantitative details were submitted to an external business audit taking into consideration the International Standards Strategy and management Percentage change 2019 2018 2017 (2018/2019) Assessment Total revenue EUR millions 14,427 14,241 14,021 1.3 üü Revenue Automotive OEM1) EUR millions 9,038 8,996 8,991 0.5 üü Of which revenue business division e-mobility1) EUR millions 676 493 416 37.1 üü Revenue Industrial1) EUR millions 3,541 3,383 3,150 4.7 üü Revenue Automotive Aftermarket1) EUR millions 1,848 1,862 1,880 -0.8 üü Schaeffler Value Added before special items EUR millions 284 557 787 -49.0 üü New suppliers reviewed in initial assessments2) Number 86 111 157 -22.5 ü Employees trained in face-to-face trainings and workshops Number 8,091 8,793 8,741 -8.0 ü on the topic of compliance Web-based compliance training participants Number 6,461 9,578 8,160 -32.5 ü in the reporting year 3) Response rate of surveyed suppliers on the use of % 93.8 94.3 91.2 -0.5 ü conflict minerals4) 5) 6) Coverage rate of certified smelters in the supply chain6) 7) % 100 100 100 0.0 ü Confirmed cases of human rights violations 8) Number 0 0 0 0.0 ü Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 48 5.1 Key figures on sustainability Customers and products Percentage change 2019 2018 2017 (2018/2019) Assessment Research and development (R&D) expenses EUR millions 849 847 846 0.2 üü R&D ratio % 5.9 6.0 6.0 -0.1 üü R&D employees 9) Number 7,784 7,991 7,790 -2.6 ü R&D centers Number 20 20 18 0.0 üü Internal inventions reported Number 3,298 3,452 3,294 -4.5 üü Patent applications 10) Number 2,057 2,417 2,383 -14.9 ü Awards for customer satisfaction/product quality Number 66 65 58 1.5 ü Coverage rate of quality management systems11) % 100 100 100 0.0 ü Environment and energy12) Percentage change 2019 2018 2017 (2018/2019) Assessment Coverage rate for EMAS certification13) % 98.1 98.1 98.2 0.0 ü Coverage rate for ISO 14001 certification13) % 98.8 98.7 98.7 0.1 ü Coverage rate for ISO 50001 certification13) % 98.0 97.9 98.0 0.1 ü Total energy consumption14) GWh 3,290 3,367 3,263 -2.3 ü Electricity consumption15) GWh 2,316 2,365 2,339 -2.1 ü Natural gas consumption GWh 872 877 798 -0.6 ü Fuel oil consumption GWh 7 9 8 -22.2 ü Propane/LPG consumption GWh 47 53 51 -11.3 ü District heating consumption16) GWh 48 63 67 -23.8 ü Greenhouse gas emissions17), total18) 19) t CO₂ 1,026,057 1,045,627 1,008,985 -1.9 ü Greenhouse gas emissions17) (Scope 1) t CO₂ 190,575 193,711 175,635 -1.6 ü Greenhouse gas emissions17) (Scope 2) market-based19) 20) t CO₂ 835,482 851,916 833,350 -1.9 ü Greenhouse gas emissions 17) (Scope 2) location-based t CO₂ 1,179,534 1,268,082 1,233,752 -7.0 ü Transport volume, outbound21) 22) Mio. tkm 2,321 2,258 2,257 2.8 CO₂ emissions, outbound21) 22) tCO₂e 209,530 220,467 227,291 -5.0 Nitrogen oxides (NOX ) t 88 90 104 -2.2 Sulfur dioxide (SO2)23) t 3 4 6 -25.0 Fine particles23) kg 98 100 90 -2.0 Water consumption24) m3 5,783,781 6,089,564 5,964,821 -5.0 ü Amount of waste, Germany t 284,558 312,383 302,969 -8.9 ü Scrap and metals, Germany t 237,877 260,428 249,031 -8.7 Waste for disposal, Germany t 3,267 4,493 2,761 -27.3 Waste for recycling, Germany25) t 43,915 47,463 51,177 -7.5 Recycling rate, Germany 26) % 93.1 91.1 94.9 2.0 ü Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 49 5.1 Key figures on sustainability Employees and society27) Percentage change 2019 2018 2017 (2018/2019) Assessment Number of employees, total Number 87,748 92,478 90,151 -5.1 üü Distribution of employees by region Europe % 68.6 68.3 68.3 0.3 üü Americas % 14.0 14.2 14.5 -0.2 üü Greater China % 13.9 14.0 13.9 -0.1 üü Asia/Pacific % 3.6 3.5 3.3 0.1 üü New employees, total Number 4,644 9,871 10,399 -53.0 Of which women Number 1,412 2,643 2,550 -46.6 Of which in age category < 30 years Number 1,978 4,744 5,293 -58.3 Of which in age category 30–55 years Number 2,537 4,883 4,873 -48.0 Of which in age category > 55 years Number 129 244 233 -47.1 Employee departures, total Number 9,277 8,300 7,307 11.8 Of which women Number 2,233 1,951 1,683 14.5 Of which in age category < 30 years Number 2,919 2,981 2,515 -2.1 Of which in age category 30–55 years Number 4,881 4,097 3,426 19.1 Of which in age category > 55 years Number 1,477 1,222 1,366 20.9 Labor turnover rate28) % 4.4 4.8 3.9 -0.4 üü Average age Years 40.5 39.9 39.7 1.5 üü Age structure/distribution < 30 years Number 15,877 19,429 19,892 -18.3 Age structure/distribution 30–55 years Number 59,741 61,194 59,164 -2.4 Age structure/distribution > 55 years Number 12,130 11,855 11,095 2.3 Average tenure Years 11.9 11.2 11.0 6.3 üü Permanent employees % 91.5 90.7 90.1 0.8 ü Part-time ratio, Germany % 7.1 6.3 6.5 0.8 ü Number of men/women on parental leave, Germany Number 426 360 337 18.3 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, Germany29) % 95.0 94.6 78.0 0.4 Management positions30) 31) Number 8,755 8,826 5,526 -0.8 Proportion of female managers, total 30) 31) % 11.5 10.9 12.4 0.6 üü Proportion of female managers, Europe30) 31) % 9.0 8.5 8.9 0.5 Proportion of female managers, Americas30) 31) % 16.2 13.9 15.3 2.3 Proportion of female managers, Greater China30) 31) % 18.6 18.0 25.2 0.6 Proportion of female managers, Asia/Pacific30) 31) % 13.8 14.5 13.5 -0.7 Proportion of female employees, total % 22.1 22.0 21.7 0.1 üü Proportion of female employees, Europe % 20.3 20.3 19.9 0.0 Proportion of female employees, Americas % 25.9 25.9 25.6 0.0 Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 50 5.1 Key figures on sustainability Percentage change 2019 2018 2017 (2018/2019) Assessment Proportion of female employees, Greater China % 29.0 28.4 28.1 0.6 Proportion of female employees, Asia/Pacific % 15.0 14.7 13.8 0.3 Proportion of severely disabled employees, Germany32) % 5.9 5.5 5.5 0.4 Number of nationalities, total Number 113 110 103 2.7 Assignments abroad, total Number 254 331 369 -23.3 Apprentices Number 3,078 3,275 3,185 -6.0 üü Trainees, Germany33) Number 42 46 49 -8.7 Students, Germany34) Number 340 359 358 -5.3 Participants in face-to-face trainings, Germany Number 27,906 31,874 30,646 -12.4 ü Participants in e-learning courses, Germany35) Number 35,780 65,580 15,593 -45.4 ü Web-based training offers Number 134 95 97 41.1 ü Ideas submitted Number 41,018 40,161 33,988 2.1 Accident rate (LTIR)36) 37) LTIR 5.2 6.2 7.1 -16.1 ü Coverage rate OHSAS 18001/ISO 4500113) % 99.0 98.8 98.9 0.2 ü Coverage rate of learning management system38) % 93.0 70.0 51.9 23.0 ü 1) P revious year's figures according to the segment structure reported in 2019. 22) Subsequent adjustment of the 2018 figure due to a change in the calculation 2) C ompleted in 2019. method. More precise assignment of the transport mode to the shipment data and expansion of the scope to include CEP shipments (courier, express, parcel 3) E mployees incl. temporary staff, apprentices, interns, and contract workers. shipments). 4) R esponse rate of relevant suppliers surveyed on the use of conflict minerals as 23) Subsequent adjustment of the 2018 figure due to a change in the calculation defined under the Responsible Minerals Initiative. method. 5) 2 019 value checked in interim status in December 2019. 24) Water consumption includes municipal and internal company water. 6) Survey period from March to February of the following year. 25) Excluding metals and scrap. 7) R isk areas as defined in the RCOI. 26) Recycled or recovered amount of total waste, excluding metals and scrap. 8) C ontraventions of the prohibition on forced labor and child labor and cases of 27) Unless otherwise indicated, the employee figures refer to the reporting date of discrimination by origin, skin color, or gender. December 31 of the respective year. 9) The values reflect the workforce headcount at the end of the year. 28) Initiated by employees; related to the average number of employees from 1/1 to 10) P  atent applications concern first filings filed at the German Patent and Trade Mark 12/31 of the year. Office. 29) The values as of 2018 include employees of Schaeffler Automotive Bühl GmbH & 11) A  ccording to the scope of the Schaeffler Group's management manual and valid Co. KG for the first time. certification rules. 30) Managers are defined as employees in a supervisory function. 12) The key environmental indicators of emissions and energy and water consump­ 31) Due to a new calculation basis (before 2018 pure A1 positions were considered as tion are based on the consumption of the 77 production sites in 22 countries. The manager, since 2018 a manager is defined on the basis of the head position = “hat” calculation is based on certification in accordance with ISO 14001, ISO 50001, in Organizational Management) there are different absolute figures and %-values and OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 and entry in the EMAS site registry; reporting date compared to the previous year's report. 12/31/2019. 32) Schaeffler Group Germany, without temporary workers. 13) R  elating to employees on the production sites. 33) F igures for 2018 were adjusted retrospectively compared with the previous year's 14) E  nergy sources included: Electricity, natural gas, district heating, propane, fuel oil, report. without the amount of electricity produced by the gas-powered CHP. 34) D ual students, Master's degree, and “Two in One” students. The “Two in One” study 15) O  nly external electricity purchases since CHP electricity is recorded via gas conprogram combines a bachelor's degree with vocational training. sumption. 35) C ompulsory e-learning was offered in 2018. For this reason, the number of 16) C  onsumption reduced in 2019 because the Wuppertal plant has been using natural participants in 2018 is significantly higher than in 2017 and 2019. The increased gas for its heating requirements. number of participants in 2019 compared to 2017 is due to an expanded e-learning 17) The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions is based on the emission factors of offering. the VDA (2017) and the Probas database of the German Federal Environmental 36) M easurement of Lost Time Injury Rate, LTIR = occupational accidents from one lost Agency. Emission sources covered: Scope 1 (natural gas, heating oil, propane) and day per 1 million hours worked. Scope 2 (electricity, district heating). 37) E mployees incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and interns. 18) A  s of 2018: Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based). 38) R elating to employees, total. 19) 2  017 value not included in the review scope. 20) Supplier-specific emission factors were used to determine Scope 2 (market-based). 21) D  istribution of Schaeffler products to the end customer (last-mile transports). Not included are rail transports and special transports, such as machine transports during removal. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 51 5.2 GNFK index and GRI content index 5.2 GNFK index and GRI content index Pages in the Index to the combined separate non-financial report Sustainability Environmental concerns Report 2019 Innovative mobility solutions 24–27 The Schaeffler Group has prepared a combined separate non-financial report (GNFK) for 2019 that fulInnovative solutions for the industry 28 and energy sector fills the Group's obligation to declare non-financial Environment and climate protection 32–36 information according to the CSR Directive Implementation Law in accordance with Sections 289, Employee matters 315 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Employee advancement and development 38–40 Occupational health and safety 41–43 The GNFK includes a description of concepts and due diligence processes and their results for the five non-financial Diversity and equal opportunity 43–44 aspects “environmental concerns”, “employee matters”, Social matters “social matters”, “respect for human rights”, and “compliance”. Eleven essential issues that were previously deter­­Customer satisfaction 30 mined as part of the materiality analysis are reported in Product quality and safety 29–30 detail. The index on the right provides an overview of the pages of the sustainability report on which this information Human rights can be found. Social and ecological standards 20–22 in the value chain Compliance Corporate compliance 18–20 Information security 20 GRI Content Index The Schaeffler Group's sustainability reporting is The Schaeffler Group is committed to the ten principles conducted in accordance with the GRI standards of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, occupational standards, environmental protection, and of the Global Reporting Initiative according to the anti-corruption measures. The GRI Content Index therefore “core” option. The interactive index, which can be also indicates which GRI indicators simultaneously cover found online, shows the indicators that Schaeffler one or more of the UN Global Compact principles. Reference addresses in the report and leads the users to the will also be made to Schaeffler's respective contribution to report pages containing this information. the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). T  he interactive GRI index is available at: www.schaeffler-sustainability-report.com/2019/ facts-and-figures/gri-content-index.html Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 52 5.3 Sustainability targets 5.3 Sustainability targets As part of the realignment and restructuring of its The strategic objectives include measures that the company sustainability activities, Schaeffler has developed wants to use to apply in order to achieve positive environmental, social, and economic effects through its business five management-related targets in the reporting activities and to create sustainable company value. Time period and will report on their progress from now on. frames are also defined within which Schaeffler intends to implement the measures. In addition to focusing on internal management, Schaeffler also wants to create greater clarity in external communication regarding the status of its sustainability performance. For this reason, the detailed targets at a departmental level will not be published this year. Strategic goal Measures (extract) Goal deadline CDP Rating • Increased transparency regarding climate-related data “A-”-rating for CDP Climate Score by 2021 • Cooperation with customers and suppliers to reduce 2020/21 and at least “B” by 2020 emissions in the value chain Sustainable Suppliers 90% of purchasing volume of • Increase in the share of suppliers evaluated via selfproduction material from suppliers with 2022 assessments sustainability self-assessments by 2022 Renewable Energy • Increase the share of purchased green electricity 100% of purchased power from renewable to 100%. 2024 sources until 2024 • Increase in the share of self-generated renewable energy Energy Efficiency 100 GWh cumulated annual efficiency gain • Implementation of a comprehensive corpo-rate energy efficiency program, for example through heat recovery through implementation of energy efficiency 2024 and optimized machine cooling measures until 2024 Accident Rate 10% average annual reduction of accident • Implementation of appropriate measures taking local 2024 rate (LTIR1)) by 2024 conditions into account 1) Lost Time Injury Rate, LTIR = occupational accidents from one lost day per 1 million hours worked. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 53 5.4 About the report 5.4 About the report The combined separate non-financial report for the 2019 fiscal year for the Schaeffler Group and Schaeffler AG was • T he reporting is in accordance with the standards reviewed by the Supervisory Board of Schaeffler AG and of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the “Core” by the auditing firm KPMG AG on behalf of the Supervisory option Board with respect to the legally required information in accordance with Sections 315b 315c in conjunction with • F or the first time, the report includes the combined 289b to 289e HGB for the purpose of obtaining limited separate non-financial report in accordance with assurance engagement. This follows the International Stanthe CSR Directive Implementation Act, which was dard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): previously published separately “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). The Schaeffler Group publishes an annual sustainability Further information on the Independent Auditor's Report report. Last year's Sustainability Report 2018 was published on checking the combined separate non-financial report in July 2019. The current reporting period corresponds for the purpose of obtaining limited assurance engagement to the business year that runs from January 1, 2019, to can be found at page 55. December 31, 2019. The editorial deadline for this report was December 31, 2019. The information relates to the entire Schaeffler Group with its business fields. If the details Guidelines for data collection and presentation and representations of concepts pertain to other entities, this is pointed out accordingly. The sustainability report The following guidelines on the key figures and data with the combined separate non-financial report is publicly points are valid for the entire report unless otherwise available on the company's website. The sustainability stated: This report includes all major domestic and foreign report was written up by order of the Executive Board of subsidiaries that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Schaeffler Group. The Board reviewed and released the Schaeffler AG. The companies are included from the date report content. on which the Schaeffler Group gains control until the date control is lost. The survey period is from January 1, 2019, to Combined separate non-financial report December 31, 2019. In this report, the Schaeffler Group discloses the When preparing the report, it is necessary in some required non-financial information for the 2019 fiscal year instances to make appropriate estimates/projections, in accordance with Sections 289, 315 of the German Comwhich are documented internally, to present the commercial Code (HGB) (in accordance with the CSR Directive plete survey period. Actual values may differ from these Implementation Act). Schaeffler exercises the option, in estimates and will be corrected in the following year's accordance with Section 315b (3) HGB, to produce a comreporting. Methodical and structural changes are corrected bined separate non-financial report (GNFK) apart from the in principle. Additional comments are provided for devigroup management report. The separate non-financial report ations greater than five percent. Differences may occur was thereby combined with the separate non-financial report due to commercial rounding of amounts and percentages. of the parent company in accordance with Section 315b (1) Contrary to the above mentioned principles, the cutoff (2) HGB and integrated into the sustainability report. The cordeadline for key figures and employee relationships is responding passages are marked with . References generally December 31, 2019. The persons referred to as to information outside of this icon are to be understood as employees in this report are members of the internally additional information; these are not mandatory components defined workforce category “workforce”. Temporary staff, of the GNFK. apprentices, trainees, and contract workers as well as inactive employees are not included. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 54 5.4 About the report The scope of key figure consolidation for greenhouse gas emissions, total energy consumption, water consumption, waste generation, and recycling rates in the environmental area refers to the production sites defined as essential in the EnEHS Group manual. The majority of these production sites already have ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 45001, OHSAS 18001, and EMAS site registrations; the reporting date is December 31, 2019. Forward-looking statements This document contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views with respect to future events. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Schaeffler Group's ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market and economic conditions, the behavior of other market participants, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and achieve anticipated synergies, and the actions of government regulators. If any of these cases or other risks and uncertainties occur, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. The Schaeffler Group does not intend or assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. The Schaeffler Group's sustainability report is available in German and English. In case of discrepancies, the German version is binding. The company accepts questions and comments about responsible corporate management at the Schaeffler Group via the e-mail address sustainability@schaeffler.com. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 55 5.5 Report of the Independent Auditor 5.5 Limited Assurance Report of the Practitioner's Responsibility Independent Auditor regarding the ComOur responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report bined Separate Non-financial Report1) based on our work performed within our limited assurance engagement. To the Supervisory Board of Schaeffler AG, Herzogenaurach, We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): We have performed an independent limited assurance “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of engagement on the combined non-financial report of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Schaeffler AG, Herzogenaurach, (further “Schaeffler”) and Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance the group as well as the by reference qualified part “1.1 engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters Organizational structure and business activities” of the have come to our attention that cause us to believe that Combined Management Report (further: “Report”) accordthe Report of the entity for the business year January 1 to ing to §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material German Commercial Code (HGB) for the business year from respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjuncJanuary 1 to December 31, 2019. tion with 289b to 289e HGB. We do not, however, provide a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited Management's Responsibility assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement The legal representatives of Schaeffler are responsible for and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than the preparation of the Report in accordance with §§ 315b and in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. procedures is subject to the auditor's own judgement. This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare others the following assurance procedures: the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures which are reasonable under the given • I nquiries of personnel on group level, who are responcircumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes sible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an designing, implementing and maintaining systems and prounderstanding of the processes for determining material cesses relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. of Schaeffler •  risk analysis, including a media search, to identify releA Independence and quality assurance on the part vant information on Schaeffler sustainability performance of the auditing firm in the reporting period We are independent from the entity in accordance with the • R  eviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting requirements of independence and quality assurance set Criteria out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements •  valuation of the design and implementation of the sysE and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in tems and processes for determining, processing and monaccordance with these requirements. itoring disclosures relating to environmental, employee and social matters, respect for human rights, and combatOur audit firm applies the national statutory provisions ing corruption and bribery, including data consolidation and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors • I nquiries of personnel on group level who are responsible and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality for determining disclosures on concepts, due diligence assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Audiprocesses, results and risks, for conducting internal contors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality trols and consolidation of the disclosures assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). 1) O  ur engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2019. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German, whereas the German text is authoritative. Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 56 5.5 Report of the Independent Auditor •  valuation of selected internal and external E documentation • A  nalytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative information which are reported by all sites for consolidation on group level •  valuation of local data collection, validation and reportE ing processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on a sample of the sites in Taicang and Suzhou (both China) • Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report of Schaeffler for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2019 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Restriction of Use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of Schaeffler AG, Herzogenaurach, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of Schaeffler AG, Herzogenaurach, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Munich, Feburary 18, 2020 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Koeplin Hell Wirtschaftsprüfer Schaeffler Group I Sustainability Report 2019 APPENDIX 57 Contact information/Imprint Contact information/Imprint Publisher Project manager Schaeffler AG Tim Sharp Industriestraße 1–3 Schaeffler AG, Herzogenaurach, Germany 91074 Herzogenaurach, Germany Email: sustainability@schaeffler.com Tel.: +49 (0) 9132 82-0 (Head Office) Fax: +49 (0) 9132 82-49 50 Editing and consulting www.schaeffler.com Schaeffler AG akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich Concept and design nexxar GmbH, Vienna Photos Andreas Pohlmann, Munich Schaeffler on social media This sustainability report is available Navigation help in the following formats The following symbols indicate important information when reading: PDF version for download: Further information in the report www.schaeffler-sustainability-report.com/2019 Online Sustainability Report: Further information on the internet www.schaeffler-sustainability-report.com/2019 Schaeffler AG Industriestraße 1–3 91074 Herzogenaurach Germany www.schaeffler.com
