2019 Annual Report and Sustainability Report Market leader in secure facilities SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER I N B R I EF Best at secure facilities Specialfastigheter owns and manages properties including correctional ­facilities, juvenile care homes, courts of law and police properties. These are all special operations that have stringent requirements, particularly in terms of security. We are a safe, secure and proactive property owner that focuses on long-term relationships, and we define both current and future requirements in close collaboration with our customers. No. of municipalities 100 We are where Specialfastigheter Ongoing investment 70 2 is p ­ resent, around ­volume, around SEK per cent owned by the Swedish state From Ystad in the south to billion Haparanda in the north Properties from north to south Our business Our property holdings comprise floor space of around idea 1.1 million square metres and a market value of SEK Based on sustainable busi29,037 million. Many of our customers and their ness practices and long-term, operations fulfil vital societal functions and are commercial ownership, spread across the country, from Ystad in the Special­f astigheter develops south to Haparanda in the north. and ­manages properties in ­Sweden for customers whose The ten municipalities in the country in which operations demand high we have the largest property holdings: security standards. Total net floor area (NFA) No. of properties Municipality owned, sq m per municipality Stockholm 332,651 6 Our mission Local office Kumla 47,019 2 Sundsvall Specialfastigheter’s mission is Södertälje 41,913 13 to own, develop and manage Lund 36,725 6 properties with stringent Solna 34,967 1 security requirements in SweKramfors 30,830 3 Local office Örebro den on a long-term commerLuleå 29,533 3 cial basis, wherever there is a Gothenburg 27,739 4 Head office Stockholm (joint) national security interest. The Umeå 26,467 3 guiding principle of our operLinköping 24,831 2 Head office Linköping (joint) ations is to reduce the state’s overall costs. In a competitive Local office Gothenburg market, Specialfastigheter Business areas may also own, develop and ■ Prison and Probation Service business area manage properties in which ■ Defence and Judicial System business area there are other kinds of secu■ Institutional Care and Other Special Local office Operations business area Lund rity interests and pursue other related business. Three customer-centric business areas Prison and Probation Service Defence and Judicial System Institutional Care and Other business area business area ­Special Operations business area Our largest business area consists Within this business area, we With several facilities around the of just one customer, the Swedish mainly work with customers in the country, the Swedish National Prison and Probation Service, defence and judicial system who Board of Institutional Care (SiS) is which accounts for 39% of the are responsible for national secuthe largest customer in this busicompany’s income. We own rity. Our property management is ness area. Operations in this area ­Sweden’s three high-security highly important for several of involve the care and treatment of ­prisons Kumla, Hall and Saltvik ­Sweden’s central societal functions. young people with psychosocial along with other well-known issues and adults with addiction ­prisons, such as Hinseberg, Customers problems. ­T idaholm and Öster­åker within The Swedish Police this business area. The Swedish Armed Forces Customers The Swedish National Courts The Swedish National Board of Customers Administration Institutional Care (SiS) The Swedish Prison and The National Swedish Museums The Swedish Defence Materiel Probation Service of Military History (SFHM) Administration (FMV) The Swedish Defence Research The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (FOI) Agency (MSB) The Swedish Enforcement The National Board of Forensic Authority Medicine The Swedish Prosecution The Folke Bernadotte Academy ­Authority The Swedish Migration Agency Contents Specialfastigheter 2019 Annual Report and Sustainability Report in brief Inside cover The report integrates financial, sustainability and corporate Our values 1 governance-related information to provide a compre­­­­­ 2019 in brief 2 hensive description of Specialfastigheter’s operations. CEO’s statement 4 Our strengths and assets 6 Administration Report Long-term benchmarking 8 The Administration Report can be found on this page Business model 10 and pages 6–108. External conditions Sustainability Report and strategies The Sustainability Report follows the 2016 GRI Standards: Business intelligence 14 Core option and has been the subject of a limited assurance Stakeholder dialogue 16 report by an external auditor. The scope of the Sustainability Materiality analysis 17 Report is detailed in the GRI list of contents on page 52. Sustainable value chain 18 Target areas 20 = Sustainability Report Creating customer value 21 The Statutory Sustainability Report pursuant to Best at security 23 the Annual Accounts Act. Long-term profitability 25 – Supplier collaboration 25 Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) Responsibility for the Company registration number 556537-5945 environment and climate 28 Proactive skills sourcing 30 While every care has been taken in the translation of this Description of operations annual report, readers are reminded that the original annual report, signed by the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. Property portfolio 33 The auditors have only audited the Swedish annual accounts Property development 36 and consolidated accounts of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB Property management (publ) for the year 2019. and operations 39 Financial management 42 Responsibility and ­g overnance Risks and risk management 45 Sensitivity analysis 49 GRI Sustainability Report 50 Assurance Report 58 Message from the Chairman 60 Corporate Governance Report 61 Board of Directors 68 Management 70 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements, incl. comments 73 Five-year summary 79 Consolidated notes 80 Parent Company’s financial statements, incl. comments 98 Parent Company’s notes 102 Declaration by the Board 108 Auditor’s report 109 Property holdings 113 Definitions116 Reporting calendar Inside cover Annual General Meeting Inside cover Addresses Back cover Customers are safe with us a strong local presence and financial stability. Taken together, this makes us a leading supplier At Specialfastigheter, our focus is always on the customer. of secure ­f acilities. We supply secure facilities – secure, adapted and sustainable premises that actively contribute to our customers’ Our core values – security, long-term planning, proximity operations. We work in close collaboration with our cusand collaboration – always form part of our daily operatomers to identify solutions together that support their tions. Our Code of Conduct also supports us in our daily operations as well as our shared long-term customer relawork and helps us conduct business in a way that reflects tionship. We have a high level of operational reliability, our values. Security Long-term planning Proximity Collaboration Security issues are our We are a stable company that We have a customised organTogether we can create ­highest priority. Our mission invests in the long term isation in which we discuss opportunities to ensure our requires great responsibility together with our customers. plans, needs and wishes customers’ success. and skill. through open dialogue. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 1 2 0 19 I N B R I E F 2019 in brief: Security & Sustainability Security and safety continue to be major and current societal issues, as are the growing demands for long-term sustainability and how we as a property company can move in that direction. In this section, we have collated some of the most significant events for Specialfastigheter during the year. 2019 in figures Total rental income Profit from property management Market value 5.0% 2.1% 6.4% increased increased increased SEK million SEK million SEK million 2,000 2,054 1,500 30,000 1,956 1,440 29,037 1,846 1,367 1,410 27,288 1,751 25,000 1,714 1,200 1,269 25,002 1,500 22,999 1,108 20,000 20,919 900 1,000 15,000 600 10,000 500 300 5,000 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CO2 emissions 5 years in brief 0.9% from purchased energy rose 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income from property management, SEK million 2,261 2,138 2,028 1,912 1,867 Net operating income, SEK million 1,631 1,574 1,495 1,409 1,400 Profit from property management, SEK million 1,440 1,410 1,367 1,269 1,108 EBT, SEK million 2,170 2,825 2,165 2,100 1,474 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,717* 2,423 1,719 1,638 1,178 CO2 emissions, % Return on equity, % 14.9 24.2 20.3 22.6 15.6 0 Adjusted return on equity, % 9.9 13.0 12.8 13.7 11.8 Yield, % 5.8 6.0 6.2 6.5 6.8 -20 Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,882 1,793 1,700 1,644 1,618 -40 Occupancy rate, % 98.5 99.0 99.0 98.6 98.7 –54 Surplus ratio, % 72.1 73.6 73.7 73.7 75.0 -60 Net floor area, sq m, thousand 1,090 1,094 1,079 1,088 1,058 Investments including property acquisitions, -80 –75 SEK million 1,029 882 1,398 1,288 419 Market value, investment properties, SEK million 29,037 27,288 25,002 22,999 20,919 -100 Loan-to-value ratio, % 45.9 45.7 53.3 55.9 57.8 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 Equity/assets ratio, % 39.2 38.3 33.8 32.2 30.2 Outcome Target Our target is to reduce CO2 emissions from purThe lower profit compared with previous years is mainly due to lower unrealised value changes in investment * chased energy by 75% by 2030 (base year 2012). properties. For definitions of key performance indicators, see page 116. 2 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 2 0 19 I N B R I E F Lund district court wins PLÅT prize 2019 The district court in Lund – a property constructed by Specialfastigheter – was showcased for its beautiful copper facade in April. The district court was awarded the PLÅT prize, an honorary prize awarded by the PLÅT seminar. As part of the jury’s summary explained: “The facade is thus a highly visible stamp of quality on a successful construction process, a climate-smart building and a secure operation.” The district court was also nominated as “Årets Bygge 2019” (Building of the Year). Customers still facing intense pressure Occupancy at the correctional facilities and remand centres of the Prison and Probation Service remains high. Several other customers are also in need of more resources to manage their expanding tasks. It is therefore pleasing that in its budget proposal for 2020, the government is investing in law enforcement authorities by enhancing the appropriations with SEK 700 million. A rise in appropriations is also expected for the years thereReview of material environmental topics after, which will likely entail investments on the part of In 2019 we reviewed our material environmental topics in line with ISO 14001 Specialfastigheter moving and then clarified and supplemented them. They now include CO2 emissions, forward. energy, materials and chemical products, waste and biodiversity. In-depth sustainability partnerships with suppliers During the year, we held a series of workshops under the theme of sustainability together with our framework suppliers for large and medium-sized contracts. The aim was to pinpoint concrete sustainable solutions and models that can begin to be implemented quickly. We are also continuing our on-site audits in which we review and discuss every aspect, from equality and the work environment to chemical inventories and climate measures. Investment in ­digitalisation Specialfastigheter’s IT ­Manager, Masoomeh ­A ntonsson, was appointed CIO during the year. On 1 July, she also joined the management group to strengthen our digital ­com­p etence. In her new role, Masoomeh Antonsson will ­primarily drive strategic efforts linked to the digital trans­­ formation and IT security. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 3 C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Rapidly expanding need for secure facilities Our customers throughout the Swedish law enforcement chain have ­considerable needs in terms of maintenance of older properties and new ­construction to increase capacity. Specialfastigheter is in a strong ­position and has the tools and capacity to meet those needs. As we summarise 2019, we are able to look back on yet meet our customers’ needs for premises. We have been another year in which we delivered stable results that developing standard buildings in collaboration with our exceeded our owners’ financial targets. Profit from propcustomers for a erty management amounted to SEK 1,440 million – a yearcouple of years Net profit for the year 1,717 on-year improvement of 2.1%. The overall value of our now, with these properties increased 6.4% during the year. Public sector buildings SEK properties remain highly attractive to investors. We also adapted to the maintained our very good rating, AA+, from Standard & different operaPoor’s, which is unique among Swedish property compations of each cusnies. All in all, Specialfastigheter is in a strong financial tomer. As these million position and has the financial muscles required to tackle are standardised the challenges awaiting us over the coming years. buildings with all of the customers’ wishes built in right prior to the start of Our principals throughout the law enforcement chain have production, the production process can be streamlined a considerable need for investment, both in terms of new while minimising cost increases caused by changes to the construction to increase capacity and maintenance of older production schedule. properties that require modernisation. This applies in no small measure to the Prison and Probation Service, where In 2019, we constructed several standard buildings, primarily both prisons and remand centres are currently overfor the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care, and crowded at a time when more targeted measures against can now state that the new buildings maintain a high level organised and gang-related crime are expected to raise of quality. So far these are just prototype projects – we will the need for more prison spaces further. It is therefore first realise the considerable cost savings when we are able pleasing that the law enforcement authorities will receive to build on a large scale over several years. This work will enhanced appropriations in 2020 and likely over the require commitment and endurance from all of the parties ­coming years too. involved – our customers, the contractors with whom we collaborate and not least ourselves. High-security means high cost – but is necessary Security requirements are quite rightly very high for police Precisely this kind of close and long-term collaboration stations, court houses, remand centres and prisons, and with a number of selected contractors is a successful way the new protective security legislation that entered into of achieving greater efficiency with lower costs, shorter force in the spring entails both stricter regulations and implementation times and a higher quality of production, more operations being covered by the requirements. while ensuring that experience is leveraged and transAt the same time, we know from experience that funding ferred across projects. Our collaboration concept, known of new builds and redevelopments of properties with strinas the “Entreprenadfabriken,” or Contract Factory, gives us gent security requirements poses a considerable challenge the opportunity to set security and sustainability requirefor our customers. ments in a much clearer way and has been received very positively by construction companies. High-security has a high cost – but not doing the right thing from the start and living up to the strict requirements can Extensive need for modernisation be even costlier in the long run. Inadequate security in The need for increased capacity and new premises demanding and exposed environments such as remand throughout the law enforcement chain is, as I’ve noted, centres and prisons can lead to serious consequences, extensive. Equally extensive is the need for upgrading and on both a human and a financial scale. maintaining existing facilities. Many of our properties are old and require modernisation; something that has been Standard buildings reduce costs shown by our customer surveys, with those working at the Specialfastigheter is ready to meet the major need for premises stating that they do not meet the quality required secure facilities within law enforcement – primarily through for their respective operations. For this reason, we increased a well-developed implementation capacity combined with investment in maintenance considerably during the year, extensive knowledge honed from many years of experience. while establishing a planning process for increased main­ We also have the tools to quickly and cost-effectively tenance over the coming years. 4 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Maintaining secure facilities is a complex process, however, due to the extensive security arrangements required during the redevelopments. The prisons and remand centres currently in need of major upgrading are overwhelmingly fully occupied and alternative premises to which the inmates can be transferred during a renovation are lacking. Vigorous new efforts to reduce emissions To maintain high quality and the excellent management of our portfolio, we need to continuously develop our prop­ erties by way of new construction and maintenance. An equally important aim is to continue our relentless efforts to achieve our ambitious sustainability targets. Special­ fastigheter should serve as a role model for sustainable business, and as a state-owned company, we have a particÅsa Hedenberg, ular responsibility to set a good example in terms of always CEO of Specialfastigheter acting in a way that fosters confidence in us. We continue to support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles for sustainable business. We participate actively in several sustainability initiatives and networks with other players to Another aim for 2020 is to offer even better support to our promote sustainable business. customers as we work to satisfy the requirements set by the new Protective Security Act. We conducted a protective We did not fully hit our target relating to CO2 emissions for security analysis based on this new legislation during the purchased energy during the year. The target for 2019 was year, in which it was noted which critical assets we have and a reduction of 56% compared with the base year 2012, but how we should act to safeguard them. Our customers can the outcome was 54%. It is thus all the more important that feel secure in the knowledge that highly sensitive informawe want to raise our target for 2020 further by including tion is safe with us. CO2 emissions from the entire value chain. Practical efforts are already under way; for example, we are actively collabEnhanced digital competence orating on sustainability issues at an early stage with our Another area increasing in importance all the time is the construction contractors. To reduce emissions further, we digitalisation of properties, property management and are making investments that will reduce energy use, even processes for property development. New innovations and if those investments do not lead to new revenue. Parallel rapid technological development are creating new opporto this we have intensified efforts to reduce our climate tunities for efficiency, reduced costs and improved environimpact across the value chain – from initial planning and mental performance. It is also important for a company funding right through to demolition and recycling when such as ours to constantly bear security aspects in mind, as a building has reached the end of its lifespan. In addition to well as the risks linked to increased digitalisation. Specialemissions of greenhouse gases, our material environmental fastigheter is one of very few property companies certified topics also include energy, materials and chemical prodin the area of information security, and to further enhance ucts, waste and biodiversity. As Specialfastigheter owns our digital competence we established a new position considerable amounts of land, biodiversity is a major area during the year, Chief Information Officer, which has been in which we want to raise our ambitions even further. added to our management group. Production and materials linked to new builds or reno­ For me as CEO, it is a real bonus to work at a company with vations account for a major part of our climate impact such strong commitment from both the Board of Directors throughout the lifecycle of the properties, which is why we and employees toward delivering the most secure and sushave further intensified collaboration with our suppliers on tainable operational premises to our customers. Our operprecisely these issues. In 2019, we carried out a range of ations are complex and there are many challenges, but we workshops involving contractors with whom we have are working consciously, constructively and with a longframework agreements in order to develop sustainable term approach to face the future. During the past year, we solutions and models that can be quickly converted into continued to develop strong partnerships with customers practical actions. At the same time, on-site audits are conand business partners. We are convinced that collaborative tinuing among suppliers at which we raise issues linked to production is, and will remain, our most important factor climate measures, the use of chemicals, the work environfor success in the future. ment and equality. I want to conclude by truly thanking all of our employees Collaboration for efficient solutions and business partners. I am really looking forward to conAs we enter 2020, Specialfastigheter is ready to take on the tinuing our urgent work in 2020 to become the most secure major property investments that players throughout the and attractive property company promoting a safer, more Swedish law enforcement chain are facing. We held discussecure society. sions in 2019 with the Prison and Probation Service about how the need for new builds can be met, and our hope is to Linköping, 23 March 2020 get started on a greater number of projects in 2020. We work in close collaboration with our customers to jointly pinpoint solutions that satisfy the strict security and sustainability requirements, while ensuring they are cost-efficient and achievable within the customers’ budget frameworks. Åsa Hedenberg, CEO SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 5 OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS Market leader in secure facilities: Demand for secure facilities is increasing and our extensive experience, expertise and long-term strategy has put us in an almost unique position within our niche of secure facilities. Our strengths and assets mean we stand strong in all economic conditions. A secure and sustainable business Best at secure facilities Sustainable supply chains Specialfastigheter is a market leader in secure facilities. We set requirements for our suppliers and collaborate with Extensive experience and expertise in the area of security them to create cost-effective and sustainable supply and our long-term approach to business relationships are chains. An obligatory Code of Conduct, self-assessment our main strengths and competitive advantages. forms, on-site audits and evaluations together with a strong dialogue all form the basis of long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships. Deeply rooted values We are a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Our four core values and our own Code of Conduct, which is based Proactive risk management on the ten principles of the Global Compact, guide us in We work proactively in the area of risk management, with our day-to-day work. We work consciously to contribute to particular focus on the greatest risks. We prevent and minithe transformation required to achieve the 2030 Agenda mise injuries by way of extensive risk analyses in which we for Sustainable Development in the areas where we have systematically identify, analyse, evaluate and manage risks. the greatest influence. Stable customer relationships Growing demand and a low vacancy rate There remains a strong and growing demand for our ­premises, which has contributed to a low vacancy rate. We develop our property holdings in collaboration with customers and we generally always have a customer with us in new transactions. Occupancy rate of 98.5% Secure and long leases The majority of Specialfastigheter’s leases are signed with Internally governed management public-sector operations and have long leases that often and projects run for up to 25 years. Rental income is secured for a long period and derives from creditworthy tenants who have Collaboration, proximity and dialogue with our customers non-existent credit risks. are all at the core of both our ongoing management and our long-term property development. This is why we have opted to establish a project and development unit as well Average term of 10.9 years as customer-centric property management and internally governed operations. 6 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS Our property portfolio – secure facilities From Ystad to Haparanda Many of our customers and their operations fulfil vital The right property for the ­s ocietal functions and are spread across the country – and right operations therefore so are we. Our properties and employees are located in close to 70 municipalities in Sweden. The common denominator among our customers is their security requirements. Our role is to offer the right property or premises for the right operation. Market value, investRising market Together we create efficient comprehensive solument properties tions in line with our customers’ changing condivalue 29 tions. Our properties should be sustainable SEK The increase in investment throughout their life cycle, which is why we collab­ properties’ market value is orate with various players throughout the value mainly due to newly signed chain. In 2019, we further developed our customer leases, investments and and supplier dialogues, in part by holding various billion sustainability workshops. reduced return requirements. Strong financial position A long-term and stable owner Very high credit AA+ As one of the companies wholly-owned by the Swedish rating Our rating is state, we have a long-term and stable owner. We are We have held a very high administrated by the Government Offices of Sweden, credit rating from Standard & which pursue active corporate governance and, like us, Poor’s on our long-term borconsider sustainability issues to be a natural part of the Stable outlook rowing for a long time now, company’s long-term strategy and business development. (Source: Standard & Poor's, having been awarded an 17 December 2019) Improved equity/assets ratio AA+/Stable outlook. This is thanks to our unique position Our owner’s equity/assets ratio target is expressed as an as a landlord of secure facilities, our low business risk prointerval between 25 and 35%. The result as of 31 Decemfile with a highly stable and predictable cash flow based on ber was 39%, which was mainly due to our long leases that long-term leases with government authorities, as well as provide us with stable cash flows and the low interest rate our strong liquidity position and the fact that the Swedish level of recent years. The unrealised changes in value of state is our owner. our properties have also increased equity by SEK 592 million after tax as of 31 December 2019. Our loan-to-value Strong return ratio was 46% on 31 December. We must manage our property holdings with a sustainable, Equity/assets ratio, % long-term approach and with total efficiency from an owner40 ship perspective. Our profitability target as set by the owner 38.3 39.2 35 is 8% adjusted return on equity. We exceeded our target by 33.8 a wide margin, and on 31 December 2019 the result was 30 32.2 30.2 10%. Our strong return was mainly due to our long leases – 25 which provide us with stable cash flows – and the low interest 20 rate level of recent years. Half of our earnings are reinvested 15 into operations, thus enabling our growth. 10 5 Return of 10% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Collaborations that create value Long-term collaborations that develop our business We develop and meet the growing demand for secure tants – who focus on cost-efficiency, collaboration and ­f acilities in close collaboration with our customers and ­continuity – we want to create skills and an understanding ­s uppliers. We take a proactive and long-term approach of customers’ requirements. Together we can create innoto resource and skills sourcing, whether this is among our vative, sustainable and customer-specific solutions that own employees or external business partners. Through our develop not just our own operations, but those of our approach to working with contracts and planning consul­c ustomers and suppliers too. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 7 L O N G -T E R M B E N C H M A R K I N G Long-term benchmarking based on our five target areas Specialfastigheter’s vision – to be the most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – forms the basis for our long-term benchmarking and our overall strategies. Specialfastigheter’s financial targets are decided by the associated deferred tax. The annual resolution on the owner, the Swedish state. The overall strategic targets are ­dividend must also take into account the Group’s future resolved by the Board. The aim of the targets is to ensure investment needs and financial circumstances. efficient use of resources to help maintain the company’s strong position in a competitive market. The owner and Clear target areas company’s management consider sustainable business to To ensure we can govern, take decisions on targets and be a commercially strategic issue, and the follow-up of our activities and prioritise and monitor operations more sustainability efforts is conducted through a dialogue with clearly, we manage operations based on five target areas: the owner, partially by following up on targets and partially Creating customer value, Best at security, Long-term profit­ by way of specific sustainability analyses. ability, Responsibility for the environment and climate and Proactive skills sourcing. As a complement to our target Dividend policy areas, we pursue development work that impacts either Specialfastigheter’s dividend policy is to distribute 50% of on the entire company or major parts of it. net profit for the year after adding changes in value and Overall strategic targets Creating Best at customer security value We are to provide secure, adapted premises in a Security is one of Specialfastigheter’s core values commercial and cost-effective manner, thus contriband security issues are always our highest priority. uting to our customers’ operations. We work close to We aim to be the property owner best able to meet our customers and maintain a close dialogue, which both its own and its customers’ requirements and gives us a deep understanding of their operations. high expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. More satisfied customers via improved customer Ensure effective compliance with the new ­dialogue, CSI. ­protective security legislation. Target, 2019 Result, 2019 Target, 2019 Result, 2019 Next survey 2020 Not measured in 2019 Approved in-house Achieved successful audit audit Satisfied customers are a prerequisite for our long-term success. To ensure that customers are satisfied with our premises and our service, we measure the customer satisfaction index (CSI) every other year. New target for 2020: Invest at least SEK New target for 2020: Maintain certificate of 1.2 billion per year. information security (ISO 27001:2013). Target, 2020 Target, 2024 Target, 2020 Target, 2024 SEK 1.2 billion SEK 1.2 billion Maintained certification Maintained certification We are competitive and invest in secure facilities Customers’ information is safe with us. to meet the needs of the market. 8 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T L O N G -T E R M B E N C H M A R K I N G Strong l­ ong-term profitability We have a long-term task from our owner to manage our property holdings sustainably and minimise the state’s over all costs together with our customers. Long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling this task. Net profit after including changes in value and Equity/assets ratio in the 25–35% range. ­associated deferred tax, at 8% of average equity. Target, 2019 Result, 2019 39% Target, 2019 Result, 2019 25–35% 10% 8% Target, 2020 Target, 2024 Target, 2020 Target, 2024 25–35% 25–35% 8% 8% We create long-term value for customers and society. Responsibility for the ­Proactive environment skills and ­sourcing climate Our operations and properties affect the environIn order to achieve our targets, we need the right ment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and skills. Proactive skills sourcing is therefore a central construction to management, redevelopment and strategy for Specialfastigheter. We are a geographidemolition. For this reason, we adopt a long-term cally diverse organisation, which means we need approach in every part of our business and collaboindependent and committed employees who can prorate with players in our value chain to ensure vide every customer with the service they demand. a ­fossil-free and competitive property sector. Become a more inclusive employer by increasing the Reduce CO2 emissions from purchased energy number of employees with a foreign background. by 75% between 2012 and 2030. (2012: 9 kg CO2/sq m Atemp.) Target, 2019 Result, 2019 12% Target, 2019 Result, 2019 12% 54% Reduction of 56% New target for 2020: We must have an inclusive work environment. Carry out at least one activity Target, 2020 Target, 2024 per unit that promotes equal treatment. Target, 2020 Target, 2024 Reduction of 59% Reduction of 67% (from 2012) (from 2012) Carry out at least A new target will be one activity per unit produced from 2021 We adopt a climate-smart approach Equal treatment in everything we do is important together with customers and other stakeholders. for a sustainable society. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 9 BUSINESS MODEL Our business creates sustainable value Our strengths and assets Our business A secure and sustainable business External conditions Specialfastigheter is a market leader in Events in our operating environment: Rapidly developing climate secure facilities. Extensive experience threats, technical developments, hunt for talent, greater corporate and skills within the area of security competition, stronger demand for security and long-term approaches to business Our stakeholders’ expectations and needs: customers, employees, relationships are our main strengths owners, suppliers and investors and competitive advantages. Stable customer relationships Collaboration, proximity and dialogue Target areas with our customers with security requirements are at the core of both our Responsibility ongoing management, and our longCreating Proactive Best at Long-term for the term planning and development of customer skills security profitability ­environment secure facilities. We have internally govvalue ­sourcing and climate erned customer-centric management. Our property portfolio We have a focused portfolio of sustainable and customer-adapted Property secure facilities spread over some 70 ­ anagement m municipalities. We work proactively to and operation develop our property holdings in line with customers’ changing needs. Strong financial position Our strong profitability is based on Vision: our long leases – which provide us with a stable cash flow – and the low – the most secure and interest rate level of recent years. We attractive property comhave surplus value in our properties, pany promoting a safer, a high equity/assets ratio and a high more secure society. credit rating, AA+. Having the Swedish state as our owner ensures we have Leasing and Property a stable foundation. transactions ­development Collaborations that create value We develop and meet the growing demand for secure facilities in close collaboration with our customers and suppliers. We take a proactive and long-term approach to resource and Internal conditions and governance skills sourcing, both with regard to our own employees and external business Corporate governance and targets partners, to create cost-effective, innovative and sustainable solutions. Business idea: to develop and manage properties in Sweden for customers whose operations demand high security standards based on sustainable business practices and long-term, commercial ownership. Core values: Security, long-term planning, proximity and collaboration 10 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BUSINESS MODEL Specialfastigheter helps create a safer Sweden by offering efficient and ­security-adapted properties to customers with security requirements. We hold a strong basic position that we continuously improve – always in partnership with our customers and suppliers. Value created for stakeholders Customers • Continued delivery of customer-adapted, for future projects for the Swedish National ­s ustainable secure facilities in close to 70 Board of Institutional Care. municipalities, which help customers fulfil • Strategic dialogues with our largest customers their societally important tasks about the environment and climate • Standard buildings constructed for the Prison • Adaptation to the new Protective Security Act and Probation Service and SiS • Sustainable properties throughout their life • Development of properties, investment volume cycle in 2019 of SEK 1,029 million. Investigation proj• Robust finances for long-term collaboration ects looking at capacity increases for the Prison and investment and Probation Service and preliminary studies Investors • Borrowing in corporate bonds and commercial • The state as our owner along with an owner paper at a value of around SEK 14 billion clause entitles investors to redeem their securi• High credit rating (AA+) confirmed by ties early if state ownership falls below 100% Standard & Poor’s • Structured risk management Owner • Adjusted return on equity of 10% • Certified within the area of information security • Property value of SEK 29 billion • Reduced CO2 emissions by 54% compared with • Equity/assets ratio of 39% the base year 2012 • Contributed to a more secure society by using • Ambitious sustainability initiatives reported our security expertise to support authorities in line with GRI in their strict security requirements • Reduced CO2 emissions from business travel by 12% Suppliers • More in-depth dialogue with our suppliers • Worked to reduce the number of workplace about sustainability via workshops accidents via membership in the Håll nollan • “Entreprenadfabriken” (Contract factory) – (Keep to Zero) initiative. ­s trategic collaboration with contractors • Enhanced efficiency by reducing suppliers to and consultants around 1,100 (compared with 2,000 suppliers • Conducted seven on-site audits among in 2008) ­s uppliers • Total purchasing value in 2019: SEK 1,560 • Developed ourselves as a purchaser, including ­million through membership in the Swedish Construction Clients Forum Employees • Increased the number of employees with • Salaries and other remuneration in 2019 ­foreign backgrounds to 12% amounted to SEK 90,455,000 of which SEK • Focused on becoming a more inclusive work14,640,000 related to pension expenses. The place characterised by diversity and equality number of hours spent on skills development totalled 6,310 during the year, or nearly 40 hours per person, per year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 11 E X T E R N A L C O N D I T I O N S A N D S T R AT E G I E S The world is changing at an accelerating pace, both for the better and for the worse. Climate change, technological developments, increased criminality and a more turbulent operating environment are just some of the many external conditions that affect Specialfastigheter. Our value chain and our target areas help us understand our role and how to navigate correctly. The state’s ownership policy, the company’s targets and the UN’s sustainable development goals are also at our core. Creating customer value is a key issue for us. 12 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 13 BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Secure facilities – an ­increasingly attractive market From the perspective of a property owner, the secure facilities market is an interesting one characterised by very long leases and public-sector customers who are able to guarantee secure revenue. This is tempting a growing number of players and Specialfastigheter is therefore seeing increasing competition. There are currently around ten competitors within the same o ­ wners with a focus on quick returns through transactions area as Specialfastigheter. Some are traditional property could sell their secure facilities on. A risk analysis of the companies who are able to plan construction in addition to ownership should therefore be carried out at an early stage property management, while others are pure construction of a procurement and when selecting a landlord. companies who only build and do not manage. We are seeing increasing competition for Specialfastigheter when Greater focus on security entering procurements. Public debate in 2019 largely focused on security in our ­cities, due to an increase in gang-related violence and Secure facilities require a long-term approach explosions. The political discussion was also characterised In line with the new Protective Security Act introduced on by increased demands for police presence, for faster pro1 April 2019, requirements were also expanded for propcedures within the judicial system and for a tightening of erty owners who have tenants in operations connected to penalties. There was also a larger allocation for the judicial Sweden’s security. Fundamentally, protective security is system in the budget based on the January agreement. For primarily the responsibility of the operators, which could 2020, budget allocations for the judicial system amounted be the Swedish Armed Forces, the Police or authorities who to SEK 51.7 billion, an increase of SEK 2.7 billion on 2019. handle security-classified information. However, property owners also have grounds to analyse and review security, Full correctional facilities both within the company and at properties containing After several years of lower occupancy at Swedish correc­tenants with security requirements. tional facilities, average occupancy began to rise in autumn 2018. This trend continued in 2019 and a shortage of places Managing and maintaining a property with security requirein remand centres and prisons has been reported by both ments is costly. There is extensive administration; for examthe Prison and Probation Service and the Police over the ple, contractors and suppliers need to be reviewed and past year. At the end of the year, occupancy at correctional approved from a security perspective before they can be facilities (excluding emergency spaces) stood at 101%. employed, and guidance is often required during the actual work. We deem it important for authorities to detail The need for spaces has also increased in detention ­centres security­related requirements in their enquiries, but also among those awaiting deportation following a decision in terms of their long-term activities and management. by the Swedish Migration Agency. The Police have been required to increase their efficiency, and there is a risk There are currently no restrictions on what kinds of com­ that places at detention centres and prisons will not be panies can acquire or build secure facilities. Short-term ­s ufficient in the future. Public sector properties transaction volume, SEK billion Transaction volume per category, % 50 40 41.78 Education and childcare, 13%  dapted housing (LSS (The A 30 Swedish Act concerning Support and Service for Persons with 20 ­C ertain Functional Impairments), sheltered accommodation), 8% 14.07 Care homes, 15 % 10 11.17 9.15 9.14 Healthcare, 1% Judicial system, 2% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 O ther, 61% Demand for public sector properties has increased considerably, as shown by the transaction volume for 2019. The volume is based on 58 known transactions during the year. Transactions in which smaller parts of a portfolio pertain to public sector properties and whose distribution is not known have been excluded. SBB’s purchase of Hemfosa accounts for SEK 24 billion (can be found under Other). Source of diagrams: CBRE 14 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Changing needs among customers upgrade. All premises should satisfy the requirements for The Prison and Probation Service is planning for an expansecurity and a good environment. The Police therefore sion of 2,000 standard places over the coming ten years, of have a considerable need for premises across the country which 1,400 will be in correctional facilities and just under and premises supply plans for the coming years have been 600 will be in remand centres1. New construction is under drawn up for each police region. way at Skenäs and Hall with the aim of creating up to 266 new places. There is a major need for renovation as several Rising criminality and a greater terrorism threat have led to of the buildings are old and run down. security issues playing an increasingly important role in the country’s courthouses. Some district courts need to adapt The government’s budget gave the Prison and Probation and change their construction in line with expanding secuService an extra SEK 200 million in appropriations in 2019. rity requirements. Over the coming years the extra allocation will amount to SEK 130 million in 2020, SEK 569 million in 2021 and SEK Increased demand for environmentally certified 729 million in 2022. In addition to extensions and redevelbuildings opments, these allocations will also cover the cost of rents Specialfastigheter is seeing a shift in the market where and more staff. more customers are demanding environmental construction, both for new builds and redevelopments, and where To manage the rising need for care of children and young environmental certifications play an important part. Envipeople, the National Board of Institutional Care, SiS, has ronmental certification will become more important in made huge investments over the past few years to increase terms of funding operations using green bonds. We are care accommodation capacity. Efforts to modernise the also noting that public authorities are clarifying their enviportfolio of premises through new investments will conronmental requirements more often in their guidelines to tinue in the future in order to meet the requirements for those areas of their organisations that make purchases. improved care and increased security. 1) R eport from the Prison and Probation Service, “Prison and Probation Service capacity” (in Swedish), 24 February 2020 An increase in the number of police is leading to greater needs for premises and some police stations require an Trends in the operation environment Accelerating climate threat erty sector is attractive, but a high retirement rate in the future According to Sweden’s climate policy framework, Sweden is to be will increase the need to recruit more people as replacements. free from “net emissions” of greenhouse gases into the atmoThe labour market supply of skills relevant to the property sector sphere by 2045. Rapid and extensive reductions in CO2 emissions (in particular technical skills) remains limited among women and are therefore required on a major scale. Heating, domestic hot people from a different ethnic background. water and property energy of buildings (excl. household energy and operational energy) corresponds to around 30% of Sweden’s Increased business competition total energy use2. The construction phase accounts for around The market for secure facilities is buoyant and competition is 50–60% of the CO2 emissions of newly built properties over their fierce for customers with long leases. Many investors are looking lifecycle3. The production of building materials accounts for some for investments – ideally with a green profile – with low returns. 80% of the construction phase’s climate impact4. The Swedish state does not always increase appropriations to its agencies in line with cost trends, and customers are streamlining Biodiversity is under threat. Out of all the mammals, birds, fish, in parallel with some of them receiving real resource enhanceamphibians and reptiles that were found on Earth in 1978, only ments. Sustainability aspects are often important in terms of the 40% of them now remain. This figure will fall to one third in just choices customers make. Customers also want greater transpartwo years if the trend is not broken. ency; for example, demand is rising for leasing models where rent levels are openly reported. Technological developments Technological developments are progressing at a dizzying pace, Deteriorating security situation while the communication flow is accelerating and moving in new The security situation has deteriorated both in Sweden and globdirections. Innovation, digitalisation and AI entail major opportually. Awareness of security issues has risen in pace with new technities but also impact on security and can create vulnerabilities. nology and digitalisation, influence operations, the threat of infilTechnological developments offer opportunities to reduce clitration, gang criminality, explosions and terrorist attacks. This mate emissions and to contribute to a reduction in the burden on security situation has led to more customers demanding more the environment, for example by way of more efficient energy use. secure properties, new security solutions and/or security experWithin the property sector we can see how proptech, or the digitise. Increased appropriations to law enforcement authorities will talisation of properties and processes linked to property devellead in the long term to more prosecutions, which will increase opment and management, are gaining increasing importance. the need for secure facilities. The hunt for talent Competition for the best talent is stiffening. An attractive 2) Roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness initiative – Construction and civil engineering sector employer must be able to offer challenging work tasks, skills 3) R eport from The Swedish Construction Federation, ”Minskad klimatdevelopment and free and flexible working arrangements that påverkan från nybyggda flerbostadshus” (Reduced climate impact give employees the opportunity to control their work-life balance. from newly built multiple-family dwellings, in Swedish) 4) R  oadmap for fossil-free competitiveness initiative – Construction Competition for the best suppliers is also ramping up. The propand civil engineering sector SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 15 S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E Collaboration to ensure ­sustainable business We should set an example within the area of sustainable business. We achieve this by balancing and uniting financial, social and environmental aspects in our operations, which is supported by the state’s ownership policy, the company’s strategies and goals and the UN’s SDGs. Through close collaboration with our stakeholders, we are developing sustainable business. For us, setting an example involves are influenced by our operations, have Our suppliers are increasingly intermanaging and developing every part a major impact on our sustainability ested in collaborating in terms of susof our business in a sustainable maninitiatives. Our main stakeholders tainability issues and are often posiner and being at the forefront of develinclude customers, suppliers, employtive about the requirements we set. opments where they are required and ees, investors and our owner. NatuWe have expanded the dialogue we wherever possible. As a state-owned rally, it is not always possible to pursue have surrounding sustainability with company, we have a particular respona direct dialogue with our customers’ our framework suppliers for major and sibility to set a good example in terms customers, but our tenants make sure medium-sized contracts through of acting in a way that fosters confithat they represent them and convey focus workshops with varying sustaindence in us. Based on the operations their interests during our discussions. ability themes that we decide on we manage, risks and opportunities together. By participating in the Roadcan be found throughout the value We pursue a regular dialogue with map for fossil-free competitiveness chain and our ability to influence stakeholders as part of our day-to-day ­initiative: Construction and civil engidevelopments are to a large extent operations, of which sustainability-­ neering sector, we get the opportunity dependent on other players. Colla­ related issues form a part. In 2019, for to pursue a dialogue with a range of boration and dialogue with our stakeexample, we carried out several envistakeholders in our value chain. holders is thus of vital importance. ronmental training sessions together with the Prison and Probation Service. The dialogue with our owner surA dialogue that develops our We have pursued strategic dialogues rounding sustainability issues is inteoperations about the environment and climate grated with other ownership issues. The dialogue with our stakeholders with our biggest customers, with the helps us to continuously develop and aim of understanding each other’s This year’s stakeholder dialogues have improve our operations, not least from ambitions and increasing collaboraconfirmed that we are focusing on the a sustainability perspective. The tion in terms of these two areas. right sustainability issues based on stakeholders, who both influence and our stakeholders’ perspective. Stakeholder dialogue In their dialogue with us, our main stakeholders have highlighted the following areas as having particular importance: Customers • In-depth collaborations surrounding procurement and • Develop and supply secure, tailored premises ­p urchasing • Satisfied customers who are able to focus on their ­o perations • Robust finances for long-term collaboration and investment • Sustainable choice of materials that ensure a long lifespan and • Collaborations surrounding energy enhancements and non-toxic environments renewable energy Investors Owner • Sustained long-term profitability • Contribute to a safer society • Maintained high credit rating • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain • Green investments and green financing • Sustainable supply chain over several stages • Sustainability in the construction phase • Work environment in construction projects Suppliers Employees • Long-term, strategic and mutually beneficial • Attractive employer with good working conditions ­r elationships • Skills development • Collaboration over several stages • Meaningful work that contributes to a safer society • Sustainable supply chain and satisfied customers • Clear requirements for procurements • An inclusive workplace characterised by ­d iversity and equality 16 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T M AT E R I A L I T Y A N A LY S I S Material sustainability areas Our stakeholder dialogues, continuand property sector to reduce the and Financial profitability have also ous monitoring of our operating enviamount of waste and become more been removed; these are basic preronment and analysis of our business’s circular. Biodiversity also represents conditions for all business operations. sustainability impact all form the basis a significant sustainability area based Special­f astigheter’s governance of, of our materiality analysis. Based on on the critical situation facing many and work involving, our sustainability this, the management has prioritised species of animal and plant and our efforts are reported in detail in various eight areas deemed to be most signifiimpact as a land and property owner. chapters of this Annual Report and cant for Specialfastigheter from a Three material sustainability areas Sustainability Report. Page 52 consustain­ability perspective. This year, have been removed. We have opted tains a thorough description of how Waste has become an area of its own to treat Security as our unique comwe translate our prioritised sustainas we want to demonstrate how petitive advantage rather than a susability areas into GRI standards. important it is for the construction tainability area. Customer satisfaction Our material sustainability areas Material sustainability areas Why material? CO2 emissions There are significant CO2 emissions during the production of materials, construction, occupancy and operation of properties. Energy A property’s lifecycle involves considerable energy use. The type of energy we select from ­suppliers, in projects and at our properties has an impact on CO2 emissions. Materials and chemical We use large amounts of materials as part of our operations. Our selection of materials is relevant products to both the environment and people’s health. Waste There is a significant amount of waste, including hazardous waste, from production and ­demolition of buildings. Biodiversity We are a major land and forest owner. When we exploit the land and manage our properties, we have an impact on natural ecosystems and risk changing or destroying significant habitats. Work environment Our supply chain entails a significant risk of work environment injuries. We care about both people and the environment. Health and safety are crucial in terms of our ability to be an attractive employer and to deliver quality. Equal treatment The company is to reflect society from a diversity perspective in order to be an attractive employer and landlord. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination. Anti-corruption The property sector entails risks as it involves major investments and complex transactions with many parties involved. Our significant sustainability areas relate to the UN’s 17 SDGs. PRIORITISE Areas that are strategically prioritised from a sustainability perspective, based on the seriousness of climate change and the impact our business has in terms of use of materials, waste, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and impact on biodiversity. These issues require real efforts on our part as a company. We are convinced that collaboration and partnerships are required to solve the major challenges facing us. MANAGE Areas we manage actively for long-term financial results, such as customer satisfaction, security, a good work environment, equal treatment and good working conditions both internally and throughout our supply chain. We should be open to technical innovation that contributes to sustainable cities and a sustainable society. TAKE NOTE Areas of which we take note in our daily work, such as strong business ethics free from corruption, promoting life-long learning, contributing to indirect economic development by way of creating jobs, managing water resources and minimising emissions into the sea and waterways. Bold text = Specialfastigheter’s material sustainability areas SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 17 S U S TA I N A B L E V A L U E C H A I N Sustainability in our value chain Our operations and properties affect a range of sustainability areas throughout the properties’ lifecycle, from planning and ­construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. We therefore take active steps to reduce our negative impact and increase our positive impact, both in our operations and in other parts of the value chain. Strategic collaborations and dialogues with our stakeholders, as well as requirements placed on our framework suppliers, are important parts of these efforts. ­Expanding our influence further down our supply chain poses a major challenge; collaboration with our suppliers is critical if we are to achieve this. 1. CONCEPT AND PLANNING Investigation and planning phase ahead of construction or maintenance of a property. Requirements governing functionality and the choice of materials are defined here. 1. Concept and Material sustainability areas We can have an impact through Planning In this stage the conditions governing • Financial governance the impact of the construction pro• Requirement to obtain SGBC cess are set, particularly in terms of: Gold for new builds and Silver • CO2 emissions for redevel­op­ments • Energy use • Set requirements and monitor the • Biodiversity choice of products and suppliers • Sustainable materials and • Green financing ­c hemicals • Collaboration over several stages • Human rights Our current influence 2. Major Production of chosen ­materials 2. PRODUCTION OF CHOSEN MATERIALS Involves production of the building materials and other resources that will be used – from extraction of raw materials to transport, refinement and manufacturing. Material sustainability areas We can have an impact through • Energy use and fossil-free energy • Placing requirements on and monitor• Reuse and recycle materials ing suppliers and enforcing require• Chemical use ments corresponding to our Code of Conduct lower down the supply chain • CO2 emissions from construction • Participation in sustainability initiatives • Human rights • Biodiversity when extracting raw materials Our current influence Minor 18 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B L E V A L U E C H A I N 5. FINAL STAGE Involves the processes required to demolish and ­transport building components for reuse, recycling or landfill. Material sustainability areas We can have an impact through • Waste management • Setting requirements for and monitor• Reuse of materials ing suppliers and ensuring require• CO2 emissions from transport ments corresponding to our Code of and waste product management Conduct among subcontractors • Biodiversity • Participation in sustainability initiatives • Work environment • Human rights Our current influence Moderate 5. Final stage 4. OPERATIONS AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Involves the use, maintenance, repair and operation of the buildings. This also involves electricity, heating and water use as part of operations, for example. 4. Material sustainability areas • Energy use and fossil-free energy We can have an impact through • Green lease agreements with customers Operations • CO2 emissions from energy use • Media dialogue, internally and with and property ­s pecialists • Reuse of materials and more susmanagement tainable materials and chemicals • Setting requirements for and monitoring • Reduce the amount of waste and suppliers and ensuring requirements spillage ­corresponding to our Code of Conduct • Biodiversity during management among subcontractors • Work environment • Collaboration over several stages • Anti-corruption • Participation in sustainability initiatives Our current influence 3. Major ­Construction 3. CONSTRUCTION Involves the transportation of building products to the construction site, establishment and completion of the buildings. Material sustainability areas We can have an impact through • Energy use and fossil-free energy • Setting requirements for and (during establishment) ­monitoring suppliers and ensuring • CO2 emissions from transport requirements corresponding to • Reuse of materials and more sustainour Code of Conduct among subable materials and chemicals contractors • Reduce the amount of waste and • Collaboration with other parties spillage throughout the construction phase • Biodiversity when exploiting the land • Participation in sustainability ­initiatives • Human rights • Work environment • Anti-corruption Our current influence Moderate SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 19 TA R G E T A R E A S Our core ­target areas Our target areas serve as important tools in our efforts to manage, take decisions on targets and activities, prioritise and monitor operations. Clear targets for both the long and short term help ensure our ability to adjust to changing needs and steer our operations in the right direction. Creating customer value Best at Long-term security profitability Responsibility Proactive for the skills environment sourcing and climate 20 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T TA R G E T A R E A S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Target area – Creating customer value > The very foundations on which we can create functional and cost-effective premises that correspond to ­customers’ needs and wishes are long-term planning, proximity and collaboration with customers. In the end, it is a matter of being able to offer the right property or premises for the right operation. Specialfastigheter has a clear assignment – to supply premDigitalisation and sustainability in the spotlight ises in a commercial and cost-effective way to operations Digitalisation of our property automation processes and with security requirements. Being the leader in secure facilinformation flows improves efficiency as it increases searchities places stringent requirements on our properties, our ability and accessibility. During the year we appointed collaboration with customers, our monitoring of the opera CIO to work on these issues at a strategic level. ating environment and how we perform. We work to provide sustainable property management in Close dialogue across different levels collaboration with our customers. At the turn of the year, Close customer contact at several levels – locally, regionally 93% of our leases had a green appendix while 96% of the and centrally – is crucial in terms of pinpointing the most green appendices had an accompanying green action plan significant areas for our customers and thus helps us to that is regularly reviewed. We held central environmental ­prioritise development work. Regular meetings that are and climate meetings with major customers in 2019 in order ­followed up provide valuable information for both our shortto further develop these areas together and establish and long-term planning. The business unit is responsible sustain­ability values such as healthy environments and for letting and transactions, while out at the properties our climate­smart buildings. service technicians and property managers have daily contact with customers as part of ongoing work. The stakeRegular customer surveys holder dialogue is also an important forum for collaboration. To ensure that customers are satisfied with our premises and our service, we conduct customer surveys every other year In order to ensure efficient planning, our work is based on that provide us with tangible proposals for improvement. long-term management plans produced for each property. The next survey will be conducted in 2020. These plans guarantee long-term maintenance, performance quality, volume control and clear follow-up procedures. Strategies for value creation Strategies for creating customer value Examples of activities undertaken in 2019 Develop sustainable internal and external environments Redevelopments, extensions and new build projects for SiS at Folåsa, and acquire, redevelop and build to the value of at Gudhem, Stigby, Johannisberg, Ljungbacken, Ljungaskog, Björkleast SEK 1 billion per year. backen and Hässleholm. New construction of standard buildings at the Skenäs correctional facility. Preparatory works for the new residential section at Hall correctional facility. Ensure delivery that is so efficient, secure and sustainWe constructed standard building solutions for SiS and began buildable that customers can focus entirely on their core ing standard buildings for the Prison and Probation Service. We are operations. further developing our concept for long-term supplier collaboration, known as the Contract Factory. Enhance the efficiency of our property management We launched a review of our strategy for property automation, to by following digital trends and embracing new and enable optimised and energy-efficient operation by using operationtested technology. ally secure technology to obtain digital control over our properties’ ­climate systems. Together with our customers, continuously produce Discussions about increasing capacity at various correctional facilities updated plans for premises’ requirements, both now are ongoing with the Prison and Probation Service. Extra spaces for and for the future. the treatment of young people and addiction have been built or are in production for SiS. Attract customers by way of active market analysis and We participated in the majority of procurements for new attractive offerings. ­establishments. All leases are to have a green appendix and an action 93% of our leases have green appendices, of which 96% have joint plan drawn up with the customer that contribute to action plans. We held central environmental and climate meetings the joint achievement of our environmental targets. with major customers in 2019 in order to further develop these areas together. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 21 “We are in the middle of the biggest expansion in the ­history of our operations” The Swedish National Board of Institutional Care, SiS, is responsible for individually tailored compulsory care for young people and addicts. SiS is in the middle of a major project to increase capacity, the biggest expansion in the history of its operations. It involves new accommodation but also premises for a school, for example. Jan Berg is Property Planning Manager and Lisa Steneberg Environmental Coordinator at SiS. What differentiates an SiS property from other properties? – when designed correctly, this kind of environment can Jan Berg: Our 34 institutions are spread across the country, even benefit the care we provide. One of our priorities is from Kalix in the north to Lund in the south. A typical SiS the expansion of charging infrastructure, as impending facility looks like a small village with a cluster of buildings. new legislation will essentially mean all of our vehicles will These could be anything from 19th-century buildings to need to be green vehicles. We are also assessing the buildings built in the 2000s. A certain level of security is option of placing solar panels on the roofs. Energy use is required for most of the buildings; it must be possible to a complex issue – our operations sometimes require a lot lock them as many of the people we care for need to be of fresh air and sometimes our inmates freeze, meaning incarcerated – at least in the beginning. At the same time, extra radiators are required for their rooms. Cleaning is we need to ensure the premises feel as homely as possible. often part of the operations of many of our institutions and It’s a difficult balancing act ensuring both a secure environis carried out by the inmates as part of their care; they learn ment and a caring one. to take responsibility. However, cleaning also involves ­handling chemicals and so we need to find a way to manPaint a picture of your collaboration with Special­f astig­ age the doses. Last but not least, we’ve reviewed our travel heter in terms of increasing capacity? practices and introduced digital meetings wherever possiJan Berg: Specialfastigheter is deeply involved in the conble. For example, we’ve reduced the number of construcstruction project. We have a close collaboration in terms of tion project meetings after putting pressure on the the development of standard buildings for ­accommodation, ­contractors, along with Specialfastigheter, to install the schools and sports halls. We at SiS have set the requiretechnology required for digital meetings. ments and Specialfastigheter has ensured that the project lives up to them. As Specialfastigheter owns a large proWhat are the major challenges moving forward in term portion of the properties in which our institutions are of properties? based, we have been able to drive this increase in capacity Jan Berg: Many of the buildings are old and run down, and forward efficiently. it can often be a major challenge getting them to function for our operations. Will you renovate or build new facilities? What are your most important sustainability issues? The authorities place the same requirements on premises Lisa Steneberg: We take a broad approach to sustainability. regardless of whether they are old, redeveloped or newly Together with Specialfastigheter, we are currently examinbuilt. There is also a vital sustainability aspect here – how ing how we can best improve biodiversity at the properties can we best make use of the Earth’s resources? 22 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T TA R G E T A R E A S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Target area – Best at security > We have our own niche within public sector properties – secure facilities. Specialfastigheter aims to be the property owner best able to meet both its own and its customers’ requirements and expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. Our customers’ operations require us to maintain high fastigheter’s core values and security issues are always our standards of proficiency, confidentiality and commercial highest priority. For this reason, we established the term prowess. In many cases, Sweden’s security may be “secure facilities”. By this, we mean properties that are involved. The way we work with security is described adapted for operations that require security. clearly in our business plan and in our joint business management system. We work closely with our customers, but In order to accomplish our task and achieve our vision – we always respect their integrity during any collaboration. the most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – we have mainly concenOur principal should obviously feel secure with us at every trated on four areas of security. Read more about them on stage – from planning and construction to management page 24. and development. Security is therefore one of Special­ How we work to ensure we’re the best at security Knowledgeable, security-vetted personnel The skills, awareness, interest and commitment of our employees are all factors for success that ensure we succeed in our security efforts. Continuous skills development in the area of security is therefore a natural part of all employees’ work. Security also forms a central part of our recruitment process. We have a triedand-tested concept using a special security assessment that covers all employees and reduces the risk of incorrect recruitment from a security perspective. Continuous risk analyses By systematically identifying, evaluating and managing operational risks, we gain an understanding of how we can effectively keep them under control. The most significant risks are followed up at least twice a year during management reviews and once a year by the Board. The international risk management standard ISO 31000:2018 guides our work in this area. Read more about our risk management on pages 45–49. Incident reporting By continually following up on reported incidents, we create the right conditions for early follow-up of near-accidents, injuries and circumstances that may have a negative impact on assets requiring protection, such as individuals, tangible and intangible resources, the environment, our credibility or our finances. Read more about our incident reporting efforts on pages 24 and 55. No cases were reported during 2016 or 2017, while two cases of Ethics and anti-corruption whistle-blowing were registered in 2018. Two cases were Specialfastigheter’s work is founded on our core values. For us, reported in 2019. Both were handled and written off. an upright, ethical approach to all business relationships is a given – we must be a strong, reliable, business partner. We have Continuity planning an internal sustainability policy and a Code of Conduct that Continuity planning is based on the most important core prodescribe the company’s requirements regarding our employees cesses and support processes. These are the processes that and which form the basis of how each of us should behave in relamust be prioritised when returning to normal or other decided tion to ethical matters. To ensure that information and knowllevel of operation in the event of breakdowns or catastrophe. edge concerning business ethics is accessible throughout the organisation, we regularly hold discussions about ethics at each Protective security unit as well as annual training courses for purchasers. Major efforts have been made to adapt to the new Protective Security Act – the legislation and accompanying instructions Specialfastigheter never accepts bribes or any other form of cordrawn up by the Swedish Security Service. This has been ruption, and we have had a whistle-blower system in place since achieved through training and the creation of a technical support autumn 2013 that enables people to draw attention anonymously system. To reinforce our efforts, we established and appointed to irregularities or unsatisfactory conditions at our organisation. a new post: Protective Security Coordinator. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 23 TA R G E T A R E A S Focus on four security areas Personal security Operational reliability The area of personal security comprises the safety A high level of operational reliability around the clock and security of our employees, partners and customis a prerequisite at many of our properties, as they ers. Our incident reporting system provides us with ­f ulfil vital societal functions. Improvements are conextensive knowledge of risks and allows us to proacstantly being made to our property management tively take damage-prevention measures. Some of our organisation in order to lead to greater efficiency and employees work in environments where an increased security. Rapid technological developments within understanding of their own behaviour can reduce the area of property automation demand robust opertheir exposure to risk and lead to increased safety and ating systems, good planning and conscientious security. According to the Swedish Work Environment employees, which we supply through our own personnel Authority, the number of reported work-related who are not only well acquainted with the properties ­accidents linked to threats, violence or assault have and the technical installations, but also customers’ increased consistently over the past few years for both needs. men and women. We at Specialfastigheter have not witnessed such an increase, but we are continuing to During the year we quality-assured and created a work on preventive measures, such as through our ­uniform structure for supervision, management and annual training in how to manage threats and violence systematic fire prevention at all of our properties to at work. enhance efficiency and security. Physical security Information security Physical security is important in terms of our ability to Protecting both our own and our customers’ informaestablish a high level of security to protect both our tion assets is a high-priority issue for us. We must be own operations and those of our customers. It primarily able to trust that all information – both our own and consists of technical and mechanical security solutions, that which we manage on behalf of our customers – is such as access protection, electronic access systems, always accessible, correct, traceable and protected automatic fire and burglar alarm installations, reinagainst unauthorised access. Our customers, our forced doors, windows, roofs and wall ­s tructures. operating environment and we ourselves all undergo changes, meaning we invest a lot of time in adjusting As part of the requirements we have established in our security protection agreements and accompanyour security protection agreements, Specialfastig­ ing security instructions. heter continued its work to ensure balanced operational security in 2019. We also carried out more work During the year we underwent a periodic audit of our on security-enhancing measures at a number of corinformation security certificate in line with ISO rectional facilities and developed general technical 27001:2013 and enhanced our organisation by security solutions that will be used in future projects. appointing a protective security coordinator and an IT security specialist. Our management system for information security means we are well equipped in terms of the Protective Security Act’s legal requirements. 24 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T TA R G E T A R E A S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Target area – Long-term profitability > Ensuring we have long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling the task set by our owner and of satisfying our customers’ high expectations throughout the entire lease period. We must therefore manage our property holdings sustainably and with total ­efficiency from an ownership perspective. Minimise the state’s total costs equity of 8%. The result for 2019 was 10%, which shows that The owner’s intention is for us to work with our customers we remain efficient in terms of our business and that we to minimise the state’s total costs. We can achieve this by have a strong and effective financial management system. providing secure, adapted and sustainable premises in a commercial and cost-effective manner, thus contributing Managing and monitoring constant improvements to our customers’ operations. We are constantly working to improve our management and monitoring to ensure we achieve our established corOur capital structure target is the equity/assets ratio, which porate targets. It is very important for the entire business determines how we finance our assets and is thus an to be involved in this, meaning both managers and employimportant control instrument in terms of our level of risk. To ees, and we make sure we provide and develop working achieve clarity in our benchmarking while also enabling the methods and IT support systems that facilitate their work necessary flexibility in terms of our financing, our owner’s and create the right focus. In 2019, we began implementing target equity/assets ratio is expressed as a range from 25 a project management tool and started work on a document to 35%. The result for 2019 was 39%. Another target used and case management system. to ensure long-term profitability is adjusted return on Improved delivery quality Sustainable supply chain To minimise supplier-related risks, we maintain an ongoing Efficient purchasing thanks to solid purchasing dialogue with all our first line suppliers. We also have a strategy documented process outlining how we check, set requireA clear, well-rooted purchasing strategy based on a balments for and monitor our suppliers. Signing our Code of ance between our purchasing needs identified by a spendConduct is mandatory when entering into new central ing analysis, our supplier base and how the organisation for framework agreements1, in addition to general and prodpurchasing is designed, is a prerequisite for the long-term uct-specific requirements primarily relating to finances, the development of our purchases in relation to cost, quality environment, the work environment and security, except and risk. Our purchasing strategy also gives us excellent for contracts involving both low values and low risk. conditions to work on sustainability in an effective way throughout our supply chain. Educational dialogues concerning sustainability When suppliers sign our Code of Conduct, they accept our To extract the greatest value possible from the supply chain guidelines and requirements in the areas of information and ensure our ability to act in a planned and structured mansecurity, work environment, working conditions, the enviner, we have developed a purchasing organisation in which ronment and corruption. a central unit is responsible for strategic initiatives, procurement and signing of all agreements. We can specify our All suppliers who have signed the Code of Conduct are needs and requirements for products and suppliers by catesubject to self-assessment and off-site audits and could be gorising our purchases into product areas and based on varisubject to on-site audits. Off-site audits are conducted on ous market conditions. This also gives us the basis on which the self-assessment that suppliers are requested to carry to develop individual strategies and the right supplier strucout upon signing a contract. ture for each contract area. This way we can adopt a longterm approach Supply chain facts: to developing our supplier • Highest purchasing volume (measured in SEK) in relationships, the areas of construction contracts, specialist skills promote and energy Purchasing Supplier base experi­volume ence-based • Around 1,100 suppliers (1,600 suppliers in 2013, feedback and 2,000 suppliers in 2008) thus ensure • Total purchasing value in 2019: SEK 1,560 million greater con­ (SEK 1,395 million in 2018) tinuity and • The majority of suppliers are domiciled in Sweden Organisation higher quality • Contract compliance in 2019 amounted to 94% in our when calculated by transactions (approx. 33,000) ­deliveries. and 97% calculated by value Efficient purchasing is based on these three factors. 1) C  entral framework agreements refer to framework agreements and supplier agreements signed by the central purchasing unit and which are fully compliant with our purchasing strategy. These account for 95% of our total purchasing. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 25 TA R G E T A R E A S We conduct on-site audits in accordance with an annual The audits we carried out showed that several suppliers plan based on a number of criteria, such as volume/spendhave work remaining in terms of implementing the Organiing, risk, business intelligence and how strategically sational and social work environment provisions1 into their important a supplier is. Experience of previous on-site operations as well as a systematic approach to setting audits has shown that many of our suppliers see it as an requirements and monitoring their own supply chain. We opportunity to learn and open a dialogue about sustainknow that there are many sustainability risks 2 in the supply ability. Being able to develop together with the aim of chain and therefore consider maintaining a dialogue with offering positive and sustainable solutions is a good thing suppliers to be an important and obvious part of our for both us and our suppliers. During the year we carried sustain­ability efforts. out seven on-site audits that focused on strategic construction contractors. During the year we placed particular focus on maintaining 84% a dialogue about sustainability together with our suppliers for large and medium-sized contracts. We carried out five workshops with varying sustainability-related themes and a concluding Superforum. The aim was to work together to identify opportunities and find solutions to shared challenges. Read more about this on the next page. of our total purchasing is covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct Development of suppliers and agreements Feedback from experience Action plan Feedback from purchasers and suppliers As part of the preparations ahead of a new conprovides us with continuous information about tractual relationship, we produce a needs assesshow well the agreements are fulfilling our needs ment and a specification of requirements based and strategies, and reveal areas for development. on the categories. Feedback is sought and market and risk analyses are conducted where necessary. Contractual relationship Requirements Contractual relationships with suppliers are General and product-specific requirements developed continuously by way of supplier relating to finances, the environment and secuassessments, dialogue and follow-up. Audits and rity are established when signing new central training are also vital parts of our development agreements. Signing our Code of Conduct is efforts. mandatory. 1) The Swedish Work Environment Authority’s Organisational and social work environment provisions, AFS 2015:4 2) Read more about sustainability risks on pages 47 and 57. 26 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Marlene Wiberg Fredrik Leo Sustainability at early stages via collaborative projects Commitment, the exchange of experiences and openness are three aspects that truly summed up the series of sustainability workshops we held during the year with our framework suppliers. The aim was to pinpoint tangible solutions and activities Tangible solutions for the future that we are able to jointly implement in our construction The workshops resulted in a range of solutions and activiprojects to reduce the impact on the climate and the envities that we will implement in future construction projects ronment over the lifecycle of the buildings, to increase together with our contractors. Some of these include: social sustainability including health and safety within – forming a committee for experience-based feedback ­projects and to establish sustainable business models. – designing a social sustainability training course – establishing the framework for climate calculations at We asked two of the participating contractors to offer their an early stage view of the joint workshop initiative: – agreeing on key indicators for proactive work environment initiatives. “ByggPartner is collaboration-oriented and we really got the opportunity here to share experiences with sector colIt became abundantly clear in all of the five workshops that leagues. We now have the basis for a collaboration with collaboration at an early stage is vital for all sustainability tangible steps involving the entire chain: planners, contracinitiatives. We therefore need to systematise the dialogue tors, Specialfastigheter and the end customers,” explains between purchasers, contractors, architects and designers Fredrik Leo, CEO of ByggPartner in Dalarna. as early as during the planning stage. “Sector-wide collaboration enables us to influence the secFacts: tor as a whole in terms of sustainability and development, 5 workshops x 4 hours Participants: 25–35 people incl. as well as to pinpoint and create concrete value. If lots of + concluding Superforum representatives from all 10 conactors move in the same direction, more opportunities are Themes: tractors and Special­fastigheter created to build sustainably and safely. It’s inspiring to be • Sustainable business model representatives (Purchasing, able to be part of this, there is major potential to influence • Emissions, energy and Quality & Sustainability and ­materials Projects & Development units). how we build our society,” adds Marlene Wiberg, Head of • Social sustainability Operations at Serneke Sweden. • Work environment and safety SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 27 TA R G E T A R E A S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Target area – Responsibility for the environment and climate > Our operations and properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. Specialfastigheter is therefore taking a long-term approach and endeavours to be a sustainable property company in every area of our value chain. Systematic environmental initiatives Challenges posed by climate initiatives We have a structured and conscious approach to reducing Our target is to reduce emissions from purchased energy our environmental impact and always use the precautionby 75% by 2030 (base year 2012), which is in line with Fossil ary principle as a guide. Our efforts are based on the Free Sweden’s ambition to see a fossil-free Sweden by impact our operations have on the environment and the 2045. In the period 2012–2019, we reduced our CO2 emis­climate. International guidelines, the UN SDGs, the Paris sions from purchased energy by 54% (the target was 56%). climate agreement and the generational and environ­ We did not reach the 2019 emissions target due to operamental quality targets set by the government all guide us tional problems with a single pellet boiler that increased in these efforts. We are making constant improvements the company’s consumption of heating oil during the year. in line with ISO 14001. We mitigated the effect of this considerably, however, by actively working to replace the type of fuel used in several Energy efficiency enhancements boilers from heating oil to RME (rapeseed-based biodiesel). A property’s lifecycle entails significant energy use and thus also CO2 emissions. We work systematically to reduce Measures to reduce the climate impact along the energy use at our properties, which is reported, analysed value chain and followed up on a monthly basis in terms of property By 2020, we will phase out all heating oil and replace it with and geographical area and at company level. RME. We have already made this conversion at a number of properties in 2019. By replacing heating oil with RME, CO2 The energy use target (electricity at properties, operational emissions are reduced by around 2,500 kg per cubic metre electricity, heating and cooling) in 2019 was 198.5 kWh per of burnt fuel. For properties connected to the district heatsq m, while actual energy use amounted to 199.1 kWh per ing network, we are signing green district heating agreesq m. The reason we did not achieve the target is largely ments and pursuing a dialogue with energy suppliers to due to occupancy being so high at our properties during influence the share of renewable district heating sources. the year. We also installed energy-efficient systems and worked on operational optimisation, but not to the extent We need to set targets for CO2 emissions from our entire required. value chain, as around 50–60% of CO2 emissions from newly built properties occur during the production of During the year we carried out several ventilation replacematerials and in the construction phase1. Our aim is to set ment projects with the aim of reducing the consumption of science-based targets in 2020 that cover scopes 1–3, that electricity and heating at our properties and creating more is, targets that count both direct and indirect CO2 emissions comfort and a better indoor climate. We also began installgenerated by the company along its value chain. We ing solar panels, including at our largest property, Krono­ remain active in the focus group that produces procurement berg, in Stockholm. 1,266 sq m of solar panels are expected requirements within the framework of the Roadmap for to produce 212,227 kWh per year there. These investments fossil­-free competitiveness initiative – Construction and were funded by the SEK 150 million set aside by the Board civil engineering sector. for energy projects with lower return requirements. Total energy use in buildings, Emission intensity, kWh per sq m Atemp CO2 emissions, % kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp 250 0 6 Kyla 199.4 202.5 199.1 5 200 -20 Värme 4.6 El 4 150 -40 3.8 3.8 -54 3 100 -60 2 -75 50 -80 1 0 -100 0 2017 2018 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2017 2018 2019 Electricity Heating Cooling Outcome Target Emission intensity (kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp) is the same as the previous year. Consumption of electricity and heating fell Our target is to reduce CO2 emissions from purby 2.3% and 0.3%. Consumption of cooling fell chased energy by 75% by 2030 (base year 2012). by 6.0%. This reduction amounted to 54% at the end of 2019. 28 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T TA R G E T A R E A S Business travel trol and automation products, which unfortunately often We reduced our CO2 emissions from business travel by 12% did not satisfy the criteria for Aand B-classification. We during the year. This is primarily thanks to our reduction in are continuing efforts to register as much material as possithe number of business flights, which fell 47%. We also ble in the database and are making substitutions wherever increased the number of train journeys by 24% compared we can. Our aim moving forward is to work more actively to with 2018. In contrast, CO2 emissions from business travel reduce a negative climate impact from the use of materials. by car increased 3% year-on-year, which is likely due to the We can achieve this by designing buildings based on a cirfact that more employees had access to company cars. cular approach, opting for more climate-smart materials and reducing wastage. In 2019, our air travel led to 21 tonnes of CO2 emissions. We compensate this by setting aside SEK 1,100 per tonne2, The construction and property sector produces consideror some SEK 23,000 per year, for environment-enhancing able wastage and waste. The sector accounts for around measures and measures to promote biodiversity at our 30% of all the waste generated in Sweden1 and 16% of all properties. hazardous waste. We place requirements on our construction contractors to report waste within projects, but we Materials and waste need to improve our monitoring of these requirements and The construction and property sectors account for a large collaborate with our contractors to minimise the occurproportion of the public sector’s use of materials. We try, rence of waste and ensure that the waste that is produced wherever possible, to phase out materials that could have a can be reused and recycled to a much greater extent than negative impact on health and the environment. The majortoday. To manage risks linked to materials and waste, we ity of materials used in construction projects and property place systematic demands on and monitor our suppliers by management are documented in SundaHus’s environmenway of our Code of Conduct – read more on pages 25–26. tal database, assessed according to their criteria and Read more about risks on pages 45–49 and 57. should fulfil classes A or B. Not all materials are registered. This may in part be due to the complexity of the product, Biodiversity or that we do not require products such as nuts and screws Specialfastigheter is a major land and forest owner. When to be registered. Another reason could be that we or a supwe exploit the land and manage our properties, we have an plier failed to register them. impact on natural ecosystems and risk changing or destroying significant habitats. Based on the impact we have and The database is based on the precautionary principle and global focus on the threat to biodiversity, we produced shows whether a material contains substances that are hazinstructions during the year relating to the mitigation hierardous to health or the environment. As our customers archy3 with the aim of working more systematically on biooccasionally have special functional requirements, we may diversity in our projects and property management. In need to deviate from the A and B classes. Specialfas2020, these instructions will be implemented throughout tigheter’s target is for the amount of registered materials the organisation. In 2019 an “Inventory of nature conservawithin production that fulfil the A and B classification to tion values” was carried out at one property. We will carry amount to at least 80%. In 2019, the number of Aand out more such inventories in 2020 along with a number of B-classified materials amounted to 75%, meaning we did pilot projects containing measures based on what the not achieve our target. This is largely due to the fact that inventories reveal. we registered more categories of materials, primarily con1) Report from The Swedish Construction Federation, ”Minskad klimatpåverkan från nybyggda flerbostadshus” (Reduced climate impact from newly built multiple-family dwellings, in Swedish). 2) The SEK 1,100 amount is based on the Swedish carbon tax that amounts to around SEK 1.1 per kg of CO2. 3) The mitigation hierarchy means that damage to biodiversity should in the first instance be avoided, then minimised and remedied at the site and, in the last instance, compensated. Solar panels on the roof of Lund district court. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 29 TA R G E T A R E A S Responsibility Creating Proactive Best at Long-term for the customer skills security profitability ­e nvironment value ­sourcing and climate Target area – Proactive skills sourcing > In a sector with fierce competition for skills, our conscious efforts to enhance our attractiveness are vital. We take proactive steps to ensure resource and skills sourcing so that we always have the right skills for what our customers require. A special and attractive niche to change. We offer internal, tailored development proOur 158 employees are distributed across Sweden, which grammes for our managers and we arrange management means that many of them are specialists who manage their days at least twice a year, with a focus on prioritised issues. work independently. Our employees are our main ambassadors, and when we recruit new people we make sure to In general, we view all types of learning within the organiintroduce them quickly so they understand the company sation as positive, from the exchange of knowledge and as a whole as well as their individual roles. experience at the company to external courses, training and networks. Our geographical distribution requires comThe fact that we focus on security in particular is something petent, diligent, independent and committed employees that attracts both existing and potential employees. Many who take considerable personal responsibility. This geogfind their work at Specialfastigheter to offer opportunities raphy also means we work hard to spread knowledge by for development as it is a special niche; it is inspiring to be drumming in our guidelines, values and positive examples. involved in making a difference and creating a safe and secure society. Our long-term, strategic focus on sustainWell-being leads to strong performance ability is yet another strength we have noted during recruitOffering a work environment in which diversity and equalment processes, with more and more candidates naming ity are self-evident and where everyone takes care of their sustainability as an important criterion when selecting an own and others’ well-being helps foster commitment and employer. With our Employer Value Proposition (EVP) as a greater competitiveness. We work to ensure that equal basis, we work strategically to increase awareness of us and treatment initiatives at every level become part of our what we can offer as an employer. We want to recruit from ­normal daily routine. As a responsible company in a sector a broad base, which is why we collaborate with vocational with a relatively high level of injuries and accidents, we take colleges, participate in job fairs, give lectures at universities, the work environment extremely seriously. All employees arrange study visits and take on interns, including from the are offered our extensive healthcare insurance and a beneRinkeby school, Newton College in Stockholm and fits package that includes a wellness contribution, among Linköping University. During the year we placed extra focus other things. We regularly carry out work environment on service technician courses, as this is an important role in inspections and hold appraisals, and there is a work enviour property management. ronment committee that ensures we continuously maintain a dialogue and improve our performance. The fact that we Continuous skills development have taken proactive and preventive measures to promote Flexibility, willingness to change and collaboration are all health for such a long time is one reason we have seen a relkey factors in terms of our ability to develop sustainable atively low rate of sick leave for many years, 1.64% (1.87%). secure facilities together with our customers to meet their During the year, we produced an action plan for our further changing needs. Our managers play a vital role in these improvement and to meet the work environment requireefforts, and effective management and leadership leads to ments outlined in ISO 45001. long-term profitability, job satisfaction and a climate open Employee facts Our target for 2019 The number of Personnel turnover We have 158 (144) We have a wide An initiative that was to increase the female managers was 6.6% (11.8) employees distribgeographical dismany employees share of employees increased during during the year. uted across six tribution and are valued highly with a foreign backthe year, amountlocal offices in present in close to during the year was ground to 12%, and ing to 31% (29). On Linköping, Stock70 municipalities as our collaboration we achieved it. the Board, 45% (45) holm, Sundsvall, our service techniwith Erikshjälpen, Next year we will were women, while Örebro, Gothencians work at our whereby we continue our equal in management burg and Lund. properties on a offered our treatment initiathat figure was 67% daily basis. employees in six tives to promote a (63). The total perregions the chance sustainable society. centage of women to work for half a at the company was day as volunteers 28 (26) at year end. under their management. 30 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T “I think I’ll be able to grow a lot at this company” During the year, Jenny Karlsson started work with us as assistant property manager in Luleå. After an exciting educational journey, she has now found her home in the property sector. What was it that attracted you to working with properties? of responsibility but can always turn to him. I also feel that I “My background is fairly varied and I didn’t know in the can ring up anyone at the company and ask anything I need beginning that I wanted to work with properties specifito. No one ever thinks I’m stupid for asking something, they cally. At upper secondary school I was training to be want to help me get better at my job.” a nurse before moving to Gothenburg and studying to become a ship’s officer and potential marine engineer. How is it being a young woman in your role? I wanted to enter the Coast Guard, but after my studies it “When I go to tenant meetings, many of them say that it’s was hard to get a permanent job in that area. Then I came ‘great to see a girl!’ We think differently sometimes, men across the course to become a property engineer and manand women, so the bigger picture is more efficient when we ager, which involved the technical and long-term aspects work together. Although of course there’s always a minority that spoke to me. who think that my skills are not as good as those of a man. When I was thinking of applying for the role at Special­ I probably inherited my interest in technology from my dad fastigheter, I looked up the CEO and was pleasantly surand grandfather. I’m also able to make daily use of the nursing prised to see that it was a woman. Åsa as CEO and Michaela training I got when studying to become a nurse: I developed as Property Management Director are both great role a greater understanding of how people work and can deal ­models – we’re heading for something really great here!” with them in a positive way. This is particularly useful when we’re out working at a correctional facility, for example.” How do you view your future at the company and in the sector? What does it mean to be an assistant project manager? “Right now I’m really happy with things as they are. At some “I have a supervisory function but no responsibility for point I want to become a full property manager, of course. staff. I can manage minor projects myself, while my manI will stay at Specialfastigheter as long as I am happy, and ager Tomas and I look at major projects together. He has right now it feels like I’m here to stay. I think I’ll be able to extensive experience and knows so much – I am given lots grow a lot at this company!” SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 31 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S A long-term approach for a safer Sweden – this is the goal of our work together with customers and suppliers. The basis of our operations is to ensure that we have the right premises for the right operations by continuously monitoring, developing and matching customer needs with our property portfolio. We conduct our own project and development activities to develop and customise our properties and thus ensure our access to ­specialist expertise, primarily in the field of security. Every single Special­ fastigheter customer should feel confident in our management services so that they can focus fully on their core operations. 32 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y P O R T F O L I O Customer-centric portfolio of secure facilities Specialfastigheter’s customers demand security. Many customers lease ­properties that are of a national security interest. Continuously reviewing the portfolio and ensuring that our premises are tailored to each customer’s operations and security requirements is essential for maintaining customer confidence in us as a landlord and thus ensuring our success. Our focus on security is what differentiates us from other Investments during the year property companies. This security aspect permeates our Modifications for customers entail complex property entire business and has been a part of it since the company ­conversion and development projects in the form of new was founded in 1997. Our ambition to be Sweden’s leading builds, extensions and redevelopments. Specialfastig­ property company in the field of security is reflected in our heter’s investments in projects totalled SEK 1,029 million extensive investments and initiatives in four different areas (824) at year end. Read more about ongoing and planned of security – operational, personal, physical and information investments on pages 36–37. security. We are one of very few Swedish property companies to be certified in the area of information security. The first construction phase at the Gudhemsgården LVM* home was completed during the year for the Swedish Our employees are highly aware of security aspects and National Board of Institutional Care, SiS, as were the first are experts in special technical areas. An important pre­ standard buildings at the Ljungbacken and Folåsa juvenile requisite for maintaining and developing our portfolio of care homes. We also began the new construction of stansecure facilities is our long-term relationships with customdard schools at the Folåsa, Johannisberg and Ljungbacken ers. We have a unique dialogue and collaboration that juvenile care homes. New construction was prepared for gives us an insight into and understanding of their various the residential sections of the Hall correctional facility for businesses and security needs. Specialist knowledge and the Prison and Probation Service. A redevelopment and extensive experience form a solid basis, but it is our ability extension was carried out at the Hällby facility, and we to convert our skills into concrete solutions specifically began new construction on standard building solutions adapted to each customer that makes the real difference. at the Skenäs facility. Specialfastigheter’s starting point is always “the right premises for the right operations.” The fact box on page 34 Specialfastigheter signed 13 leases during the year, of provides examples of our modifications for customers in which 10 were additional agreements within existing our property holdings over the past year. leases. The majority of the 13 leases have green appendices. These signed leases entail a project volume of some SEK 234.4 million, with redevelopments, extensions and new builds all to be carried out. * LVM=Care of Substance Abusers (Special Provisions) Act Secure facilities The hallmarks of our property operations are high qual• Acquisitions with existing customers – expand our ity, long contract periods and creditworthy customers. holdings with existing customers who currently lease Specialfastigheter commands a strong position in the from other property owners or in regions where they market and our aim is to further increase our property want to establish operations. holdings in close collaboration with existing and new • Acquisitions with new customers – increase our holdcustomers. Our exclusive focus is on targeting properings with new customers who need premises with ties with customers who have security requirements – built-in security. secure facilities. Specialfastigheter has the following • Refinement – disposal of properties that are not in five development strategies for its property portfolio: line with our owner assignment. • Property upgrades – create sustainable, modern and secure buildings that provide a favourable environIn certain cases, we may pursue the following to meet ment for employees and for customers’ operations. customer needs and to learn more about operations • Phase-out – older, low standard buildings and buildwith a slightly lower security focus: ings that are poorly suited for operations. Demolition • Develop with customers – acquire properties for and dismantling are handled in a sustainable manner. parts of customers’ operations with lower security requirements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 33 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y P O R T F O L I O Acquisitions expenses data. Information concerning cost of capital, Specialfastigheter actively monitors the market and evalurequired yield and current market rents is cross-checked ates relevant acquisition opportunities to meet higher with external appraisers. To assure the quality of the interdemand for properties that meet security requirements. nal evaluation, it was cross-checked against an external The market is hot and competition is fierce for properties evaluation of 34 (50) objects, equivalent to 77% (90) of the ready to be put up for sale. No acquisitions were made total value at 31 December 2019. The difference between during the year. the external and internal evaluations amounts to less than 2% (3). Specialfastigheter applies a value below that Market value, investment Divestments properties obtained from the external valuations. Five properties in 29 Uppsala, Trollhättan SEK Specialfastigheter owns and manages a property portfolio and Värnamo were containing 175 (176) properties divided across 98 (99) mandivested during agement units. These properties are located in close to 70 the year. municipalities across the country. The unrealised changes in value recognised for the period amounted to SEK 746 billion Properties for million (1,404). The average remaining contract term in the over SEK 29 billion rental portfolio is 10.9 years (11.8). The company’s largest The market value of Specialfastigheter’s investment propcustomers are the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, erties has increased significantly in recent years and the Swedish Police, the Swedish National Board of Instituamounted to SEK 29,037 million (27,288) at year end. The tional Care, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish estimated values were determined by means of an internal Defence Materiel Administration. The vacancy rate was valuation based on actual lease income and operating very low at 1.5% (1.0) on 31 December 2019. Investments including property Market value, investment properties Total rental income, ­acquisitions, SEK million per business area, SEK million SEK million 1,500 30,000 29,037 2,000 27,288 2,054 Institutionsvård och övriga specialverksamheter 25,002 1,956 1,398 1,846 1,288 25,000 22,999 1,751 1,200 Försvar 1,714och rättsväsende 20,919 1,500 1,029 20,000 Kriminalvård 900 882 15,000 1,000 600 10,000 419 500 300 5,000 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The increase in 2019 was mainly due to a large Prison and Probation Service D  efence and Increased rental income is due to new leases, ­number of launched investment projects. Judicial System including the district court in Lund and SiS’s Folåsa and Ljungbacken juvenile care homes.  ational Board of Institutional Care and other N special operations Market values have increased mainly due to property­specific events such as newly signed leases, investments and lower return requirements. 34 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Specialfastigheter’s Board of Directors makes an annual visit to one of our properties. In December, a study visit was made to the Folåsa LVM home in Östergötland, where we are constructing several new standard buildings for SiS. Standard building investment yielding results Many of our customers continue to experience a major need for new premises. To shorten lead times and make the construction process more efficient, over the past few years we have worked on standard buildings – building models with a standardised design that fulfil the Sweden Green Building Council (SGBC) Gold level and can be built at several properties across the ­country. We are now beginning to reap the rewards of thorough preparatory work. At the Skenäs correctional facility in Östergötland, planning side Uddevalla and Folåsa in Vikingstad. We are now also of Standard Building A commenced during the summer of building school premises at both of these properties in line 2018 with a final inspection in early 2020. This means our with the standard model. A standard building project has customer can move in less than two years after placing the also begun at the Johannisberg juvenile care home in Kalix, order. One of many factors for success in this efficient which will be completed in spring 2020. Inquiries into fur­process was the “collaborative culture” developed during ther standard buildings at other SiS properties across the the project between planners, contractors and customers. country are also currently under way. The next standard building for the Prison and Probation Service will soon begin to be built – this one in Skenäs too. Standard buildings are here to stay Other current standard building projects are under way for One of the most important reasons we have chosen to work security classes 1 and 2 and remand centres with shared with standard buildings is that we should not need to go communal spaces. back to square one for each new build – many aspects should be a given from the start. And this approach has Standard buildings for SiS worked well. The buildings, which are certifiable in line with We constructed two standard buildings for the National SGBC Gold, have been received positively and our customBoard of Institutional Care, SiS, in 2019. They contain ers are satisfied. We have been able to cut the lead times of ­residential sections containing 16 places constructed in the process while the costs of programming and planning parallel with the juvenile care homes in Ljungbacken outwill also be drastically reduced in the long run. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 35 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y D E V E L O P M E N T In-house project organisation Specialfastigheter owns and manages complex properties that place major demands on the entire organisation. Our customers have a continuous need to alter their operations and premises requirements, while the need for maintenance must also be satisfied. To manage a considerable project ­volume, we have our own project and development unit that manages our challenging projects. Specialfastigheter has chosen to establish an in-house Sustainable building project and development unit to meet its need for propriSpecialfastigheter has opted to produce properties in line etary expertise in the field of secure facilities. Our project with the Sweden Green Building Council (SGBC) certificamanagers provide valuable expertise across the entire tion system. All of our new construction must attain Gold chain from concept to completion, and we also have spelevel and our major redevelopment projects Silver. Howcialists in construction, water and sewerage, security, elecever, our customers often have strict security requirements tricity, sustainability, the environment, energy, property and for security reasons we cannot always produce all docautomation, fire and CAD/BIM. The unit is tasked with uments necessary to complete the final stage of certificameeting our customers’ needs for appropriate and secure tion. For this reason, we have chosen to work on the basis premises in a professional manner and with contributing to that our properties are ready for certification and we then long-term development of sustainable properties. The unit decide on certification on a case-by-case basis. The new should also take care of our maintenance needs to ensure standard buildings we are now producing together with the our properties remain functional over time. As our project Prison and Probation Service will attain SGBC Gold. We volume has increased significantly over the past few years also have several ongoing redevelopment and new-build and we can see major volumes are forthcoming, we have projects for SiS’s facilities in Hässleholm, Ljungbacken, worked intensively on our strategies for supplying the projLjungaskog and Johannisberg, with the aim of building in ects with resources. This has resulted in a concept we have line with SGBC Gold and Silver. To raise our ambitions named “Entreprenadfabriken” (Contract factory) – a more relating to sustainable building further, we held a number strategic collaboration with contractors and consultants in of sustainability workshops during the year with our framewhich we are able to meet the growing project volume by work contractors. Read more on page 27. We will evaluate way of framework agreements and strategic partnerships. and process the results of these workshops in 2020. To The concept was launched in 2018 and will be imple­f urther demonstrate our high level of ambition, we have mented in full in 2020. issued green bonds whereby SGBC certification is a ­prerequisite for obtaining financing for our projects. Projects in 2019 There were 90 (86) investment projects and 205 (162) maintenance projects in progress at year end. The total investment volume for projects in progress is estimated at SEK 1,984 million (1,597), of which SEK 1,201 million was accrued as of 31 December 2019. The total maintenance volume has been calculated at SEK 589 million (465). Prison and Probation Service Defence and Judicial System Institutional Care and Other business area business area Special Operations business In 2019, construction began on A number of investigations and tenarea a standard building at the Skenäs ders for new establishments are The new standard building at SiS’s correctional facility, and investigaunder way in this business area. Folåsa juvenile care home was tions are under way at a large numopened during the year. Production ber of other correctional facilities of standard buildings and schools is around the country to prepare for under way at Johannisberg, Ljungan anticipated expansion of places. backen and Ljungaskog and there is The development of the Hall cor­ a major redevelopment and extenrectional facility started during sion of SiS’s Hässleholm juvenile the year. care home. A dozen preliminary studies for future projects are under way. 36 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y D E V E L O P M E N T Investment projects in progress Investment projects by business area on 31 December 2019 Investment volume, SEK million Estimated Investment projects > SEK 20 million 1,729 ■ Prison and Probation Service business Investment projects < SEK 20 million 255 area, SEK 619 million Total investment volume, projects in progress, SEK ■ Defence and Judicial System business million 1,984 area, SEK 29 million ■ Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area, SEK 1,336 Additional floor space, sq m million Investment projects > SEK 20 million 31,942 Investment projects < SEK 20 million 142 Total, SEK 1,984 million Total additional floor space, sq m, projects in progress 32,084 Major investment projects in progress per 31 December 2019 Property name Customer Project description Additional floor space, sq m Fridhem 9 SiS New builds and extension of accommodation and school at Hässleholm juvenile care home 7,942 Hall 4:15 The Prison and New construction at the Hall correctional facility ­Probation Service 7,500 Skenäs 1:19 The Prison and New construction of standard building at the Skenäs correctional facility ­Probation Service 5,550 Grytnäs 2:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Johannisberg juvenile care home 2,803 Fålåsa 12:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Folåsa juvenile care home 2,657 Ljungaskog 15:28 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation, educational premises and new construction at Ljungaskog juvenile care home 2,056 Bergsjön 21:1 SiS Redevelopment and extension of residential sections and communal areas at Björkbacken juvenile care home 1,275 Orretorp 2:2 SiS Redevelopment and extension of residential sections at Klarälvsgården juvenile care home 969 Gräskärr 1:1 SiS Extension of school at Ljungbacken juvenile care home 898 Gudhem 12:3 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation and communal areas at ­Gudhemsgården LVM home 292 Skogome 2:2 The Prison and Security-enhancing measures at Skogome correctional facility ­Probation Service 0 Stigby 1:9, 7:3 SiS Redevelopment of residential sections at Stigby juvenile care home 0 Fridhem 9, Hall 4:15, Fålåsa 12:1, Skenäs 1:19, Hässleholm juvenile care home Hall correctional facility Folåsa juvenile care home Skenäs correctional facility Ljungaskog 15:28, Orretorp 2:2, Gudhem 12:3, Gräskärr 1:1, Ljungaskog juvenile care home Klarälvsgården juvenile care home Gudhemsgården LVM home Ljungbacken juvenile care home Future project volumes demand for security among both existing and new cusMany of our customers have a changing and growing tomers. The project volume is expected to increase need for premises and we consistently need to mainover the coming five years. tain our properties. Specialfastigheter is seeing greater SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 37 Göran Cumlin Henrik Nyström Continued development of the Contract Factory When Specialfastigheter launched the Contract Factory a year ago, the objective was clear – by fostering long-term supplier collaboration and bringing all projects of each supplier under one contract, Specialfastigheter would be able to ensure more efficient production. In 2019, the supplier base was expanded to include tech­ “Then we will have a well-prepared organisation and we nical consultant partners throughout the country. can give the green light. The greatest gains in terms of time will primarily be seen in the initial stage,” says Cumlin. “Once we are finished, some way in to 2020, all external suppliers will be included. This means some 20 companies The assessment is that collaboration and continuity will with whom we regularly work,” explains Specialfastig­ lead to a 20–40% reduction in implementation time. We heter’s Purchasing Manager, Henrik Nyström. can gain huge amounts of time in procurements for new production as it has already been done, and areas of planKeeping the number of suppliers down is in itself one of the ning and production can be done simultaneously thanks to aims of the project. It is important for Specialfastigheter to collaboration. collaborate with procured companies who know how to build secure buildings, and in this case continuity, sustain“The greatest opportunities lie in building standard buildability and quality are all decisive. ings, for which planning is already 80% done. Gaining time and saving on costs while maintaining or enhancing quality The real test for the Contract Factory will come when major and sustainability is our goal,” adds Cumlin. orders are placed in the future by the Prison and Probation Service and SiS, according to Henrik Nyström and Göran Cumlin, Projects and Development Director at Special­ fastigheter. 38 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y M A N A G E M E N T A N D O P E R AT I O N S Safe and efficient property management By offering property management planned in collaboration with customers and carried out by highly skilled in-house staff, we contribute to long-term property ownership where customers are provided with excellent conditions to run their socially vital operations. Maintenance characterised by flexibility Highly qualified in-house personnel The most important aspect for us is to support and help We adopt a customer and security perspective in our aim our customers in their operations through our management, to manage our properties using our own personnel. In while being efficient and long-term property owners. The addition to specialist know-how in the field of security, maintenance of our buildings is central to our success, and Specialfastigheter’s service technicians and managers an area in which we make great efforts to constantly must also have a high level of technical expertise to effiimprove. Our customers’ operations mean we have to be ciently manage complex and highly digitalised properties. flexible when planning and implementing our management tasks. Sustained high occupancy in Swedish correctional Our geographical range is a challenge to management serfacilities, including those run by the Swedish National vices, as is the small-scale of many of our properties. Skills Board of Institutional Care and the Prison and Probation sourcing is extremely important for maintaining a high level Service, meant that we were unable to carry out any major of service close to properties in all locations. Read more maintenance involving the closure of accommodation. about Specialfastigheter’s work on skills sourcing on pages We therefore redirect the maintenance to external mea30–31. sures or to other spaces that impact on operations to a lesser extent in order to ensure the status of the properties Efforts to create a stronger customer dialogue is maintained. Specialfastigheter always attempts to coorMany of our customers conduct operations at a large numdinate maintenance with measures planned by the cusber of locations. As a result, dialogues and collaboration tomer in order to minimise disruption to the operations. take place at various levels in order to encompass the entire operations. Local customer meetings as well as Our focus in 2019 was on creating a strong structure within regional and central meetings at which the overall developour maintenance support system. We also drew up a mainment of the organisations are discussed are examples of tenance inventory for a large proportion of our properties, important dialogues. thus giving us a solid foundation for future maintenance needs. This work will continue throughout 2020 to ensure In 2018, we conducted a CSI survey which produced a all of our properties are inventoried. We also worked to score of 65 – unchanged compared with previous years. identify ways to carry out maintenance that lead to as few In early 2019, the second part of our CSI initiative – the disruptions to customers’ operations as possible. To sucin-depth analysis – was carried out. We have now commuceed in this, we produced ready-made packages for choosnicated the CSI results and action plans to our customers. ing materials and a checklist for joint planning of mainteOn a general level, the aspects we can see that we need to nance measures offering efficiency enhancements, devote greater focus on include maintenance and its long-term results and sustainability. accompanying processes, the indoor climate and greater Maintenance expenses, SEK/sq m Operating expenses, SEK/sq m Media costs, SEK/sq m 349 300 350 150 145 139 143 315 Fastighetsdrift, kr/kvm 132 Vatten 283 284 300 300 123 250 266 268 273 253 120 El, värme och vatten, kr/kvm Värme 222 250 200 El 200 90 150 150 60 100 100 30 50 50 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 We are increasing the pace of maintenance to mainElectricity, heating and water Property Electricity Heating Water tain a high standard at our properties, which will ­o perations Our customers experienced higher occupancy have led to higher maintenance expenses in 2019. Operating expenses increased in 2019 compared during the period, which explains the total increase with the previous year. The reason is primarily that in media costs. land maintenance costs increased, and we also hired more technical consultants. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 39 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : P R O P E R T Y M A N A G E M E N T A N D O P E R AT I O N S discussion of security and sustainability issues with cusour properties, including through operational optimisation tomers. A particularly pleasing aspect was our strong result but also through investments in modern materials and new in terms of customer communication, which has been technology. We are making a particular investment in the a focus area over the past few years. installation of solar panels at certain properties. Ongoing revision of plans We have launched a review of our property automation Our management plans for each property contribute to strategy to ensure we are taking into account the latest efficient, sustainable and long-term property managetechnology and all of the opportunities afforded us by digiment. The plans are based on a dialogue with our customtalisation. Our goal is to have favourable conditions to coners and highlight what is required for us to deliver in line trol, monitor and follow up areas such as energy use, ventiwith our commitments. Each part of the plan has a longlation and heating at our properties. Property automation term strategy, targets and an action plan. The plans are is to enable optimised and energy-efficient operation by ­followed up and revised during the year to adjust the using operationally secure technology to obtain digital ­planning to current customer needs. control over our properties’ climate systems. Support for emergency cases around the clock In addition to energy use and CO2 emissions, we also work High operational reliability, in many cases around the clock, on other aspects of sustainability. For us, it is important to is a precondition for enabling our customers to operate make wise choices in terms of materials and to attempt to their businesses in a secure and safe manner. It is essential reduce waste produced by our property management. As to have robust operating systems, excellent planning and a major property owner with significant land holdings, biometiculous employees with in-depth understanding of cusdiversity is also a vital area to take into account when mantomers’ needs, their properties and their technical equipaging our properties and one in which we intend to continment. To further guarantee these aspects, we developed uously make well-considered, meaningful efforts over time. processes and support during the year to manage the occurrence of emergency cases around the clock. We take active steps to sign green appendices for our leases and produce joint green action plans for manageWe quality-assured and created a uniform structure for ment. These joint action plans specify how we are to work supervision, management and systematic fire prevention together to reduce the burden on the environment and is at all of our properties to enhance efficiency and security. a permanent agenda item of local customer meetings. Digitalisation means that efficiency can be enhanced but A follow-up and update of the action plan is carried out is also an area in which the risk of hacking must always be at least once a year. The proportion of leases with green taken into consideration, which is why information security appendices amounted to 93% at the end of the year. has become one of Specialfastigheter’s prioritised security areas (read more on pages 23–24). Operation and maintenance expenses Electricity, heating and water account for the majority of Sustainable property management in all areas our operating expenses. This means that working together Sustainable property management entails us working with our customers to enhance efficiency and optimise actively to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions when operations is a key element of retaining a low cost base. managing our properties. Other important areas include Our maintenance expenses differ from many other propconsumption of materials, management of hazardous erty companies in that they often include internal mainte­s ubstances and the work environment. Read more on nance and other security installations. Operating expenses pages 28–29. for 2019 amounted to SEK 349 per square metre (315) and maintenance expenses to SEK 284 per square metre (268). Energy use has a significant impact on both operating The higher operating expenses are primarily due to higher expenses and the environment, and is the environmental costs for purchased operating services, media costs and aspect that has greatest impact on our property managehigher costs of modifications for customers. ment. We work continuously to reduce total energy use at Electricity consumption, Heating consumption, Water consumption, kWh per sq m Atemp kWh per sq m Atemp L per sq m Atemp 100 100 600 95.0 95.4 93.3 90.8 89.3 89.0 552.6 543.4 543.9 500 80 80 400 60 60 300 40 40 200 20 20 100 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Electricity consumption fell 2.3% as a result of our Heating consumption fell 0.3%. This reduction is Water consumption is essentially unchanged comuse of energy-efficient technical solutions at our marginal compared with the previous year, but the pared with 2018 – something with which we are properties. Higher taxes did however lead to higher result is still satisfactory as our customers have seen ­s atisfied as customers have had high levels of occuoverall electricity and heating costs during the year. high occupancy levels. pancy and we experienced two major water leaks at one of our properties. 40 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T “We must create value for customers and society” Since August 2019, Michaela Sköld has been the new Property Management Director at Specialfastigheter, responsible for 74 people working in operations and management. In this interview she responds to three brief questions about property management. Why did you choose to work in property management? What is the most important property management task “The most enjoyable aspect is that we get to work closely at Specialfastigheter? with customers and get to know their operations. Under“Essentially it is about ensuring society can get as much standing the customer’s challenges and opportunities is value from the money invested in public sector properties what makes a great property manager and an attractive as possible. We must create value for customers and socipartner. And no two days are the same – different issues ety. The properties we manage should be maintained in a arise all the time. Something new is always happening with way that means they can be used by the customer, and we the properties, or a customer has a need or wish that we support the vital societal functions provided by our cusneed to work on. The work of a property manager is a pertomers – we are here for their sake. The properties must fect combination of many different exciting areas – techalso be managed in a way that maintains their value, but we nology, law and finances.” need to view them as a whole, not just in terms of finances, technology or sustainability.” What factors lead to successful property management? “I can answer that decisively: skilled and committed Property management unit facts: employees. Property management is a discipline where you have to combine solid expertise and work experience with No. of employees: 74, of which 14 are property managers, 3 are an ability to see and imagine properties as a whole in order assistant property managers and 57 are service technicians. to do a good job. Customer participation is obviously also Managed sq m: 1,087,777 sq m floor space. extremely important. Collaboration and joint production is Largest managed properties: Kronoberg, police station required to achieve our shared goals and provide customand remand centre in Stockholm, Sweden. ers with the best possible premises for their operations.” SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 41 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : F I N A N C I A L M A N A G E M E N T Secure properties – secure finances Specialfastigheter is one of the companies in the property sector that enjoys an extremely low credit risk and a stable financial position. We monitor ­economic trends carefully to safeguard our position moving forward. Specialfastigheter is owned by the Swedish state and finances operations through borrowing in the Swedish and The aims of the financing activities are to: international capital markets through bond and commercial paper programmes. Borrowing is conducted against • Maintain the company’s strong financial position the balance sheet without pledging properties. The loan and credit rating of at least AA agreements include an ownership clause that reinforces • Limit the risks of negative effects on cash flow, the lenders’ position by entitling them to call in a loan early earnings and the balance sheet if the state’s ownership level falls below 100%. • Ensure access to necessary financing at reasonable costs Specialfastigheter’s financial operations • Control financial risks according to the financial policy Trends in the financial market impact the company’s cost • Ensure risk management through control and trend. Financial management must reflect and support the reporting operations’ business objectives. Specialfastigheter’s financial risks are to be limited while active financial management is to ensure low net financial items linked to the ­operations’ targets and conditions. This is achieved by identifying risks and managing them within set frameworks. SEK 10.7 billion (9.7) had been utilised at year end. In addition to the Swedish market, Specialfastigheter has two outWe reduce financing risk by spreading loan-to-maturity standing bonds in the amount of USD 50 million, equivalent periods over different years and via loan commitments that to just under SEK 468 million, in the European market. cover maturing commercial paper and bonds for the years Fixed-income and currency derivatives were also entered immediately ahead. The volume of unutilised loan commitinto, meaning currency risk has been neutralised. ments as of 31 December totalled SEK 5,307 million. Commercial paper and bond programmes Rating from Utilised, Standard & Limit ­nominal The company has had a commercial paper programme Poor’s 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2019 in the Swedish market since 1999 with a limit of SEK 5 bilConfirmed lion. A total of SEK 2.5 billion of the programme had been credit facilities utilised at 31 December 2019. and account credit with bank SEK 5,550 million SEK 243 million The company issues bonds denominated in SEK or EUR in Commercial the Swedish capital market under an MTN programme with paper A1+ SEK 5,000 million SEK 2,525 million a maturity of one year or longer. The programme has a total MTN (Medium AA+ Stable limit of SEK 13 billion or equivalent value in EUR. A total of Term Note) ­outlook SEK 13,000 ­million SEK 10,675 m ­ illion Sources of financing Maturity profile, SEK million Bond issues in 2019 3,887 4,000 Maturity Amount, SEK million 3,500 4 years 400 3,000 4.1 years 200 2,500 2,351 4.2 years 300 1,976 5 years 500 2,000 1,700 1,685 5 years 500 1,500 1,143 1,000 5.7 years 500 1,000 375 25 years 200 500 Bonds (SEK), 67 % 30 years 200 0 Bonds (USD), 3 % 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2038The maturity refers to the final year of maturity of 2049 the bond, while the amount refers to the nominal Green bonds, 9 % amount in SEK million. Issues during the year underInflation-linked bonds, 1 % taken as part of the company’s MTN programme Commercial paper, 18% and in the Swedish capital market. Overdraft facility, 2% 42 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S : F I N A N C I A L M A N A G E M E N T The past year a smaller share of borrowing in the short-term ­market, In 2019, interest-bearing liabilities rose SEK 716 million, issues of bonds with long maturities and the change in the ­primarily due to a higher investment volume. These issues value of derivatives as a result of market interest rates and increased the loan-to-maturity to 5.4 years, thus creating electricity prices. the opportunity to counteract potential future interest-rate increases. The level of corporate bond issues increased Changes in derivative values were a negative SEK 20 during the year, while the volume in the commercial paper ­million (positive: 10). The higher interest rate and stronger market fell somewhat. currency compared to previous years has led to a positive change in value. We have loan commitments with various banks. When we issued our first green bonds in late 2017, interest was so Outlook for 2020 great that they became oversubscribed. The plan was to Specialfastigheter’s external debt financing will increase continue issuing green bonds, but as a result of projects over the coming years as a result of the planned increase in being moved back our aim is now to issue green bonds project volume. We will primarily increase financing via the in 2020. bond market. Depending on the market situation, we aim to have bonds with maturities of 5–10 years. During the year, we invested SEK 1,100 million in Swedish covered bonds and used these as collateral for bank loans Our ambition is to maintain the current amount of financing in the repo market. This has provided us with opportunities on the short-term market via commercial paper and whole for faster funding with shorter terms and at negative interloan repos given these offer a favourable financing cost, as est rates since the repo rate was at negative 0.25% for the we expect the Riksbank to keep the repo rate at 0% for majority of 2019. Loan-to-maturity periods have become ­s everal years to come. We have issued bonds at low interlonger since we increased funding in the long-term capital est rates over the past few years thanks to a combination market. The fixed-interest period is unchanged in relation of low market rates and low credit spreads. We expect conto the previous year. tinued favourable market conditions over the coming year, but if the Riksbank reduces or ends its quantitative easing, Net financial expenses amounted to SEK 135 million comthis may impact on the low market rates and lead to credit pared with SEK 110 million in 2018. This change was largely spreads increasing. If this occurs, it could lead to gradually due to higher short-term interest rates, slightly higher debt, rising borrowing costs. Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK million Loan-to-value ratio, % Interest-rate trend, % 15,000 60 1.5 1.42% 3 mån Stibo 14,117 58 13,781 13,401 56 1.2 12,861 50 53 5 årig bosta 12,000 0.90% 12,088 49 0.86% 46 0.9 40 Specialfasti 9,000 0.6 0.37% 30 0.3 6,000 -0.03% 20 0.0 -0.19% 3,000 -0.3 10 -0.6 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Liabilities have increased due to financing investThe loan-to-value ratio has fallen somewhat since Specialfastigheter’s average interest rate ments at the properties. last year, which is mainly due to a rise in property 5-year covered bond values. 3-month Stibor Total net financial items trend, SEK ­million Capital structure, SEK million 200 35,000 30,814 Övriga skulder 30,000 28,558 181 26,842 Räntebärande skulder 150 24,372 155 25,000 22,012 136 Eget kapital 20,000 117 100 100 15,000 10,000 50 5,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Higher interest rates, unrealised derivative losses, Equity Interest-bearing liabilities somewhat higher debt, less borrowing with short Other liabilities terms and bond issues with longer maturities have Equity increased in 2019 as a result of net profit for all lead to higher financial expenses. the year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 43 RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE Assuming responsibility for the entire value chain and effectively governing the operations are essential for creating value. We govern our operations based on a long-term and collaborative approach to increase business value for our stakeholders. Risk management and key sustainability issues are integrated into all of our work. The international risk management standard ISO 31000:2018 guides our work in this area. We comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and as a state-owned company we always endeavour to set a good example. Our sustainability efforts are reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. 44 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Balanced risk-taking All business operations entail risks. However, when handled properly, ­balanced risk-taking promotes long-term value creation that considers both opportunities and risks. Identifying, analysing, managing and following up on risks are therefore priority issues. In addition to the business opportunities that could arise when we manage risks, there are also threats that, if not managed correctly, can jeopardise our credibility and ­competitiveness and result in negative consequences for our stakeholders and operating environment. Our risk-related work is an integral part of all our operations and is based on a structured process that begins with our annual business planning. During this process, the operations’ company-wide risks are identified, based both on the possible consequences for Specialfastigheter and the consequences of our operations for our operating environ­ment. The risk analysis is then used as a basis for documents like our action plan for internal control and for our internal audits. Risk management at Specialfastigheter ­follows the ISO 31000:2018 standard for risk management. An assessment of probability and consequence is conducted for each identified risk to determine its risk level, after which point we produce an action plan with proposals of measures accompanied by timetables and distribution of responsibility. Finally we analyse our capability of managing the identified risk. We split our risks into four risk categories: business-related; legal; operational; and financial. The Board follows up incidents and any disputes on a quarterly basis. Once each year, the Board approves and follows up the plans for internal control and discusses and follows up identified risks. Specific risk analyses are conducted for larger projects. Our ambition is to consistently improve our risk management through our proactive efforts. In 2019 we Our risk-related work is an integral part of all our reviewed our processes for risks and continued to establish operations and is based on a structured process. methods and systems for risk analysis for the organisation, which will continue in 2020. Process for managing risks Risk inventory Risk analysis Risk management Efficiency assessment Creating an inventory of Definition of the level of risk Proposals of measures, timeFollow-up, feedback existing and newly occurring based on probability and tables and distribution of and reporting on risk risks. consequence. responsibility. ­management. Analysis of probability and Risk levels Efficiency level – how we impact. ­manage each risk • Operative risks Low risk Very good efficiency • Business-related risks Medium risk Good efficiency • Financial risks • Legal risks High risk Acceptable efficiency Very high risk Unacceptable efficiency SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 45 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Changes in risks, 2019 Risk matrix As part of our risk management, we chart the risks and posVery probable sibilities that influence our operations, but during the year we have also noted how our operations entail risks for peo20 15 16 18 ple and the environment, for example through greenhouse gas emissions and through work environment risks. The only identified risk with an extremely high risk level is still Probable Climate change’s consequences for our properties. For the 2 5 13 12 risk Loss of market position we have raised the risk level since competition in secure facilities has intensified further. Possible 3 11 7 19 Minor 17 14 6 9 10 1 4 8 Probability Improbable Very limited Limited Serious Very serious Catastrophic Consequence/impact The figures indicate specific risks that are described on pages 46–48. The colour of the square indicates the risk level and the colour in the circle indicates our estimated efficiency level. Operative risks Operative risks include all risks in our day-to-day operations that affect how we handle daily operational assignments. We focus on the following risk areas: work environment, the environment, information security and organisational. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 1 Loss of confidenOur management system for information security is certified in line with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and aims to guarantee the best possible conditions to protect both our information assets tial information High Good and those of our customers. We have an interactive information security training course that is mandatory for all staff. We monitor the rapid developments linked to threats to the IT environment by analysing and assessing threats and vulnerabilities and using such analyses to come up with appropriate protective measures. We are aware of the risk of exposure to insider crime and work to prevent this with measures including diligent recruitment processes and continuous improvement efforts. 2 Inadequate During its life cycle, a building gives rise to significant CO2 emissions. Buildings and the property sector account for around 30% of Sweden’s total CO2 emissions (domestic and ­measures to High Good imported). We are reducing our climate impact through ambitious goals for emissions from reduce the operations and are working to set goals that encompass emissions across the entire value ­negative impact chain. In 2019 collaboration with our suppliers intensified to achieve emissions reductions in of operations the construction process. We participate in Fossil Free Sweden’s work to phase out fossil fuel and regularly follow up our emissions. 3 Use of substances To ensure we do not incorporate hazardous material into our buildings or use such materials in our operations, we have clear guidelines and goals for material use. An environmental hazardous to Medium Very good strategist monitors whether we have the appropriate know-how in-house and that we assess health and the every construction project regarding substances hazardous to health and the environment. environment All material included in a building, together with locations, is documented in a database for future reference. We operate based on the precautionary principle or approach and exceed the Sweden Green Building Council’s requirements for registration of materials. 4 Physical and/or We maintain a constant focus on security for our customers and employees. We work systematically with the psychosocial and physical work environments and continuously conduct psychosocial High Good training initiatives and risk analyses. The project to implement ISO 45001 as a guiding staninjury to dard for our work environment efforts is ongoing. In many cases, customers are contractually ­e mployees obliged to provide alarms and guidance with the aim of preventing threats and violence. ­Further evaluation is ongoing of other supports for working alone. We also provide employees with security guard support if necessary. = Our most prioritised risks in the area 46 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Business-related risks Business-related risks are attributable to events in our operating environment, among our customers and suppliers, and at our organisation, impacting both our business and developments in the property market. We analyse risks in the following areas: market, projects, organisation, credibility and value. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 5 Loss of market Competition is intensifying in the market for public sector properties. Our customers are mostly state-owned operations with high security standards, so we must be best at providing position High Good them with secure, efficient and effective premises and good service. Work is continuously under way in collaboration with many of our customers to find good solutions that provide the best overall efficiency. Our project volume will increase through the development of our own properties. We also continued to reinforce our unique skills in the area of security and adapted to the new protective security legislation that entered force on 1 April 2019. A protective security analysis was prepared. 6 Shortage of suitWe work closely with our customers to meet both their current and future needs. We constantly monitor events in the market as well as legislation and regulations. The property manable premises Medium Good agement plans detail how our premises can be maintained and modernised. We continuously develop our maintenance process and will continue to prioritise maintenance work in 2020. 7 Project delivery We work in a structured manner and assess projects for risks. Project reviews guarantee good control and follow-up and ensure projects are on budget, on time and meet the scope of failure High Good supply and quality requirements. A new project management tool was developed in 2019. Production cost risks are limited to the greatest possible extent through contracts with both the contractor and tenant. We have developed a concept for long-term, strategic supplier partnerships that has been positively received by the market. 8 Inadequate or Digitalisation is advancing very quickly, is difficult to predict and entails both opportunities and risks for our business. We began to define and visualise Specialfastigheter’s digital non-secure digital High Acceptable ­transformation through strategic dialogues and workshops to create a shared understanding transformation of and foundation for our digitalisation journey. A clear vision and roadmap for the future will be developed in 2020. 9 Shortage of The sector is expanding and customers’ requirements and wishes are changing constantly, and this requires us to be a flexible organisation open to change. We continuously conduct appropriate skills Medium Good skills assessments with the aim of planning the right skills development areas for our employtoday and in the ees, and we also have succession planning for key employees. Moreover, we are continuing future efforts to strengthen our brand as an employer. We are developing as purchasers and currently procure professional non-critical expertise for our core operations from external consultants and contractors. The property sector entails risks as it involves major investments and complex transactions  10 P oor business with many parties involved. Our values and Code of Conduct guide us during our day-to-day ethics Medium Very good operations with the aim of strengthening our credibility. We have a supplier code of conduct, structured purchasing system and we comply with the Swedish Public Procurement Act. Training for purchasers is conducted on an ongoing basis with the objective of providing know-how and understanding of ethics to prevent the occurrence of corruption. Whistle­blower and incident reporting systems aim to detect irregularities and comprise a basis for developing our operations. We have guidelines in place for addressing the threat posed by insiders and infiltrators, since this know-how is critical for credible and effective security measures. 11 Falling ­ Our high credit rating and very strong balance sheet enable us to cope with a market downturn. We draw up long-term development plans for each property and follow them up on an market value Medium Good ongoing basis to retain our customers and maintain the value of our properties. Maintenance of ­properties measures and investments are conducted in close consultation with customers. There is a risk that maintenance works will be delayed if customers cannot give us access to the premises, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of the properties. We therefore continuously strive to improve the joint planning process. 12 C limate change’s Climate change can entail rising outdoor temperatures, raised sea levels and more extreme weather events in the form of heavy precipitation, powerful winds and forest fires. Properties consequences for Very high Good that are in danger zones in terms of potential consequences of climate change are protected our properties by means of preventive measures, redundancy in terms of the supply of electricity, heating and cooling as well as weather and damp protection in buildings. Deeper analysis of our property holdings is ongoing. 13 Irregularities in Our supply chain is complex and comprises a large number of subcontractors/contractors. Risk increases as one progresses down the chain, and our ability to influence the risks the supply chain High Acceptable decreases. Our assessment is that the greatest risks are linked to our contracts, followed by in terms of human the goods and services we purchase. Risks include the risk of discrimination and harassment, rights, work conforced labour in production plants, unfair working conditions and a poor work environment. ditions and work Our central purchasing organisation signs all framework agreements and achieves 94% conenvironment tract compliance with our purchasers. We maintain dialogues with our contracted suppliers and set requirements through procurements and through our supplier code of conduct. We conduct off-site and on-site audits that encompass how our contracted suppliers set requirements and follow up their own suppliers. To date, we have not carried out audits of our subcontractors. = Our most prioritised risks in the area SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 47 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE: RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks Specialfastigheter is exposed to different kinds of financial risk in its operations, including through fluctuations in profits and cash flow as a result of market valuations, financing, interest rates, credit and counterparty risks, currencies, exchangerate losses, electrical prices and risks associated with reporting, taxes and fees. Our financial policy for managing financial risks has been approved by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financial operations. The overall objective of our financial department is to provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of market fluctuations on company earnings. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 14 L ack of financing Financing risk is the most significant risk we have to manage. Our goal is to ensure access to the loan capital necessary for running our operations while also considering the total cost of Low Very good financing and the loan commitments necessary for the fulfilment of our financial policy. In order to limit financing risk, we must strive to raise credit with long maturities and an even maturity profile for existing loans. The majority of our financing takes places in the Swedish capital market, but issues are also made in international capital markets wherever appropriate from an overall cost and diversification perspective. To further reduce financing risk, there were unutilised backup facilities and overdrafts totalling SEK 5,307 million (5,550) as of 31 December 2019. This amount almost covers the maturity of commercial paper and bonds outstanding for 28 months. As of 31 December 2019, loan-to-maturity was 4.6 years (3.8), and taking unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, loan-to-maturity was 5.4 (4.4) years. 15 Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risk is one of the more significant risks we have to manage. Our interest rate management objective is to achieve low interest expenses over time while adapting the interest Medium Very good rate profile to the underlying business conditions. To manage interest expense and interest-rate risks, we continually assess the existing debt portfolio including derivatives in relation to the current market yield curve. We seek an interest-rate profile that is suitable in terms of total expenses, commercial conditions and applicable business plans. The practice of taking and exiting positions with the aim of making money – referred to as trading – is not permitted. Specialfastigheter’s interest-rate profile is regulated in the financial policy by limiting the number of interest maturities within 12 months to a maximum of 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest term should be within the 1–5 year range. As of 31 December 2019, the average fixed-interest term was 4.0 years (3.2). 16 C hange in value Using interest-rate derivatives may give rise to changes in value due to changes in the market interest rate and the time factor. In determining fair value, we use market quotations on the of financial derivMedium Very good closing date and generally accepted calculation methods. The change in value is reported atives in profit or loss. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is at the rates of exchange quoted on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are measured by discounting future cash flows to their present value. On the closing date, the change in value of interest-rate derivatives amounted to SEK 5 million (negative: 12). However, losses or gains remain unrealised as long as the derivatives are not terminated prematurely. 17 C redit and To reduce credit risk, investments are only permitted in securities with high credit ratings. On 31 December 2019, investments were made in secured Swedish covered bonds with a total counter­party risk Low Very good nominal amount of SEK 1,100 million. Counterparty risk for derivatives is reduced through our agreement to net assets against liabilities with counterparties with whom we make derivative transactions. To reduce counterparty risk further, Specialfastigheter may enter into agreements that govern the management of collateral pledged at net market value. The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK 54 million (55) as of 31 December 2019; this corresponds to the company’s total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. As of 31 December 2019, we have received SEK 35 million (0) as deposits from our counterparties that can be used if a counterparty cannot meet its obligations. 18 Loss in terms of Changes in market interest rates, the credit spread and time factors affect the purchase price of covered bonds. In order to counter this risk, we have taken up interest-rate swaps for equi­ price of purchased Medium Very good valent amounts. These have an equivalent impact on earnings in the opposite direction, which covered bonds eliminates price gains/losses. If the price change is due to a changed credit spread on covered bonds, it will have no impact on the interest-rate swap. In this case, the impact on earnings is only on the covered bond. The covered bonds we buy have the highest credit ratings and are negotiable. A 50 basis-point change in the credit spread entails a change in value of around SEK 12 million to be recognised in profit or loss. This corresponds to barely 1% of our net operating income. Legal risks Legal risks include those that concern our property owner responsibility such as the Work Environment Act, the Swedish Environmental Code and the Planning and Building Act. Risk assessment Risk Analysis, management and checks Risk level Efficiency level 19 Deficiencies in We are constantly reviewing our requirement for skills and skills enhancement and offer skills development to ensure our employees understand what property owner responsibility property owner High Acceptable entails. We keep informed about changes in legislation to ensure compliance with relevant responsibilities legislative requirements. Due to the Swedish Prison and Probation Service’s high utilisation rate, we have not been able to carry out maintenance to the extent that we deem necessary. The efficiency level is therefore only Acceptable. = Our most prioritised risks in the area 48 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S E N S I T I V I T Y A N A LY S I S Sensitivity analysis When performing risk analyses, it is important to conduct sensitivity analyses based on various scenarios to see which of them have the greatest impact on income, should they occur. In our own sensitivity analysis we noted that the cost of capital and the yield in terms of property valuations have the greatest impact on our earnings. Annualised earnings Variable Change impact, SEK million Rental income +/1 percentage point 17.9 Property operations and utilities excl. electricity +/1 percentage point 4.7 Maintenance expenses1 +/1 percentage point 3.1 Interest +/1 percentage point 36.5 Market rates, derivative instruments2 +/1 percentage point 26.7 Price change, purchased covered bonds 3 +/1 percentage point 23.6 Cost of capital4 + 0.25 percentage points -293 Cost of capital4 0.25 percentage points 302 Yield 4 + 0.25 percentage points -947 Yield 4 0.25 percentage points 1,056 Each variable in the above table has been tested individually. 1) Includes capitalised maintenance expenses according to IFRS. 2) Impact on earnings relates to the change in value of derivative instruments. 3) T  he impact on earnings relates to momentary changes in deposited covered bonds as of 31 December 2019 with a nominal value of SEK 1,100 million. 4) Impact on earnings relates to change in value of investment properties. Gävle correctional facility SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 49 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI Sustainability Report Specialfastigheter’s Sustainability Report is integrated into the Annual Report and sustainability information pursuant to the GRI can be found in its various sections. This part of the Annual Report includes a description of our reporting principles and in-depth GRI information. Reporting principles We have selected 2012 as the base year for our measureSpecialfastigheter applies the 2016 GRI Standards: Core ments of CO2 emissions, since we have reliable statistics for option for sustainability reporting together with GRI’s all types of media from 2012. Since the GRI disclosures for ­Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement. Based material are not appropriate for us based on how we work, on the company’s strategies and targets, our actual impact measure and set targets in the materials area, we have choand the expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, sen to design our own disclosure to measure chosen mateSpecialfastigheter has decided to report eight sustainability rials. Changes to demarcations and/or reporting principles areas that are material and relevant to us and our stakefor the data reported are indicated in the relevant text holders. The selected sustainability areas and GRI discloor table. sures are shown in the GRI Content Index on page 52. Disclosures that have an environmental impact are The Sustainability Report covers the entire company reported with the property holdings for 2019. Descriptions including subsidiaries, and is applicable to the full-year of calculation and measurement methods, any limitations 2019. The organisation is not split into regions. The Sustainand assumptions are provided alongside each disclosure. ability Report follows the financial year and is published annually. The most recent Sustainability Report was pubThe energy monitoring system takes into account the date lished in the 2018 Annual Report and Sustainability Report on which the area changed (for example, due to remeasureon 18 March 2019. The report is cross checked internally ment, acquisition or divestment) and an average area for and an external authorised public accountant has underthe year as a whole is then calculated. We have also taken a limited assurance engagement of the report. updated the report to include a new type of media, biogas. No significant changes have been made regarding the The contact for the Sustainability Report is Kajsa Marsk information provided in the 2018 Annual Report, except for Rives, Sustainability Strategist, telephone +46 10 788 62 12. corrections to the inaccurate figure for cooling in 2018. 50 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Specialfastigheter’s governance of menting the sustainability agenda the company has committed to. To support the management and the operations sustainability initiatives with sustainability issues, we have a sustainability strategist, an environmental strategist, an energy strategist and Specialfastigheter’s Board is ultimately responsible for susa business strategist. tainability governance. In the management group, the CEO bears overall responsibility, but each head of department is The table shows Specialfastigheter’s governance of susresponsible for integrating material sustainability topics in tainability areas. The state’s ownership policy, our sustainthe day-to-day operations. All of the organisation’s managability policy, our business plan and our management ers and employees are responsible for compliance with ­s ystem provide overall governance and are therefore applicable policies and guidelines. The CEO is responsible not specified below. for ensuring the requisite resources are in place for impleMaterial Targets and sustainability areas Guidelines and instructions Follow-up Responsibility outcomes 2019 CO2 emissions Purchasing policy Interim reports/year-end Projects and DevelTarget: Reduce CO2 emisSupplier code of conduct report opment Director sions from purchased Purchasing agreements Annual Report Head of Purchasing energy by 56% (compared SGBC 3.0 Media monitoring Property Managewith the base year, 2012) Self-assessments and audits ment Director Outcome: Reduction of of suppliers Business Director 54% Energy Financial targets Interim reports/year-end Projects and DevelTarget: Energy consumpFinancial policy report opment Director tion max 198.5 kWh per Purchasing policy Annual Report Head of Purchasing sq m Supplier code of conduct Media monitoring Deputy CEO/CFO Outcome: 199.1 kWh per Purchasing agreements Self-assessments and audits Property Managesq m SGBC 3.0 of suppliers ment Director Business Director Materials and Purchasing policy Audits Projects and DevelTarget: Proportion of chemical products Supplier code of conduct End documentation in opment Director material with good environ­ Purchasing agreements the SundaHus database Property Managemental classifications in SGBC 3.0 Annual Report ment Director production should amount Self-assessments and audits Head of Purchasing to 80% of suppliers Business Director Outcome: 75% Waste Guidelines for waste in projects Self-assessments and audits Projects and DevelTarget set in Guidelines Supplier code of conduct of suppliers opment Director for waste in projects Purchasing agreements Follow-up in projects Property ManageFollowed up on the SGBC 3.0 ment Director ­project level Head of Purchasing Biodiversity Instructions for mitigation hierarchy Follow-up in projects Projects and DevelTarget: Produce instrucProperty management plans opment Director tions for a mitigation Property Manage­hierarchy ment Director Outcome: Instructions Business Director produced Equal treatment Code of Conduct Measurement of key perforManagers Target: Increase the Equal treatment plan mance indicators for diversity HR Director ­number of employees Swedish Discrimination Act and equal opportunities Equal Treatment with foreign backgrounds Purchasing policy Salary survey Committee to 12% Supplier code of conduct Organisational analysis Head of Purchasing Outcome: 12% Purchasing agreements Survey of the company’s ­participation in workshops, “Växthuset” tool Self-assessments and audits of suppliers Work environment Guidelines on physical, organisaOrganisational analysis CEO Target: Expanded mantional and social work environment Follow-up of benefit of Managers agement system for work Guidelines on managing substance occupational health services HR Director environment abuse problems Measuring absence due to Head of Security Outcome: GAP analysis Instructions, action plan for bullying ­illness Work Environment conducted and action Equal treatment plan Incident reporting system Committee plan produced Swedish Work Environment Act Internal controls Equal Treatment Swedish Working Hours Act Risk analysis of human rights Committee Swedish Annual Leave Act Self-assessments and audits Head of Purchasing Purchasing policy of suppliers Supplier code of conduct Purchasing agreements Anti-corruption Code of Conduct Whistle-blower system CEO Target: No form of Purchasing policy Internal controls Managers ­corruption or the giving Supplier code of conduct Self-assessments and audits Head of Purchasing or acceptance of bribes Security policy of suppliers Outcome: 0 cases Delegation arrangements Purchasing agreements SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 51 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI Content Index GRI Global GRI Global ­C ontent Compact ­C ontent Compact Index Disclosure Page principle Index Disclosure Page principle GENERAL DISCLOSURES Biodiversity GRI 102: General disclosures GRI 103: Management Approach Organisational profile 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside cover Boundary 29, 54 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside cover 103-2 The management approach and its components 29, 51, 55 102-3 Location of headquarters Inside cover 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 51, 55 102-4 Location of operations Inside cover GRI 304: Biodiversity 102-5 Ownership and legal form 61 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conser102-6 Markets served Inside cover vation list species with habitats in areas 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2, 30, 53 affected by operations 55 8 102-8 Information on employees and other ­workers 33, 53 Emissions 102-9 Supply chain 18, 19, 25 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, its supply chain 50 Boundary 28, 54 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 28–29 7 103-2 The management approach and its components 9, 28, 51 102-12 External initiatives 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 28, 51 102-13 Membership of associations 53 GRI 305: Emissions Strategy 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 55 8 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55 8 Ethics and integrity 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 55 8 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from behaviour 6, 23 buildings 28 8 Governance Effluents and Waste 102-18 Governance structure 60–67 GRI 103: Management Approach Stakeholder engagement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, Boundary 29, 54 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11, 16 103-2 The management approach and its components 29, 51, 55 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 51, 55 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 55 8 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 Supplier Environmental Assessment Reporting practice GRI 103: Management Approach 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ­financial statements 62, 107 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, Boundary 25–26,54 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 16–17 103-2 The management approach and its components 25–26, 51 102-47 List of material topics 16–17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51, 57 102-48 Restatements of information 50 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 102-49 Changes in reporting 50 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 102-50 Reporting period 50 environmental criteria 57 8, 9 102-51 Date of most recent report 50 Occupational Health and Safety 102-52 Reporting cycle 50 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 50 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Boundary 30, 54 GRI Standards 50 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 51 102-55 GRI content index 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 51 102-56 External assurance 58 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and MATERIAL TOPICS (GRI TOPICS) incident investigation 55–56 1 Anti-corruption Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, actions taken 23 10 Boundary 30, 54 Materials 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 51 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 51 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 17–19, GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity and its Boundary 29, 54 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 30, 56, 103-2 The management approach and its components 29, 51 and employees 68–69 1, 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 51 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 301: Materials GRI 103: Management Approach Share of A and B classed material registered 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 17–19, in the SundaHus database (own indicator) 29, 51 7, 8 Boundary 25–26,54 Energy 103-2 The management approach and its components 25–26, 51 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51, 57 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 17–19, GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment and its Boundary 28, 54 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 51 social criteria 57 1–6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 51 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 28, 55 8 CRE-1 Building energy intensity 28 8 52 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI – general disclosures and GRI 102-13 Membership of associations material sustainability areas Organisation ASIS International Sweden (American Type of participation Society for Industrial Security) Member BIM Alliance Member GRI information that cannot be found in the other parts of Swedish Construction Clients Forum Member, Deputy CEO/CFO the Annual Report is published here. is a Board member Swedish Centre for Innovation and GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other Quality in the Built Environment Member workers Collaborative forum Member of steering and management groups and Gender distribution of temporary employees and permavarious project groups (BIM, nent employees HUT, Rules and agreements) SGBC (Swedish Green Building Council) Member Total number of employees 2017 2018 2019 Smart Built Environment Member Women 42 (29.2%) 37 (25.7%) 44 (27.8%) SNOS (Säkerhet för näringsliv Men 102 (70.8%) 107 (74.3%) 114 (72.2%) och samhälle) Member Total 144 144 158 Stockholm Chamber of Commerce Member, the CEO is a city councillor SWERMA (Swedish Risk Management Total number of temporary Association) Member employees 2017 2018 2019 TUC Vocational School The Head of Purchasing is Women 3 0 3 a member of the manageMen 1 1 2 ment group for Total 4 1 5 strategic purchasing Development of public sector property All figures pertain to 31 December in the year concerned. activities (UFOS) Member All employees are full time employees. A certain proportion of the organisation’s work is carried out by external GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. These All employees are covered by collective-bargaining individuals are not covered by the summary. We are not ­agreements. Specialfastigheter belongs to the Almega able to report this separately as most of the external human employers’ association and applies the civil servants’ resources work intermittently and only a few have consulunion agreement for the property sector. tancy assignments with fixed working hours. The invoicing system does not allow the retrieval of cost data specified by consulting hours. No significant seasonal variations in the number of employees occur. GRI 102-12 External initiatives Initiative Fossil Free Sweden Member Roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness ­initiative: Construction and civil engineering sector Member BELOK Member GreenChain Member NMC (The Swedish Association for ­Sustainable Business) Member NSD (the Confederation of Swedish ­Enterprise’s security delegation) Member Håll nollan Member Återbruksnätverket Öst Member Business @ Biodiversity Member Juvenile care home Rebecka on Ekerö outside Stockholm SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 53 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI topic Topic boundary Limitations Emissions Direct impact through greenhouse gas emissions from energy sources under We do not report indirect our control, including service vehicles. Indirect impact through emissions from emissions from contractors’ purchased energy (electricity, steam, heating and cooling), which occurs at the energy use for new builds, producer. Indirect emissions from our business travel. redevelopments and extensions and from suppliers’ emissions in the manufacture of materials, nor do we report emissions from our employees’ commutes, since these figures are not obtainable at present. Energy Direct impact through energy use at offices and by property management We report our tenants’ ­service vehicles. Indirect impact on technical installations in our properties and energy use in our property the choice of fuel through the material requirements we set for our contractors. holdings as the energy used Indirect impact through our tenants’ energy use. Indirect impact through in our properties is consider­contractors’ energy use for new builds, redevelopments and extensions and able. through our suppliers’ energy use in the manufacture of materials. Materials Direct impact through the choice of material in property management. Indirect We report the share of regisimpact on contractors’ use of materials through the material requirements we tered materials that meet set for our contractors. classes A and B in the SundaHus database. Waste The construction and property sector generates considerable spillage and Due to a lack of data we cannot waste. Direct impact through our own waste management and through the currently provide figures for requirements we set for contractors. Indirect impact through the waste waste but it is our goal for 2020 ­generated by our contractors and suppliers. to collect reliable statistics. Biodiversity When we utilise our land and manage our properties, we affect the natural We have no reliable statistics ­ecosystem and risk changing or destroying numerous habitats. Direct impact for 2019 due to the project through resolving on inventories and measures. Indirect impact through our being under development. contractors’ activities on our properties. Occupational Health Direct impact on the physical, organisational and social work environment We report work-related acciand Safety internally at Specialfastigheter. Indirect impact on the work environment at dents and serious near accisuppliers and contractors by setting and following up on requirements for their dents in projects with a budwork environments. get exceeding SEK 5 million. Equality and diversity Direct impact by promoting increased diversity at Specialfastigheter and in the property sector generally. Supplier Social Indirect impact on working conditions and human rights at suppliers and We primarily assess our ­A ssessment ­contractors by setting and following up on requirements in terms of working ­contracted suppliers. conditions and human rights. Supplier environmental Indirect impact on environmental efforts at suppliers and contractors by We primarily assess our assessment ­setting and following up on environmental requirements. ­contracted suppliers. Anti-corruption Direct impact in the procurement and purchase, and through internal courses as well as from contact with customers and suppliers. Indirect impact on anti-corruption efforts at suppliers and contractors by setting and following up on anti-corruption requirements. GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the 2017 2018 2019 ­organisation Electricity 390,315 404,479 397,666 Energy purchased for our properties such as electricity, District heating, renewable 270,560 282,865 285,426 district heating and how large a proportion is not renewPellets 15,020 12,024 9,669 able; biofuel, electric heating, bio oil, oil, gas and cooling. Bio oil 4,203 1,900 1,268 The total amount of energy purchased for our properties during the year was 795,399 GJ, compared to 806,446 GJ Biogas 3,485 7,232 7,299 the previous year. The total amount of energy purchased in Electric heating 23,188 22,199 22,373 the previous year is adjusted to reflect the 2019 property Cooling 56,069 75,748 71,699 holdings. Energy use is followed up monthly at the propTotal renewable energy 762,839 806,446 795,399 erty level and by energy type. District heating, Own production from renewable non-renewable 17,270 13,329 14,391 sources, GJ Oil 9,275 13,691 12,084 2017 2018 2019 Gas 3,072 0 0 Solar electricity 244.4 402.5 466.6 Total non-renewable energy 29,616 27,019 26,475 Total (GJ) 792,456 833,466 821,874 54 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conReportable quantities of refrigerants are reported to the servation list species with habitats in areas affected supervisory authority. Discharges are reported when disby operations charges occur, which was not the case during 2019. The Specialfastigheter began identifying which Red List speamount, in kg, of refrigerants increased somewhat due to cies are present on the properties we own. The goal of clearer reporting and to Specialfastigheter’s new buildings these inventories is to develop action plans to provide that went into use in 2019. ­b etter conditions for Red List species on each property and to increase the existing biodiversity, even when no Red List Refrigerants, kg 2017 2018 2019 species are present. HFCs 3,260.62 3,305.97 3,419.32 To date, two properties were inventoried in 2016 and one GRI 305-3 Energy indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, in 2019. The reports for 2016 are finished and indicate that tonnes, CO2 eq the properties were home to six species on the Red List We currently lack the capability to obtain data for rental from 2015 Four species with the classification NT (near vehicles and for employees’ commutes by vehicle. Source threatened). Two with the classification VU (vulnerable). emissions factors: Swedish Environmental Protection Work has begun to identify measures to improve biodiverAgency1. sity on these two properties. The number of Red List speBusiness travel 2017 2018 2019 cies on the property inventoried at the end of 2019 remains Air travel 40.9 40.6 21.4 to be seen, as the report is not yet finished. Rail travel 0.0 0.0 0.0 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Service vehicles, company cars and own vehicle 106.1 98.5 101.3 Here we show emissions made up of direct emissions and Total (tonnes, CO2 eq) 146.9 139.1 122.7 emissions from our own production of heating. We use the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency model to cal­ GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method culate our total CO2 emissions. Here we show emissions Data for waste in projects will be prepared and checked in resulting from the use of oil, gas, pellets and bio oil use. 2020. Specialfastigheter will acquire reliable data in 2020 Source emissions factors: Swedish Environmental Pro­ that will provide information regarding the results of waste tection Agency1. activities in projects finished in 2019. The year 2019 will be Specialfastigheter’s base year for this work. The projects The CO2 eq used for oil is 267.3g CO2 eq/kWh, for gas can have been in progress for a longer period of time, but 226.2g CO2 eq/kWh, for biogas 0 g CO2 eq/kWh, for pellets the criteria is for them to have been completed in 2019. We 2.9g CO2 eq/kWh and for RME 8.1g CO2 eq/kWh. therefore have no data to report due to backlog, since the projects need to be completed before we can compile the 2017 2018 2019 statistics. Processing the data is important and it takes time Non-renewable energy 826.6 1,016.5 897.32 to ensure that it is accurate. Renewable energy 39.1 19.3 10.64 Total 865.7 1,035.8 908.0 GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions We offer all of our employees industrial injury, group life Here we report emissions made up of indirect emissions and healthcare insurance. We also make use of occupafrom purchased electricity and heating, using the market­tional health services where necessary. All of our employbased approach. Each year, we update the CO2 equivalents ees who work in environments with an increased risk of that we use when calculating CO2 emissions. The calculacontagious diseases are offered vaccinations. tion of carbon dioxide emissions resulting from our use of district heating was based on supplier information regardDuring the year, 13 work environment incidents were ing the fuel mix used in delivering the major proportion of reported in our incident reporting system. In 2018, 19 were district heating to us during the year. The information is reported and 16 during 2017. Work environment incidents taken from https://www.energiforetagen.se/statistik/fjarrencompass high-risk conditions, near-accidents and injuvarmestatistik/miljovardering-av-fjarrvarme/. With the help ries primarily suffered by our employees. Some of the inciof the district heating providers who delivered district dents pertain to consultants and contractors working for heating to us over the year, CO2 equivalents attributable Specialfastigheter. Since incident reporting for consultants to district heating were calculated as 43.7 g CO2 eq/kWh. and contractors is not universal, we have requested reports CO2 equivalents for district heating increased, one reason for 2018 and 2019 from our 30 largest suppliers covering being that the CO2 equivalent for incinerating waste near-accidents and accidents that occurred while performincreased. ing tasks for Specialfastigheter. 2017 2018 2019 Work-related accidents, near District heating, renewable 4,126.0 3,315.8 3,464.8 ­accidents and injuries 2017 2018 2019 District heating, Number of serious near accidents non-renewable 263.4 156.2 174.7 reported 0 0 0 Electricity 0.0 0.0 0.0 Number of serious accidents reported 0 1 0 Total (tonnes, CO2 eq) 4,389.4 3,472.1 3,639.5 Number of work-related accidents classified as work-related injuries that resulted in absence due to illness 1 1 1 Number of work-related accidents 1) https://www.naturvardsverket.se/Stod-i-miljoarbetet/Vagledningar/Luftoch-klimat/Berakna-dina-utslapp-av-luftfororeningar/ classified as work-related illness 1 0 0 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 55 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Number of work-related injuries in projects, with Specialfastigheter is not split into regions and we do not contractors and subcontractors have access to accident statistics broken down by gender. The risk of work-related injuries and near accidents is subNo work-related fatalities occurred during 2017–2019. We stantial in projects where there are many hazardous work comply with Swedish legislation when recording and tasks including the following risk areas: falling, collapse, reporting accident statistics. Because the number of demolition, detonation, hazardous substances and heavy work-related accidents is so low, we do not find it meaninglifting. We have reported the work-related injuries and near ful to report accident ratios or ratios regarding work-­ accidents at our 30 largest1 contractors and their subconrelated illnesses. tractors when performing work for Specialfastigheter in 2019. The statistics are based on figures reported by conAbsence due to illness, % of total tractors with work environment responsibility. working hours 2017 2018 2019 Women 1.05% 1.88% 0.86% 1) Based on spend Oct 2018–Sep 2019. Men 3.44% 1.86% 1.94% All employees 2.73% 1.87% 1.64% Work-related injuries and near accidents in projects 2017 2018 2019 Absence due to illness only refers to our employees, not Number of near accidents reported n/a 49 33 consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. We do not Number of accidents reported n/a 36 30 report their absence due to illness separately as external human resources report any absence to their own employer and not to us. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Gender and age breakdown, Board, management and employees Average age 2017 2018 2019 The compositions of the Board and executive management Board, including alternates 54 54 54 are presented in more detail on pages 68–69 and 70–71. The proportion of employees with a foreign background is Management 51 52 51 reported on page 30. Employees 47 47 47 Number of people on the Board including alternates Number of people on the Board 2017: 5 women, 6 men. 2017: 5 women, 3 men. 2018: 5 women, 6 men. 2018: 5 women, 3 men. 2019: 5 women, 6 men. 2019: 6 women, 3 men. Board, including Over Over ­alternates Under 30 30–50 50 years Total Management Under 30 30–50 50 years Total 2017 Women 0% 40% 60% 45% 2017 Women 0% 60% 40% 62.5% Men 0% 17% 83% 55% Men 0% 0% 100% 37.5% 2018 Women 0% 40% 60% 45% 2018 Women 0% 60% 40% 62.5% Men 0% 17% 83% 55% Men 0% 0% 100% 37.5% 2019 Women 0% 20% 80% 45% 2019 Women 0% 50% 50% 67.0% Men 0% 17% 83% 55% Men 0% 0% 100% 33.0% Employees 2017 2018 2019 2019 Men Women Unit Women Men Women Men Women Men CEO 1 0 1 0 1 0 Accounting, Treasury and Financial 28% 72% Control 10 4 7 4 8 4 Purchasing 5 4 4 2 4 3 IT 3 1 3 2 5 2 Age breakdown Support functions1 8 1 7 3 9 3 4% 6% Men Women Business areas 1 5 1 5 1 5 Over 50 Property management 6 68 5 68 7 72 39% 40% 57% 54% 30–50 Projects & Development 8 19 9 23 9 25 Under 30 Total 42 102 37 107 44 114 1) Includes the units: HR, Communication, Quality & Sustainability and Security. 56 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A N D G O V E R N A N C E : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y ConProdSupply chain risks Services tracts ucts RISK Environment • use of environmentally hazardous materials and chemicals • CO2 emissions • energy use • waste Human rights • discrimination and harassment • forced labour in production plants Working conditions • unfair wages • unjust and unfavourable working conditions • difficulty organising unions Work environment • risk of falling • risk of collapse • risk of demolition • risks linked to detonation • risks linked to hazardous ­substances • heavy lifting • deficient work environment when manufacturing building materials Corruption • giving and receiving bribes Services (specialist expertise, IT, technical consultants, administrative ­consultants) Contracts (construction, renovation, land management, building ­materials) Stockholm Court House Products (energy, office materials, maintenance materials) Minor impact Moderate impact Major impact GRI 308-1 and 414-1 New suppliers that were Risks in the supply chain in terms of human rights screened using environmental and social criteria Our supply chain is complex and comprises a large number Our supplier code of conduct contains environmental and of contractors and subcontractors. Risk increases as one social criteria pertaining to the following areas: the enviprogresses down the chain, and our ability to influence the ronment, information security, working conditions, human risks decreases. Our assessment is that the greatest risks rights, work environment and business ethics. The reason are linked to our contracts, followed by the goods and serthe share has declined to 51% is that a larger share of newly vices we purchase. Risks include the risk of discrimination signed leases in 2019 were low in both value and risk. In and harassment, forced labour in production plants, unfair accordance with our purchasing strategy we sign, to a large working conditions and a poor work environment. To manextent, long-term framework agreements, meaning fewer age these risks, our purchasing organisation has a central procurements of agreements that would be subject to the unit that procures and signs all framework agreements. supplier code of conduct and self-assessment. During procurement we set overall demands that are supplemented by our obligatory Supplier Code of Conduct. We conduct regular dialogues with our contracted suppliers 2017 2018 2019 and perform off-site and on-site audits that encompass how Number of supplier code of conduct they set requirements and follow up their subcontractors. on-site audits executed 4 5 7 To date, we have not carried out audits of subcontractors. Percentage of new agreements1, where suppliers accepted our Code of Conduct and carried out self-­ assessments 80% 70% 51% 1) W  e report the percentage of new contracts rather than the percentage of new suppliers since it provides a more complete picture of our auditing of the supply chain. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 57 ASSUR ANCE REPORT Assurance Report Auditor’s limited assurance report on Specialfastigheter Sverige AB’s (publ) Sustainability Report. To Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ), Company Registration Number 556537-5945 Introduction The audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality We have been engaged by the Board of Specialfastigheter Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, has a comprehensive Sverige AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance system for quality control comprising documented guideengagement of Specialfastigheter’s Sustainability Report lines and routines for complying with ethical requirements, for 2019. The company has defined the Sustainability professional standards, and applicable laws and regulaReport’s scope to the sections referenced in the GRI index tions. We are independent of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB on page 52. (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Executive Management for the Sustainability Report Consequently, the procedures performed in a limited assurThe Board and executive management are responsible for ance engagement do not enable us to obtain assurance the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability that we would become aware of all significant matters that Report in accordance with the applicable criteria described might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. on page 50 in the Sustainability Report comprising the applicable parts of the sustainability reporting framework Accordingly, the conclusion based on a limited assurance issued by the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), as well as engagement does not have the same degree of certainty the accounting and calculation principles that the company as a reasonable assurance conclusion. has developed and disclosed. This responsibility also includes the internal controls considered necessary for Our review is based on the criteria defined above and cho­preparing a Sustainability Report that does not contain sen by the Board and executive management. We consider material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have For the Board’s signatures on the Sustainability Report, obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for see page 108. our conclusion below. Responsibilities of the Auditor Conclusion Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance concluBased on the limited assurance procedures we have persion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to we have performed. Our assignment is limited to the inforbelieve that the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all mation in this document and the historic data reported and material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined thus does not include future-looking information. by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Stockholm, 23 March 2020 than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other Ernst & Young AB limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and Mikael Ikonen Marianne Förander are less extensive than for, a reasonable assurance engageAuthorised Public Accountant Expert Accountant ment conducted in accordance with the International Stan­Member of FAR dards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. 58 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T “Digitalisation is more about people and changes in behaviour than about technology” Specialfastigheter’s IT Manager Masoomeh Antonsson was appointed to CIO this year. On 1 July, she also joined the management group. What does she think of the technical challenges ahead of us and what will be the next stop on the digitalisation journey? What does digitalisation mean to you? What are the biggest advantages and challenges with Digitalisation is, as I see it, one of many tools that help us digitalisation, now and in the future? make the company successful and competitive over the The overall degree of digital maturity in society has long term. It’s really about what creates value, for the increased, and today it’s more or less impossible to imagine ­c ustomer and for us. Put simply, we need to drive change life without modern technology. Digitalisation gives the to meet the new digital reality, which will include new company access to a much larger amount of data than behaviours and working methods as well as new services before, which can help us take the right decisions – but we and products, among other things. need to know what we’re looking for. Taking care of properties is rarely our customers’ core operation. If we digitalise What do you think of your new role as CIO and being our operations properly, we can streamline our work and part of the management group? create an even better customer offering. I’m really looking forward to leading our development in this area! The rapid rate of digital social development We have an explicit requirement from our owner to use new increases demands on the technological standards in our technology but also to be aware of the new risks. Digitalisaproperties, obviously, but also on employees’ skills and our tion entails opportunities, obviously, but also new types of ability to identify and address gaps in security related to security threats that we must be aware of. IT and cyber new technology. Digitalisation requires close collaboration security is an area that grows in pace with the threat. between IT and operations, and in IT we have a responsibility to work closer with both operations and the customer. Systems themselves won’t be able to think – we still need We can’t just stay in “our corner.” We need to be a strategic to do that ourselves. But our brain power will go towards business partner. analysis and improvements, not sitting and inputting data. The labour market will probably change drastically and in My role will be less operative than before because I’ll now the future, people will work with entirely different things be making sure that, in terms of strategy, we look ahead than today. The development requires skills development and think about how the world will change and what kind of for existing employees and an eventual review of our skills company Specialfastigheter wants to be going forward. It’s sourcing. In a nutshell, this is about people and changes in only natural that I’ll also be part of the management group. behaviour. Collaboration is key. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 59 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Message from the Chairman Being a state-owned company entails a special responsibility. Our owner – the nation’s citizens – have the right to expect that we always act in a manner that inspires confidence and which meets the high standards demanded of a sustainable business operation. The state’s ownership policy forms the basis of the Board’s governance. This means that we comply with relevant parts of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The security situation in the country and in our operating environment has changed and uncertainty lingers regarding the geopolitical situation. In a harsher society there is a greater need for secure properties. Security issues are always in focus for Specialfastigheter, but during the year extra effort has gone into analysing and adapting operations to the new Protective Security Act, which pertains to protecting information and operations that are of significance for Sweden’s protection against espionage, sabotage, terrorism and other threats. The Government Offices of Sweden have reviewed the state-owned companies’ Eva Landén, ­protective security analysis and were very pleased with Chairman of the Board Specialfastigheter’s work. Demand for public sector properties is substantial, especially for schools and care homes. But interest in secure facilities has also increased since they, from a property also key sustainability areas now. As a large landand owner’s perspective, are interesting and often entail long forest­owner, the company also affects biodiversity and leases with public sector customers, which guarantees work is ongoing to discover how damage can be avoided. secure revenue. It’s drawing more and more actors and The strong are seldom alone, however. Specialfastigheter the company is facing increased competition. has collected framework agreement contractors in a series of sustainability workshops to work together to find activiMany of our customers have reached capacity and have ties that reduce our climate and environmental impact and major investment needs. Specialfastigheter has prepared that improve social sustainability. Strategic environment itself and stands well equipped, in terms of finances and and c­ limate dialogues have also been held with our largest capacity, to quickly adapt and meet customers’ increased ­c ustomers. demand. Increased appropriations to customers during the coming years will create good conditions for new Attracting and retaining skilled employees is an important investments. competitive factor. It is especially important since Specialfastigheter chooses to conduct operations with its own, Specialfastigheter’s sustainability strategy is integrated locally based employees that can have a close working into all operations at the company and this work has driven presence to customers. The Board follows HR’s recommenefficiency and innovation in property management for sevdations carefully and ambitions are high when it comes to eral years. Global warming remains a serious threat and clitraining employees and a positive corporate culture. mate issues were highlighted at the Board’s annual strategy meeting. The Board and an external lecturer discussed how For 2019, the annual evaluation of the Board showed that the company can be better prepared to meet the climate the Board’s work functioned well, with members representthreat. Last year, Specialfastigheter set a new, more ambiing various skills and experiences that are essential for tious carbon dioxide emissions target for purchased quality work. energy. However, that’s not enough. The company needs to take a greater and broader responsibility by working with emissions issues through the properties’ entire life­ cycle. That is why materials and waste, for example, are Eva Landén, Chairman of the Board 60 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance at Specialfastigheter Articles of Association Specialfastigheter Sverige AB is characterized by the comBecause the state owns 100% of the company, there is no pany’s ability – from a sustainable social perspective – to regulation governing shareholding per shareholder concreate well-functioning principles and processes that tained in the Articles of Association. The Articles of Associenable the efficient and controlled management, leaderation lack specific regulations on the appointment and disship and development of operations. Specialfastigheter’s missal of Board members or on changes to the Articles of corporate governance report forms part of the statutory Association. The Articles of Association are approved at annual report. general meetings of shareholders and are available in their entirety on the company’s external website. State ownership Specialfastigheter Sverige AB is a Swedish limited liability General meeting of shareholders company wholly owned by the Swedish state. The owner Specialfastigheter's highest decision-making body is the governs Specialfastigheter through the General Meeting of general meeting of shareholders. The Annual General shareholders and the Board of Directors in accordance with Meeting (AGM), which is held within four months of the end the Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the financial year, considers the progress of the company and the instructions in the form of the state’s ownership and passes resolutions on a number of central issues, such policy and other guidelines adopted by the government as the election of Board members and auditors, adoption (www.regeringen.se). of the company’s balance sheets and income statements, the distribution of profits and discharge from liability of the Corporate governance members of the Board and the CEO. The AGM also decides Specialfastigheter’s corporate governance is based on on financial targets and changes to the Articles of AssociaSwedish legislation and regulations, and the state’s ownertion, and approves the Sustainability Report. The general ship policy stipulates that state-owned companies must act meeting has not authorised the Board to decide on in an exemplary manner in the field of sustainable enterwhether the company shall issue new shares or acquire its prise and otherwise act in a manner that inspires public own shares. confidence. Integrating a sustainability approach into operations is a natural part of the long-term business stratThe Board is responsible for convening the general meetegy and business development. Sustainability activities are ing of shareholders. The Board proposes guidelines to the reported in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Annual General Meeting (AGM) for the remuneration of option. Our risk management enables us to identify threats senior executives for approval, and reports on whether and opportunities and, based on this, the company’s overguidelines decided upon previously have been adhered to arching strategy areas and goals are established. We apply and the reasons for any deviations. Specialfastigheter calls the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, (the Code) an AGM no earlier than six weeks and no later than four (www.corporategovernanceboard.se). In accordance with weeks before the meeting. The company provides infor­ the Comply or Explain principle of the Code, the governmation on its website regarding the time and place for the ment has justified deviations in certain matters. AGM in conjunction with the interim report for the third quarter, which is normally at the end of October. Based on this, Specialfastigheter deviates from the Code as follows: The 2019 AGM was held on 12 April. The AGM was open • The owner’s guidelines mean that the Code rules conand the general public was invited to attend together with cerning the preparation of decisions on the nomination other specially invited persons such as members of the of Board members and auditors are replaced by a special Swedish parliament, customers and other stakeholders process for state-owned companies. who were given the opportunity to pose questions and • The independence of the members of the Board in relareceive answers. The owner was represented by Departtion to the state as a major shareholder is only reported ment Secretary Gustaf Hygrell from the Government in relevant listed companies. Offices of Sweden. The 2020 AGM will be held on 21 April. • According to the Code, the CEO may be a member of Documents prior to, and minutes from our AGMs are availthe Board but not its Chairman. The government considable on Specialfastigheter’s external website. ers it important to separate the Board’s and the CEO’s roles. Accordingly, the CEO may not be a member of Board composition and working method the Board. The Board is responsible for ensuring that companies in which the state participates are managed in an exemplary • Specialfastigheter has no internal audit function indefashion within the framework provided by legislation, the pendent from management as described under rule 7.3 company’s Articles of Association, the state’s ownership of the Code. When audit requirements are identified by policy and any other owner instructions. the Board, these are procured externally from independent auditors. The principal reason for these deviations from the Code is that Specialfastigheter has only one Board nomination process For wholly state-owned companies, the following princiowner, while the Code is mainly aimed at listed compaples replace the rules of the Code regarding the preparanies with dispersed ownership. tion of decisions on the appointment of Board members and auditors: SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 61 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Corporate governance and reporting Appoints Reports to Shareholder General meeting of Swedish state 100% External auditor ­shareholders Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit and Finance Committee Accounting, Treasury Internal audit and Financial Control and internal control CEO Security Quality & Sustainability HR Management Strategic IT Communication Strategic Sourcing Business areas Property management Projects & Development • Uniform and common principles for a structured Board Newly elected Board members are introduced to the nomination process are applied. The aim is to ensure an ­company’s business focus, market, policies and systems effective supply of skills and expertise to the companies’ for internal control and risk management. During 2019, boards. Special­f astigheter’s Board consisted of seven members • The nomination process is coordinated by the unit for elected by the general meeting and two full members and company analysis and corporate governance at the two alternates appointed by the employee organisations. ­Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. At the most recent meeting, Pierre Olofsson was elected • A working group analyses needs for skills and expertise as a new member of the Board and Jan Berg stepped on the basis of the company’s operations, situation and down. Eva Landén was re-elected Chairman of the Board. future challenges as well as the composition of the Boards concerned. Any recruiting needs are then Independence requirement ­determined and recruitment process begins. The state’s ownership policy states that nominations to the Board must be published in accordance with Code’s guide• Members are selected from a broad recruitment base lines, with the exception of reporting independence in with the aim of making best use of the skills and experrelation to major shareholders. The reason why the comtise of men and women alike, as well as people with pany must report Board member independence is primar­different backgrounds and experience. ily to protect minority shareholders in companies with ­dispersed ownership. Wholly state-owned companies A more detailed description of the nomination process can thus lack such reasons for reporting independence. be found in the state’s ownership policy. Once the process is completed, nominations are published in accordance The work of the Board with the Code. The Board is responsible for managing the company within the confines of the law and in accordance with the owner’s Board composition long-term interests. Corporate governance is conducted The owner’s point of departure when nominating each of from a social perspective and safeguards the company’s the Board members is the Board’s skills requirement based value­-creating abilities in the long term. The Board bears the on the relevant issues for the company. Board members ultimate responsibility for the organisation and administration must continuously acquire knowledge about the company of the company. The most important policy documents are: that is necessary for the assignment. According to the Arti• Articles of Association cles of Association, Specialfastigheter’s Board may com• Minutes from general meetings prise no fewer than three and not more than ten members elected by the general meeting. The employee organisa• The state’s ownership policy and other guidelines tions have the right to appoint a total of two full members • Rules of procedure for the Board, instructions for the and two alternate members. Board members are elected allocation of work between the Board and the CEO, for one year at a time. instructions for financial reporting and policies adopted by the Board. 62 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T During 2019, the Board held eight scheduled Board meetThe principal assignments according to the adopted rules ings and one statutory meeting. of procedure include supervising the company’s financial reporting, preparing quarterly reports for adoption by the Board member attendance at Board meetings in 2019 is Board, supervising the efficiency of the company’s internal presented in the table on page 63. controls and risk management with regard to financial reporting, supervising the company’s work with capital The work of the Board takes place in accordance with the structure and other financing issues including the managerules of procedure adopted annually at the statutory meetment of financial risks and, together with company maning of the new Board following the AGM. The rules of proagement, the preparation of financing matters, finance cedure govern the delegation arrangements within the strategy and policies for adoption by the Board. The company as well as the procedure for Board meetings, ­Committee is obliged to prepare minutes of its meetings reporting instructions and the allocation of work between and make the minutes available to the Board. the Board, its Chairman, the CEO and Board committees. The work of the Board focuses on strategic issues, such as During 2019, the Committee held five scheduled meetings. the focus of operations, material policies, market, finance Committee member attendance is shown in the table and economics, major investments, risks, personnel and “Board composition and attendance during 2019.” leadership, internal control and efficiency, and sustainable development in regard to financial, environmental and Remuneration Committee societal responsibility. During the year, the Board adopted The Board appointed a Remuneration Committee that policies in respect of finance, sustainability, information includes the Chairman of the Board and a minimum of an security, purchasing, communications, quality, security and additional two members specially appointed by the Board. insiders. Other important policy documents adopted by The CEO is present at Committee meetings as the recorder the Board are the business plan including the budget. The and the company’s HR Director usually participates. The Board appoints the CEO and approves any significant posiRemuneration Committee’s principal task according to the tions the CEO may occupy outside the company. When the adopted rules of procedure, is to prepare matters for the company is faced with especially important decisions, the Board regarding remuneration, remuneration principles Board, acting through its Chairman, must coordinate its and other terms of employment for the CEO and other view with representatives for the owner and present it in members of company management, monitor and evaluate writing prior to a Board decision. the application of guidelines for remuneration of senior executives as resolved by the AGM and applicable succesAudit and Finance Committee sion planning, remuneration structures and levels on an The Audit and Finance Committee includes at least three overall level in the company. The Committee must follow up members appointed by the Board of which one is the and evaluate the application of these guidelines. The meet­Committee’s Chairman. The Deputy CEO and CFO also ings must be minuted and the minutes provided to the participate in the Committee (with the Communication Board. The Committee held four scheduled meetings Director as secretary), along with the CEO and other during 2019. Committee member attendance is shown in ­company representatives when deemed necessary. the table “Board composition and attendance during 2019.” Board composition and attendance in 2019 Board and committee Board Remuneration Audit and Finance Elected, year fees, SEK thousand meetings Committee Committee Eva Landén1, Chairman 2014 300 9/9 4/4 5/5 Jan Berg2 2009 39 3/3 2/2 Carin Götblad 2013 139 9/9 4/4 Mikael Lundström 2013 139 9/9 4/4 Pierre Olofsson3 2019 98 6/6 Erik Tranaeus 2018 9/9 4/4 5/5 Maj-Charlotte Wallin 2016 159 9/9 5/5 Åsa Wirén 4 2018 176 9/9 5/5 Masoomeh Antonsson5 2013 2/3 Tomas Edström 6 2013 8/9 Erik Ydreborg7 2016 9/9 Kajsa Marsk Rives 8 2019 6/6 Roger Törngren9 2011 7/9 1) Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2) Stepped down from the Board at the 2019 General Meeting 3) Elected at the 2019 AGM 4) Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee 5) Employee representative, stepped down from the Board at the 2019 General Meeting 6) Employee representative 7) Employee representative 8) Alternate employee representative, elected at the 2019 General Meeting 9) Alternate employee representative One Board meeting was held per capsulam, in addition to the meetings given above. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 63 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Remuneration of senior executives that the Board is able to make well-founded assessments. Salaries and other benefits to personnel in company manAn instruction regarding the allocation of work between agement positions must be reasonable and competitive. the Board and CEO, and which clarifies the distribution of Remuneration must follow, not lead, current market trends. responsibilities and reporting, is approved annually. The This is achieved through comparisons with other relevant CEO does not serve as a Board member. companies. Remuneration must be characterised by moderation, prudence, be well balanced and contribute to The most important policy guidelines that must be good ethics and corporate culture, and reflect the responapproved by the CEO include the company’s strategies, sibility the work entails. The company has no variable salaoperational goals, information security, risk management, ries or any forms of incentive programmes. The CEO has a delegation arrangements, continuity planning, law lists defined-contribution pension plan. Pension terms for other (information concerning the most important changes in senior executives follow an ITP (supplementary pension) legislation that affect the work environment, the environplan; employees engaged after 2013 have a defined-contriment and construction), Code of Conduct and Supplier bution pension plan. Code of Conduct. For information regarding salaries and remuneration, refer Auditors to Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. Auditors are elected by the owner at the AGM. The Board presents proposals for the election of auditors to the AGM During 2019, the company adhered to the employment conbased on a recommendation from the Board’s Audit and dition guidelines for senior executives adopted by the genFinance Committee. The proposals for the appointment of eral meeting of shareholders. The Board proposes that the auditors are drafted in accordance with the rules contained company continues to follow these guidelines during 2020. in the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and are published in accordance with Code’s guidelines. Remuneration of the Board Information regarding remuneration of Board members Ernst & Young AB were elected as auditors at the 2019 AGM approved by the 2019 AGM is available in the annual with Mikael Ikonen as auditor in charge. The election took report, Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. place for the period up until the close of the 2020 AGM. The Board’s evaluation of its own work Presentation of auditor; refer to page 69. The work of the Board is subject to annual evaluation. Work undertaken in 2019 was evaluated by means of an online The auditors elected by the AGM perform an annual review questionnaire. The evaluation also includes a measurement of the internal control. The auditors reported to the Board of how effectively internal controls are perceived to functwice and to the Audit and Finance Committee on four tion in the company. The results of the evaluation will be occasions in 2019. In addition to the regular audit, Ernst & compiled, discussed and reported to Committees, the Young AB conducts annual examinations at our offices. Board and the owner. The review of Specialfastigheter’s 2019 Sustainability CEO Report was conducted by Ernst & Young AB. The report The CEO must ensure that the Board receives reports conwas assured by Authorised Public Accountant Mikael cerning the progress of Specialfastigheter’s operations in Ikonen and Marianne Förander, Expert Member of FAR. respect of such matters as the company’s earnings trend, Moreover, the Group’s Q2 interim report is subject to financial position and liquidity, information on the status of review by the company’s auditor. major projects, the efficiency of internal controls and important events. Reports must be structured in such a way For information regarding auditors’ fees, refer to Note 5, Consolidated Financial Statements. Hinseberg Women’s Prison in Frövi outside Örebro 64 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Agenda items during the year During 2019, the issues addressed by the Board included the following: February March April •A  uditors’ report on internal control and the • Decision on the 2018 Annual Report and • Adoption of the interim accounts and annual accounts Sustainability Report interim report •D  ecision on annual accounts for 2018 • Preparation of rules of procedure for the • Follow-up of investment projects including proposed dividend Board and its committees, and CEO’s • Statutory Board meeting and adop•D  ecision to refrain from a Group contribuinstruction tion of the Board’s rules of procedure tion and a shareholder contribution • Preparation of company-wide policies, including the CEO’s instruction and • Decision on investments supplier code of conduct and the Code instructions for financial reporting, of Conduct rules of procedure for the Remunera• Internal control plan 2019 tion Committee, rules of procedure for • Decision on investments • Follow-up of investment projects the Audit and Finance Committee and • Adoption of guidelines for remuneration of approval of delegation arrangements. senior executives • Adoption of company-wide policies, • Decision on the notice regarding the 2019 the Supplier Code of Conduct and the AGM for the 2018 financial year Code of Conduct • Board’s statement regarding the proposed • Decision on investments dividend January February March April November December December •A  doption of the 2020–2024 business plan and the 2020 budget June •P  reliminary capital structure and dividend • Strategy discussion with for 2020 May a focus on sustainability • Auditors’ report, financial and sustainability • Proposals for election of external auditors June • Decision on investments and sales October • Review of risks and risk management •E valuation of the Board, the CEO and ­internal control September August July July • Decision on the need for independent • Adoption of the interim accounts internal audit and interim report • Field trip to the SiS juvenile care home Folåsa • Decision on sales • Auditors’ Q2 report October September • Discussion on overall strategic goals • Follow-up of the 2019–2023 business plan • Follow-up of investment projects • Reporting of personnel issues • Adoption of the interim accounts and interim report • Follow-up of the internal control plan for 2019 • Decision on demolition of building • Adoption of the annual plans for committee and Board meetings in 2020 • Decision on investments SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 65 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Description of internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting Control environRisk assessment Control Information and ment activities communication Monitoring and development This description has been prepared in accordance with the are further clarified in our delegation arrangements. Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is thereCompany­wide policies are approved by the Board and fore limited to how internal control over financial reporting updated at least once a year. Internal guidelines and is organised. The Board’s statement regarding internal instructions are decided by the CEO, or the individual the governance and control is based on the framework docuCEO has delegated these powers to, and are updated on ment COSO (The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations an ongoing basis. The work of the Board is evaluated of the Treadway Commission). The framework’s principles ­annually according to a systematic, structured process. help the operations achieve financial objectives by systematically following up on the company’s risk exposure. AddiDuring the year, the Audit and Finance Committee tionally, the internal controls are to ensure that both inter­followed up and supervised the financial reporting nal and external financial reporting is reliable and prepared and e ­ fficiency of the company’s internal controls and according to current legislation, accounting principles and risk management. other guidelines for state-owned companies. Our management system forms an important part of our Internal control is undertaken not just through regulations control environment and aims to ensure we work in line and instructions but also by staff at every level of the with our assignment and our business model. Leading organisation. The internal control system for financial operations with the aid of a management system entails reporting seeks to provide reasonable assurance that the a systematic focus on customers (external and internal), company’s external reporting is complete and correct. a process-oriented approach and driving constant Established overall visions, core values, strategies and improvement efforts. Our system controls our working objectives are documented and available for everyone at method through clear processes and policy documents the company. The aim of the internal control is to, inter alia, that are linked to each process. Specialfastigheter’s limit the risks of irregularities occurring that would affect ­management system is certified for information security the view or assessment of the company’s financial results according to the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard. A periodic and position, ability to meet set business objectives and/or audit of the certification was conducted in May with only the owner’s expectations of the company. It is therefore observations and improvement proposals noted. important that internal control over financial reporting is adapted to the company’s risk assessment. The Board conEvery year, a number of internal operational audits of the siders Specialfastigheter to have well-structured accountmanagement system take place within internal control. ing and financial management and good internal controls. These are not independent internal audits according to the Code, but audits that comply with ISO standards. SpecialControl environment fastigheter has trained internal operations auditors among The basis for internal control over financial reporting is the its employees, who audit our processes and policies to control environment comprising the organisation, its culcheck how effectively these function and are complied ture, and decision paths, powers and responsibilities docuwith. The internal operations auditors also contribute to mented and communicated in policy documents such as the dissemination of information about our management company policies, guidelines and instructions. Internal system and they form an important part of the learning controls are aimed at identifying, measuring and minimisorganization and efforts for constant improvements. The ing risks in the operation. Specialfastigheter has clear prointernal operations audit aims to ensure compliance with cesses for following up on internal control, where roles and legislation, regulations, internal rules and best practices. responsibilities are defined and where key controls and The Deputy CEO/CFO, Head of Finance, business controlreporting are clarified. ler, operations developer and internal controllers provide support for internal management and controls in business Rules of procedure between the Board and CEO provide planning, financial calculations, analyses and follow-ups. a clear allocation of responsibilities. Responsibility for The company’s CIO provides support in terms of the IT maintaining an effective control environment and the day­s ystem and availability as well as for control and security to-day internal control work and risk management is deleregarding the authorisation structures. The company has gated to the CEO through the rules of procedure. The alloa whistle-blower function to enable attention to be drawn cation of responsibility and delegation within the ­company anonymously to irregularities. 66 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Risk assessment Specialfastigheter’s management system and intranet conAssessments regarding the risk of errors in the financial tain information that enables rapid communication with all reporting are made by the Board, management, the units employees to inform them of new rules and guidelines and the external auditors. A risk analysis seeks to identify regarding financial reporting. All of our staff bear responsiprocesses where the risk of substantial errors in financial bility for keeping up-to-date with rules and regulations and reporting is greatest. Specialfastigheter’s risks are for complying with our guidelines. described on pages 45–49. Our risk analysis tool helps us systematically identify, analyse, evaluate and follow-up Monitoring and development risks at every level on an ongoing basis. The risk analyses The operations’ objectives and identified risks are moniare reviewed and analysed in turn, and management tored continuously and at different levels within the comassesses risks from a company perspective. pany. In the business plan and account closing processes, management regularly carries out reconciliations and folControl activities low-ups of operations. In order to ensure uniform financial Activities that are drawn up based on the risk analysis aim reporting, there is an approved reporting structure. to manage significant risks identified to eliminate and limit the occurrence or effects of said risks. The Board and manThe budget is approved annually by the Board, which agement are informed about compliance with policy docureceives financial reports and reconciliations from company ments and processes, and the effectiveness of the control management on a quarterly basis at a minimum in connecstructures. The management system contains the protion with interim reports. The company’s external auditors cesses that show how Specialfastigheter should proceed report their observations from reviews and their assessand the controls that must be performed. Specialfastig­ ment of internal controls to the Audit and Finance Commitheter’s documented allocation of responsibilities, decision­ tee and the Board at the scheduled autumn meeting, the making and delegation arrangements permeate all of our final audit and as necessary. This takes place in the presprocesses. IT controls that support processes and influence ence of company management or not, as the case may be. internal controls are created in our computer systems. Follow-ups of completed investment projects are preIn order to ensure financial reporting regarding the compasented to the Board on an ongoing basis during the year. ny’s income and expenses follow internal guidelines and The company’s external auditors continually report the instructions, analyses and crosschecks are carried out by results of reviews performed, actions to be taken and the the internal auditors at various levels in the organisation, status of the latter to company management. Activities and for example, in respect of deviations from approved plans action plans stemming from risk management are followed and previous outcomes. During the year, we improved conup on an ongoing basis. When necessary, Specialfastig­ trols in our purchasing process. Control activities are also heter engages external consultants to scrutinise and implemented in the processes specified in the internal confollow­up areas for the purpose of discovering oppor­ trol plan, with the objective of developing the processes tunities for improvement, any discrepancies and/or and preventing, detecting and correcting any errors or ­irregularities. The results of audits, follow-ups and risk deviations. Control activities are manual and automated in analyses carried out are reported to the CEO and company nature and include approval procedures, control audits, management. process compliance and results follow up. Internal audit Information and communication Specialfastigheter has no internal audit function indepenThere is an established routine and structure for how comdent from management as described under rule 7.3 of the pany management is to communicate relevant information Code. When audit requirements are identified by the Board, within the organisation and in what form. The Board reguthese are procured externally from independent auditors. larly receives reports and financial information from the The Board considers the follow-up reported by the CEO, company. Specialfastigheter complies with the guidelines internal controls and internal audits in the management for external reporting described in the state’s ownership ­system in accordance with this document combined with policy. Reporting according to GRI Standards helps us the review by the external auditors, to be sufficient to clearly communicate our sustainability. The company’s ensure that internal control over financial reporting is effec­p olicy documents in the form of internal guidelines and tive, and does not contain any significant errors. The interinstructions regarding financial reporting, are updated on nal business audit described in this report concerns only the an ongoing basis by process owners and management and audit of the company’s management system based on the made available and known to employees via our internal requirements of the standards the company adheres to. information and communications channels. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 67 BOARD OF DIREC TORS Board of Directors Eva Landén Carin Götblad Mikael Lundström Chairman of the Board Regional Police Commissioner CEO Svefa AB CEO of Corem Property Group AB Elected 2013 Elected 2013 Elected 2014 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of Karolinska Institutet, Board member of Elof Hansson Holding AB, Board member of Klövern AB Beridna Högvakten AB Göta kanalbolag. Chairman of Previous experience Previous experience Värderings­data AB Authorised Public Accountant, PwC, Police Commissioner, Stockholm County; Previous experience CFO Bonnier Cityfastigheter, Police Commissioner, Gotland County and CEO, Akademiska Hus AB, CFO Corem Property Group AB Värmland; General Counsel, SiS; Chief clerk, Deputy CEO, Jones Lang LaSalle AB, Education district court; legal counsel, Swedish Agency Head of Market Area, Skandia Fastigheter M.Sc. Business and Economics, for Youth and Civil Society, Swedish PsychoAB, Head of Administration, NCC Fastig­ Uppsala University logical Association; National Board of Health heter AB and Welfare coordinator against violence in Education Born close relationships 1965 Graduate in engineering, KTH Royal Institute Education of Technology National Police Board Chief of Police proBorn gramme, bachelor of laws, FBI, Preschool 1961 teacher programme Born 1956 Pierre Olofsson Erik Tranaeus Maj-Charlotte Wallin Elected 2019 Investment Director, Government Offices Own business Other board assignments of Sweden Elected 2016 None Elected 2018 Other board assignments Previous experience Other board assignments Board member of the Fourth Swedish Skanska’s Group management, with responBoard member of Orio AB and SOS Alarm AB National Pension Fund sibility for the Nordic construction units Previous experience Previous experience CEO Skanska Sverige AB Positions in investment banking at Deutsche CEO of AFA Försäkring, Deputy CEO Alecta Education Bank, Citigroup and Danske Bank. pensionsförsäkring, CEO Jones Lang LaSalle Graduate in engineering, Lund University Education AMS AB, CEO Nordbanken Fastigheter Faculty of Engineering M.Sc. Business and Economics, SSE AB, Adm. Manager Bredenberg & Co AB, ­Controller Nordbanken Finans AB Born Born 1966 1975 Education M.Sc. Business and Economics, SSE Born 1953 68 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BOARD OF DIREC TORS Employee Representative Employee Representative Åsa Wirén Tomas Edström Erik Ydreborg CFO Bonnier Group Employee Representative Employee Representative Elected 2018 Appointed 2013 Appointed 2016 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of Aspia AB, N Å Future AB Chairman, Central Sweden Volleyball None and companies within the Bonnier Group ­A ssociation, Manomet Rock AB Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Industrial floor installer, building mainteCFO of SkiStar AB, Partner and Authorised Head of Operations, AB Tierpsbyggen, Asset nance technician, service technician Public Accountant at KPMG Manager, Sundsvall’s municipality Education Education Education High School Engineer, four-year electrical M.Sc. Business and Economics, Uppsala Mechanical engineer power studies University. Born Born Born 1964 1967 1968 Employee Representative Employee Representative Auditor Kajsa Marsk Rives Roger Törngren Mikael Ikonen Alternate member for Employee Representative Alternate member for Employee Representative Auditor in Charge, Appointed 2019 Appointed 2011 Ernst & Young AB Other board assignments Other board assignments Other significant audit assignments Secretary at En Utsträckt Hand – Täby and None Hembla AB, Amasten AB, Hemsö AB, Danderyd Previous experience Slättö Förvaltning, Rikshem AB Previous experience Property Management Engineer, SpecialBorn Sustainability consultant at Goodpoint, Case fastigheter, Service Technician, Vasakronan, 1963 handler at Sida, Program Officer at UNDP, Project programmer, control systems, TASAB Assistant Program Officer UNHCHR, ExecuEducation tive Assistant to the Chairperson, PRI (Penal Control systems/operations technology, Reform International). Qualified property management Education Born Degree of Master of Laws, Uppsala University 1965 Born 1974 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 69 MANAGEMENT Management Åsa Hedenberg Masoomeh Antonsson Christina Burlin CEO CIO HR Director Previous experience Other board assignments Previous experience CEO, Huge Fastigheter AB; CEO, Uppsala None Personnel Director, Swedish Maritime hem AB; Market Area Manager AP Fastig­ Previous experience Administration; Group Personnel Director, heter; Head of Development Properties, Consultant, Ibitec; Consultant, Invid; Östgöta Correspondenten; Personnel SEB Asset Management; Property Manager, ­Consultant, Qurius ­Director, SAAB Civil Aircraft Hantverksoch Industribyggen; Property Education Manager, Skanska Fastigheter AB Education Systems analyst, Örebro University Bachelor of Arts Study programme in Board assignments ­personnel management, Lund University Board member of Bonava AB, Envac AB Born 1975 Born Education 1962 Graduate in engineering, Surveyor, Royal Employed since Employed since Institute of Technology 2008 2012 Born 1961 Employed since 2014 Göran Cumlin Kristina Ferenius Hanna Janson Projects and Development Director Deputy CEO/CFO Communication Director Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Property Manager, Sollentunahem; Technical Head of Finance, Huge Fastigheter AB; CFO Communications Manager Akademiska Manager, Stockholm Student Housing Enaco AB; Business Controller Coor Service Hus AB region Stockholm; Pro tem (SSSB); Regional Manager, SWECO Project Management Sverige AB; CFO Skanska ­Communications Director Akademiska Management Guest Relocation AB; Head of Accounts, HusAB; Consultant, JKL AB Gothenburg Board assignments Swedish Enforcement Authority in Stockholm and Stockholm Vice Chairman, SSSB Education Education Education Master’s degree in economics, Stockholm M.Sc. Business and Economics, SSE Graduate in engineering, KTH Royal Institute University Born of Technology Born 1975 Born 1968 Employed since 1963 Employed since 2015 Employed since 2015 2015 70 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T MANAGEMENT Henrik Nyström Michaela Sköld Cecilia Vestin Head of Purchasing Property Management Director Business Director, appointed 1 April 2020* Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Head of Purchasing, Partnertech AB; Head of management support Fortifikations­ CEO Vestin & Partners, CEO Arcona Projekt­ ­Strategic Purchasing, Ericsson; Strategic verket, Property manager Swedavia AB, utveckling, Head of Customers and Business ­Purchasing, SAAB Aircraft Property manager Akademiska Hus AB, Relations Newsec, Property Management Education Trainee Uppsalahem AB Director Vectura, Property Management Economics (upper secondary school) Education Director Jernhusen, CEO Västerås Central AB Born Graduate in engineering, Surveyor, Royal Board assignments 1963 Institute of Technology FastPartner AB, Exengo Born Installationskonsult AB Employed since 2007 1980 Education Real Estate and Construction Technology, Employed since Royal Institute of Technology 2019 Born 1977 Employed since 1 April 2020 * Torbjörn Blücher, Business Director in 2019, stepped down in early 2020. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 71 Contents Consolidated income statement 73 Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies 102 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 73 Note 2 Other income 103 Consolidated balance sheet 74 Note 3 Operating expenses 103 Consolidated changes in equity 76 Note 4 Administration 103 Consolidated cash-flow statement 78 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 103 Consolidated five-year summary 79 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales 103 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Note 1 Group accounting policies 80 Board fees 103 Note 2 Other income 84 Note 8 Net financial items 103 Note 3 Property expenses 84 Note 9 Appropriations 103 Note 4 Administration 84 Note 10 Taxes 103 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 84 Note 11 Appropriation of profits and dividend 104 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 84 Note 12 Buildings, building fixtures and fittings, land, land improvements, in ground Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and ­fixtures and fittings 104 Board fees 85 Note 13 Construction in progress 105 Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 87 Note 14 Plant and equipment 105 Note 9 Investment properties 87 Note 15 Financial assets 105 Note 10 Taxes 89 Note 16 Current investments 107 Note 11 Right-of-use assets 89 Note 17 Current receivables 107 Note 12 Other property, plant and equipment 89 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 107 Note 13 Financial investments 90 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 107 Note 14 Other receivables 90 Note 20 Untaxed reserves 107 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 90 Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities 107 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 90 Note 22 Other liabilities 107 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities 90 Note 23 Accrued expenses and deferred income 107 Note 18 Other liabilities 91 Note 24 Related parties 107 Note 19 Accrued expenses and deferred income 91 Note 25 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 107 Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy 92 Note 26 Events after the balance-sheet date 107 Note 21 Related parties 97 Note 22 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 97 Declaration by the Board 108 Note 23 Events after the balance-sheet date 97 Auditor’s report 109 Property holdings 113 Parent Company – Income statement 98 Definitions116 Parent Company – Statement of Reporting calendar Inside cover comprehensive income 98 Annual General Meeting Inside cover Parent Company – Balance sheet 99 Addresses Back cover Parent Company – Changes in equity 100 Parent Company – Cash-flow statement 101 72 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Rental income 2,054 1,956 Other income 2 207 182 Income from property management 2,261 2,138 Property expenses 3 -630 -564 Net operating income 1,631 1,574 Central administration 4, 5 -56 -54 Financial income 6 39 40 Financial expenses 6 -174 -150 Profit from property management 7 1,440 1,410 Realised gain on property sales 8 4 1 Change in value of investment properties, unrealised 9 746 1,404 Change in value of financial instruments, unrealised 6 -20 10 EBT 2,170 2,825 Tax 10 -453 -402 Net profit for the year 1,717 2,423 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 1,717 2,423  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Net profit for the year 1,717 2,423 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax Total comprehensive income for the year 1,717 2,423 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 1,717 2,423 Comments to the income statement The income statement items below, as with the comparison amounts Profit from property management, SEK 1,440 million (1,410) for the previous year, refer to the period from January to December. The increase in profit from property management was mainly due to higher rental income of SEK 98 million. At the same time, property Income from property management totalled expenses and financial expenses increased according to the above SEK 2,261 m ­ illion (2,138). comments. Rental income increased to SEK 2,054 million (1,956) as a result of new leases. Other income rose to SEK 207 million (182), mainly due to an Changes in value, SEK 726 million (1,414) increase in revenue from modifications for customers and media. Value changes in investment properties totalled SEK 746 million (1,404). Financial instruments decreased in value by SEK 20 million Property expenses, SEK 630 million (expense: 564) (decrease: 10). The derivatives’ value changed due to changes in the Our property expenses increased SEK 66 million due to higher costs long market interest rates and in prices for electricity futures. for modifications for customers, media, property tax, bidding costs and purchased operational services. Of these, approximately SEK 36 Tax expense, SEK 453 million (expense: 402) million pertain to modifications for customers, property tax and media Tax comprised actual tax paid of SEK 152 million (expense: 145) and invoiced to customers. a deferred tax expense of SEK 301 million (expense: 257). Net operating income, SEK 1,631 million (1,574) Net profit, SEK 1,717 million (2,423) Altogether, the above resulted in a year-on-year increase in net operEarnings for the period were lower than the previous year, primarily ating income, mainly attributable to our increase in rental income. The due to a lower unrealised change in value for investment properties. surplus ratio was somewhat lower, 72.1% (73.6), as a result of the above changes in property expenses. Net financial expense, SEK 135 million (expense: 110) Higher short-term interest rates, somewhat higher debt, a smaller share of short-term borrowing and bonds issued with longer tenors all led to increased financial expenses. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 73 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated balance sheet, SEK million Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 9 29,037 27,288 Right-of-use assets 11 32 Other property, plant and equipment 12 4 6 Derivatives 13, 20 51 32 Other financial investments 13 855 990 Other non-current receivables 14 3 6 Total non-current assets 29,982 28,322 Current assets Trade receivables 458 153 Derivatives 13 2 23 Other financial investments 13 302 Tax assets 10 1 Other receivables 14 50 23 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15 19 24 Cash and cash equivalents 16 1 12 Total current assets 832 236 Total assets 30,814 28,558 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 200 200 Other contributed capital 616 616 Retained earnings, including net profit for the year 11,275 10,113 Total equity 12,091 10,929 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Green bonds 17, 20 1,246 1,244 Interest-bearing liability, right-of-use assets 17 32 Other non-current interest-bearing liabilities 17, 20 9,226 7,266 Derivatives 91 100 Deferred tax liabilities 10 3,548 3,247 Total non-current liabilities 14,143 11,857 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 17, 20 3,645 4,891 Trade payables 213 169 Tax liability 10 5 Derivatives 2 0 Other liabilities 18 108 111 Accrued expenses and deferred income 19 607 601 Total current liabilities 4,580 5,772 Total liabilities 18,723 17,629 Total equity and liabilities 30,814 28,558 74 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Comments to the balance sheet Investments, SEK 1,029 million (824) Changes in the value of investment properties, Group investments in property projects totalled SEK 1,029 million SEK million 2019 2018 for the period, up SEK 205 million year-on-year. Opening balance, market value, 31 December 27,288 25,002 Acquisitions, SEK – million (58) + Investments incl. capitalised interest expenses 1,029 824 No properties were acquired during the period. + Acquisitions 58 – Sales -26 Divestments, SEK 26 million (-) + Unrealised change in value 746 1,404 The properties Trollhättan Olidan 3:17, 4:9, Värnamo Läkaren 4 Closing balance, market value, 31 December 29,037 27,288 and a portion of Östfora 1:38 were divested during the year. Fair value of investment properties, Unrealised changes in value 746 1,404 SEK 29,037 million (27,288) of which, change in cost of capital and yield 1,009 1,033 The estimated values of Specialfastigheter’s investment properties of which other changes in net operating income -263 371 are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual data in respect of rents and operating expenses. Information concerning cost of capital, required yield and current market rents has been crossOther financial investments, SEK 855 million (990) checked with external appraisers. With regard to reliable rental Other financial investments of SEK 855 million comprised covered income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period was bonds of SEK 819 million (926) and cash deposits pursuant to CSAs of mainly between 5.00% (5.00) and 5.25% (5.25). The required yield SEK 36 million (64). The total investment in covered bonds was SEK 819 ranges mostly from 4.50% (4.65) to 9.00% (9.70) depending on propmillion (926), of which SEK 302 million (-) is short term and recognised erty location. The property’s value has primarily been impacted by in the item Other financial investments. For further information, see investments and lowered yield requirements. Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Demand for our properties is good. During the second half of the year, Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK 14,149 million (13,401) several transactions were completed that support the lower assessed Interest-bearing liabilities includes SEK 32 million pertaining to lease yield of certain properties in the portfolio. The assessed yield has liabilities according to IFRS 16.A corresponding amount is also rectherefore been adjusted on these properties. Based on internal valuaognised on the asset side under Right-of-use assets. tion, the fair value of the investment properties at the end of the period amounted to SEK 29,037 million. The unrealised changes in value recognised for the period amounted to SEK 746 million. The equivalent figure for last year was SEK 1,404 million. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 75 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other contributed Retained Total 2019 Share capital ­c apital ­earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2019 200 616 10,113 10,929 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 1,717 1,717 Other comprehensive income Total 200 616 11,830 12,646 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -555 -555 Total transactions with the shareholder -555 -555 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 200 616 11,275 12,091 Other contributed Retained Total 2018 Share capital ­c apital ­earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 200 616 8,250 9,066 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 2,423 2,423 Other comprehensive income Total 200 616 10,673 11,489 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -560 -560 Total transactions with the shareholder -560 -560 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 200 616 10,113 10,929 76 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Equity Capital management Share capital The Board’s financial objective for the Group is to maintain a sound The share capital is divided into 2,000,000 shares with a quotient value capital structure and financial stability, to thereby retain the capital of SEK 100 and with one (1) vote per share, which applies to both the market’s confidence and form the basis for continued development of opening and closing number of shares in the above reporting periods. business operations. The target equity/assets ratio is 25–35% and strategic planning includes adaptation to meet this target. The Board Appropriation of profits aims to preserve a balance between high returns and the advantages The Board proposes that the 2019 Annual General Meeting of Specialoffered by a high level of equity. The Group’s profitability target is for fastigheter Sverige AB resolve in favour of distributing a dividend of net profit, after including changes in value and associated deferred SEK 570 million, or around SEK 285.00 per share, to the owner. The tax, to correspond to 8% of average equity. Profitability is a variable proposed dividend constitutes 54.2% of the company’s equity and target whose level is adjusted depending on the composition of the 4.7% of the Group’s equity and is in line with financial dividend target property portfolio. stipulations. Refer also to Note 11 for the Parent Company. The adjusted return on equity for 2019 was 9.9% (13.0). From 2016, we The company’s holdings of financial instruments were measured at fair have changed the calculation of Return on equity and Adjusted return value in accordance with Chapter 4 Section 14a of the Annual on equity to now include net profit for the period in average equity. Accounts Act. This entailed an increase in equity of SEK 5 million We have also restated these key performance indicators retroactively. excluding deferred tax, which represented approximately 0.5% of the Over the last five-year period, Specialfastigheter’s adjusted return on Parent Company’s equity excluding deferred tax. The proposed diviequity averaged 12.3%, which well exceeds the Group’s target of 8.0%. dend to the shareholder reduces the Parent Company’s equity/assets ratio from 12.5% to 9.7%, and the Group’s equity/assets ratio from Specialfastigheter’s dividend policy is to distribute 50% of net profit 39.2% to 38.1%. Group operations are run with stable, healthy profitfor the year after adding changes in value and associated deferred ability, and income is hedged in the long term through long lease tax. The annual resolution on the dividend must also take into account agreements. In the Board’s assessment, after distribution of the prothe Group’s future investment needs and financial circumstances. posed dividend, the company will continue to have adequate financial Over the last five years, the dividend has averaged 5.8% (7.0) of equity. capacity to meet the requirements placed on the Group’s and the ParThe Group will pay an extraordinary dividend when the capital strucent Company’s equity by the nature, scope, investment requirements ture and financial needs of the business so allow. No change took and risks of the business. place in the Group’s capital management during the year. Neither the Parent Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to external capiThe proposal is therefore justifiable given the consolidation needs, tal requirements. liquidity and other circumstances of the Group and Parent Company. This means, inter alia, that the proposal does not hinder the company and its subsidiaries from meeting their obligations in the short and long terms. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 77 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Operating activities Net operating income 1,631 1,574 Central administration -56 -54 Net financial expense -135 -110 Reversal, change in prices 12 -3 Reversal of depreciation 7 3 Income tax paid -144 -175 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,315 1,235 Change in working capital Change in receivables -323 -8 Change in other current liabilities 47 51 Total change in working capital -276 43 Cash flow from operating activities 1,039 1,278 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties -58 Investment in investment properties -1,029 -824 Investment in right-of-use assets -35 Disposal of investment properties 26 1 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -1 -2 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -1,039 -883 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds -206 116 Borrowings 18,201 16,782 Repayments of borrowings -17,451 -17,186 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -555 -560 Cash flow from financing activities -11 -848 Cash flow for the year -11 -453 Opening cash and cash equivalents 12 465 Closing cash and cash equivalents 1 12 Interest Interest received 13 4 Interest paid 121 100 Cash flow Group cash flow from operating activities before investments totalled SEK 1,039 million (1,278) during the period. Net investments in non-­ current assets amounted to a cash outflow of SEK 1,039 million (outflow: 883), which generated a positive cash flow after investments of SEK 0 million (395). A cash outflow of SEK 555 million (outflow: 560) was used for dividends, and investments in covered bonds amounted to an outflow of SEK 206 million (inflow: 116). Borrowings after repayments totalled an inflow of SEK 750 million (outflow: 404). The item, Investment, covered bonds, pertained solely to the investment of cash and cash equivalents and is part of long-term investments, where the company has chosen to retain liquidity instead of repaying borrowings. 78 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated five-year summary The financial progress of the Group in summary. For definitions of key performance indicators, see page 116. Property related 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income from property management, SEK ­million 2,261 2,138 2,028 1,912 1,867 Profit from property management, SEK million 1,440 1,410 1,367 1,269 1,108 Occupancy rate, % 98.5 99.0 99.0 98.6 98.7 Investments including property acquisitions, SEK million 1,029 882 1,398 1,288 419 Market value, investment properties, SEK million 29,037 27,288 25,002 22,999 20,919 Floor space, sq m, thousand 1,090 1,094 1,079 1,088 1,058 Yield, % 5.8 6.0 6.2 6.5 6.8 Total assets, SEK million 30,414 28,558 26,842 24,372 22,012 Equity, SEK million 12,091 10,929 9,066 7,844 6,652 Property management related Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,882 1,793 1,700 1,644 1,618 Property operations, SEK/sq m1 349 315 300 271 288 Maintenance expenses, SEK/sq m1, 2 284 268 266 265 207 Net operating income, SEK/sq m 1,495 1,443 1,377 1,324 1,322 Administrative expenses, SEK/sq m 51 49 50 57 62 Finance related EBT, SEK million 2,170 2,825 2,165 2,100 1,474 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,717 2,423 1,719 1,638 1,178 Cash flow before investments, SEK million 1,039 1,278 1,310 1,317 844 Surplus ratio, % 72.1 73.6 73.7 73.7 75.0 Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based3, 5 11.0 13.0 11.1 8.7 6.6 Return on equity, % 4 14.9 24.2 20.3 22.6 15.6 Adjusted return on equity, % 4, 5 9.9 13.0 12.8 13.7 11.8 Return on total capital, %3 6.4 10.8 9.3 10.1 8.1 Loan-to-value ratio, % 45.9 45.7 53.3 55.9 57.8 Equity/assets ratio, % 39.2 38.3 33.8 32.2 30.2 Dividend, SEK million 570 555 560 497 446 1)For the 2015–2016 period, the cost of property managers was included in maintenance expenses. This item was moved to Property operations in 2017. We have restated the years from 2015–2016, so that the cost is included in Property operations for all years, thus enabling a fair comparison. 2) Of which capitalised: SEK 139/sq m for 2015, SEK 177/sq m for 2016, SEK 195/sq m for 2017, SEK 185/sq m for 2018 and SEK 204/sq m for 2019. 3) From 2017, we have changed the calculation of the Interest coverage ratio and Return on total capital. We have also restated these key performance indicators ­retroactively. 4) From 2016, we have changed the calculation of Return on equity and Adjusted return on equity to now include net profit for the period in average equity. We have also restated these key performance indicators retroactively. 5) These key performance indicators have been restated pursuant to a new policy from 2018 pertaining to currency derivatives. For definitions of key performance indicators, see page 116. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 79 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Group accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorAccounting policies applied dance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) The accounting policies specified below, with exceptions described in published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) more detail, have been consistently applied to all periods presented and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), in the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s accounting polias adopted by the EU. Moreover, the Swedish Financial Reporting cies have been consistently applied in the reporting and consolidation Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for of the Parent Company and subsidiaries. Corporate Groups, has been applied. Changes in accounting policies The Group’s seven limited companies are registered in Linköping New standards and interpretations that entered force in 2019 have not (Sweden). The Parent Company is called Specialfastigheter Sverige AB had any impact on the financial statements other than certain supple(556537-5945). Specialfastigheter has a joint head office with offices mentary disclosures. located at the following visiting addresses: Borggården, SE-581 07 Linköping and Torsgatan 21, SE-102 32 Stockholm. The Group’s subIFRS 16 Leases sidiaries own and manage real property, manage construction projFrom 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 and was applied for the ects, own and manage movable property and pursue related business first time in the interim report for the period from January to March. activities. Refer also to Note 15 for the Parent Company. The new standard entails increased disclosure requirements but has extremely limited impact on the financial statements. The Group has Valuation principles applied in the preparation of the chosen to apply the simplified transition method and is not applying Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial statements the standard retroactively. Assets and liabilities are recognised at cost, other than investment properties and derivatives, which are measured at fair value. Specialfastigheter is the lessee for a limited number of leasehold agreements, property leases, service vehicles and company cars that Non-current assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the are defined as lease contracts under IFRS 16. Lease payments and ­c arrying amount and the fair value less selling expenses. ground rents are recognised in the income statement repayments and interest expenses. Recognised lease liabilities and right-of-use assets Functional currency and presentation currency at 1 January 2019 amounted to SEK 27 million. Expensed short-term The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), leases or leases of low value were less than SEK 2 million. The new regwhich is also the presentation currency of the Parent Company and the ulation increased repayments and interest expenses SEK 8 million each Group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. and reduced operating expenses by the corresponding amount. Specialfastigheter Sverige AB only operates on the Swedish market. Ground rents are recognised in their entirety as a financial expense. All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest million The transition to IFRS 16 had no effect on Specialfastigheter as a lessor. kronor. Amendments to the IFRS and interpretations not yet adopted Estimations and assessments in the financial statements (IFRIC) are not expected to have any significant impact on the Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires financial statements. the management to make estimations and assessments which influence the application of accounting policies and the recognised Classifications, etc. amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual outcomes Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the Parent Company may differ from these estimations and assessments. and the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be recovered or paid after more than twelve months from the balance­The estimations and assessments are reviewed regularly. Changes to sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities in the Parent Comestimates are recognised in the period in which the change occurs if pany and the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be the change has only affected this period, or in the period in which the recovered or paid within twelve months of the balance-sheet date. change is made and future periods if the change impacts both the ­current and future periods. Consolidation principles Subsidiaries Assessments made by the company management in applying the IFRS An investor has controlling influence over the investment object when that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates the investor is exposed to or is entitled to variable returns from its made, which may result in material adjustments in subsequent years’ holding in the investment object, and when it can influence these financial statements, are described in more detail in notes 9, 17 and 20 returns through exercising its controlling influence over the investto the consolidated financial statements. ment object. An assessment must be made of each acquisition to classify whether it Subsidiaries are reported in accordance with the acquisition method. is a business combination or an asset acquisition. A business combinaUnder this method, an acquisition is regarded as a transaction tion comprises resources and assets that can result in production. On whereby the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and the acquisition of a company, the method of accounting to be used for assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost to the Group the acquisition is assessed using criteria including the following: the is determined through an acquisition analysis at the time of the acquipresence of employees, the company’s assets and the complexity of sition. In this analysis, the cost of the business combination is estabinternal processes. Moreover, the assessment also takes into considlished, as are the fair values on the acquisition date of acquired identieration the number of operations and the existence of agreements fiable assets as well as assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. with various degrees of complexity. Acquisitions with high fulfilment The cost of the subsidiary’s shares consist of the fair values at the of these criteria are classified as business combinations and acquisiacquisition date for the assets acquired, assumed or acquired liabilitions with low fulfilment are classified as asset acquisitions. ties, and transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Transaction costs are expensed in the Group. Consolidations of subWhen acquisitions of subsidiaries entail the acquisition of non-busisidiaries’ financial statements are entered in the consolidated financial ness combination assets, the cost of these assets and liabilities is allostatements from the date of the acquisition until the date when concated according to their relative fair values at the acquisition date. trolling influence ceases. However, if the assessment resulted in classification as a business combination, this would have entailed a higher value for the initial Transactions eliminated on consolidation property value recognised and a higher deferred tax liability and, Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses, and unrein all likelihood, a higher goodwill amount. alised gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 80 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Income when the underlying transaction is recognised directly in equity and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers where the associated tax effect is recognised in equity. Deferred tax is Specialfastigheter’s leases only comprise rental payments, which are calculated using the balance-sheet method based on temporary difnot encompassed by IFRS 15 and instead come under IAS 17, and from ferences between the carrying amounts and fiscal values of assets and 2019, IFRS 16. Remuneration for the company’s undertakings pursuant liabilities. The IFRS 3 rule on the classification of acquisitions as busito leases, such as supplying premises with heating, cooling, snow ness combinations or asset acquisitions is based on making a separate clearance and garbage collection, for example, are included in the assessment for each individual transaction. On the acquisition of a rent. Tenants cannot influence the choice of supplier or frequency, or business, the method of accounting to be used for the acquisition is have any other impact on the supplier, in the properties owned by the assessed using the following criteria: the presence of employees and company. Moreover, some of these undertakings fall under a general the complexity of internal processes. Moreover, the assessment also responsibility for the property. Accordingly, the introduction of the takes into consideration the number of operations and the existence standard has no material impact on the financial statements. of agreements with various degrees of complexity. Acquisitions with high fulfilment of these criteria are classified as business combinations Revenue recognition and acquisitions with low fulfilment are classified as asset acquisitions. Advance invoices generate rental income and car-parking income, Temporary differences in assets and liabilities that, at the transaction which are therefore allocated to periods so that only the rent for the date, do not affect recognised or taxable profit are not recognised for respective period is recognised as income. Revenue is usually recasset acquisitions. No corporate acquisitions were made in 2019. Any ognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, apart from corporate acquisitions made are classified as asset acquisitions. in exceptional cases where a different method better reflects how Those properties that are acquired as company transactions are financial benefits accrue to the Group. Interest income is recognised assessed as clear asset acquisitions. Furthermore, temporary differas revenue spread over the term by the application of the effective-­ ences attributable to participations in subsidiaries that are not interest method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future are not taken into receive payment has been established. account. When acquisitions of subsidiaries entail the acquisition of non-business combination assets, the cost of these assets and liabiliThe proportion of our rental income that is attributable to the state is ties is allocated according to their relative fair values at the acquisition 99.6% (99.5), where the Swedish Prison and Probation Service accounts date. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how the carrying for the major portion. amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Income from property sales Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates and tax Income from property sales is normally recognised on the contract rules that were adopted or established in practice as of the baldate unless the risks and benefits were transferred to the purchaser ance-sheet date. Deferred tax assets concerning deductible tempoon an earlier occasion. Control of the asset may have been transferred rary differences are only recognised to the extent that it is likely that prior to the occupancy date and, if so, the property sale is recognised these will be used. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it as income at this earlier date. Agreements between the parties with is no longer considered likely that they can be used. respect to the risks, benefits and involvement in day-to-day administration are taken into account when estimating the timing of revenue Other disclosures pertaining to deferred tax are available in Note 10 recognition. Moreover, any circumstances that may affect the outto the consolidated financial statements. come of the transaction and which are beyond the control of the seller and/or purchaser are also taken into consideration. Investment properties Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generFinancial income and expenses ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are Financial income and expenses initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attribFinancial income and expenses comprise interest income from bank utable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the funds, investments, receivables, interest expense on loans, translation balance sheet at fair value. of currency loans and unrealised and realised gains and losses on derivatives used in financial operations. For further information, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities are calculated using the effective-interest method. Effective interest is Property, plant and equipment the rate of interest which makes the current value of all estimated Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the consolidated future inflows and outflows during the expected fixed-interest period financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost equal to the carrying amount of the asset or liability. Interest income includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to an from purchased covered bonds is recognised in the period during asset in order to bring it to the location and condition necessary for it which interest is paid. to be utilised in line with the aim of the acquisition. Interest income and interest expenses include accrued amounts for The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is removed transaction expenses and differences between the initial carrying from the balance sheet on the asset’s disposal or sale, or when no amount of the receivable or liability and the amount settled on maturity. future economic benefits are expected from the use, disposal or sale of the asset. Profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of an asset Borrowing costs are charged against earnings in the period to which comprises the difference between the sale price and the carrying they relate except to the extent that they are included in the cost of an amount of the asset less direct selling expenses. Profit and loss are asset. An asset for which interest can be included in the cost is, by recognised under other operating income/expense. necessity, an asset that takes significant time to complete for its intended use or sale. Leased assets Specialfastigheter has a limited number of leases that from 2019 are Taxes classified as right-of-use assets according to IFRS 16. The standard is Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is tax not applied retroactively. Short-term leases or leases of low value are to be paid or received for the current year, with the application of the expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. tax rates that are adopted or established in practice as of the balance­sheet date, which also includes adjustment of current tax attributable For further information, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial to previous periods. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 81 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Depreciation principles FVTPL is applied to debt instruments that are not measured at amorDepreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over an asset’s tised cost. Financial instruments in this category are initially measured ­estimated useful life. at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. Estimated useful lives, plant and equipment The Group’s debt instruments are classified at amortised cost, with The depreciation methods applied and the assets’ residual values and the exception of covered bonds, which are classified at FVTPL. useful lives are reviewed at the end of each year. Equity instruments: classified at FVTPL with the exception of those Impairment losses that are not held for trading, since an irrevocable choice can be made The carrying amounts of Group assets are reviewed at each balance­to measure these at FVTOCI with no consequent reclassification to sheet date to assess whether any indication exists of an impairment profit or loss. The Group classifies equity instruments at FVTPL. loss. IAS 36 is applied for testing the need for impairment for assets Derivatives: classified at FVTPL. The Group does not apply hedge other than financial assets (which are tested in accordance with IFRS 9), accounting. assets held for sale, disposal groups recognised in accordance with IFRS 5, investment properties recognised at fair value in accordance Fair value is established as described in Note 19. with IAS 40 and deferred tax assets. For assets excepted under the above, carrying amounts are tested in accordance with the standard Classification and valuation of financial liabilities concerned. Financial liabilities are classified at amortised cost, with the exception of derivatives. Financial liabilities classified at amortised cost are meaReversal of impairments sured initially at fair value including transaction costs. Following initial An impairment is reversed if there is both an indication that the impairrecognition, these are measured at amortised cost using the effective­ ment loss no longer exists and if a change has taken place in the interest method. assumptions on which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based. However, impairment of goodwill is never reversed. A reversal Derivatives are classified at FVTPL. The Group does not apply hedge is only made to the extent that the recognised value of the asset after accounting. reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognised, less amortisation or depreciation where applicable, had Fair value is established as described in Note 20. no impairment been made. Other financial liabilities Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment Loan financing When an impairment loss is indicated, the asset’s recoverable amount All loan financing is initially recognised at cost, net after transaction is calculated in accordance with IAS 36 (see below). If an essentially expenses. Borrowing is then recognised at amortised cost and any independent cash flow cannot be established for an individual asset, difference between the amount received and the repayment amount assets are grouped at the lowest level possible for identification of an is recognised in net financial items over the loan term by application of essentially independent cash flow (a cash-generating unit) for the the effective-interest method. Borrowing in foreign currency is transassessment of any impairment need. An impairment loss is recognised lated to SEK at the balance-sheet date exchange rate and the effects when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit (CGU) recognised in net financial items. exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment of assets attributable to a CGU is allocated The Group capitalises interest expenses attributable to investment in the first instance to goodwill. Proportional impairments are then properties under construction. Capitalised interest expenses impact made of other assets included in the CGU. net financial items positively and changes in market value negatively by a corresponding amount. Interest expenses are capitalised The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling monthly at an interest rate equivalent to the average six-month Stibor expenses and value in use. When calculating value in use, future cash plus a surcharge. flows are discounted by a factor that takes into account the risk-free interest rate and the risk associated with the specific asset. Impairment of financial assets The Group’s financial assets, with the exception of those classified at Financial instruments FVTPL or equity instruments at FVTOCI, are subject to impairment for Debt instruments: the classification of financial assets that comprise expected credit losses (ECLs). Under IFRS 9, the impairment of ECLs debt instruments is based on the Group’s business model for managadopts a forward-looking approach and a loss allowance is for expoing the asset and the character and nature of the asset’s contractual sures to credit risk, normally on initial recognition. ECLs reflect the cash flows. present value of all shortfalls in cash flow attributable to default, either over the next 12 months (12 month ECL) or for the entire remaining life The instrument is classified at: of the financial instrument (lifetime ECL), depending on the type of • amortised cost asset and any impairment of the credit following initial recognition. • fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or The ECL reflects an objective, probability-based outcome that takes • fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) into consideration a number of scenarios based on reasonable and verifiable projections. Financial assets classified at amortised cost are measured initially at fair value plus transaction costs. Trade receivables and lease receivThe simplified approach is applied for trade receivables, contract ables are measured initially at the invoiced amount. Following initial assets and lease receivables. A loss allowance is recognised under the recognition, the assets are measured using the effective-interest simplified approach for the remaining term of the receivable or asset. method. Assets classified at amortised cost are held under the business model to collect contractual cash flows that solely encompass For other items encompassed by ECLs, a three-stage impairment payments of the principal and interest on the principal outstanding. model is applied. Initially, and at each balance-sheet date, a loss The assets are encompassed by an loss allowance for expected credit allowance is recognised for the forthcoming 12 months, or alternalosses. tively for a shorter time period depending on the remaining duration (Stage 1). If there has been a significant increase in credit risk com82 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S pared with initial recognition, a loss allowance is recognised for the Derivative instruments are used to hedge forecast electricity remaining term of the asset (Stage 2). For any assets assessed as credit expenses and the derivatives are recognised at fair value in profit or impaired, a loss allowance continues to be made for ECLs for the loss. The fair value of electricity derivatives is based on balance-sheet remaining term (Stage 3). For credit-impaired assets and receivables, date market values, according to Level 1, as provided by electricity the calculation of interest income is based on the asset’s carrying suppliers that purchase electricity derivatives from Nord Pool. amount, net of the loss allowance, as opposed to the gross amount ­Electricity derivatives are raised to hedge electricity prices. Specialused in the earlier stages. fastigheter passes on the major part of electricity expenses by invoicing tenants. The measurement of ECLs is based on and written down pursuant to a rating-based method through external credit ratings. ECLs are meaRemuneration to employees sured as the product of the probability of default, loss given default Pension plans and the exposure at default. For credit-impaired assets and receivAll personnel are employed in the Parent Company. The pension plans ables, individual assessments take into consideration historical, curprincipally comprise retirement pensions, disability pensions and famrent and forward-looking data. The measurement of ECLs takes into ily pensions in the form of alternative ITPs (Supplementary Pensions consideration any collateral posted or other credit enhancements in for Salaried Employees). Retirement pension commitments for salathe form of guarantees. ried employees are secured through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, The financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised this comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Since the comcost, that is the net of the gross value and the loss allowance. Any pany has not had access to information which would have made it poschanges in the loss allowance are recognised in profit or loss. sible to report the pension plan as a defined-benefit plan, it has also been reported as a defined-contribution plan. Commitments regardCash and cash equivalents ing contributions to defined-contribution plans are recognised as Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately accessible expenses in profit or loss as they arise. balances at banks and equivalent institutions, and short-term investments of liquidity with tenors of less than three months from the Short-term employee benefits acquisition date. Cash and cash equivalents are encompassed by the Short-term employee benefits are calculated on an undiscounted loss allowance requirement for expected credit losses. basis and recognised as an expense when the related services are received. Derivatives The Group’s derivative instruments were acquired to hedge the interContingent liabilities est-rate and currency risks to which the Group is exposed. Derivatives A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible obligation are initially recognised at cost on the transaction date, which means that arises from past events and whose existence is confirmed only by that transaction expenses are charged against earnings for the the occurrence of one or more uncertain future events or when there is period. After the initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair an obligation that is not recognised as a liability or provision because value and changes in value are recognised as described below. Hedge it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required. accounting is not applied by the Group. Cash-flow statement Derivatives measured at fair value The cash-flow statement was prepared using the indirect method. Interest-rate derivatives comprise a financial asset or liability meaThe recognised cash flow includes only those transactions that entail sured at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. inflows and outflows. Balances at banks are classified as cash and cash Using interest-rate derivatives may give rise to changes in value due to equivalents. changes in the market interest rate and the time factor. Interest-rate derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the balance sheet, and are Rounding subsequently measured at fair value together with changes in value in Amounts in this annual report are expressed in SEK million without profit or loss. decimal places. Where amounts are less than SEK 1 million and rounded down, this is represented by a zero (0). In cases where the Exchange rates are hedged with the aid of currency derivatives outcome is actually zero, this is represented by a dash. (­currency swaps combined with interest-rate swaps). Derivatives are measured at fair value at the balance-sheet date’s exchange rate and interest rate, and meet the currency effects from the translation of the loans at the balance-sheet date’s exchange rate. Closing-date market prices and generally accepted calculation methods are used to determine the fair value of interest-rate and currency derivatives, which means that fair value is established according to levels 1 and 2. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is at the rates of exchange quoted on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are measured by discounting future cash flows to their present value. When financing in foreign currency, all future payment flows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 83 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 6 Financial income and expenses 2019 2018 SEK million % Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 81 76 Composition of net Invoiced services 124 100 financial items 2019 2018 2019 2018 Compensation received 0 5 Interest expense, loans -113 -97 -0.98 -0.87 Other 2 1 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans -25 -35 -0.22 -0.31 Total 207 182 Change in value, currency derivatives 25 35 0.22 0.31 Refer to Note 1, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Net interest income, derivatives -8 -5 -0.07 -0.05 Exchange rate changes on investments -11 2 -0.1 0.02 Note 3 Property expenses Other interest income and expenses 8 3 0.07 0.03 2019 2018 Other financial expenses -17 -15 -0.15 -0.14 Energy, fuel and water 157 151 Capitalised interest Property operations 337 281 expense, projects 6 2 0.05 0.02 Property tax 49 41 Recognised net financial items -135 -110 -1.18 -0.99 Maintenance 87 91 Change in value of Total 630 564 ­financial derivatives -20 10 -0.17 0.09 Total net financial items -155 -100 -1.35 -0.90 During the year SEK 6 million (2) in interest was capitalised in respect Note 4 Central administration of investments in buildings under construction. Interest equivalent to six months’ Stibor plus a surcharge was used when capitalising. 2019 2018 Payroll and other expenses 49 52 Net financial items recognised according to classification category Depreciation of plant and equipment 7 2 Financial income 2019 2018 Total 56 54 Financial assets measured at FVTPL Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, to see the Interest income, covered bonds 14 3 total payroll expenses. Unallocated administrative expenses are Net gains, derivatives 25 35 reported in this note. Net losses, derivatives Total recognised in profit or loss (net financial items) 39 38 Note 5 Auditors’ fees, SEK thousand Financial assets measured at amortised cost 2019 2018 Interest income, tax account 0 0 Ernst & Young Interest income, other 0 Audit assignment 600 600 Other financial income 0 0 Audit activities other than the audit Total interest income using assignment 65 56 ­effective-interest method 0 0 Tax advice 122 Other services Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans Total 665 778 Exchange rate changes on investments 2 The audit assignment refers to the examination of the annual report, Total financial income 39 40 the accounting records and the administration by the Board and CEO. This also includes a fee for audit advice provided in connection with the audit assignment. Audit activities refers to the examination of the administration or of financial information arising from statutes, the Articles of Association, regulations or agreements that result in a report or other document also intended to form the basis for an assessment by persons other than the principal as well as advice or other assistance brought about by observations during the review assignment. Other services include advice that is not attributable to any of the above types of service and which do not concern taxes. The auditors Ernst & Young AB were elected at the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 AGMs. 84 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued Note 6 Financial income and expenses Financial expenses 2019 2018 Change in value of financial Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL ­derivatives recognised by category and classification 2019 2018 Interest expense, interest-rate derivatives -8 -5 Changes in value on financial assets Change in value, currency derivatives Derivatives measured at fair value 12 Total recognised in profit or loss (net financial items) -8 -5 Changes in value on financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured Derivatives measured at fair value -20 -2 at amortised cost Total change in value of financial Interest expenses, bonds -117 -112 ­derivatives -20 10 Interest expense, commercial paper 3 14 Interest expense, whole loan repos 0 1 Interest expense, non-current loans Other financial expenses -16 -13 Total interest expense with the ­effective-interest method -129 -110 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans -25 -35 Exchange rate changes on investments -11 ECLs on financial assets Total financial expenses -174 -150 Total recognised net financial items -135 -110 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Parent Company total Pension expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 Number of employees 158 144 Chairman of the Board Of whom women 27.85% 25.69% Other Board members Of whom men 72.15% 74.31% Total The subsidiaries have no employees Senior executives Parent Company including the Board and senior executives 2019 2018 2019 2018 Salaries and other remuneration Salaries and other remuneration 90,455 84,458 Chief Executive Officer 2,526 2,446 Social security expenses1 46,715 43,975 Other senior executives 8,501 7,710 Total 11,027 10,156 1) Of which, pension expenses 14,640 14,018 Board of Directors Pension expenses 2019 2018 Chief Executive Officer 769 743 Salaries and other remuneration Other senior executives 2,596 2,405 Chairman of the Board 300 273 Total 3,365 3,148 Other Board members 750 757 Total 1,050 1,030 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 85 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Specification of remuneration to Board members1 2019 2018 Salaries and other Other Salaries and other Other ­remuneration benefits remuneration benefits Eva Landén2 300 273 Bo Lundgren3 65 Jan Berg 4 39 154 Carin Götblad 139 134 Mikael Lundström 139 134 Ulrika Nordström3 Pierre Olofsson5 98 Erik Tranaeus 6 Maj-Charlotte Wallin 159 154 Åsa Wirén7 176 116 Total 1,050 1,030 1) The 2019 AGM resolved that annual Board fees would be payable in an amount of SEK 270,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 130,000 each to other Board members. In addition to the ordinary Board fees, a fee of SEK 30,000 per year was paid to each member of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to each member of the Remuneration Committee. A fee of SEK 40,000 per year was paid to the Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Fees are only paid to members elected by the AGM, not employees of Specialfastigheter or the Government Offices of Sweden. No remuneration over and above that decided by the AGM has been paid to the Chairman of the Board or any Board member. Board fees have been paid as salary, but in two cases were invoiced in Q1 2018 within the framework of the operations conducted in the Board members’ companies. When an assignment is carried out within a Board member’s company, fees to members of the Board and committees are paid with an additional amount equivalent to the social-­ security expenses that Specialfastigheter is otherwise not obliged to pay. Invoicing for Board and committee fees should be cost neutral for Specialfastigheter. 2) E lected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. 3) Stepped down in conjunction with the 2018 AGM. 4) Stepped down in conjunction with the 2019 AGM. 5) Elected to the Board at the 2019 AGM. 6) Co-opted Board member for Ulrika Nordström until the 2018 AGM. Elected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. 7) Elected to the Board at the 2018 AGM. Specification of remuneration to senior executives8 Salaries and other Pension remuneration Other benefits9 expenses10 Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 CEO, Åsa Hedenberg 2,526 2,446 51 48 769 743 3,346 3,237 Deputy CEO/CFO, Kristina Ferenius 1,525 1,470 47 63 464 450 2,036 1,983 Business Director Sweden, Torbjörn Blücher 1,244 1,187 64 61 412 377 1,720 1,625 Projects and Development Director, Göran Cumlin 1,272 1,231 49 59 393 383 1,714 1,673 CIO, Masoomeh Antonsson11 464 4 116 584 Property Management Director, Michaela Sköld12 372 14 50 436 Property Management Director, Åsa Welander13 765 1,061 29 48 173 281 967 1,390 HR Director, Christina Burlin 1,058 1,039 9 2 394 382 1,461 1,423 Head of Purchasing, Henrik Nyström 997 936 39 35 375 318 1,411 1,289 Communication Director, Hanna Janson 804 786 5 1 219 214 1,028 1,001 Total 11,027 10,156 311 317 3,365 3,148 14,703 13,621 8) T here are no individual management contracts or terms relating to severance payments for any senior executives other than the CEO. Notice periods mainly follow collective agreements. There are some individual contracts with mutual 3or 6-month notice periods. Pensions follow an ITP plan with a retirement age of 65. 9) C ompany car, subsidised meals and other benefits such as healthcare insurance. 10) A  ny voluntary salary sacrifice arrangement is included in the total. 11) Joined the management group from 1 July 2019. 12) Joined the management group from 12 August 2019. 13) Included in the management group from 31 August 2019. Total for the Parent Company including the Board company did not have access to information that would have enabled and senior ­executives it to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan. Accordingly, the ITP The Board, including alternates, comprises 11 (11) members; of whom pension plan secured via insurance with Alecta was recognised as a five (five) are women and six (six) are men. Seven members are elected defined-contribution plan. Fees for the year for pension insurance polat the AGM and four members are appointed by employee organisaicies provided by Alecta were approximately SEK 5 million (5). Alecta’s tions. The executive management team, which includes the CEO, is surplus may be distributed to the policy owners and/or the insured. At made up of nine (eight) individuals; of whom six (five) are women and year-end 2019, Alecta’s surpluses in the form of the collective consolithree (three) are men. No variable remuneration or agreements on dation level was 148% (142). The collective consolidation level is the financial instruments apply for senior executives. Retirement pension market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its insurance comand family pension commitments for salaried employees in Sweden mitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial commitments, are secured through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement which do not correspond with IAS 19. The Group and the Parent Comfrom the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this comprises a pany’s pension obligations outstanding to the Chief Executive Officer multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2019 financial year, the and other members of company management amount to SEK 0 (0). 86 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Absence due to illness, % of total working hours 2019 2018 Sick leave/ Long-term sick leave/ Sick leave/ Long-term sick leave/ Reg. hours, % Total sick leave, % Reg. hours, % Total sick leave, % Women 0.86 0.00 1.88 26.90 Men 1.94 21.61 1.86 20.74 Employees under 30 * * * * Employees aged 30–49 1.02 0.00 1.63 17.46 Employees over 49 2.47 28.00 2.10 28.50 All employees 1.64 18.53 1.87 22.47 *) No data is provided as the group is less than 10 people. Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 2019 2018 Proceeds, properties sold 26 3 Fair value, properties sold -22 -2 Selling expenses 0 0 Total 4 1 Note 9 Investment properties Investment properties are recognised using the fair value method (IAS 40) Acquisition (+)/Disposals (-) Properties owned Total 2019 properties for the full year 2019 Opening fair value 27,288 27,288 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure 1,028 1,028 Capitalised interest expenses 1 1 Acquisitions (+) Divestments (-) -26 -26 Unrealised changes in value 746 746 Closing fair value -26 29,063 29,037 Acquisition (+)/Disposals (-) Properties owned Total 2018 properties for the full year 2018 Opening fair value 25,002 25,002 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure 822 822 Capitalised interest expenses 2 2 Acquisitions (+) 58 58 Divestments (-) Unrealised changes in value 1,404 1,404 Closing fair value 58 27,230 27,288 Tax assessment value 2019 2018 Fiscal residual values 2019 2018 Buildings 3,255 3,152 Buildings 7,930 7,784 Land 1,723 1,010 Land 1,524 1,536 Total 4,978 4,162 Total 9,454 9,320 Investment properties Fair value is based on the market value, which is the estimated amount Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generthat would be obtained in a transaction at the valuation date between ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are knowledgeable, independent parties who have an interest in the initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attribtransaction being carried out after customary marketing in which both utable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the parties are assumed to have acted with insight, common sense and balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is based principally on valuations without coercion. Both unrealised and realised changes in value are carried out by company personnel. Valuations are cross-checked recognised in profit or loss. Rental income and income from property against valuations carried out by independent, external appraisers sales are recognised in line with the principles described in the Revewith recognised qualifications and appropriate skills for valuing propnue recognition section; see Note 1 to the consolidated financial erties of the types and locations in question. External valuations take statements. place every six months according to a rolling schedule. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 87 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 9 Investment properties Additional fees Maturity Profile, SEK million 2019 2018 Subsequent expenditures that entail a future financial advantage for Within 1 year the company, that is, which are value enhancing and can be calculated in a reliable manner, are capitalised as assets. Other expenditures, Properties 48 44 repairs and maintenance are expensed during the period in which Housing 3 3 they arise. Between 1 and 5 years Properties 551 535 Under IFRS 13, valuations of property holdings are categorised according to one of three levels. There are different degrees of uncerBeyond 5 years tainty in the valuation depending on the level used. Specialfastigheter Properties 1,575 1,534 uses Level 3, where the degree of uncertainty is greatest as there is Total 2,177 2,116 insufficient transaction/market data to allow using another level. Maturity Profile, SEK million 2019 2018 Level 1 Prices quoted in active markets Year 2020 48 Level 2 Observable data other than data in Level 1 Level 3 Unobservable data Year 2021 180 Year 2022 160 Valuation method The estimated values of Specialfastigheter’s investment properties Year 2023 120 are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual data Year 2024 47 in respect of rents and operating expenses. In order to assure the quality of the internal evaluation, it is cross-checked against an exterBeyond 5 years 1,622 nal evaluation of 34 (50) objects, equivalent to 77% (90) of the total Total 2,177 value. Annualised earnings External valuations take place according to a rolling schedule. The difSensitivity analysis, Percentage impact, SEK million ference between the external and internal evaluations amounts to less variable point change 2019 2018 than 2% (3). Specialfastigheter applies a value below that obtained Rental income +/1% 17.9 17.0 from the external valuations. The market’s required yield is used principally when calculating residual values, that is the property’s estiProperty operations and utilities excl. mated market value at the end of the calculation period. ­electricity +/1% 4.7 4.0 The calculations are performed on a nominal basis using inflation of Maintenance expenses1 +/1% 3.1 2.9 2.0% (2.0) for the first year and 2.0% (2.0) per year for the remaining Interest +/1% 36.5 48.6 years in the calculation. The valuation properties generally have relaMarket rates, derivative tively long rental agreements with tenants who are considered to be instruments2 +/1% 26.7 23.2 reliable payers. Therefore, it is appropriate to use a differentiated cost Price change, purchased of capital for net operating income and residual value in connection covered bond3 +/1% 23.6 24.2 with the calculation of yield value. With regard to reliable rental Cost of capital4 + 0.25% -293 -354 income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period was Cost of capital4 0.25% 302 250 mainly between 5.00% (5.00) and 5.25% (5.25). The required yield ranges mostly from 4.50% (4.65) to 9.00% (9.70) depending on propYield 4 + 0.25% -947 -850 erty location. The average yield was 5.42% (5.78). We note continued Yield 4 0.25% 1,056 832 substantial market interest in our type of properties, known as public Each variable in the above table has been tested individually. sector properties. 1) Includes capitalised maintenance expenses according to IFRS. 2) Impact on earnings relates to the change in value of derivative instruments. The operations and maintenance expense levels used in the cash-flow 3) The impact on earnings relates to momentary changes in deposited covered statements are derived from normalised values based on current bonds as of 31 December 2019 with a nominal value of SEK 1,100 million. maintenance plans. Current rental terms have been used as the basis 4) Impact on earnings relates to change in value of investment properties. in the cash-flow statements. The values take into account the best and maximum use of the properties. Estimated market rents have been applied in the cash-flow statements from the moment when the current rental period expires. We obtained current market yield requirements and costs of capital from an external appraiser for use as supporting data in valuation calculations. The appraiser has carried out various investigations and analyses regarding the property category concerned. This included examining various property transactions completed. Rental income for the year totalled SEK 2,054 million (1,956). Future rents attributable to non-terminable operational leases mature as shown below. 88 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 10 Taxes Note 11 Right-of-use assets Recognised in profit or loss 2019 2018 Leasehold Service and Current tax 152 145 agree­company ments cars Leases Total Deferred tax expense 301 257 Cost Total recognised consolidated tax expense 453 402 1 January 2019 15 7 5 27 New right-of-use assets 8 0 6 Reconciliation of effective tax 31 December 2019 15 15 5 35 Recognised EBT 2,170 2,825 Accumulated Swedish income tax rate, 21.4% (22) 464 621 ­depreciation Tax-exempt income 0 0 1 January 2019 Non-deductible expenses 0 0 Depreciation for the year 2 1 3 Adjusted sale proceeds -1 0 31 December 2019 2 1 3 Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 1 Recognised asset at 31 December 2019 15 13 4 32 Accumulated deferred tax, restated with an income tax rate of 20.6% -11 -220 Interest-bearing liability Total 453 402 1 January 2019 15 7 5 27 New right-of-use assets 8 0 8 Recognised in the balance sheet 2019 2018 31 December 2019 15 15 5 35 Deferred tax liability -3,548 -3,247 Repayments Current tax liability -5 1 1 January 2019 Total -3,553 -3,246 Repayments for the year 2 1 3 31 December 2019 2 1 3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised interInvestment properties -3,227 -2,933 est-bearing liability at 31 December 2019 15 13 4 32 Financial assets 11 10 Tax allocation reserve -255 -243 Amount recognised in 2019 profit or loss Accelerated depreciation -77 -81 Right-of-use assets, Total -3,548 -3,247 depreciation 3 Interest expenses, lease Deferred tax has been calculated with a tax rate of 20.6%. liabilities 4 No deferred tax has been recognised in equity. Expensed low-value or short-term leases 2 Total 9 2019 cash flow for leases was SEK 35 million. For further information, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. For further information, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Note 12 Other property plant and equipment Plant and equipment 2019 2018 Opening cost 27 25 Purchases 1 2 Sales and disposals 0 0 Closing accumulated cost 28 27 Opening depreciation 21 19 Sales and disposals 0 0 Depreciation for the year 3 2 Closing accumulated depreciation 24 21 Closing residual value according to plan 4 6 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 89 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13 Financial investments Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents Derivatives 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current investments Bank balances 1 12 Interest-rate and currency derivatives Total 1 12 measured at FVTPL 47 20 Electricity derivatives measured at FVTPL 4 12 Total 51 32 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities Current investments 2019 2018 Interest-rate and currency derivatives Non-current liabilities measured at FVTPL 6 Loans 10,504 8,510 Electricity derivatives measured Current liabilities at FVTPL 2 17 Loans 3,645 4,891 Total 2 23 Total 14,149 13,401 Other financial investments, Interest-bearing liabilities includes SEK 32 million pertaining to lease non-current liabilities according to IFRS 16. A corresponding amount is also recNon-current investments ognised on the asset side under Right-of-use assets. For further inforCSA deposits 36 64 mation, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Covered bonds 819 926 Of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s non-current loan liabilities, Other shares and participations 0 0 SEK 2,517 million (2,589) matures more than five years after the Total 855 990 balance­-sheet date. Other financial investments, current Foreign currency bonds are translated to the balance-sheet date SEK Covered bonds 302 exchange rate. The fair value of derivatives corresponds to the translated amounts of the bonds, thus largely neutralizing the foreign Total 302 0 exchange effects. The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreements in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivaThe market value of foreign currency bonds is translated to the baltive contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parance-sheet date exchange rate and recognised in the tables in SEK. ties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows at the market equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstandinterest rate on the balance-sheet date for the respective maturity ing. As of 31 December 2019, the Group had lodged collateral in two pursuant to level 2, IFRS 13. The fair value of foreign currency bonds is (three) instances and received collateral in one instance totalling SEK measured by discounting future cash flows at listed market interest 36 million (64). One deposit of SEK 48 million paid to Nordea, one of rates and exchange rates for the respective maturity at the balance­SEK 23 million paid to SEB and one of SEK 35 million received from sheet date. Nomura. Collateral was lodged in the form of eight (seven) covered bonds. As of 31 December 2019, the collateral amounted to SEK 1,121 Funding is distributed as follows million (926). Category – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Carrying Nominal 2019 amount amount Fair value Overdraft facility 243 243 243 Note 14 Other receivables CSA deposits Commercial paper 2,525 2,525 2,525 Non-current receivables 2019 2018 Fixed-interest bonds 8,751 8,755 9,119 Value-added tax for adjustment 3 6 Floating-rate bonds 1,936 1,920 1,921 Total 3 6 Inflation-linked bonds 193 190 193 Foreign currency bonds 469 456 484 Current receivables Total 14,117 14,089 14,485 Opening suspended VAT 49 22 Other receivables 1 1 Carrying Nominal Total 50 23 2018 amount amount Fair value Overdraft facility CSA deposits Commercial paper 3,041 3,040 3,043 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Fixed-interest bonds 7,399 7,405 7,697 Floating-rate bonds 2,329 2,320 2,321 2019 2018 Inflation-linked bonds 189 190 189 Prepaid energy expenses 3 3 Foreign currency bonds 443 456 444 Other interim receivables 16 21 Total 13,401 13,411 13,694 Total 19 24 90 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities Maturity profile Carrying Nominal Carrying Nominal 2019 amount amount Fair value 2018 amount amount Fair value 2019 2019 4,891 4,890 4,905 2020 3,888 3,888 3,895 2020 1,120 1,120 1,136 2021 1,700 1,700 1,723 2021 1,700 1,700 1,746 2022 2,351 2,350 2,373 2022 2,351 2,350 2,378 2023 1,685 1,656 1,685 2023 750 756 744 2024 1,976 1,980 2,048 2024 976 980 1,043 2025 1,000 1,000 1,028 2025 500 500 524 2026 374 375 406 2026 374 375 400 2027 2027 2028 2028 2029 2029 2030 and beyond 1,143 1,140 1,327 2030 and beyond 739 740 818 Total 14,117 14,089 14,485 Total 13,401 13,411 13,694 Group financing in foreign currency at the balance-sheet date 2019 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 0.57 227,790,000 234,230,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 0.60 227,790,000 234,230,000 2018 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 0.34 227,790,000 221,675,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 0.37 227,790,000 221,675,000 Significant contractual conditions currency and after taking currency swaps into account. Foreign curThe Group’s loan agreements include an ownership clause which rency loans are translated at the closing-date exchange rate and the ­entitles lenders to call in a loan early if the state’s ownership level falls exchange-rate change is reported in net financial items. below 100%. The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreeHedge accounting ments in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivaHedge accounting is not applied by the Group. tive contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash Currency distribution equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstandWhen funding in foreign currency, all future payment flows are ing. The Group had received collateral in one instance and lodged hedged so that currency risks are eliminated. All interest payments collateral in two instances at 31 December 2019. Refer to Note 13 to and future repayments are hedged through currency swaps. the consolidated financial statements. The table “Group financing in foreign currency at the balance-sheet date” shows foreign currency at the balance-sheet date by original Note 18 Other liabilities Note 19 A  ccrued expenses and deferred income Other liabilities 2019 2018 Customer advances 0 0 2019 2018 VAT 105 109 Deferred rental income 541 525 Other liabilities 3 2 Accrued energy expenses 6 14 Total 108 111 Accrued interest expenses 37 37 Accrued social-security expenses 2 2 Accrued holiday pay 10 9 Accrued payroll tax 3 3 Other items 8 11 Total 607 601 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 91 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy The Group and Parent Company are exposed to various types of finanFinancing risk cial risk through their business operations. The term financial risks Financing risk refers to the risk that existing financing cannot be means fluctuations in the company’s performance and cash flow due replaced or only at exceptionally high cost. The risk to Specialfastig­ to the effect of interest-rate, financing, credit, currency and electricity heter also includes not being able to secure financing, for example in price risk. All Group financial risks are brought into the Parent Comconnection with a major acquisition. To limit financing risk, Specialfaspany and managed from there. The Group’s financial risks comprise tigheter strives to raise credits with long maturities and even maturity the financial operations of the Parent Company. The Group’s financial profiles for commercial paper and bonds issued. To further reduce policy for managing financial risk has been adopted by the Board and financing risk, there are also guaranteed loan commitments and overcomprises a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandrafts totalling SEK 5,550 million (5,550). On the balance-sheet date, dates and limits for financial operations. The policy is designed to unutilised guaranteed loan commitments, and cash and cash equivaensure that the owner’s required return on equity is achieved in the lents amounted to SEK 5,307 million (5,562) covering the refinancing safest way possible. The overall objective of treasury operations is to risk for the next 28 months’ (18) maturity. provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of market fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. No special undertakings are included in loan commitments other than ownership clauses and disclosure commitments. Three loan commitFor more information on financial risks, refer to page 48. ments totalling SEK 2,500 million increase the margin on loans drawn from the facility if the company’s rating falls below AA-. The maturity Financial operations of financial liabilities has been spread over time to limit refinancing The Parent Company’s financial department manages the Group’s risk. As of 31 December 2019, loan-to-maturity was 4.6 years (3.8), and financial transactions and risks centrally. The company’s Finance taking unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, ­Manager deals with operational activities. loan-to-maturity was 5.4 (4.8) years. Rating During the year, we increased investments in covered bonds by SEK The credit rating institute Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has rated the com200 million to a total nominal amount of SEK 1,100 million (900) with pany’s long-term funding with an AA+/Stable outlook and retained a medium-term maturity; these investments are used as collateral for A-1+ for short-term funding. S&P raised the rating from AA to AA+ in raising whole loan repos. 2005 given the continued long-term ownership aims of the Swedish government and the company’s long-term ability to achieve the ownThe company’s nominal gross financial liability totalled SEK 14,089 miler’s return requirement. S&P confirmed the AA+ rating on 17 Decemlion (13,411) at year end. Further reductions of the refinancing risk are ber 2019. When S&P assesses Specialfastigheter’s stand-alone creditachieved by diversifying funding sources; refer to the “Credit facilities” worthiness – the company’s ability to stand-alone without Swedish table. Borrowing is conducted in the Swedish and international credit state ownership – we receive an AAcredit rating. markets through bond and commercial paper programmes and in the Swedish and international banking markets. Specialfastigheter conInterest-rate risk ducts borrowing against the balance sheet without pledging properInterest-rate risk refers to the risk of negative effects on interest ties. The company’s loan contracts have included an ownership clause expenses for existing and future financing due to interest-rate ever since 1999, which strengthens lenders’ positions. The clause changes. Specialfastigheter’s interest-rate exposure is governed by means that lenders are entitled to call a loan in early if state ownership limiting the proportion maturing within 12 months to a maximum of falls below 100%. 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest period should be within a range of 1–5 years. On the closing date, the average The “Liquidity risk” table on page 94 shows agreed undiscounted fixed-interest period was 4.0 years (3.2). The fixed-interest period cash flows, which include all financial liabilities including interest payshows how quickly a change in interest rates will impact in the form of ments. Where the future variable interest rate is unknown, it has been increased borrowing expenses. The objective of interest-rate risk estimated with the aid of implicit forward interest rates. Rental income management is to achieve low interest expenses over time while is used to meet the future commitments presented in the table. Credit adapting the interest-rate profile to underlying business possibilities. risk is assessed as negligible for rental income. At 31 December 2019, the portfolio’s average interest rate for loans Credit risks and counterparty risks in financial operations and derivatives was 0.90% (0.85). Inflation-linked bonds were issued Financial credit risk refers primarily to counterparty risks in connection for SEK 190 million (190) to protect inflation-linked items in the income with receivables from banks and other counterparties. The risk arises statement, such as rental income and, operating and maintenance in derivatives trading or the investment of cash and cash equivalents. expenses. Specialfastigheter’s policy to reduce credit risk is that the investment of cash and cash equivalents and entering into of derivative contracts The company’s financial policy permits the use of derivatives. The may only be carried out with a limited number of counterparties and main derivatives used are interest-rate swaps. The risk exposure of the within approved limits. Cash and cash equivalents are used in practice total portfolio is governed by limits for fixed-interest periods. This to repay loans. Derivative counterparties are banks with high credit leads to the limitation of the total risk effect of the derivatives portforatings. lio. The company conducts derivative transactions to cost effectively manage the whole financial portfolio’s allocation of interest-rate The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK 53 exposure over time. The derivatives portfolio has created a redistribumillion (55) as of 31 December 2019; this corresponds to the company’s tion of interest-rate exposure from shorter to longer terms; refer to the total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. “Fixed-interest maturity structure and loan-to-maturity.” The volume for loan-to-maturity includes loans and investments in covered bonds. CSA deposits are in the form of cash deposits. The fixed-interest volume includes loans, derivatives and investments The credit risk in daily business operations is limited by advance in covered bonds. The loan liability is calculated as a net liability, after invoicing of rents, long leases and by tenants having a strong connectaking into account any positive balances and investments. tion to the Swedish state. 92 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy Receivables mainly comprise lease receivables for which the Group rency exposure also occurs when financial electricity derivatives are has chosen to apply the simplified approach for ECL recognition. This taken up, they are hedged by means of currency derivatives. The entails making ECL provisions for the remaining lifetimes, which are effects of the unrealised change in value are reported under “Change expected to be less than one year for all receivables. The Group in value of financial instruments, unrealised” in the income statement, applies a rating-based method for calculating ECLs based on probawhile foreign currency loans are translated at the balance-sheet date bility of default, expected loss and exposure at default. The Group exchange rate and reported in net financial items. defines default as when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or if other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies. The The following table shows the Group’s borrowing and hedging in Group has essentially one counterparty, namely the Swedish state. At ­foreign currency. present, the counterparty’s credit rating is AAA, which means that the risk of credit losses is deemed negligible. Therefore, the Group has Nominal amounts (SEK) per business day not made any provision for ECLs. 2019 Original currency Loans Derivatives Total The Parent Company applies the general approach for ECL provisions on intra-Group receivables. The Parent Company applies a rating­USD 456.0 -456.0 0 based method for calculating ECLs based on probability of default, expected loss and exposure at default. At the balance-sheet date, the 2018 Group had a credit rating of AA+ from Standard & Poor’s. The risk Original currency Loans Derivatives Total nature of subsidiaries’ operations and types of properties are compaUSD 456.0 -456.0 0 rable to that of the Parent Company and, accordingly, the subsidiaries are assumed to have comparable credit ratings. The Parent Company Electricity price risk defines default as when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or Electricity price risk refers to the risk of fluctuations in the future price if other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies. At the of electricity adversely affecting the company’s operating expenses. balance-sheet date, no material increase in credit risk is assessed as As a consequence of this, the company has established an electricity applying for any intra-Group receivables. Based on the Parent price policy with a long-term price-hedging strategy; refer to the ­Company’s assessments using the above approach and taking into “Hedged portion of future electricity consumption” table. To limit the consideration other known information and forward-looking factors, electricity price risk for estimated electricity consumption, the comECLs are not expected to be material and therefore no provision has pany buys price-hedging contracts in the form of electricity futures. been made. These are managed through day-to-day analysis of the electricity ­market and the company’s own portfolio. Price hedging is done in sub Financial items that have matured for payment at the year items to reduce the risk of undertaking large price hedges in expenend, SEK million sive circumstances. In this way the hedged portion increases as the 2019 2018 consumption date approaches. By the time a budgeted price is to be Financial assets 389 91 given for the coming year, a large portion has been price-hedged. Financial liabilities 2 2 Specialfastigheter passes on most of the electricity cost to its tenants, An impairment of SEK 0 million (0) was carried out on the balance­which means the price risk to the company is negligible. sheet date. SEK 0 million (1) of trade receivables were unpaid at 31 ­January 2020. Trade payables of SEK 0 million (1) were unpaid Derivatives in January. Specialfastigheter uses derivative instruments to manage interest­rate risk and to thereby achieve the desired fixed-rate structure and to Credit rating, financial assets, SEK million manage currency risk and to hedge loans in foreign currencies. Simplified General Over time, changes in value may arise in the derivatives portfolio 2019 approach approach owing to changes in market interest rates and exchange rates. These Trade unrealised changes in value are recognised in profit or loss. Electricity Credit rating receivables Stage 1 Total derivatives are measured at fair value and recognised in profit or loss. No credit rating/trade The electricity consumption expense is recognised on an ongoing receivables 2 2 basis in profit or loss. Financial interest-rate derivatives are measured AAA 456 456 at fair value according to the closing interest rate as of the balance­AA 1 1 sheet date. A 0 0 Financial instruments measured at fair value BBB The fair value of financial instruments can be determined in various Total 458 1 459 ways. Currency risk Level 1 Fair value determined by prices quoted in an active market Foreign currency borrowing outside the Swedish market takes place if for the same instrument. it is advantageous from an overall cost or diversification perspective. Level 2 Fair value determined either by directly or indirectly Foreign currency exposures must be hedged if they exceed a value observable market data not included in Level 1. equivalent to SEK 5 million. Foreign currency hedging refers to the use Level 3 Fair value determined based on data that is not observof financial derivatives or matching between assets and liabilities. able in the market. Since the Group’s activities are exclusively denominated in Swedish krona, all currency risks in connection with financing in foreign currenThe table on page 95 describes how fair value was determined for the cies have been eliminated through currency derivatives. Because curcompany’s financial instruments. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 93 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy Financial instruments – Measured at fair value Prices quoted in an Measurement based on Measurement based on information 2019 active market (Level 1) ­observable data (Level 2) other than o ­ bservable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps -61 -61 Currency swaps 18 18 Electricity futures 3 3 Net 3 -43 -40 Prices quoted in an Measurement based on Measurement based on information 2018 active market (Level 1) ­observable data (Level 2) other than o ­ bservable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps -50 -50 Currency swaps -23 -23 Electricity futures 28 28 Net 28 -73 -45 Credit facilities Loan limit Utilised 2019 2018 2019 2018 CSA deposits -36 -64 Group overdraft 800 800 243 -12 Guaranteed loan commitments 4,750 4,750 Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 2,525 3,040 MTN programme 13,000 13,000 10,675 9,725 Private Placements 956 956 646 646 Whole loan repos 1,100 900 Investments -1,100 -900 -1,100 -900 Total 24,506 24,506 12,953 12,435 Liquidity risk, agreed undiscounted cash flows 2019 Loan Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -1,796 0 -4 -4 -213 Between 3 and 12 months -1,976 20 -17 3 Between 1 and 3 years -6,017 55 -54 1 Between 3 and 5 years -3,475 5 -11 -6 Total -13,264 80 -86 -6 -213 2018 Loan Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -1,663 0 -4 -4 -169 Between 3 and 12 months -3,359 28 -16 12 Between 1 and 3 years -5,458 56 -59 -3 Between 3 and 5 years -2,368 24 -28 -4 Total -12,848 108 -107 1 -169 Exposure to counterparty risks distributed across different rating categories Institute with long rating, 2019 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA17 -64 48 1 A+ 1 -15 23 9 A 28 -10 -35 -17 BBB+ Electricity derivatives 7 -4 3 Total 53 -93 36 -4 Institute with long rating, 2018 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA20 -57 33 -4 A+ 6 -19 11 -2 A -23 20 -3 BBB+ Electricity derivatives 29 -1 28 Total 55 -100 64 19 94 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy Hedged portion of future electricity consumption 2019 2018 Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion 2020 102 70% 100% 75% 2019 102 70% 100% 78% 2021 102 40% 100% 60% 2020 102 40% 100% 45% 2022 102 20% 100% 35% 2021 102 20% 100% 45% 2023 102 0% 100% 15% 2022 102 0% 100% 20% Maturity profile for electricity derivatives 2019 2018 Year GWh Market value Year GWh Market value 2020 76 0 2019 79 16 2021 61 3 2020 46 7 2022 36 0 2021 46 5 2023 15 0 2022 20 0 2024 0 2023 0 Total 188 3 Total 191 28 Derivative portfolio’s market value 2019 2018 Nominal value Positive value Negative value Nominal value Positive value Negative value Currency swaps 456 28 10 456 0 23 Interest-rate swaps 1,549 18 79 1,797 26 76 Electricity futures 7 4 29 1 Total 2,005 53 93 2,253 55 100 Sensitivity analysis Change Pre-tax change in profit or loss Change in equity after tax Change in net financial items if market rate Earnings decrease SEK 36 million (49) Equity decreases SEK 29 million (39) increases 1%, annual expense change Change in value of financial derivatives if Earnings increase SEK 27 million (23) Equity increases SEK 21 million (18) ­market rate increases 1% Currency risk is hedged by currency swaps, No change No change which removes the effect of exchange-rate changes Electricity price risk – electricity futures reduce No change No change price volatility. The majority of electricity expenses are then passed on to the tenants. Fixed-interest maturity structure and loan-to-maturity Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 5,7131 4,8281 2020 4,2381, 2 3992 3,5491, 2 7992 2021 1,7002 1,6962 1,3942 1,3902 2022 1,8472 1,8462 2,1452 2,1452 2023 7102 1862 1,3772 6482 2024 1,847 846 1,977 2 976 2025 1,000 500 1,000 500 2026 374 374 374 374 2027 2028 2029 2030 and beyond 1,243 839 1,143 739 Total 12,959 12,399 12,959 12,399 1) Includes CSA deposits given and received as well as bank balances. 2) Includes investments in covered bonds. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 95 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy Carrying amount per category 2019 2018 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 18 18 26 26 Currency derivatives 28 28 Electricity derivatives 7 7 29 29 Covered bonds 1,121 1,121 926 926 Shares and participations 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Trade receivables 458 4581 153 1531 CSA deposits 71 711 64 641 Accrued interest income Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 12 12 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 79 79 76 76 Currency derivatives 10 10 23 23 Electricity derivatives 4 4 1 1 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Commercial paper 2,525 2,525 3,041 3,0432 Fixed-interest bonds 8,751 9,119 7,399 7,6972 Floating-rate bonds 1,936 1,921 2,329 2,3212 Inflation-linked bonds 193 193 189 1892 Foreign currency bonds 469 484 443 4442 Trade payables 213 213 169 1691 CSA deposits 35 35 Accrued interest expenses 37 37 37 371 1) Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows at the market interest rate on the balance-sheet date for the respective maturity. The fair value of bonds in foreign currency is measured by discounting future cash flows at the balance-sheet date exchange rate for the respective maturity. At the balance-sheet date there were no material differences between carrying amounts and fair values for trade receivables and trade payables. 2) Market quotations and generally accepted Level 2 calculation methods are used to determine fair value on the closing date. The Group’s maximum credit risk comprises the net amounts in the based approach in combination with other known information and above table. The Group has not received any pledged collateral for forward­-looking factors to assess ECLs. The Group defines default as the net financial assets. when receivables are 90 days or more past-due, or if other factors indicate that a suspension of payments applies. In those instances where The financial assets encompassed by an ECL provision pursuant to the amounts are not assessed as negligible, an ECL provision is recog­ general approach consist of cash and cash equivalents, CSA deposits nised even for these financial instruments. and accrued interest income. Specialfastigheter applies a rating­Financial assets and liabilities that are offset or covered by a general netting arrangement Amounts covered by a general or similar netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial Financial collateral, 2019 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ­instruments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 54 54 -54 Derivative ­liabilities -94 -94 54 36 -4 Total -40 -40 36 -4 Amounts covered by a general or similar netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial Financial collateral, 2018 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ­instruments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 55 55 -55 Derivative liabilities -100 -100 55 64 19 Total -45 -45 64 19 1) These financial assets and liabilities are only offset in the case of insolvency or upon suspension of payments by either party. These also include arrangements where the Group has no intention of divesting the instruments concurrently. 96 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 20 Financial risks and financial policy Summary of liabilities attributable to financing activities Cash flow items Non-cash items Closing Cash flow from Effect of Closing ­balance financing changed Change in Price ­balance 2018 ­activities exchange rate fair value change 2019 Interest-bearing liabilities 13,401 690 25 1 14,117 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 111 -3 108 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps, fair value hedges 99 0 -25 15 89 Electricity futures, fair value hedges 1 3 4 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 13,612 687 0 18 1 14,318 Cash flow items Non-cash items Closing Cash flow from Effect of Closing balance financing changed Change in Price ­balance 2017 ­activities exchange rate fair value change 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities 13,781 -414 35 -1 13,401 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 107 4 111 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps, fair value hedges 145 0 -35 -11 99 Electricity futures, fair value hedges 2 -1 1 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 14,035 -410 0 -12 -1 13,612 Note 21 Related parties Related-party transactions Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2019 2018 2019 2018 Intra-Group income 9 7 Intra-Group expenses Current intra-Group receivables 5 5 Non-current intra-Group receivables 564 596 Short-term intra-Group liability during winding-up proceedings -259 Transactions with the shareholder Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2019 2018 2019 2018 Dividend 555 560 No ECLs on financial assets exist within the Group. ­ ompany. For more information on salaries and other remuneration, C expenses and commitments with respect to pensions and similar There are no dealings with the owner, the Swedish State, other than ­benefits of the Board, CEO and other senior executives, as well as those stipulated by law. The Parent Company, Specialfastigheter ­contracts concerning severance payments, see Note 7 to the con­ Sverige AB, company registration number 556537-5945, has a close solidated financial statements. relationship with its subsidiaries; refer to Note 15 for the Parent Note 22 Pledged assets and contingent ­liabilities Note 23 Events after the balance-sheet date 2019 2018 COVID-19 is ongoing and we cannot currently assess its future consequences. But based on the types of tenants and the financing we have, Pledged assets None None we do not currently deem it a major risk. Contingent liabilities None None SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 97 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Rental income 1,948 1,857 Other income 2 203 172 Net sales 2,151 2,029 Operating expenses 3 -609 -531 Depreciation of investment properties -728 -672 Gross profit 814 826 Central administration 4, 5 -56 -61 Gain/loss on property sales 6 11 1 Operating profit 7 769 766 Profit/loss from financial investments Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 8 44 58 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 8 -196 -152 Profit/loss after financial items 617 672 Appropriations 9 -35 -59 Tax on profit for the year 10 -126 -87 Net profit for the year 11 456 526 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 456 526 Parent Company – Statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Net profit for the year 456 526 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax Total comprehensive income for the year 456 526 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 456 526 Since the Parent Company’s and the Consolidated income statements and balance sheets largely correspond, we have issued no separate ­comments for the Parent Company. 98 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Balance sheet, SEK million Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 12, 13 15,447 15,198 Plant and equipment 14 4 6 Financial assets 15 2,166 2,316 Total non-current assets 17,617 17,520 Current assets Trade receivables 439 146 Tax assets 10 5 Current investments 16 304 23 Current receivables 17 55 27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 18 23 Cash and bank balances 19 1 12 Total current assets 817 236 Total assets 18,434 17,756 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital (2,000,000 shares) 200 200 Statutory reserve 42 42 Total restricted equity 242 242 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 354 124 Net profit for the year 456 526 Total non-restricted equity 810 650 Total equity 1,052 892 Untaxed reserves 20 1,574 1,539 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Green bonds 21 1,246 1,244 Other loan liabilities 21 12,871 12,416 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Tax liability 10 7 Other liabilities 22 402 371 Deferred tax liabilities 10 706 724 Accrued expenses and deferred income 23 576 570 Total liabilities 15,808 15,325 Total equity and liabilities 18,434 17,756 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 99 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Statutory Retained 2019 Share capital reserve earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2019 200 42 650 892 Comprehensive income Contributed capital from subsidiaries 259 259 Net profit for the year 456 456 Other comprehensive income Total 200 42 1,365 1,607 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -555 -555 Total transactions with the shareholder -555 -555 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 200 42 810 1,052 Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Statutory Retained 2018 Share capital reserve earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2018 200 42 684 926 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 526 526 Other comprehensive income Total 200 42 1,210 1,452 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend -560 -560 Total transactions with the shareholder -560 -560 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 200 42 650 892 100 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2019 Full-year 2018 Operating activities Gross profit 814 826 Central administration -56 -61 Net financial expense -152 -94 Reversal, change in value of financial investments -5 -45 Reversal, change in prices 37 32 Reversal of depreciation 738 674 Income tax paid -132 -166 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,244 1,166 Change in working capital Change in receivables -312 -2 Change in other current liabilities 44 46 Total change in working capital -268 44 Cash flow from operating activities 976 1,210 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties -58 Investment in investment properties -970 -1,015 Disposal of investment properties 26 1 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -1 -2 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -945 -1,074 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds -206 116 Borrowings 18,201 17,041 Repayments of borrowings -17,482 -17,186 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -555 -560 Cash flow from financing activities -42 -589 Cash flow for the year -11 -453 Opening cash and cash equivalents 12 465 Closing cash and cash equivalents 1 12 Interest Interest received 19 9 Interest paid 123 100 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 101 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the The following depreciation rates were used: Group, except in the cases specified below. The deviations between Building fixtures and fittings 10% per year the Parent Company’s and the Group’s policies arise from limitations Buildings 2–7% per year in the Parent Company’s ability to apply IFRS as a result of provisions In ground fixtures and fittings 5% per year in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension ObligaLand improvements  5% per year tions Vesting Act, and in certain cases for tax reasons. Buildings Parent Company accounting policies Buildings in the Parent Company are recognised at cost less accumuThe Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance lated depreciation. Cost consists of the acquisition cost, land registrawith the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 of tion costs and value enhancing improvements. Only expenses that the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, Accounting for Legal Entities. generate lasting value enhancement to a property are capitalised. Statements issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board applicable to listed companies are also applied. RFR 2 means that the Parent In conjunction with the review of the economic useful life as described Company must apply all EU-approved IFRSs and interpretations insoin the Depreciation section above, the company is having all properfar as this is possible under the provisions of the Annual Accounts Act, ties valued using the model described in Note 9 to the consolidated the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with due considerfinancial statements. If the value of a property thus estimated falls ation to the relationship between accounting and taxation. ­significantly below the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised for the property. No impairments were recognised in 2019. Changes in accounting policies At 31 December 2019, the Parent Company’s property holdings were New standards and interpretations that entered force in 2019 have had valued at SEK 27,354 million (25,651). a limited impact on the financial statements. Plant and equipment Interest expenses for legal entities Plant and equipment in the Parent Company are reported at cost less As a result of changes in the Income Tax Act, interest expenses and accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses in the same way other fees for borrowing are not capitalised as part of the cost of as for the Group, but with the addition of possible positive revaluations. assets from 2019. According to an amendment from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, no capitalised costs are expensed retro­ Leased assets actively. The amendment refers only to legal entities and does not According to exceptions in RFR 2 pertaining to leased assets, the affect the consolidated accounts. ­Parent Company does not apply IFRS 16. All lease payments are expensed over the term of the leases based on their period of utilisaClassification and structure tion, which may differ from what has de facto been paid in lease payThe Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet follow ments during the year. the structure of the Annual Accounts Act. The principal difference in comparison with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements applied in For further information, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial the layout of the Group’s financial statements is the presentation of ­s tatements. operating profit, financial income and expenses, non-current assets, equity and the occurrence of provisions as separate headings in the Taxes balance sheet. Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised in the Parent Company. However, in the consolidated financial stateSubsidiaries ments untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in equity. accordance with the cost method. Acquisition-related expenses for subsidiaries are included in the cost of the shares in the subsidiary. Group contributions and shareholder contributions Dividends received are recognised as income. for legal entities The recipient recognises shareholder’s contributions directly in equity Depreciation and the donor capitalises contributions in shares and participations, Earnings in the income statement have been charged with depreciato the extent that impairment is not required. A Group contribution tion according to plan. In the case of plant and equipment, the differreceived by the Parent Company from a subsidiary is recognised ence between fiscal and planned depreciation is reported as an applying the same principles as customary dividends from subsidiarappropriation, and accumulated accelerated depreciation as untaxed ies and are recognised as financial income. Group contributions paid reserves. A review of economic lives of buildings was carried out by the Parent Company to subsidiaries are recognised as an increase during the year. Since the maximum fiscal rate falls short of planned in the carrying amount of the participations in the subsidiary. No depreciation, a deferred tax asset arises. The company includes the Group contributions were paid during 2019. deferred tax asset in its total recognised deferred tax liability. IFRS 9 – Parent Company Planned depreciation is based on an asset’s cost and estimated The Parent Company applies the exception of not measuring financial ­economic life. guarantee commitments that benefit subsidiaries or associated companies pursuant to the rules under IFRS 9 and instead applies the measurement policies under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Financial risk management For further information, see notes 6, 13, 17 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 102 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 8 Net financial items 2019 2018 2019 2018 Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 73 67 Interest income, subsidiaries 5 5 Invoiced services 121 93 Interest income, covered bonds 13 3 Invoiced services within the Group 9 7 Other interest income 1 1 Compensation received 0 5 Investment gains 2 Other 0 0 Changes in value on revaluation Total 203 172 of financial derivatives 25 47 Financial income 44 58 Interest expenses, bonds 117 111 Other interest expenses 7 -9 Note 3 Operating expenses Investment losses 36 34 2019 2018 Other financial expenses 16 16 Energy, fuel and water 147 142 Capitalisation of interest, projects in progress -2 Property operations 332 262 Changes in value on revaluation Property tax 48 40 of financial derivatives 20 2 Maintenance 82 87 Financial expenses 196 152 Total 609 531 Net financial expense 152 94 Note 4 Central administration Note 9 Appropriations 2019 2018 2019 2018 Payroll and other expenses 53 59 Difference between book depreciation Depreciation of plant and equipment 3 2 and depreciation according to plan: Total 56 61 Plant and equipment -13 0 Provision to tax allocation reserve 225 209 Reversal from tax allocation reserve -177 -150 Total 35 59 Note 5 Auditors’ fees Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Note 10 Taxes Recognised in profit or loss 2019 2018 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales Current tax expense 144 138 Deferred tax expense -18 -51 2019 2018 Total recognised tax 126 87 Proceeds, properties sold 26 3 Book value, properties sold -15 -2 Reconciliation of effective tax Selling expenses 0 0 Recognised EBT 582 613 Total 11 1 Swedish income tax rate, 21.4% (22) 125 135 Tax-exempt income 0 0 Non-deductible expenses 0 0 Adjusted sale proceeds 0 0 Note 7 E  mployees, payroll expenses and Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 1 Board fees Accumulated deferred tax, restated with an income tax rate of 20.6% -49 Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 126 87 Recognised in the balance sheet Liabilities Deferred tax liability -706 -724 Current tax asset/liability -7 5 Total -713 -719 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Financial assets 11 10 Capitalised maintenance expenses -195 -163 Property depreciation, revaluation -522 -571 Total -706 -724 Deferred tax has been calculated with a tax rate of 20.6%. No deferred tax has been recognised in equity. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 103 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 11 Appropriation of profits and dividend Land 2019 2018 Opening cost 1,428 1,371 The dividend paid to the shareholder in April 2019 totalled SEK Purchases 57 555,000,000 (SEK 560,000,000) and comprised an ordinary dividend, Sales and disposals -11 0 as defined in the dividend policy. The dividend per share was SEK Closing accumulated cost 1,417 1,428 277.50 (280). Regarding the dividend for this year, the Board proposes Closing residual value according to plan 1,417 1,428 that a dividend of SEK 285.00 per share be paid to the shareholder. A resolution will be taken by the shareholder regarding the dividend Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 1,690 977 at the AGM. The dividend has not been taken up as a liability in the annual accounts. The dividend is estimated to total SEK 570,000,000. Land improvements Opening cost 355 292 Non-restricted equity, Parent Company: Projects completed 26 63 Retained earnings 353,851,557 Sales and disposals Net profit for the year 456,264,319 Closing accumulated cost 381 355 Total 810,115,876 The Board and CEO propose that earnings be appropriated Opening depreciation 155 139 as follows: Sales and disposals Depreciation for the year 18 16 Dividend payable to the ­shareholder 570,000,000 Closing accumulated depreciation 173 155 To be carried forward 240,115,876 Closing residual value according to plan 208 200 Total 810,115,876 In ground fixtures and fittings Opening cost 399 353 Projects completed 16 46 Sales and disposals Note 12 B  uildings, building fixtures and Closing accumulated cost 415 399 ­fittings, land, land improvements, in ground fixtures and fittings Opening depreciation 170 151 Sales and disposals Buildings 2019 2018 Depreciation for the year 19 19 Opening cost 13,288 12,617 Closing accumulated depreciation 189 170 Purchases 4 Closing residual value according to plan 226 229 Projects completed 475 477 Capitalised maintenance expenses 146 191 Total Sales and disposals -33 -1 Opening cost 16,630 15,514 Closing accumulated cost 13,876 13,288 Purchases 61 Projects completed 569 865 Opening depreciation 5,072 4,663 Capitalised maintenance expenses 146 191 Sales and disposals -25 -1 Sales and disposals -33 -1 Depreciation for the year 465 410 Closing accumulated cost 17,312 16,630 Closing accumulated depreciation 5,512 5,072 Opening revaluations 4,274 4,274 Opening depreciation 6,131 5,592 Revaluations for the year Sales and disposals -25 -1 Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 Depreciation for the year 597 540 Closing accumulated depreciation 6,703 6,131 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 599 467 Depreciation for the year on revalued Opening revaluations 4,274 4,274 amounts 132 132 Revaluations for the year Closing accumulated depreciation Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 on revalued amounts 731 599 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 599 467 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Depreciation for the year on revalued Impairment charges for the year amounts 132 132 Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Closing accumulated depreciation Closing residual value according to plan 11,813 11,797 on revalued amounts 731 599 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 3,103 3,000 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Impairment charges for the year Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Building fixtures and fittings Closing residual value according to plan 14,047 14,080 Opening cost 1,160 881 Projects completed 52 279 Sales and disposals Closing accumulated cost 1,212 1,160 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 4,793 3,977 Fair value, properties in Sweden 27,354 25,651 Opening depreciation 734 639 Sales and disposals For further valuation principle information, see Note 1 to the consoliDepreciation for the year 95 95 dated financial statements. Closing accumulated depreciation 829 734 Closing residual value according to plan 383 426 104 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13 Construction in progress Note 14 Plant and equipment 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 1,118 1,365 Opening cost 27 25 Accrued expenses for the year 997 809 Purchases 1 2 Capitalised maintenance expenses -146 -191 Sales and disposals 0 0 Projects completed -569 -865 Closing accumulated cost 28 27 Closing balance 1,400 1,118 Opening depreciation 21 19 Sales and disposals 0 0 Depreciation for the year 3 2 Closing accumulated depreciation 24 21 Closing residual value according to plan 4 6 Note 15 Financial assets 2019 2018 Shares in subsidiaries 692 692 Other shares 1 0 Receivables from subsidiaries 565 596 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 51 32 CSA deposits 35 64 Covered bonds 819 926 Value-added tax for adjustment 3 6 Total 2,166 2,316 Shares in subsidiaries 2019 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Specialfastigheter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 294,402 Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 100% 100% 1,000 281,609 Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2019 692,192 Shares in subsidiaries 2018 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Specialfastigheter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 294,402 Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 100% 100% 1,000 281,609 Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Nordrike Fastighets AB (in winding-up process) 100% 100% 500 50 Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2018 692,242 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 105 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 15 Financial assets Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2019 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2019 100 Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2018 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2018 100 Information on company registration numbers and registered offices, 2019 Subsidiary Co. Reg. No. Registered office Specialfastigheter Lejonet AB 559077-3015 Linköping Specialfastigheter F-öarna 6 AB 556661-1447 Linköping Specialfastigheter Gärdet AB 556910-1370 Linköping Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5187 Linköping Indirectly owned subsidiaries Co. Reg. No. Registered office Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5179 Linköping Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 556963-5161 Linköping Subsidiaries (winding up) Co. Reg. No. Registered office Nordrike Fastighets AB 556832-2290 Linköping 106 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 16 Current investments Note 22 Other liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 2 23 Customer advances 0 0 Covered bonds 302 Trade payables 208 164 Total 304 23 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 94 100 VAT 98 104 Other liabilities 2 3 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 402 371 Note 17 Current receivables 2019 2018 Receivables from subsidiaries 5 5 Note 23 A  ccrued expenses and deferred Opening suspended VAT 49 22 income Other receivables 1 0 Total 55 27 2019 2018 Deferred rental income 511 496 Accrued energy expenses 6 13 Accrued interest expenses 37 37 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued social-security expenses 3 2 Accrued holiday pay 10 9 2019 2018 Accrued payroll tax 3 3 Prepaid energy expenses 3 3 Other items 6 10 Other interim receivables 15 20 Total 576 570 Total 18 23 Note 24 Related parties Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents Refer to Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 2019 2018 Bank balances 1 12 Total 1 12 Note 25 Pledged assets and contingent l­iabilities 2019 2018 Note 20 Untaxed reserves Pledged assets None None Contingent liabilities None None 2019 2018 Accumulated difference between reported depreciation and depreciation according to plan 377 391 Note 26 Events after the balance-sheet date Tax allocation reserve 1,197 1,148 Total 1,574 1,539 COVID-19 is ongoing and we cannot currently assess its future consequences. But based on the types of tenants and the financing we have, we do not currently deem it a major risk. Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities Refer to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 107 D E C L A R AT I O N B Y T H E B O A R D Declaration by the Board The consolidated financial statements and annual accounts The Board in its entirety also affirms, based on its best knowlhave been prepared in accordance with the international edge and conviction, the following: accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of • A sustainability report has been prepared in accordance 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting with the Annual Accounts Act. standards and good accounting practice and present a true • The sustainability report includes no material misstatements and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the or omissions and all information is in accordance with the ­Parent Company. contents of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. The Administration Report for the Group and the Parent Company presents a true and fair overview of the activities, financial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies contained in the Group. Stockholm, 23 March 2020 Eva Landén Åsa Hedenberg Chairman CEO Carin Götblad Mikael Lundström Board member Board member Pierre Olofsson Erik Tranaeus Board member Board member Maj-Charlotte Wallin Åsa Wirén Board member Board member Tomas Edström Erik Ydreborg Employee Representative Employee Representative Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on 23 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Mikael Ikonen Authorised Public Accountant, Ernst & Young AB 108 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR ’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Special­ Key audit matters fastigheter Sverige AB (publ), corporate identity number Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our 556537-5945 professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the curReport on the annual accounts and consolidated rent period. These matters were addressed in the context of accounts our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter accounts of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) except for the below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter corporate governance statement on pages 61–67 and the statis provided in that context. utory sustainability report on pages 50–57 for the 2019 financial year. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s the company are included on pages 6–108 in this document. responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Accordingly, our audit included the performance of proceaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, dures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of in all material respects, the financial position of the Parent material misstatement of the financial statements. The results Company as of 31 December 2019 and its financial perforof our audit procedures, including the procedures performed mance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts opinion on the accompanying financial statements. have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial Valuation of investment properties position of the group as of 31 December 2019 and its financial Description of key audit matter performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accor• At 31 December 2019, the fair value of Specialfastigheter’s dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), properties amounted to SEK 29,037 million and the change as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. in value to SEK 1,749 million. Unrealised changes in value amounted to SEK 746 million and realised changes in value Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statetotalled SEK 1,003 million. A description of the appraisal of ment on pages 61–67 and the statutory sustainability report the property holdings has been provided in Note 9. on pages 50–57. The statutory administration report is consis• Each quarter, Specialfastigheter conducts an internal valuatent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolition of its entire property holdings and, moreover, in Q2 and dated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general Q4, control validations are performed by external appraisers meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and of a number of properties. This means that in 2019, 77% of balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Our the market value, corresponding to 34 objects, were valued opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consoliby external appraisers. dated accounts are consistent with the content of the addi• The valuations are based on the return using cash-flow tional report that has been submitted to the parent company's approach, which entails forecasting future cash flows. The audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation required yield is assessed based on each property’s unique (537/2014) Article 11. risks and on market transactions completed for objects of a similar nature, since few directly comparable transactions Basis for opinions occur. Changes in unobservable input data applied in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International appraisals are analysed at each balance-sheet date by the Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing company management against internally available informastandards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stantion, completed or planned transactions as well as informadards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibility tion from the external appraisers. Given the numerous sections. We are independent of the Parent Company and the assumptions and judgements that occur in connection with Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants appraisals; we believe that this area should be considered in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilia key audit matter. ties in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited How our audit addressed this key audit matter services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article • We have evaluated and examined the management’s pro­ 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where cedures for valuing properties through measures, including applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies evaluating the appraisal method and appraisal input data. within the EU. We have also carried out comparisons against known market data. With support from our valuation specialists, we have We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiexamined the company’s internal valuation model. We have cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. also examined, with our valuation specialists’ support, the reasonableness of assumptions in terms of required yield, vacancy rate, rental income and operating expenses. We have assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in the annual accounts. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 109 AUDITOR ’S REPORT Other information than the annual accounts and the ance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accor­consolidated accounts dance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in This document also contains other information than the annual Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it accounts and the consolidated accounts and can be found on exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are pages 1–5, 50–58 and 113–122. The Board of Directors and considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for this other could reasonably be expected to influence the economic ­information. decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our opinion on the annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements does not include this information and we As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise prodo not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding fessional judgement and maintain professional scepticism this other information. throughout the audit. We also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conannual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the informafraud or error, design and perform audit procedures respontion identified above and consider whether the information is sive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoliand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may whether the information otherwise appears to be materially involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepremisstated. sentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control If we, based on the work performed concerning this informarelevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purother information, we are required to report that fact. We have pose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the nothing to report in this regard. company’s internal control. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used Chief ­Executive Officer and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Chief responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and Executive Officer. consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the and the Chief Executive Officer’s use of the going concern consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and the EU. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on are also responsible for such internal control as they deterthe audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material mine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from matecast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s abilrial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ity to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attenIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such dis­ responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the closures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our concluas applicable, matters related to going concern and using the sions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors ­conditions may cause a company and a group to cease and the Chief Executive Officer intend to liquidate the comto continue as a going concern. pany, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of to do so. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and conAmong other tasks, the Audit Committee shall, without prejusolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions dice to the Board of Directors’ responsibilities and tasks in and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. general, oversee the company’s financial reporting process. • obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities Auditor’s responsibility within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as and performance of the group audit. We remain solely a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to responsible for our opinions. fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assur110 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR ’S REPORT We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s ters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also organisation and the administration of the company’s affairs. inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including This includes among other things continuous assessment of any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. the company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organisation is designed so that the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement accounting, management of assets and the company’s finanthat we have complied with relevant ethical requirements cial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. regarding independence, and to communicate with them all The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing adminrelationships and other matters that may reasonably be istration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, instructions and among other matters take measures that are related safeguards. necessary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, manner. we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Auditor’s responsibility including the most important assessed risks for material Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and ­misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurregulation precludes disclosure about the matter. ance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer in any material respect: Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission Opinions which can give rise to liability to the company, or In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoli• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Special­fastigheter Sverige AB (publ) for the 2019 financial Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriayear and the proposed appropriations of the company’s tions of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion profit or loss. about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a the statutory Administration Report and that the members of guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generthe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect ­discharged from liability for the financial year. actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s Basis for opinions profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgeResponsibility section. We are independent of the Parent ment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the Company and the Group in accordance with professional ethics audit. The examination of the administration and the profor accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgement We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiwith starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the violations would have particular importance for the company’s Chief Executive Officer situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the diviAs a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed dend is justifiable considering the requirements which the appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined company’s and the Group’s type of operations, size and risks the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of place on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. in general. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 111 AUDITOR ’S REPORT The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability ­statement report The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainof the corporate governance statement on pages 61–67 in ability report on pages 50–57, and that it is prepared in accor­accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. dance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement was Our examination was conducted in accordance with FAR’s conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination statement. This means that our examination of the corporate of the statutory sustainability report is different and substangovernance statement is different and substantially less in tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with scope than an audit conducted in accordance with InternaInternational Standards on Auditing and generally accepted tional Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with Chapter 6 Section 6 the second paraErnst & Young, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44 Stockholm, was graph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7 appointed auditor of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB by the Section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent general meeting of the shareholders on 12 April 2019 and has with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated been the company’s auditor since 19 April 2012. accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, 23 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Mikael Ikonen Authorised Public Accountant 112 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Property holdings Specialfastigheter owns and manages a total of 175 (176) properties across 98 (99) management units in three business areas. Number of Owned net floor buildings Land area, sq m area, sq m Prison and Probation Service business area 510 8,422,273 402,523 Defence and Judicial System business area 29 523,825 417,365 Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area 578 8,063,460 268,175 Total: 1,117 17,009,558 1,088,062 Prison and Probation Service business area Number of Owned net floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings Land area, sq m area, sq m Halldalen HALL 4:14, 4:3, 4:5 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 36 635,882 8,496 Asptuna LINDHOV 15:19, 15:3 Norsborg BOTKYRKA 18 125,582 4,828 Beateberg KASSETTEN 1, Trångsund HUDDINGE 4 26,584 3,954 VÄSTRA SKOGÅS 1:5 Borås PROVAREN 2 Borås BORÅS 7 55,720 5,558 Brinkeberg RESTAD 3:13 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 3 48,049 7,412 Fosie FORNLÄMNINGEN 1 Malmö MALMÖ 3 33,109 7,661 Färingsö SVARTSJÖ 1:59 Svartsjö EKERÖ 8 47,559 4,912 Gruvberget GRUVBERGET 1:4-29, 1:31Åmotsbruk BOLLNÄS 32 106,054 4,511 34, 1:36-40, 2:1, 3:1, 5:2 Gävle KÄLLÖ 46:1 Gävle GÄVLE 5 40,113 7,805 Hall Hall 4:15 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 16 588,803 27,803 Halmstad EKETÅNGA 4:5 Halmstad HALMSTAD 5 42,579 5,457 Haparanda BOJAN 2 Haparanda HAPARANDA 5 21,631 3,075 Helsingborg KAVALLERISTEN 10 Helsingborg HELSINGBORG 8 31,077 4,645 Hinseberg HINSEBERG 1:8 Frövi LINDESBERG 20 372,932 11,530 Huddinge ROTORN 3 Huddinge HUDDINGE 1 8,016 8,970 Hällby TUMBO-BERGA 1:3, 1:5 Kvicksund ESKILSTUNA 20 258,596 8,986 Högsbo Högsbo 31:1 Västra Frölunda GOTHENBURG 7 35,588 7,445 Kalmar RAVELINEN 1 Kalmar KALMAR 3 4,857 2,993 Karlskoga SURPUSSEN 1 Karlskoga KARLSKOGA 8 79,485 5,828 Kristianstad Vä VÄ 147:3 Kristianstad KRISTIANSTAD 6 43,019 7,068 Kumla LÖVSÅNGAREN 1, 2 Kumla KUMLA 31 520,310 47,019 Ljustadalen FILLA 8:5 Sundsbruk SUNDSVALL 4 37,555 1,371 Luleå PORSÖN 1:401 Luleå LULEÅ 4 27,085 3,738 Mariefred GRIPSHOLM 4:4 Mariefred STRÄNGNÄS 18 150,080 8,604 Norrtälje SKOGEN 1 Norrtälje NORRTÄLJE 16 191,228 18,581 Nya Saltvik SALTVIK 2:64 Härnösand HÄRNÖSAND 10 295,597 23,911 Nyköping MODELLEN 1 Nyköping NYKÖPING 3 23,144 6,464 Rödjan MARIEHOLM 1:8 Mariestad MARIESTAD 20 323,753 5,436 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 113 PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Prison and Probation Service business area, cont. Number of Owned net floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings Land area, sq m area, sq m Sagsjön ANNESTORP 4:74 Lindome MÖLNDAL 9 60,000 3,639 Skenäs Skenäs 1:19 Vikbolandet NORRKÖPING 18 1,637,649 7,350 Skogome Skogome 2:2 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 14 275,307 12,926 Skänninge ÖSTANÅ 6 Skänninge MJÖLBY 14 146,508 16,371 Storboda ROSERSBERG 2:7 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 6 88,466 6,536 Svartsjö SVARTSJÖ 1:60 Svartsjö EKERÖ 9 47,688 4,733 Svartsjö SVARTSJÖ 1:60, Svartsjö EKERÖ 7 7,000 909 Bostäder PART OF Sörbyn SÖRBYN 9:2 Hörnefors UMEÅ 22 861,265 8,770 Tidaholm RAMSTORP 4:10 Tidaholm TIDAHOLM 17 277,255 15,315 Tillberga HUBBO-SÖRBY 9:48 Västerås VÄSTERÅS 8 64,251 13,502 Tygelsjö PILE 1:7, 1:10 Tygelsjö MALMÖ 18 120,662 10,489 Täby RÖNNINGE 3:4 Täby TÄBY 3 25,288 4,286 Umeå TEGLET 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 38,034 4,039 Ystad TERMOSTATEN 1 Ystad YSTAD 7 59,550 8,198 Åby FUNBO-ÅBY 9:1 Uppsala UPPSALA 25 134,363 5,026 Österåker PRÄSTGÅRDEN 1:11 Åkersberga ÖSTERÅKER 8 405,000 16,372 Total, Prison and Probation Service 510 8,422,273 402,523 Defence and Judicial System business area Number of Owned net floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings Land area, sq m area, sq m Bergnäset Luleå BERGNÄSET 3:53 Luleå LULEÅ 4 22,000 3,949 FOI Umeå ARMERINGEN 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 290,535 13,575 Formgivaren FORMGIVAREN 1 Solna SOLNA 1 9,169 34,967 Färöarna FÄRÖARNA 6 Kista STOCKHOLM 1 6,559 24,658 Högkvarteret KAVALLERISTEN 3 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 4 24,610 40,958 Kolpenäs KOLPENÄS 1:9 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 0 4,028 0 Kristallen KRISTALLEN 2 Lund LUND 1 2,647 10,423 Kronoberg KRONOBERG 18 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 7 42,358 163,000 Lejonet LEJONET 11 Luleå LULEÅ 2 10,596 21,800 Rådhuset FRUKTKORGEN 1 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 13,595 22,765 Tegeludden TEGELUDDEN 8 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 3,504 14,812 Tre Vapen TRE VAPEN 4 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 3 94,224 66,458 Total, Defence and Judicial System 29 523,825 417,365 114 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area Number of Owned net floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings Land area, sq m area, sq m Flygvapenmuseum MALMEN 2:8 Linköping LINKÖPING 5 71,853 17,296 Håga HALL 4:4, 4:7, 4:8, 4:10, 4:12, Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 10 174,795 5,614 4:13, TYSSLINGE 1:30, 1:31 RPK Gothenburg BACKA 866:772 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 1 25,417 4,462 Räddningsskolan REVINGE 1:14 Södra Sandby LUND 22 472,000 17,912 Revinge Räddningsskolan SANDÖ 1:4, 1:5, 2:5 Sandöverken KRAMFORS 38 433,348 30,830 Sandö Bergsmansgården BROTORP 1:7 Fjugesta LEKEBERG 7 21,400 3,452 Björkbacken BERGSJÖN 21:1 Gothenburg GOTHENBURG 5 18,680 2,906 Brättegården BRÄTTE 1:2 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 17 98,300 4,622 Bärby FUNBO-BROBY 1:3 Uppsala UPPSALA 22 191,907 8,016 Ekebylund EKEBY 5:4 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 10 12,180 2,289 Eknäs Eknäs 2:2 Enköping ENKÖPING 12 65,870 4,592 Fagared FAGERED 3:1 Lindome MÖLNDAL 15 378,805 7,029 Folåsa FÅLÅSA 12:1 Vikingstad LINKÖPING 19 153,604 7,535 Fortunagården LÄKAREN 2 Värnamo VÄRNAMO 5 19,043 1,901 Granhult GRANHULT 2:4 Ramsberg LINDESBERG 9 37,222 2,161 Gudhem GUDHEM 12:3, Gudhem FALKÖPING 18 217,084 10,740 HOLMÄNGEN 7:1 Hessleby HÄSSLEBY 2:2 Mariannelund EKSJÖ 13 500,060 7,189 Hornö HORNÖ 1:1, 1:8 Enköping ENKÖPING 16 398,223 4,024 Hässleholm FRIDHEM 9 Hässleholm HÄSSLEHOLM 2 16,116 1,194 Johannisberg GRYTNÄS 2:1 Kalix KALIX 9 127,625 5,253 Karlsvik BOSJÖKLOSTER 1:716 Höör HÖÖR 13 96,879 3,606 Klarälvsgården ORRETORP 2:2 Deje FORSHAGA 6 243,800 2,590 Ljungaskog LJUNGASKOG 15:28 Örkelljunga ÖRKELLJUNGA 13 281,202 4,985 Ljungbacken GRÄSKÄRR 1:1 Uddevalla UDDEVALLA 23 272,091 7,623 Lunden KLOSTERGÅRDEN 2:10 Lund LUND 1 26,391 4,621 Långanäs LÅNGANÄS 1:1 Eksjö EKSJÖ 30 434,995 8,946 Lövsta LÖVSTA 1:33 Vagnhärad TROSA 36 498,222 8,940 Nereby NEREBY 1:1 Härestad KUNGÄLV 19 162,660 4,076 Perstorp UGGLAN 1 Perstorp PERSTORP 4 4,264 1,000 Rebecka TROXHAMMAR 8:2 Skå EKERÖ 23 220,995 6,564 Renforsen DEGERFORS 38:9, Vindeln VINDELN 7 34,098 3,332 ­SLAKTAREN 1 Runnagården KRUSBÄRSBUSKEN 10 Örebro ÖREBRO 12 77,522 4,198 Ryds Brunn RYD 1:143 Ryd TINGSRYD 7 21,620 4,852 Rällsögården DAMMEN 1:11-15, 1:37, 3:1, Kopparberg LJUSNARSBERG 19 1,297,250 6,602 3:2, RÄLLSÖN 1:1-4 Råby STORA RÅBY 32:6, 32:21, Lund LUND 4 0 3,770 32:23 Stigby STIGBY 1:9, 7:3 Visingsö JÖNKÖPING 18 78,146 7,215 Sundbo SUNDBO 7:106, 7:107, 7:109, Fagersta FAGERSTA 29 385,423 9,630 7:63 Vemyra VEMYRA 3:1, 3:2 Sollefteå SOLLEFTEÅ 11 173,400 4,293 Älvgården YTTERNORA 2:6, 2:7 Hedemora HEDEMORA 20 75,600 6,995 Östfora ÖSTFORA 1:30 Järlåsa UPPSALA 10 112,790 3,633 Öxnevalla BRÄNNARED 2:3 Öxnevalla MARK 16 114,641 6,681 Åstorp BULTEN 2 Åstorp ÅSTORP 2 17,939 5,007 Total, Institutional Care and Other Special Operations 578 8,063,460 268,175 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 115 DEFINITIONS Definitions Specialfastigheter presents certain alternative performance measures (APMs) in interim reports and annual reports that are not defined according to IFRS: The company believes that these APMs provide valuable supplementary information to investors and the company’s management when evaluating the company’s earnings and financial position. Because all companies do not ­calculate financial measurements the same way, these are not always comparable with those APMs used by other companies. Amounts are given in SEK million. Financial key performance indicators Property related key performance indicators Adjusted return on equity, % Equity, SEK million Net profit/loss, after add-back of changes in value and associated Recognised equity. Equity is used to describe the owner’s capital. deferred tax, in relation to average equity. Return on equity is used to illustrate the ability to generate profit on the owner’s capital and is Net floor area (NFA), sq m one of the company’s overall strategic targets. Estimated lettable floor space in square metres. Average fixed-interest period, years Occupancy rate, % Average remaining term until re-fixing interest rates for interest-­ Total floor space of let premises in relation to total lettable floor space. bearing liabilities, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents including interest-bearing liquid investments. The average fixed-interest Rent per sq m, SEK period is used to illustrate interest-rate risk. Annual rent divided by the lettable floor space in square metres at the end of the year. Average interest rate, % Average interest rate for interest-bearing liabilities, derivatives, cash Secure facilities and cash equivalents including interest-bearing liquid investments. Properties that have been adapted for operations with specific Average interest rate is used to illustrate financial risk. ­security requirements in terms of operational, personal, information or physical security. Average loan-to-maturity, year Average remaining time until maturity for interest-bearing liabilities, Surplus ratio, % derivatives, cash and cash equivalents including interest-bearing liquid Net operating income divided by income from property manageinvestments with respect to guaranteed loan commitments Average ment. Surplus ratio is used to illustrate how large a portion of rental loan-to-maturity is used to illustrate the company’s refinancing risk. income remains after property expenses, in % Equity/assets ratio, % Adjusted equity on the balance-sheet date as a percentage of total Sustainability key performance indicators assets. The equity/assets ratio is used to illustrate financial stability and definitions and is one of the company’s overall strategic targets. Carbon dioxide, CO2 When fossil fuels are burned, carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based – is released. Profit/loss before tax after adding financial expenses, changes in value and gains/losses from property sales, divided by financial CO2 emissions, tons expenses excluding changes in value of financial derivatives. Interest We report CO2 emissions from energy purchased for our properties coverage ratio is used to illustrate the sensitivity of earnings to such as electricity, district heating and how large a proportion is not changes in interest rates. renewable; biofuel, electric heating, bio oil, oil and gas. Loan-to-value ratio, % Green appendices The interest-bearing net loan liabilities (that is, interest-bearing liabiliSpecialfastigheter’s green appendices (also known as green leases) ties less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing investments) are a standardised template developed by the Swedish Property in relation to the fair value of investment properties at the end of the ­Federation for reducing the environmental impact from premises. period. The loan-to-value ratio is used to illustrate financial risk. The agreement sets out the landlord’s responsibilities, the tenant’s responsibilities and shared responsibilities, and details the measures Net operating income, SEK million agreed by the landlord and tenant to reduce environmental impact Income from property management less property expenses. Net through information and collaboration in terms of energy and indoor operating income is used to illustrate the earning capacity of investenvironment, material selection and waste management. ment properties. Green bonds Profit from property management, SEK million Bonds intended to finance environmentally sustainable projects. This is calculated as the sum of net operating income, administrative Our framework is based on the Green Bond Principles. expenses and net financial items. Profit from property management is used to illustrate earning ability after taking into consideration fundGreenhouse gases ing costs and administration. Greenhouse gases is an umbrella term for many different gases that increase the greenhouse effect. Return on equity, % Net profit for the period in relation to average equity. Return on equity Whistle-blower function is used to illustrate the ability to generate profit on the owner’s capital. A function that can be used by employees or external parties to ­anonymously report suspicions of irregularities or other unsatis Return on total capital, % factory conditions. Net profit for the year plus financial expenses in relation to average total assets. Return on total capital is used to illustrate the ability to generate profit on the assets after excluding any effects from financing. Yield, % Net operating income divided by the average fair value of investment properties. Yield is used to illustrate the earning capacity of investment properties in relation to the fair value of investment properties. 116 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Reporting calendar Annual General Meeting Interim report January–March 2020 21 April 2020, 11 a.m., 21 April 2020 World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Interim report January–June 2020 Stockholm 10 July 2020 Interim report January–September 2020 21 October 2020 Production: Specialfastigheter in collaboration with Springtime-Intellecta Photo: Specialfastigheter’s image bank Print: TMG Stockholm Addresses Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) Company registration number: 556537-5945 Head Office, Linköping Gothenburg Sundsvall info@specialfastigheter.se Box 632, SE 581 07 Linköping Street address: Box 37, 851 02 Sundsvall www.specialfastigheter.se Street address: Kämpegatan 6 Street address: Sjögatan 15 www.linkedin.com/company/ Borggården, Linköping SE 411 04 Gothenburg SE 852 34 Sundsvall specialfastigheter-sverige-ab Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Head Office, Stockholm Lund Örebro Box 6073, SE 102 32 Stockholm Box 4017, SE 227 21 Lund Street address: Street address: Street address: Nygatan 31 Torsgatan 21, Stockholm. Traktorvägen 6, Lund SE 702 11 Örebro Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00
