Together, moving forward safely INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 2 Trough 25 years, at Quálitas we have traced our own path, adapting to change with innovation and talent to offer solutions to the challenges of today and tomorrow, providing security and confidence to all members of our interest group while generating economic, social and environmental value. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 3 04 Message from the Chairman 40 Employee Development • Workforce Description • Training and Career 06 Leaving a Mark Development • Outstanding figures • Working Environment • 25-year commitment • Contribution to the Sustainable 49 Prevention and road Development Goals (SDG) safety culture • Road conduct 13 Organizational Identity • Financial and insurance • Quálitas Controladora culture CONTENT • Quálitas Compañía de Seguros • International Presence 53 Economic Performance • Non-insurance subsidiaries • Financial Highlights • Distribution of 18 Business Model Economic Value and Corporate Strategy • Business Model Presentation 59 Corporate governance, ethics • Sustainability Focus and risk management • Alliances and Memberships • Structure • Relationship with Stakeholders • Ethics and integrity • Social Investment • Risk Management 26 Excellent service 65 About our report to the policyholders 66 GRI content index 30 Value chain development 74 Contact 34 Innovation and Operational Efficiency Financial Statements • Innovation and technology PDF Download for efficiency • Environmental performance Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 4 With the effort of all our colleagues, we have been recognized as a reliable, efficient and very productive company. Dears, We celebrate Quálitas’ first 25 years, a stopolicyholder which represents a 9% growth ry of success and great achievement. We have in the year. Although the increase in premigrown as an insurance company specialized in ums was not very large, it should be noted the auto industry, with a focus on service and that the portfolio mix had a significant growth cost control; these values are part of our corin individual policies and fleets, compared to porate culture. In these years, we have built a decrease in policies generated by financial the most extensive coverage network in the institutions, which gives us a stronger posicountry, with the support of the service offices tion by reducing our exposure and risks from and the Quálitas Development Ofiices (ODQs) multi-annual policies. teams. With the effort of all our colleagues, we have been recognized as a reliable, efficient Although Mexico continues to be our main and very productive company. market, we continue with a diversification strategy, placing special emphasis on the Message from the The annual results are frankly outstanding. management of insurance subsidiaries in othAccumulated net income stood at $5,358 miler countries, which together, increased the lion pesos, more than double that obtained in written premium by 22.1% with respect to the Chairman 2018, and we closed with an ROE of 47.3%. previous year and now represent 5.3% of the total. The growth in Peru was outstanding, in The written premium increased by 5% over only nine months of management, went from the previous year, to $36,196 million pesos; 10,500 to more than 31,000 policyholder units we ended the year with 4.2 million vehicles and doubled its market share. of the Board of Directors GRI 102-14,102-15 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 5 In relation to the earned premium, we reported We continue to make progress in getting closTechnology is an ally in our operation and we ing, we are moving forward in Mexico and Cena 10% increase, exceeding the guidance we had er to policyholders and extending the prevention seek to maximize the potential offered by mobile tral America with the implementation of the set, also aligned with the rest of the outstanding culture, with a network of more than 450 service connectivity and artificial intelligence. Hand in Adjust Your Emotions Program, which offers financial results. offices and ODQs, which is 8% more than the hand with the technological advances, we innoguidance and advice on different topics of work previous year. Likewise, the relationship with our vate our customer service towards policyholder and personal life. We closed the year with a combined ratio of more than 15 thousand agents is key, due to the and the relationship with our allies in the com86.5%, against the 92.5% reported in 2018. This trust they place in our service. mercialization and provision of the service. At Quálitas, we have been raising awareness was driven by drop in vehicle theft in Mexico and about responsible road behaviour, through differthe increase of the recovery by Quálitas Mexico, As part of our commitment to service, this year, By the end of the year, we reached 5,275 ement alliances, which are added to the work of our with a higher rate than the rest of the industry. It we took over the management of Outlet de Reployees, with the incorporation of personnel claim officers within the framework of the Road is also the result of our efforts in risk prevention facciones, Easy Car Glass and CristáFácil, three from non-insurance subsidiaries and the insurSafety Management System. This year we wanted and seeking the profitability of our portfolio. of our non-insurance subsidiaries. In this way, ance company’s team in Peru. We support their to go further, aware of the importance of values we seek to obtain greater efficiency in their opgrowth and professional development through for citizen coexistence. To this end, we launched It is also worth noting that we were the best pererations and reinforce the synergies they have the extensive training program offered at Unithe campaign #NosVemosEnLaEsquina, as a call forming issuer in the Mexican Stock Exchange with our insurance subsidiary in Mexico. versidad Quálitas. Also committed to well-beto convert public spaces and roads into spaces of (BMV), delivering 92% profits during 2019, imharmony and safety. proving 18 positions in the marketability index. In addition, Quálitas is now part of the SustainAt Quálitas, we are an active part of society and able IPC as a result of the company’s efforts in a are committed to sustainability. We work on the management that integrates economic, environimplementation of the 10 Principles of the Unitmental and social criteria. ed Nations Global Compact and contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The results obtained in 2019 and the journey of these first 25 years that we are celebrating, with an eye on the present and the future, encourage us to move forward, with the confidence of all our stakeholders. 47.3% Regards, In 2019, Q* was the best ROE performing issuer in the Joaquín Brockman Lozano Chairman of the Board Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 6 Leaving A Mark Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 7 Outstanding figures GRI 102-7 Operations in 199 service offices 5 countries: Mexico, 318,028 and 252 Costa Rica, El 4.9% education hours 86% 29.8% Quálitas DevelSalvador, United 5,275 workforce +15,500 through Quálitas policyholders’ market opment Offices States and Peru employees growth 1 agents University 2 satisfaction 3 share + INFRASTRUCTURE QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS Best performance issuer in the Mexican $36,196 $34,899 $31,768 Stock Exchange in 2019: million pesos million pesos 4,223,027 1,518,239 $5,358 86.5% million pesos 91.9% of written of earned policyholder assisted million pesos combined 47.3% of invested cumulative premium premium vehicles claims of net profit ratio ROE assets or float performance PERFORMANCE QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA 1 Includes the incorporation of non-insurance subsidiaries staff of Outlet de Refacciones, Easy Car Glass and CristaFácil) and of the team of the insurance company subsidiary in Peru. 2 In all the countries, including employees, agents, service offices staff, suppliers and policyholder (fleets). 3 Average satisfaction obtained in the Comprehensive Service Survey. 25-year commitment Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, was born 25 years ago We built a decentralized model, allowing in 5 countries of the region, being present in us to be where the policyholder needs us, Mexico, Costa Rica, El Salvador and the Unitin Mexico, as an insurance company specialized in the contributing to entrance of the automotive ed States of America. In addition, working automotive sector, in a context where the attention was insurance. Jointly with the agents and the for a proposal of comprehensive value to the service offices teams, we build an extensive policyholders, we have subsidiaries focused placed in other fields of insurance. We believed in the trust network available to policyholders, on services complementary to the provision market potential and got under way to develop a company completed with the Quálitas Development of insurance allowing us to reduce our costs Offices (ODQs), with which we reinforce the and guarantee service quality. making things different to and better than the market, presence in Mexican territory. focused on service, and setting our attention on the person, Our team’s commitment has been and will conThe success of the model and the managetinue being key in the business success where beyond the vehicle. Looking back, we know that we made ment with strong attachment to costs conjointly with technology and the continued imthe correct decision, and that we are on the right track. trol, has led us to internationalization. Havprovement processes, we innovate every day to ing just started in Peru, we already operate attain a greater processes efficiency. We approach future from today, with passion and service vocation, and the trust of our allies and customers. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 9 QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS INDICATORS 13,809 437 4,898 332 9,257 3,144 228 5,500 1,033 103 1,732 609 115 38 1 1994 1997 2002 2013 2019 1994 2002 2004 2013 2019 1994 2004 2012 2015 2019 NUMBER OF AGENTS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF OFFICES AND QUÁLITAS DEVELOPMENT OFFICES 4,094 $34,249 $1,037 3,415 2,201 $17,049 $424 1,127 $157 $205 $1,393 2 $33 $5 $(76) 1994 2006 2013 2016 2019 1994 1998 2010 2017 2019 1994 1997 2001 2014 2019 NUMBER OF POLICYHOLDER UNITS (thousands) PRODUCTIVITY (M MXN) WRITTEN PREMIUM (MM MXN) Note: Productivity is equivalent to the profit generated by employee Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 10 Promoting Values We understand our company as a human accidents on the road. We had already been With an investment of group whose relationships are based on working with the International Road Safety $22.2 million pesos respect for others, from solidarity, responAcademy (IRSA), the National Alliance for sibility and cordiality. These values guide Road Security (Alianza Nacional para la Sein 2019, the campaign the relationships among all of us who are guridad Vial or ANASEVI for its acronym in #NosVemosEnLaEsquina part of it, including business partners and policyholders; they are also the basis of our Spanish) in our road behavior program, but we also wanted that #NosVemosEnLaEsquihad the following scope: 29.1 contribution to social challenges such as the million people na became part of the campaign. prevention and road safety culture. Digital Public spaces, including roads, are the setting of everyday stories. Respect among all citizens is essential for them to be harmony places. Corners particularly stand out. 87% of road accidents occur there and from Quálitas we want to promote care and respect so that they become meeting points, a model of coexistence. 14.3 5.5 This year we launched the campaign #Nosmillion people million people VemosEnLaEsquina ( #SeeYouAtTheCorner), in order to improve road security, optimize Billboards, bus stops TV urban mobility and improve social harmony. and fences We sought to be on the street, in different spaces, conveying the message and inviting to coexistence through different media such as radio, digital screens, billboards, bus stops, fences and cinema. The campaign had a national scope with the aim of connecting Thanks to everyone’s efforts, we expect that the 5.0 1.1 with all the generations, we also added an active performance in digital media. campaign leads to reflection and to change on million people million people a value-based behavior. We will also continue We built the campaign with the collaboration Radio Cinema of various allies in the means, but also of working on that in the future. those who have suffered and gone through Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 11 Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) GRI 102-12 We understand that, as a company, we may contribute to take care of the great challenges of society, included in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This roadmap was launched from the United Nations, with the participation of the business sector and civil society, and includes the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The contribution by Quálitas is made up by our business model, activities and impact of our operations. This has allowed us to focus our efforts particularly on a series of strategical SDG’s, shown as follows. In the GRI table of contents, we show the details of the correlation between the contents of this report and the SDG, including the goals of the latter to which we contributed. SDG Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 12 3 4 8 9 11 Promotion of responsible driving and a Education to employees at Quálitas Through our model of Quálitas Access to the automotive insurance Support to citizens secoexistence behavior on the road: QuálUniversity. Also extended to agents, Development Offices (ODQs): through our offer and unique busicurity in public spaces itas Road Safety Program (CVQ) and the workers of the service offices, supplisupport of socioeconomic deness model, including the combinaand roads, promoting re#NosVemosEnLaEsquina campaign. ers and policyholders (fleets, as part velopment in growth places, tion of access possibilities (agents, sponsible driving and coof the consultancy in road security). creating steady jobs, offering service offices, ODQs, remote chanexistence culture: QuáliImprove road security starting with the automotive insurance and pronels –telephone and on-line sales–). tas Road Safety Program #NosVemosEnLaEsquina campaign. Talent seedbeds, to enable and expemoting prevention culture. (CVQ) and Enable an orderly and sustainable urdite the training of professionals joinInvestment for the incorporation of #NosVemosEnLaEsquina ban mobility. ing any of our positions. Support to steady jobs and the hybrid models to the Quálitas cars campaign. employees’ development in (Qualicoches) fleet, with which we Education and consultancy in road seFinancial education to policyholders, our different subsidiaries. assist policyholders. Starting with the curity to policyholders with fleets. through campaigns. In addition, edu#NosVemosEnLaEsquina cation as to savings and administraParticipation in the business Support for the development of inImplementation of the Road Securicampaign, enable a more tion of personal finance for our emmodel by agents and teams of novative business schemes in the ty Administration System (Sistema de orderly and sustainable ployees and agents. the service offices. value chain (e.g., in workshops: exGestión de Seguridad Vial or SGSV for its mobility. press lane and policyholder notificaacronym in Spanish) for call center adtion system). justment and assistance process (attention to the accident) (in accordance with the ISO 39001 standard). $40.1 million pesos in investment 252 ODQs 4,223,027 Close to 150,000 Quálitas Road Safety in Quálitas University website users during the year Workforce growth of policyholder vehicles 318,028 education hours (Quálitas Controladora) 4.9% $22.2 million pesos invested in the in Quálitas University1 (Quálitas 14% of the Qualicoches #NosVemosEnLaEsquina campaign See SDG 3 indicators 269 participants Controladora) fleet is hybrid (Mexico) 1,067 fleet trained in Mexico in the talent seedbeds. 199 service offices 33% of the certified 550 claim officers and call center staff 600,000 impacts workshops has an +15,500 agents composed as part of the SGSV (Mexico) of the financial education messages express lane (Mexico) (Quálitas Controladora) to agents and suppliers 1 In all the countries, including employees, agents, service offices staff, suppliers and policyholder (fleets). Introduction GRI 102-16, 102-26 In Quálitas, we seek to protect the assets and physical integrity of vehicle owners through a comprehensive auto insurance service and assistance in the event of an accident. Organizational Identity Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 14 QUÁLITAS Our growth is the result of the confidence of QUÁLITAS Compañía de Seguros QUÁLITAS the different stakeholders, with two relevant El Salvador milestones this year: the start of operations SUBSIDIARIES (Q MX) 99.99% (Q ES) in the automotive insurance market in Peru Quálitas Controladora 99.99% and the management control of the majority GRI 102-1,102-2, 102-4, 102-5, QUÁLITAS of our non-insurance subsidiaries, with the 102-6, 102-45 Costa Rica objective of strengthening synergies and de(Q CR) 99.99% livering a more comprehensive value propoQuálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. QUÁLITAS sition to our customers. is listed on the Mexican Stock ExInsurance Company change (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores QUÁLITAS (QIC) 100% BMV) and has different insurance Financial Services 100% QUÁLITAS subsidiaries in the region, specialized You can consult our Mission, in automobile insurance. AdditionalPremier Insurance 100% Vision, and Identity at: ly, other non-insurance subsidiaries QUÁLITAS are added, called vertical subsidiarPERU http://qinversionistas. ies in Mexico, linked to the process of (Q PE) 99.99% QUÁLITAS qualitas.com.mx/portal/ claims assistance in aspects such as the provision of spare parts and windCONTROLADORA EASY CAR GLASS about-qualitas/?lang=en shield repair1. 99.99% 1 Outlet de Refacciones is managed by our specialist partner, reason why it is not deCRISTAFÁCIL tailed in this report. 99.99% With the purpose of obtaining toOUTLET DE tal control, during the year, we acREFACCIONES quired the remaining shares of Easy 99.99% Car Glass, CristaFácil and Outlet de Refacciones. In this way, we begin to AUTOS Y manage the operations of these three SALVAMENTOS subsidiaries directly. 54.00% OPTIMIZACIÓN Y TALENTO 98.00% ACTIVOS JAL 99.99% Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 15 Quálitas Compañía de Seguros FS13 8 9 1 7 1 5 10 4 7 1 7 4 8 8 2 12 12 4 Baja Sonora Durango Chihuahua Zacatecas Coahuila Nuevo San Luis Tamaulipas Quálitas Compañía de Seguros continues to be the market leader in auto California León Potosí insurance, with a 29.8% market share, according to the Mexican Association of Insurance Institutions (Asociación Mexicana de Instituciones de Seguros, AMIS) at 2019. The growth was driven by the increase in the tra2 ditional segment (individual and fleets). On the other hand, the finan3 cial institutions segment was impacted by a 7.7% decrease in the sale of Aguascalientes new cars in the country in 2019, according to the Mexican Association of 7 2 Automotive Dealers (Asociación Mexicana de Distribuidores Automotores, 11 5 AMDA), although it had a recovery in the issuance with an adequate priPuebla Campeche cing in the second half of the year. 2 QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS 3 6 9 2 10 Yucatán 19-18 2019 2018 2017 Hidalgo Baja California Sur Policyholder Units 8.0 % 4,094,194 3,793,178 3,739,614 5 Written premium (MM MXN) 4.3 % 34,249 32,821 32,141 5 10 5 Market share (%) (1.5) pp 29.8 29.9 31.3 5 20 Quintana Sinaloa Veracruz Roo Employees 1 +15 4,898 4,883 4,816 Service offices +8 186 178 173 1 ODQs +24 251 227 219 3 Nayarit 1 The employees of the Tijuana office (Mexico) employed by QIC (United States) are included in the workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros since it is the subsidiary 12 in which their payroll its undertaken in the first place and the working conditions are 21 established. In relation to the previous reports, the information of 2018 and 2017 is Jalisco re-expressed to exclude them also from the QIC workforce and introduce them in the 2 workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros. 2 8 2 186 Tabasco Our coverage network throughout the country inColima 7 creased by 8 service offices and 24 Quálitas DevelopService offices 10 8 ment Offices (ODQs). The ODQ network is a model deMichoacán 16 4 7 251 13 20 3 2 veloped by Quálitas Compañía de Seguros in Mexico Guanajuato 6 4 7 and contributes 2.79% of the premium issued by that Querétaro 26 2 10 1 4 3 11 Guerrero Oaxaca Chiapas subsidiary, with a team of 498 employees. ODQs State of Mexico Mexico City Morelos Tlaxcala International Presence We have insurance subsidiaries in the United States, Costa Rica and El Salvador. This year, we started activities in Peru by acquiring an automobile insurance company in that country. Our operation and portfolio adapts to the particularities of each market and the needs of our customers, maintaining our excellence differentiators in service and cost control. Quálitas Insurance Company (QIC), our subThe placement of premiums in El Salvador U.S.A. COSTA RICA EL SALVADOR PERU sidiary in the U.S.A., consolidated the indivistood out in private vehicles, already rea19-18 2019 19-18 2019 19-18 2019 2019 ching the levels of trucks and public service dual car insurance in Texas, after its launch Insured in 2018. Insurance for cars and vans with vehicles, thanks to the support of our agents 17.5 % 18,290 13.66% 60,064 22.51% 19,467 31,012 Units California license plates continues to stand with an online platform. In the portfolio set, Written out, which has full coverage in the United our premium growth was above the market premiums 16.1% 1,115.9 0.6% 458.6 13.9% 166.5 167.6 States and Mexico, unique in the market for average. We maintained a similar participa(MM MXN) its characteristics. As for heavy transport, tion as of 2018, of 8.4%. Employees1 +5 39 +2 64 +15 64 42 the service product for Mexican trucks with cross-border operations already reaches In Peru, we made a difference with respect Offices 15% of its market. to the sector, thanks to our specialization in = 4 = 4 = 5 1 (all categories) automobile insurance and the business moIn Costa Rica there was an aggressive evodel through agents. With presence in the in1 The employees of the Tijuana office (Mexico) employed by QIC (United States) are included in lution of the market due to pricing. We resdividual segment, we also have fleet and cothe workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros since it is the subsidiary in which their payroll ponded by maintaining our offer focused llectivities. In 2019, under our management, its undertaken in the first place and the working conditions are established. In relation to the on profitability and convinced of our quality. we accomplished to triple the number of poprevious reports, the information of 2018 and 2017 is re-expressed to exclude them also from We closed the year aligned with 2018 with a licyholder units. It is worth noting the prothe QIC workforce and introduce them in the workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros. 7.5% market share, being leaders of the prigress in the financial institutions segment, vate insurance market. where we already work with the leading financial markets. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 17 Non-insurance subsidiaries With different activities, they are all framed in providing complementary services to the attention in case of accidents, from the provision of spare parts to the repair or replacement of the vehicle windshield. Outlet de Refacciones Easy Car Glass CristáFacil Acquires second-hand automotive spare It operates as a wholesaler of automotive Service provider of repair or replacement of parts, completing its inventory with its windshields, which markets and distribuwindshield glass, works mainly under the own operation of disassembly of cars detes to CristaFácil and other repair sites. This franchise model. Provides important synclared as total loss in claims. This year, as year, the implementation of purchasing bidergies with the activities of Easy Car Glass. a management result, we increased sales ding schemes stands out, which has allowed During 2019, we improved the franchise opby 30% compared to the previous year. us to offer more competitive prices to custoeration, payment schemes, and our brand mers. As a result, during the year it posted a image. The number of services increased by Outlet de Refacciones sells to Quálitas 38% increase in sales compared to the pre21%, of which 95% are substitutions and the Compañía de Seguros and to third parvious year. On the other hand, we improved rest, repairs. ties, during 2019, it achieved an importdistribution logistics, which has led to reduant milestone improving distribution and ced delivery times to a third. BUSINESS DIMENSIONS 2019 terms, which represented a 31% decrease Number of own stores 2 in average delivery time. This is the result of our work with transporta­tion providers. Number of franchised stores 120 Number of franchisees 67 Number of services 90,000 BUSINESS DIMENSIONS 2019 Income 271.9 Outlet de Refacciones Easy Car Glass Inventory Value (MM MXN) 59.7 18.4 Sale of Parts (MM MXN) 146.6 0.1 Number of own fleet vehicles 6 9 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 18 We have grown as a company focused on offering the best auto insurance for our policyholders, in strict collaboration with agents and through our service offices and Quálitas Development Offices (ODQs). Business Model and Corporate Strategy Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 19 Introduction to business model GRI 102-6,102-15,103-2,103-3, FS13,FS14 Excellence Cost control Specialization Decentralization in service 4 basic • Close to our customers, through a network of • Efficient in the use of resources. • Experienced in the auto insurance sector. • Focused on being where the policyholder needs us. fundamentals service offices and • Comprehensive in • Flexible in adapting monitoring operation our model to different • Allied with agents agents with personalized and expenditure countries where we who share our vision attention. indicators. operate. and commitment. Our business model is built on • Dynamic, due to basic fundamentals, that guaranour team structure, • Innovative regarding tee financial success, delivery of organization or the needs of the value to our stakeholders and our our processes, and policyholders. permanence in time. application of state-ofthe-art technology. • Demanding in terms of the quality of our suppliers. 3 segments attended Through the insurance subsidiaries, we INDIVIDUAL FLEET FINANCIAL provide services in three big segments: automobiles automobiles and INSTITUTIONS and motorcycles trucks, hired on a large insurance provided with the hired by unit number scheme automotive financing companies at the time of purchasing a vehicle Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 20 Policyholders have an extensive and specialized network of agents at QUÁLITAS the policyholders’ disposal, who sell our insurance for the individual and fleet segments. They are also served at the service offices and BUSINESS Quálitas Development Offices (ODQs), which exclusively operate for our products, as well as online through the Internet. In the case of the MODEL financial institutions segment, Quálitas markets them directly. Our objective is to be present where insurance is required and through POLICYHOLDERS OR INF The trust that agents generate upon offering our insurance is the channel that the essential, result of a long history of working together. policyholder prefers. TIO ICE MA AGENTS In the event of an accident, our claim officers intervene in person or reRV NA We establish service offices in association with local industry-expert entrepreneurs. These are complemented motely (express adjustment), making SE ND with ODQs, our strategic offices in small penetrated available to the policyholder, the repair suppliers and doctors with whom CO localities. In addition to the direct attention to the policyholder, they advice agents in products, rates, we work, selected due to their quality NT processes and other elements required for marketing. and commitment. Synergies with our SERVICE OFFICES RO non-insurance subsidiaries emerge AND ODQs L specially herein. Service offices and agents have support of the Quálitas Operational Center, which is QUÁLITAS OPERATIONAL CENTER integrated by different specialist teams. EXCELLENCE IN SERVICE COST CONTROL SPECIALIZATION DECENTRALIZATION Our growth as a company has also included internationalization, convinced of its value in our business model. 2019 WE BEGAN ACTIVITIES PE RU STRONG DEVELOPMENT U . S. A. Quálitas Insurance Company (QIC) C O S TA RI CA CONSOLIDATION OF OPERATIONS EL S ALVA D OR lesaler for their marketing to CristaFácil, Quálitas Aware of the policyholders’ needs and the efficiency of franchise network and to other repairers. our management, we seek a more comprehensive asWe contributed to the sistance proposal. Therefore, this year we assumed the It is noteworthy that the company’s and our subsidiaoperation of most of our non-insurance subsidiaries, ries1 performance as well as the adherence to busidevelopment of insurance in building important strategies regarding the care we alness fundamentals, are monitored through a series of these countries, benefiting ready provided to policyholders in case of an accident. indicators defined for each area, assessed on a monthly basis by the General Management and the Stravehicle owners. Through Outlet de Refacciones, we supply to the insutegic Planning Management. rance company in Mexico the parts necessary for the repairs of damaged cars, guaranteeing their quality. In 1 More information regarding the activity of each subsithe case of crystals, Easy Car Glass operates as whodiary in the Organizational Identity chapter. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 22 SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS Sustainability Strategy BASIC FOUNDATIONS OF THE GRI 102-16, 102-20, 102-22 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Offer value-added products and services for the policyholder, jointly with an efficient As a company, we seek to create value for all our stakeConnects our understanding of the operation with operation of the company both in the use of holders, specially regarding the development and prothe expectations of the stakeholders, always under resources and in the management of impacts vision of auto insurance, prevention culture, road safety the maximum attention of excellence to the policy(for example, environmental). To realize the holder. Such bases materialize throughwork lines, potential of technology for operation. education and claims management. The collaboration with initiatives equipped with their respective action of the different areas and the work with our value chain plans, including follow-up indicators. SERVICE is fundamental to this end. The Sustainability Strategy articulates the main initiatives, facilitates the approach of new programs and synergies among all activities. It is composed of five pillars, which connect our understanding of the operation Promote the prevention, To harness the talent of with the expectations of the stakeholders, always uninsurance and financial our employees and their der the maximum attention of excellence to the policyculture. Likewise, Innovation and development, from the holder. Such basis materialize through work lines, with contribute to responsible Operational Efficiency value of diversity, and their initiatives equipped with their respective action plans, driving and road behavior, well-being. To promote encouraging coexistence constructive leadership including follow-up indicators. The strategy is open to of all those who use roads and a solid culture further actions as the operation progresses, business and public spaces. Prevention and Road Employee underpinned by internal priorities and the relationship with stakeholders1. Safety Culture Development communication. The Social Responsibility Committee monitors progress in the implementation of the Strategy, in which Development of participate representatives of the different areas who the members of the have initiatives included therein2. Their work goes bevalue chain yond, analyzing the expectations of the different stakeholders, with spokespeople appointed at the direction To operate abiding by the values of the company, Work closely with agents, level. Meetings are held quarterly, and the chairman under ethical and conduct teams of service offices and of the Social Responsibility Committee submits its guidelines, raised from a Eth suppliers, supporting their i conclusions to the Board of Directors. solid corporate governance. Co cs an training and operation, to r Tra por d Integrate sustainability offer excellent products and nsp ate 1 The basis and work lines of the Sustainability Strategy were defined from criteria in decision-making. are services to our policyholders. material subjects, with the participation of different areas of the company. ncy They are composed of already existent initiatives and others raised in the framework of the exercise. 2 General managment, Human Resources, Corporate communication, Finance management, Commercial managment, Comprehensive risk management, Corporate Legal, Treasury, Relations with Investors, Claims service, Under Raiting and operational assistance, Claims Operations, NaSee for further detail of the tional medical manager, Sales customer service manager. Strategy, bases and work lines Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 23 Relationship with Stakeholders GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 We understand our activity as generator of comprehensive value for all stakeholders, a focus that is present in our corpoPOLICYHOLDERS rate culture and which we materialize in our performance. SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNITY In the identification of stakeholders, we consider the double perspective, SUPPLIERS those that could be affected EMPLOYEES directly or indirectly by our activities, as well as STAKEHOLDERS The detail of our commitments with the different stakeholders, channels those who are key for the and main subjects is available at qualitas.mx/informeintegrado2019 implementation of the business model and the AUTHORITIES attainment of our purposes AGENTS and goals. Our operation requires their participaOTHER COMPETITORS CUSTOMERS tion, produced through different channels and counterparts inside the company. It is an open dialog that allows us to grow together. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 24 Alliances and Memberships GRI 102-12, 102-13 In the framework of the outstanding initiatives of the sector in favor of sustainSECTORAL ability, we integrate into our management the Principles for Sustainable InASSOCIATIONS surance (PSI), launched by the Financial Initiative of the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP FI). In this way, we are committed to sustainability shaping the way in which we design and implement our operation, from the development of the insurance to investment. U.S.A. MEXICO COSTA EL PERU RICA SALVADOR National Association of Mexican Association Peruvian Insurance Companies (NAIC) of Insurance Association Chamber of Insurance Institutions, A.C. of Private Commerce Association Insurance Accounting & (AMIS) Insurance and Industry (APESEG) PRINCIPLES FOR Systems Association (IASA) Pacific Association of Domestic Coordinating Office Companies SUSTAINABLE INSURANCE for Policyholder Insurance Companies (PADIC) Risks, S.C. (OCRA) 1 2 We will embed in We will work together with our decision-making our clients and business environmental, social and partners to raise awareness At Quálitas, we work in an articulate way in sectoral governance issues relevant of environmental, social and associations of the different countries in which we operate, to our insurance business. governance issues, manage risk and develop solutions. supporting the development of insurance culture. Our commitment with sustainability includes 3 4 We will work together with We will demonstrate the support to more comprehensive collective governments, regulators accountability and initiatives, as part of the culture of the Quálitas corporate citizen. We materialize it through and other key stakeholders transparency in regularly a responsible operation which considers the to promote widespread disclosing publicly our implementation of the United Nations Global action across society on progress in implementing Compact and the contribution to Sustainable environmental, social and the Principles. Development Goals. governance issues. More information in the Leaving a Mark chapter. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 25 Social Investment 10.1 million pesos We believe that values such as respect, corAt Quálitas, we specially support responsiAt Quálitas we understand that our participation allocated to social diality and tolerance are fundamental for coble driving, through our Quálitas Road Safeas a company in society must be accompanied investment, as donations existence among those who share roads. ty program. This effort is part of the Decaby the attention of the main needs of the envide of Action for Road Safety, declared by the ronment. This supplements the activities that United Nations in 2011, which calls for the Thus, in 2019 we collaboration of governments, companies we already develop as part of the provision of auto insurance, promotion of the culture of preStrengthening Health care Environmental launched the campaign and civil society organizations. Mexican inivention, road safety and citizen coexistence. #NosVemosEnLaEsquina, tiatives are supplemented with other alliansupport ces in the different countries, such as the of education protection first milestone of a broad participation of Quálitas Insurance Company The recipients of our contributions program that we will develop (QIC) in the Insurance Institute for Highway are specialized organizations which Safety (IIHS) (U.S.A.). in the following years. are aware of the environment and More information in that regard in the Chapter, have solid programs: “Leaving a mark”. EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT • Casa Santa Clara, A.C. • Fundación comunitaria Malinalco A.C. • Comunidad de Desarrollo Integral Copilco A.C. HEALTH • EDUCA A.C. • Antes de partir A.C. • Fondo para la Paz, I.A.P. • Casa Hogar Kamami, A.C. • Fundación Casa Alianza México, I.A.P. • Cadena de Ayuda contra la Fibromialgia A.C. • Fundación Daunis A.C. • Comer y Crecer A.C. • Fundación León XIII • Comedor Santa María, A.C. • Fundación Pro-niños de la calle, I.A.P. • El Buen Samaritano I.A.P. • Fundación San Ignacio de Loyola A.C. • Fundación Ayuda a Vivir A.C. • Internado Infantil Guadalupano A.C. • Hogar Gonzalo Cosío Ducoing I.A.P. • Proeducación I.A.P. • Fundación Hermanitas de los Ancianos • Proyecto Cantera A.C. Desamparados I.A.P. • Servicio Educación y Desarrollo a la • Fundación John Landgon Down A.C. Comunidad I.A.P. • Fundación Owen I.A.P. • Refleacciona con Responsabilidad A.C. • Infogen A.C. • Renovación, Unión de Fuerzas, Unión de • Instituto de Ayuda Humanitaria A.C. Esfuerzos, A.C. • Instituto Nacional de Cancerología A.C • Metamorfosis Global A.C. • Nocaltzin A.C. • Unidos Asociación Pro-Trasplante de Médula Ósea Francisco Casares Cortina A.C. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 26 Excellent SERVICE to the policyholder’s GRI 103-2, 103-3 , 416-1, 417-1, 418-1, FS15 Our unique business model and the way we operate is based on efficiency, the use of the latest technologies and the delivery of an excellent service. We seek to build long-term relationships with the policyholders, meeting their needs and generating a comprehensive experience. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 27 Here is the journey that forms the policyholder’s experience with the company and our serThe information contained in this chapter is complemented by the new information included in the chapter vice allies: agents, service office teams and suppliers. The description corresponds to the on Innovation and operational efficiency; the detail of the contribution to road safety in the chapter of Preoperation of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, our main insurance subsidiary. vention culture and the description of our business model in the chapter of Corporate strategy. POLICYHOLDER´S EXPERIENCE PART 1: ADVICE AND CONTRACTING PART 2: ASSISTANCE IN CASE OF A CLAIM Valuation, Contact Pricing Vehicle Road safety Report Adjustment repair, Medical Legal inspection support payment assistance advice 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 PART 1: ADVICE AND CONTRACTING 1. Contact Delivery of clear and timely information to The information we provide to policyholders risk-based pricing, for example, through a an claim officer, depending on what is most the potential policyholder, mainly through includes policy conditions, parties’ rights and double-deduction scheme for heavy vehicles comfortable for the policyholder. the agents, who establish the relationship a glossary of terms to facilitate interpretaif they are driven at night at certain times tion. We added a QR Code to policies to make and on certain higher-risk routes. 4. Road safety support and respond to their needs. the processing of claims more efficient. Awareness of road safety to the general Our employees and the service office teams 3. Vehicle inspection public: Quálitas Road Safety Program and work closely with the agents, applying the 2. Pricing The vehicle inspection is carried out prior campaign #NosVemosEnLaEsquina Commercialization Policy guidelines and the The tariff setting considers multiple varito contracting for the different commercialRoad safety advice for policyholder fleets, Code of Ethics and Conduct, as well as the ables. In Mexico, the area and context of ization channels. It can be performed by the including training programs, technology Ethical Commercial Principles. claims is considered. We also seek to enclient by sending the photographs through a support and information analysis. courage responsibility in drivers and offer disposable app or with the analysis in situ, of Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 28 PART 1: ADVICE AND CONTRACTING PART 2: ASSISTANCE IN CASE OF A CLAIM Valuation, Contact Pricing Vehicle Road safety Report Adjustment repair, Medical Legal inspection support payment assistance advice 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 PART 2: ASSISTANCE IN CASE OF A CLAIM 1. Report 2. Adjustment 3. Valuation, repair, payment 4. Medical assistance In the event of a claim, the policyholder can The process is carried out by Quálitas’ own The policyholder chooses the workshop to In case of physical damage due to a claim, report the situation via telephone (in the call claim officers, who attend the policyholder which their vehicle will be transferred, dewe provide the policyholder with a selection center), with the QMóvil app or by scanning in person, with the coordination of our call pending on their convenience. of medical suppliers, either for outpatient or the QR code from their policy documentacenter team. The claim officers are assigned inpatient care, with whom we work closely Once it is in the workshop, the valuation is tion. The last two channels allow immediwith the support of geolocation tools, so that on quality through the monitoring of data carried out by Quálitas’ staff, experts in the ate geolocation and automatic assignment it is the closest available to the location of from the comprehensive service survey and field. In cases where the repair of a claim of the nearest available claim officer; the the claim. specific indicators. does not involve the replacement of parts, a policyholder can follow the claim officer’s We also offer the possibility for the polistatistical valuation is performed. movement to the site in real time. cyholder to carry out the process directly, We offer additional coverage to our policythrough a disposable app. It is the Express holders that allows them to have a substi5. Legal advice Adjustment, applicable for claims that meet We support the policyholder in the legal protute car at their disposal during the time the a number of conditions, such as the absence cesses and formalities that may arise from vehicle is being repaired. of a third party involved or the damage to the claim with our own team of lawyers, who the public road. We also provide the necessary parts for the will represent them at Administrative and repair of the vehicle. If necessary, the vehicle is moved by the tow Judicial Institutions. truck services we use. In the event of a total loss situation, we will proceed with the corresponding compensation in accordance with the policy conditions. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 29 Our average response time in the call center is 23 seconds, and the assignment of the claim officer and their arrival at the site of the claim is done in an average of 25-30 minutes. To respond to the potential risk of fraud suppliers who are involved in the process. in the use of insurances and/or in the asIn this way, the valuation criteria will be hosistance of claims, we have solid processmogenized, facilitating shorter times and es. In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, the ensuring quality. cases of claims that we handle are analyzed by technological tools that alert of It should also be noted that we safeguard inconsistencies or deviations and are anathe information of the policyholders, with lyzed by our specialized team. In addition, strict controls; we did not have any claims we encourage vehicle inspection prior to for losses or misuse of information. contracting insurance to prevent fraud. We monitor policyholders’ satisfaction On the other hand, with the aim of implethroughout the different stages of post menting greater efficiency in valuation, claim assistance, through the Comprewe are working on the certification of the hensive Service Survey, which allows us to process in accordance with the ISO 9001 identify improvement opportunities. During Quality Management System standard. the year, we achieved an average satisfacSpecifically, we begin with the process of tion rate of 86%, with call center assistance remote valuation of light vehicles, from and medical services standing out with an the assignment to the valuator in each case until the first resolution of the comaverage satisfaction rate of 91% and the claim officers with a 88%. 85% of the time our pany on the damage. In this regard, it is worth noting the training during the year Compared to 2018, there is an update of the methadjusters get there of 208 employees from different areas and odology of the Comprehensive Service Survey. before our competitors. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 30 Value chain development GRI 102-9,102-10, 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1, 417-1 Our business model is based on the We work with different allies, collaboration with our stakeholders, including agents, automotive financial from the commercialization of institutions, teams of service offices insurance to the attention of claims. and our different suppliers. Further detail in the section Business model and corporate strategy (Corporate Strategy chapter). Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 31 WE SHARE THE MISSION TO PROVIDE A SERVICE OF EXCELLENCE TO OUR POLICYHOLDER FOR THEIR SATISFACTION1 AGENTS AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE SUPPLIERS FINANCIAL OFFICES INSTITUTIONS 15,503 186 $11 billion agents 33% offices in Mexico MXN spent of total written premiums 1,011 5,076 employees suppliers Participation Participation Participation Participation They serve as trusted advisers of the policyholder, It markets insurance for new vehicles, mainly in They act as deputy operating managDeliver products and services required for the opupon marketing Quálitas insurance. multiannual schemes. ers of Quálitas in different zones (for exeration of Quálitas, specially for the attention of the Quálitas Support Quálitas Support ample, quoting, issuance and renewal of policyholder and his/her vehicle in case of accident. the policy, management of policyholders’ Main products and services2: Inquiry service Inquiry service payments), as well as policyholder and at the service offices and Quálitas Contact Center. (for example, of the policy conditions), Legal services · Medical services · Tow truck agents service. Tools for the operation through Quálitas Contact Center Repairs (workshops and agencies) Quálitas Support Supply of spare parts and crystals · Q Agents Portal, which allows, Q Agencies Portal among other functions, to arrange Policy management, rate update, collection and Operational support Quálitas Support renewals and follow-up claims. commission payment, among other functions. At an office of each main zone, Quálitas Inquiry service: phone line. · Vehicle inspection app to expedite has a team of its own for claims manageSupport for invoicing and other operations the vehicle inspection prior to the contracting. ment and legal advice, which works with through the Q Suppliers Portal. the staff of the service area offices. Training Training: Suppliers School at the Quálitas UniverAgents School at Quálitas University (on line, includTraining of office employees through sity (online, including operational aspects such as ing regulations, business plan development, prosQuálitas University (online). service allocation from Quálitas and invoicing to pecting and sales, among other subjects) and reStrategy and leadership the company). gional seminars (in person). training for directors. Quality follow-up, through the policyholder Financial advice Support in Human Resources, well-being service survey 3 and other assessments Training program of new agents. and participation in Quálitas’ volunteering. (for example, monthly monitoring in the Different communication and follow-up channels case of medical suppliers). through the specific service survey. Promotion of best social and environmental practices, conditions of legal compliance in the assessment for the selection. 1 More detail in the Business Model and Corporate Strategy section of the Corporate Strategy chapter. 2 Repair suppliers include CristaFácil, subsidiary of Quálitas Controladora; the same happens with Outlet de Refacciones. 3 In the case of agencies, we also conduct a specific survey. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 32 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE AGENTS FINANCIAL SUPPLIERS OFFICES INSTITUTIONS AS PART OF OUR CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS, WE WORK TOGETHER WITH ALL OUR PARTNERS TO DEVELOP BETTER SOLUTIONS As part of our continuous improvement The relationship with automotive financial With respect to our support to We assess in our recruitment process that they process, we work with agents, to underinstitutions and agencies, contributes to service offices, we would like perform with high ethical, social and environstand their needs and improve our work the development of the insurance market, to highlight the continuity of the mental criteria, including that they are consistools. This year we significantly updated specially in new vehicles. We monitor their training program in strategic tent with our Code of Ethics and Conduct. the Q Agents Portal, to make it easier for satisfaction with Quálitas to keep strengthskills and leadership for directors. them to manage policy renovations and ening the relationship and synergies, obWe also made special emphaWith respect to workshops, we support them to accident follow-up. In addition, we made taining a result of 92% of satisfaction in the sis on the conformity with Ethical operate in accordance with high quality stanavailable an App for vehicle inspection 2019 survey, similar to the previous year Commercial Principles, extending dards in the service we establish, including the from insurance applicants, which helps our culture and values. certification in that regard by an external third agents to improve the quality of their portparty. 29 auto workshops were participating in folio. We monitor the perception of agents such program in the year, out of which 9 are alon their relationship with Quálitas, through ready certified1. We also promote that they have an annual survey, which in 2019 resulted in an express lane to shorten the repair times in 81% of satisfaction, consistent with the rethe cases of lighter accidents. sult of the previous year. 1 The 2018 report pointed out as certified all auto workshops who participated in the process, regardless of the stage they were in. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 33 BREAKDOWN OF BREAKDOWN OF THE SUPPLIERS PER EXPENDITURE IN CATEGORY SUPPLIERS PER CATEGORY At Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, we allocated % % $11 billion pesos to 46 AGENCIES 30 5,063 suppliers in 2019, 21 WORKSHOPS 22 11 TOW TRUCKS 16 a contribution that grows 11 REPAIR SHOPS (without Outlet de Refacciones) 7 each year and contributes 6 MEDICAL SERVICES 17 to develop the service 2 CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES 3 industry associated with 2 GLASS MAKERS (without CristaFácil) automotive insurance; FEES 2 99.9% of the expense 1 OTHERS 3 is allocated to local suppliers. SUPPLIERS EVOLUTION EXPENSE (Billons MXN) SUPPLIERS There is a reexpression of the information regarding 2017 and 2018 reports in the evoQUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS 5,350 lution graph. Given the incorporation of the 12 5,300 subsidiaries CristaFácil and Outlet de RefacEXPENSE (Billions MXN) 5,250 10 ciones to the direct management of Quáli5,200 SUPPLIERS tas Controladora, the expenditure of Quáli5,150 8 tas Compañía de Seguros therein has been 5,100 discounted, to show only the expenditure and 5,050 6 number of suppliers of Quálitas Compañía de 5,000 Seguros external to Quálitas Controladora. 4,950 4 4,900 2 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 34 Innovation and operational Efficiency Innovation and technology for efficiency GRI 103-2, 103-3, 416-1 In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, we are focused on the continuous improvement for the growing generation of value both for policyholders and for our allies in the delivery of the insurance and the attention in case of accident: agents, teams of the service offices and suppliers. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 35 In 2019, we launched a disposable application The use of disposable applications has alfor policyholders to report accidents and lowed us significant innovation in different contact the claim officers. The application processes. In 2018, we had already launched indicates the policyholder’s position, enabling an app for claim officers’ use during the atthe claim officers assignment and assistance. tention of an accident and also for the exIt can be accessed through the personal QR press adjustment, where the process is reCode delivered jointly with the policy, another motely performed. Likewise, we launched novelty this year. The use of the QMovil app is an app for vehicular inspection prior to the complementary, with the advantage that the issuance of a policy. policyholder does not have to enter his/her data. Artificial Intelligence is transforming the AI manner in which relate to policyholders; presently, we have chatbots for the attention of questions through the webpage and the QMovil app. In addition, we are incorporating solutions based on artificial intelligence in the agents’ and suppliers’ Internet portals. We extended the express adjustment process to all the Mexican Republic, having increased the equipment and team intended for such purpose. This process allows remote attention, provided that a series of conditions are met, reducing the adjuster’s waiting time to zero, shortening the time of reply and reducing vehicles circulation. At the end of the year, it represented the attention of 3.5% of the reported accidents. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 36 This year we launched the statistical vaWith the operation control of our CristaFácil We rely on technology as an ally in acciWe also offer outstanding efficiency devices, luation, allowing to make this process fasand Easy Car Glass subsidiaries, we encoudents prevention with devices providing inexpediting vehicle localization in case of theft. ter and authorizing the vehicle’s repair. It rage the repair of crystals instead of their formation to the policyholders to know the Out of the total amount of stolen cars poliapplies for the cases in which auto parts rereplacement. This has a benefit for the cusbehavior of their drivers and take steps to cyholder by Quálitas, 51% were recovered. placement is not required. tomer since he/she does not pay a deductireduce claims. From those that had the device, we recoveble and does not compromise safety or quared 79%; both figures are higher than the tolity. It allows to expedite times and is a more tal recuperation rate of the sector in Mexico amicable environmental option linked to cirwhich was 44%, according to data from the cular economy. Coordination Office of Policyholder Risks (Oficina Coordinadora de Riesgos Asegurados or OCRA). CHANNELS AND PLATFORMS Accident Express QMovil Accident Q 360 attention App adjustment App attention App Q Agencies Q Suppliers Portal policyholder’s App comprehensive claim officer’s Portal Portal version services version Agents Policyholders Claim Officers Suppliers Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 37 Environmental performance GRI 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 The efficiency in the use of funds is one of the keys of our business model. Applied to our enWith regards to Quálitas in Mexico, including both Quálitas Compañía de Seguros and the ergy and water inputs, it allows us to reduce environmental impact, including the emissions three non-insurance subsidiaries that we administrate, we consumed 160,674 GJ of fuel, of of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) resulting from the operation. Likewise, we extend the responsiwhich 99% corresponds to the Qualicoches (Quálitas cars’) gasoline. bility approach with the environment to waste administration. Fuel consumption (GJ) (Mexico) 3 During the year, at Quálitas Controladora level, we consumed 7,490,271 kWh of electricity at the own facilities of the group of countries where we operate; in relation to the preceding 20194 2018 2017 year, we added the consumption of non-insurance subsidiaries from which we take the operL.P. Gas 344 235 276 ational control1 and also from our insurance subsidiary in Peru (that started operations). Diesel 1,284 1,423 N.D. Gasoline 5 159,046 168,105 171,540 1 Easy Car Glass, CristáFacil and Outlet de Refacciones. TOTAL 160,674 169.763 171,816 3 There is a re-expression of the 2018 and 2017 for adjustment in the used calorific values; Likewise, the Electricity Consumption Quálitas Controladora (kWh) scope was modified in gasoline (see note 5). 4 In 2017 and 2018, the Quálitas México fuel consumption is reported; in 2019, also the consumption of 2019 2018 2017 the non-insurance subsidiaries is added: Easy Car Glass, CristaFácil and Outlet de Refacciones (since Mexico 7,137,999 6,448,185 6,583,297 Quálitas Controladora takes the operational control of them). Quálitas Compañía de Seguros 2 6,883,864 6,448,185 6,583,297 5 Only the gasoline consumption that Quálitas Compañía de Seguros directly credits and uses in the operation of the company is included (not for the policyholders or for the collaborators under personal title). Non-insurance subsidiaries 254,135 N.A. N.A. N.D.: Not available. United States of America 24,304 13,073 11,134 Costa Rica 121,872 113,119 103,012 Therefore, the total consumption of energy for the operations of Quálitas in Mexico, considEl Salvador 165,524 147,534 140,981 ering both electricity and fuels, was of 186,371 GJ. 99.5% of it corresponds of the operation of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, the rest to the non-insurance subsidiaries. We calculated Peru 40,572 N.A. N.A. the energy intensity for Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, which was of 5.4 MJ per weight of TOTAL 7,490,271 6,721,911 6,838,424 written premium. 2 Includes the consumption of its own 12 (administrative) offices and of the 251 ODQs in Mexico. N.A.: Not Applicable. It does not apply since it did not have the ownership (insurance subsidiary in It should be noted that in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros there Peru) or the operating control (non-insurance subsidiaries in Mexico, Easy Car Glass, CristaFácil and Outlet de Refacciones). are different initiatives to reduce energy consumption, such as the replacement of lamps by LED. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 38 We include the following emissions in the inventory: Since the claim officers work requires to travel in vehicle, we Scope Included Emissions are working on two areas: L.P. gas and diesel consumption at its own facilities (Quálitas Compañía de Seguros and non-insurance subsidiaries). Gasoline consumption by the Qualicoches and other utility 1 2 Scope 1: vehicles by the company (Quálitas Compañía de Seguros). Direct Emissions Refrigerant gases refueling in air-conditioning units (Quálitas Compañía de Seguros). Remote adjustment development Incorporation of Emissions of waste waters treatment plants (express adjustment), hybrid vehicles (Quálitas Compañía de Seguros) that does not require that the adjuster to the Qualicoches fleet, drive to attend the event, reducing fuel reducing the fossil Power consumption (emissions related to the generation consumption and saving time fuels requirement Scope 2: of said power) in: Indirect • Insurance subsidiaries: Mexico, United States of America, emissions Costa Rica, El Salvador and Peru. • Non-insurance subsidiaries (only operating in Mexico) 1. By means of both lines of action, we contribute to reduce Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions of both the subsidiary Flights of the Quálitas Compañía de Seguros employees in the performance of their work. and Quálitas Controladora group Scope 3: Emissions related to hotel stays by the staff of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros in work trips. Other At the end of the year, Quálitas Compañía de SeIn addition, we calculated the GreenIndirect guros had 254 hybrid Qualicoches, which rehouse Gas emissions inventory (GHG), Gasoline consumption in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros for: Emissions present 14% of all its fleet, exceeding the target at the level of Quálitas Controladora, in • Service rendered by the insurance company to its customers established for 2019, which was of 100 hybrid veaccordance with the ISO 14064-1 Stanin the delivery of fuel as part of road assistance. hicles. It is expected that the proportion will indard and the methodology established • Vehicles owned by the employees, Quálitas pays for fuel first crease; since 48% of the acquired vehicles during by the Mexican authority for the Natio(the employee pays it later). the year already corresponded to hybrid model. nal Emissions Registry (Registro Nacional de Emisiones or RENE). 1 Easy Car Glass, CristaFácil and Outlet de Refacciones, those of which Quálitas ControAlso, to reduce emissions, our insurance subsiladora took operational control in 2019. diary in Mexico has panels for renewable energy supply in some of its facilities. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 39 Following are the emissions per country. In Mexico, the total of emissions of the Scopes 1 and 2 was 17,118 tonCO2eq, 99.5% corresponds to our insurance subsidiary. The emissions intensity for Quálitas Compañía de Seguros was of 0.5 gCO2eq per each weight of written premium. Greenhouse Gases Emissions (GHG) (tonCO2eq) Quálitas Controladora 1 Recycled material Quálitas Compañía de Seguros2 (Kg) Country 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Scope 1 13,554.50 14,269.73 14,003.84 Paper and cardboard 3,240 4,095 1,599 Mexico Scope 2 3,604.69 3,398.19 3,831.48 PET 183 185 187 Scope 3 1,348.15 704.40 990.51 Aluminum 23 37 41 Others 100 480 237 U.S., Costa Rica, El Salvador, Scope 2 165.55 114.91 24.59 2 Ajusco, San Ángel and San Jerónimo offices. Peru Likewise, we promote a responsible use of water in our offices; the consumption during the 1 There is re-expression of the emissions of the Scopes 1 and 3 in relation to that published in the 2017 year was of 18.7 million liters for Quálitas Compañía de Seguros. It should be mentioned and 2018 Report; due to the fact that the gasoline consumption emissions delivered to policyholders in that we also have treatment plants at the facilities of San Jerónimo and Maguey (Mexico), road assistance and gasoline consumption advanced to the employees for their personal trips, went from that contributed with the treatment of 2,604 m3 of water during the year. Scope 1 to 3. Close to our environment, the employees of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros and their famOn the other part, in our efforts to reduce environmental impact, in Quálitas Controladoilies participate in volunteering activities to reforest different zones of the country. In 2019 ra we promote the paper use reduction for our various activities jointly with technology. For we carried out reforestation workdays in Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, with example, in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros the attention and documentation process of the 1,812 participants and 11,900 planted trees. accident is already made completely in electronic forms. In our insurance subsidiaries we do not have a significant impact of waste generation given the type of activity. Notwithstanding the above, in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros we make a differentiated collection of paper, aluminum and PET at the main workplaces, also of the electronic waste, for their recycling by a third party. Toner cartridges have also a special11,900 ized management. planted trees in 2019 volunteer activities Workforce Description GRI 102-8, 102-41, 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 201-3, 401-1, 405-1 Employee In Quálitas Controladora we have a solid team, that upon closing of 2019 amounts to a total of 5,275 employees. It is 5% more than the previous year, and considers the incorporation of the teams of the Development non-insurance subsidiaries (Outlet de Refacciones, Easy Car Glass and CristaFácil) and of the insurance operation in Peru. The workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, our insurance subsidiary in Mexico, employs 93% of our total employees. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 41 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES El Salvador Costa Rica Quálitas Controladora Mexico Quálitas Compañía Non-insurance USA1 Peru de Seguros subsidiaries 2019 5,275 5,067 4,898 169 64 64 39 41 102 37 30 Outlet de Easy Car CristaFácil Refacciones Glass 2018 5,028 4,883 4,883 49 62 34 N.A. N.A. 2017 4,959 4,816 4,816 51 58 34 N.A. N.A.: Not applicable. 1 The employees of the Tijuana office (Mexico) employed by QIC (United States) are included in the workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros since it is the subsidiary in which their payroll its undertaken in the first place and the working conditions are established. In relation to the previous reports, the information of 2018 and 2017 is re-expressed to exclude them also from the QIC workforce and introduce them in the workforce of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros. 40% of the directors 41% 31% are women women in of asistant workforce director positions are held by women We have a varied workforce, in which EMPLOYEES BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY, AGE AND GENDER – QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA 2019 41% are women; we want to emphasize also that they represent 40% of the DiBetween 30 and 50 rector positions and 31% in asistance diUnder 30 years old Over 50 years old TOTAL years of age rector. We also encourage employment opportunities for young people; employFemale Male Female Male Female Male Female Male ees of less than 30 years of age make Director 0 0 4 5 6 10 10 15 up 28% of the workforce and they mainly work as analysts and assistants, starting Assistant Director 0 1 13 25 3 10 16 36 positions for their professional developManager 4 3 67 93 3 17 74 113 ment at the company. Coordinator/Supervisor 33 64 215 363 14 36 262 463 Analyst 474 573 860 1,665 34 116 1,368 2,354 Assistant 253 68 157 70 4 12 414 150 TOTAL 2 764 709 1,316 2,221 64 201 2,144 3,131 2 For the Outlet de Refacciones workforce, the office staff is accounted for in the category as Assistant; the sales staff, mechanics and storekeepers, are considered in the Analyst category; thus, they are consolidated in the general structure of work categories established for the group of subsidiaries. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 43 1,534 In Quálitas Controladora we are committed bution as support to their retirement, in the to diversity, and during the year we developed case of employees from 60 years of age and our Human Rights Policy, having non-discri10 years of seniority at the company1. The 1,034 mination as one of its main principles. workforce is also complemented with 192 919 workers of external companies for auxiliary At the level of Quálitas Compañía de Seguservices, such as cleaning, valet parking and ros we have given particular attention to the coexistence among the different generasecurity. 49% tions, launching a workshop focused on maFor our growth, the attraction and retenwomen king team from the similarities, promoting that the differences are evaluated and that tion of talent is essential, consolidating high-performance teams. In 2019, 919 per51% men teamwork prevails. With a 3-hour duration, sons joined Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, 1,094 employees participated in it. The comthrough a first three-month temporary hiNEW HIRINGS 2017 2018 2019 mitment with a working environment based ring as trial period. From them, 59% already Quálitas Compañía de Seguros on equity and mutual respect also supports has an indefinite contract and 21% still stays the Policy of Respect of the Person and within said initial stage at the closing of the their Diversity, that our insurance subsidiary year, the rest corresponds to those non-reWOMEN BY AGE MEN BY AGE in Mexico has. newed. Promoting the development of our (New hirings) (New hirings) employees; during the year, 53% of vacanFollowing with Quálitas Compañía de Secies were filled by internal staff. 37.8% 47.8% Between 30 and Less than 30 guros, 96% of employees have an indefinite 50 years old years old contract, showing our commitment with the 1 In 2019, we assigned 3,517,572 pesos to this benejob stability. In addition, we offer a contrifit in our insurance subsidiary of Mexico. 0.7% 0.6% >50 >50 61.5% years old 51.6% years old Less than 30 Between 30 and years old 50 years old NEW HIRINGS AND DISMISSALS 2019 QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS 2 Between 30 and < 30 > 50 years of age Total Jointly with the employment opportunities, we support employees through training, 50 years of age career development and well-being measures, as well as the promotion of organizaGender Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men tional culture based on internal communication and collaboration. Turnover in QuáliHirings 278 223 171 241 3 3 452 467 tas Compañía de Seguros was of 13.1%, as to the employees that we have already inDismissals tegrated in the workforce with indefinite contract, after the trial period 3; that results with indefinite 116 97 137 231 9 26 262 354 in a 1.7 percentage points reduction in relation to 2018. contract Dismissals We back-up all the communication between the employees of Quálitas Compañía de with temporary 69 45 52 54 1 1 122 100 Seguros to ensure compliance with labor rights and obligations and to consider the contract expectations and interests of the employees. 2 You can consult in the previous annual reports the breakdown of hirings and dismissals of previous years. 3 The turnover was calculated as Dismissals with indefinite contract / Active employees as of Dec 31st for those with indefinite contract. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 44 Training and Career Development GRI 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-2 We offer training to employees for the perde 318,6301 training hours during the year, of 1 It includes the training hours of the Talent formance of their activities and growth at which, 73% was in virtual mode through QuáSeedbeds. the company. litas University. The total training that was 2 Considering the total employees of Quálitas provided corresponds to an average of 65 traCompañía de Seguros at the closing of 2019. In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, with a total ining hours during the year by employee2 at investment of 40.1 million pesos, we provisaid subsidiary. TRAINING HOURS PER WORK CATEGORY – QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS 2019 2018 2017 Work Category Total In person Virtual Total In person Virtual Total In person Virtual Director 759 178 581 503 202 301 683 356 327 Assistant Director 2,318 864 1,454 3,321 1,715 1,606 2,854 2,193 661 Manager 11,785 2,679 9,106 9,824 1,770 8,054 7,564 4,782 2,782 Coordinator 77,476 14,767 62,709 31,557 4,016 27,541 12,571 5,257 7,314 Analyst 189,152 58,468 130,684 193,383 94,558 98,825 194,194 149,742 44,452 Assistant 37,141 8,709 28,432 16,669 406 16,263 11,907 3,763 8,144 Total 318,630 85,664 232,966 255,257 102,667 152,590 229,773 166,093 63,680 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 45 It should be noted that we continue reinforcing Quálitas University with new contents. TechOf the performance of Quálitas University out of Mexico, the implementation for the first nology allows us also to have a further scope and expand training to agents, service office time of courses in the Peru subsidiary after the start of our operations in this country staff and suppliers in Mexico. Taking advantage of Quálitas’ University platform, we have should be noted. In this manner, we transmit the Quálitas organizational culture and the reached our policyholder fleets for the first time, teaching the risks administration program characteristics of our service model. (road security prevention), that is also available for agents. Next year we will extend training to non-insurance subsidiaries. DIMENSIONS OF QUÁLITAS UNIVERSITY – QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS QUÁLITAS UNIVERSITY INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES OUT OF MEXICO Group 2019 2018 2017 TRAINING TO EMPLOYEES Number of Number of Number of Number Number of Number of participants hours participants of hours participants hours Country 2019 2018 2017 Quálitas Number of Number of Number of Number Number of Number 5,392 227,526 5,434 147,950 5,125 68,975 Employees participants hours participants of hours participants of hours Agents 512 5,792 182 1,906 702 1,542 Costa Rica 59 2,465 62 2,040 56 308 Service Offices’ 1,135 62,039 1,095 25,296 901 11,302 El Salvador 31 259 57 516 40 115 Employees Suppliers 2,246 2,701 398 599 11 11 USA 1 0 0 4 8 N.P. N.P. Policyholders 19 109 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Perú 16 137 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Total 9,304 298,167 7,109 175,751 6,739 81,830 1 The training of the Tijuana employees working for QIC is included within the training data of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros (Mexico), since this subsidiary is the one managing its work aspects. N.P. = Not provided. N.A. = Not applicable. The person who ended at least one course is known as participant. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 46 As part of the training efforts, we teach techapplies to all the staff with more than three nical training related to the different positions, months at the company. At the beginning processes and activities of the company. of the year they define with their superior SALARIES RATIOS WOMAN/MAN 2019 QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS the goals to reach, on the progress of which In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, we develthey receive feedback during the period, unFixed Fixed + Variable 2 op Talent Seedbeds for those profiles that til reaching the final evaluation. In 2019, 99% Director 0.82 1.02 we mostly demand. They are intensive trainof the subsidiary’s employees participated Assistant Director 0.84 1.00 ing programs for employees just joining the in the process1. For directors, we also evalcompany. In 2019, we provided 44,455 trainuate compliance with the scorecard balance Manager 0.87 1.15 ing hours under this scheme, with 269 parassigned to them from the goals to reach by Coordinator 1.02 0.88 ticipants; the definitive incorporation rate their area, which determines their annual Analyst 1.27 0.71 of the participants after the program was of bonus. It should be noted that we have exAssistant 0.69 0.81 87%, which is a total success. tended the performance evaluation process to our insurance subsidiary of Peru. Total 1.03 0.74 We also train in key skills for the professional growth of the employees and cross-wise The remunerations at Quálitas Compañía de 2 It does not include the Employee Profit Sharing (PTU as per its acronym in Spanish), since it is a crosswise variable for all the employees depending on the performance of the company’s group. to the different teams, for example, in effecSeguros are established accord to threshtive time administration. Aware of the leadolds set generally by professional category, ership significant for the working environwhich are complemented by specific policies ment, performance and the satisfaction of for the variable in those areas whose teams our staff, we develop in our insurance subhave this scheme. We have also a bonus paysidiary in Mexico a series of workshops for ment policy for directors and deputy direcpersons in charge of team, to reinforce their tors. We detail as follows the remuneration skills on the matter, for example, in emoratios by gender and professional category, tional intelligence. even though for equivalent charges and same seniority, we guarantee salaries equality. In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros we annually evaluate the performance of our employ1 Of the total who may be evaluated, therefore, it is ees, being the determining result for the rerequired that the employee has more than three munerations update proposal. The process months at the company. 99% of Qualitas Compañía de Seguros employees participaded in the annual performance evaluation Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 47 WELL-BEING PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES MULTI-DIMENSIONAL APPROACH Working Environment QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404-2 OUTSTANDING BASE PROGRAM/OUTSTANDING INITIATIVES At Quálitas Controladora we seek to give In addition, in the framework of the MexiINDICATORS the employees of our different subsidiaries, can Official Standard NOM-035-STPS-2018, Health workdays: medical evaluations working conditions and environments guarwe make a deep analysis for Quálitas Comand awareness anteeing their well-being. pañía de Seguros in the diagnosis of the trauma causes and their follow-up, con+4,200 medical checktinuing in 2020 with a following analysis First-attention medical service and In 2019, in Quálitas Compañía of the psycho-social risk factors in a fullpreventive care ups de Seguros we developed the er sense. As a result of this year’s works, Physical +260 vaccinated employees we will add addictions and sleep disorders Psycho-Social Risks Policy. We consultancy to the content of the Adjust Major medical insurance and life insurance 1 +500 employees in seek to reinforce the prevention your emotions program. physical activities Adjust your emotions of said risks and strengthen Physical activation and other sporting We also promote the well-being in the seractivities (yoga, support to membership the respect that is part of our vice office teams working for the insurance in gyms) organizational culture. subsidiary in Mexico, supporting their directors in the knowledge of the norm, proFinancial education: training sessions As a company, we have been working to ofviding them a self-diagnosis questionnaire Savings bank 3,277 participants in the and helping them at work on improvement Financial 2 Cross-wise program (attention line) fer support channels to employees. The Adsavings bank opportunities. Financing facilities (housing and just your emotions program makes available a automobile) and other supports telephone line, an email and a mobile app, for legal, financial, psychological external consulOur well-being understanding is multi-ditancy and even food guidance; if necessary, it mensional, and includes other additional 53 scholarships to benefits for the employees. Activities for families enables sessions in person. Initially implementemployees Volunteering ed in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, we have Social1,812 participants in the extended it already to the Costa Rica and El Scholarships for employees’ studies laboral volunteering workdays Salvador subsidiaries, to which the rest will be Agreements with universities for family (reforestation, including followed in the next years. members employees and their families) Consultation line 586 attended cases Mental(includes the insurance emotional Application of the severe traumatic subsidiaries of Costa Rica events questionnaire and El Salvador) 1 The medical insurance, the awareness and training activities and the consultation line apply for all the employees, not only to those having indefinite contract. 2 More information in the subchapter of financial and insurance Culture (Chapter of prevention and road security Culture). Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 48 We also watch the health and safety/security of employees through different steps. In Quálitas Compañía de Seguros: Through the working environment survey, we supervise the workforce status. The results alWe support the conciliation low us to identify the priority work areas and We have We have a of the working and personal allows the team leaders to define the action Road Security lives of our workforce. 164 plans in which they will work during the year. We support the conciliation of the working voluntary brigade members, Management From the survey performed to evaluate the working environment in 2019, 91% of the workforce of and personal lives of our workforce. It should be noted that in Quálitas Compañía de Seprotecting the integrity of System, Quálitas Compañía de Seguros participated and guros 141 employees took their maternity/ their fellow workers, to in acordance with ISO 390013, 93% of the employees are actively engaged and paternity leave in 2019, being 53% women; all satisfied with their work and have an intention of whom we teach standard, applying to claim long term permanence in the company. of them reincorporated to the workforce1. As a result of our efforts to facilitate work-life 2,107 training hours officers, employees with higher risk of accidents for the time It should be noted that we also implemented the balance, this year 86% of the employees who during the year. have returned one year ago to the compasurvey in the teams of our foreign insurance subthat they spend driving and the sidiaries and non-insurance subsidiaries. Beny from their maternity/paternity leave, were still part of our team. emergency situations that they sides, we evaluate the working environment of the service offices, in order to support their directake care of. We have updated the Our efforts in well-being, health and safety/ tors in the staff management and in their action process in which they participate plans over improvement commitments. security, in addition to the attention that we give to the working environment and the difand we give them guidelines for the 1 The total of those who should reincorporate within 2019. ferent factors determining it, have allowed safe practice of their activity. 2 Absenteeism Rate =((Lost hours/ year work hours) that the absenteeism rate in 2019 be of 1.4% average workers) x 100; the rate shown only includes in Quálitas Compañía de Seguros 2. absences due to accidents and work illnesses. 3 More information in the subchapter of Road behavior (chapter of prevention and road security). Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 49 As part of our corporate citizenship, we contribute to the development of a culture of responsible driving. Due to our business, we know the risks firsthand, and we would like to bring our knowledge and experience to achieve a positive change in road safety. Prevention and road safety culture Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 50 Road conduct For the past five years, we have been working with the program Quálitas Road CVQ’s website Safety (Conducta Vial Quálitas, CVQ), had close to which includes a message distribution on responsible driving through our website www.conductavialqualitas.net and in the 150,000 company’s social media and service offices. users this year These messages are addressed to a large audience, adding specific campaigns for our employees and agents. We also have a Road Safety Management System (Sistema de Gestión de Seguridad Vial, SGSV) based on the standard ISO 39001. This includes the guidelines that claim officers must follow in road assistance to the policyholder and the involved During the year, we call center staff. Its scope includes Mexico City’s staff and it will be extensive to the othcontinued with our training er claim officers in the following years, after programs. We trained 225 the assessment of the initial results. claim officers through In 2018, we analyzed the main causes of acthe Minimizing Risk in cidents, obtaining as a result that 80% of the cases is associated to human factor. ThereAdjustment course and fore, this year we modified the related pro330 call center members cesses to incorporate the improvement actions identified. in the new Emergency Response Protocol. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 51 As part of our value proposition for the polWe also provide training in drivers manageicyholder, in the case of truck fleets, we ment, a program that the Ministry of Labor provided road safety consultancy to carriand Social Welfare (Secretaría del Trabajo y ers who are specially exposed to accidents Previsión Social, STPS) acknowledges. In addue to the time they spend on the road. We dition, we train the management and support understand the import that the policyholdteams of the operation, to create internal road er knows the accident rate of their fleet so safety instructors. that we can follow up regulary, including a plan of action and improvements to reduce To reach a broader audience, this year we accidents. Likewise, with the delivery of the launched an online course on prevention data, we provide joint causality sessions, through Quálitas University, aimed at the that has led us to very successful cases of smallest fleets. accident decrease. We also promote the creation of road safety committees in all these companies. All this allows us to be proactive and seek, jointly with our customers, strategies and best practices aimed at decreasing accident rates. Convinced of the potential of technology, we offer devices in bailment to fleets for the prevention of accidents and facilitate the recovery of the unit in case of theft. We also support the development of internal and operational self-regulation of processes that support the rest of the developments; the year was marked by the fact that three of the companies whose fleets we worked with were certified in ISO 39001. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 52 Financial and insurance culture GRI 103-2, 103-3, 401-2, FS16 In most of the markets in which we operate, the insurance culture, including auto insurance, is still emerging. At Quálitas, besides of making available our portfolio of auto insurance to the public, we want to raise awareness regarding the significance and value of being policyholder, safeguarding your property. We add agents and teams of service offices to this effort, which is supplemented with the presence and work of Quálitas Development Offices (ODQs) in locations with lower penetration, allowing auto insurance to gain hard-to-reach populations. Besides the insurance provision, we promote health in personal finance, savings and responsible income management. We continue our collaboration with the National Commission for the Protection and Defense of Financial Services Users (Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios de Servicios Financieros, CONDUSEF) offering information on our website and specific campaigns by e-mail. The agents with whom we work have at their disposal a financial education course at Quálitas University. In the case of our employees, we established a threefold approach: with training and courses, the attention of consultations through the phone line of Adjust your emotions (Health and well-being program) and the savings bank. It is noteworthy that During the year, 7 messages were 3,277 employees in Mexico used the latter benefit at year-end. sent for the care of finances to employees, with recommendations Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 53 Financial Highlights GRI 102-7,102-40, 103-2, 103-3, 412-3, FS6 The company’s management is based on a unique business model to ensure proper performance and operation. Excellence in service and specialization, together with the work with our business allies, are essential for the confidence of the policyholders, which is reflected in the outstanding year-on-year growth in written premiums. Emphasis on cost control and risk prevention efforts allow for a further reduction in casualties and an increase in operating margins. Economic Performance Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 54 Figures in million mexican pesos The main financial INCOME STATEMENT 2019 2018 ∆ 19-18 %/bp 2017 ratios and their Written Premium 1 36,196 34,495 4.9% 33,820 Retained Premium 35,991 34,183 5.3% 33,604 evolution regarding Earned Premium 34,899 31,810 9.7% 28,668 the previous year Acquisition Cost 7,780 7,464 4.2% 7,851 are as shown. Loss Cost 20,687 21,048 (1.7%) 19,184 The 2018 figures reported throughTechnical Result 6,432 3,298 95.0% 1,633 out this chapter may vary from Operating Expenses 2,029 1,568 29.4% 855 those previously reported due to a Operating Result 4,409 1,734 154.3% 778 reclassification of accounts. Comprehensive Financing Result 2,882 1,717 67.9% 1,829 Taxes 1,934 1,023 89.0% 544 Net Result 5,358 2,428 120.7% 2,064 BALANCE SHEET Total Assets 63,041 56,642 11.3% 51,059 Invested Assets or Float 31,768 28,034 13.3% 25,956 Technical Reserves 35,896 36,173 (0.8%) 32,843 Total Liabilities 49,477 47,537 4.1% 43,108 Total Equity 13,564 9,104 49.0% 7,951 COST INDICATORS Acquisition Ratio 21.6% 21.8% (22) 23.4% Loss Ratio 59.3% 66.2% (689) 66.9% 1 The total written premium by Quálitas Controladora includes the issuance of the car insurance Operating Ratio 5.6% 4.5% 106 2.5% subsidiaries and the sales of the other non-insurCombined Ratio 86.5% 92.5% (605) 92.8% ance subsidiaries related to the insurance or claim assistance processes. Adjusted Combined Ratio 2 87.4% 94.6% (718) 97.3% PROFITABILITY INDICATORS 2 It refers to the sum of acquisition, loss and operReturn on Investments 8.2% 4.7% 355 6.5% ating costs divided by the earned premium, and is provided for purposes of comparison with internaROE 12m 47.3% 28.5% 1,873 29.5% tional ratios. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 55 Premium issuance WRITTEN PREMIUM BY INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY (MILLION PESOS) WRITTEN PREMIUM BY SEGMENT (MILLION PESOS) In 2019, the written premium at the level of our insurance subsidiaries as a whole inSubsidiary 2019 2018 19-18 2017 Segment 2019 2018 19-18 2017 creased by 4.9% compared to the previous Quálitas Individual 10,771 9,144 17.8% 7,450 year. Quálitas Compañía de Seguros, our Compañía de Seguros 34,249 32,821 4.4% 32,141 Fleets 11,411 10,664 7.0% 9,294 main subsidiary, increased by 4.4%, closQuálitas El Salvador 167 146 13.9% 132 Financial institutions ing at $34,249 million pesos. The above was Quálitas Costa Rica 459 456 0.6% 465 (special business) 12,066 13,015 (7.3%) 14,733 driven by double-digit growth in the traditional segment1, especially by the competiQuálitas Insurance 1,116 961 16.1% 940 Foreign subsidiaries 1,909 1,563 22.1% 1,537 tiveness of our offer and the close relationCompany (QIC, U.S.A.) Total 36,196 34,495 4.9% 33,820 ship with our more than 15,500 agents. It is Quálitas Peru 168 N.A. N.A. N.A. also worth noting the recovery during the Note: Total includes sales of non-insurance subsidiaries. Total 36,196 34,495 4.9% 33,820 second half of the year in the issuance of financial institutions despite the significant N.A.: Not applicable. With regard to the policyholder units, the increase for all insurdrop of 7.7% in new car sales in the country. Note: Total includes sales of non-insurance subsidiaries. ance subsidiaries was 8.9%, reaching a total of 4,223,027 units. The growth in our subsidiary in Peru is particularly significant, where On the other hand, we placed special emWe issue policies through different segments, focused on the insurwe started operations in 2019 and managed to triple the number of phasis on the management of our foreign ance of individual vehicles, fleets and heavy equipment; the financial policyholder units. subsidiaries, showing as a result a 22.1% ininstitutions segment is linked to new car sales. crease in the written premium in comparison with the previous year; representing 5.3% of More information in the subchapter Business model and corporate strategy (Strategy chapter). the total issuance of Quálitas Controladora. 1 Agents, service offices, ODQs and other Quálitas channels. Peru 22.1% foreign subsidiaries 4.9% 8.9% subsidiary managed to increase in the written Written Premium Policyholder units triple premium in comparison annual increase annual increase the number of with the previous year policyholder units Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 56 Business result Investments QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION The acquisition ratio was 21.6%, a 22 bp deThe investment strategy is defined on a crease in comparison with the previous year, monthly basis in the Investment, Finance and PORTFOLIO BY SUBSIDIARIES related to the drop in issuance through finanPlanning Committee of Quálitas Controlacial institutions, which represent a higher acdora, for the different insurance subsidiaries quisition cost. and always in accordance with the regime established for the sector in each of the counOn the other hand, the annual loss ratio was 59.3%, presenting a decrease of 689 bp tries in which we operate. Our fiduciary duty to policyholderss and shareholders leads 82% QUÁLITAS COMPAÑÍA DE SEGUROS in comparison with 2018, the lowest since us to a cautious approach, with 85.9% of the 2007. This is due to the decrease in thefts fixed income portfolio, with the remaining and the increase in the recovery of stolen fraction in equity instruments. The assets invehicles policyholder by Quálitas, as well vested during the year amounted to $31,768 9% QC Ind. as our efforts to prevent accidents and demillion pesos, 13.3% more than in 2018. The 6% QIC crease fraud. return on investment was 8.2%, benefiting from attractive interest rates and exceeding 2% QCR the average reference rate. 1% Others We address the growing relevance of enviTOTAL PORTFOLIO The annual loss rate ronmental, social and governance (ESG) issues for investment instruments, because of 59.3% is the lowest of the risks and opportunities that compasince 2007. nies related to these may have (e.g. debt and equity issuers, etc.). During the year we launched our Investment Policy with ESG 52% Goverment criteria, which confirms the commitment to improve the integral evaluation of these aspects as part of the analysis of assets prior to investment. 24% Private 14% Equities 4% Cash and equivalents 3% International Fin. Org. 2% Quasi goverment 1% International Bonds Note: The sovereign debt rating may vary between countries. Variations by exchange rate could generate diffefences Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 57 Net Result RETURN ON INVESTMENTS (%) Accumulated net income was $5,358 million pesos, which represents a 121% growth or $2,930 million more than the previous 7.6% 8.2% year. Thus, 2019 is positioned as a new record year for the company, with the best net result since its incorporation. The ROE at 5.5% 6.7% 7.8% 12 months was 47.3%. ROI Quálitas Earnings per share closed at $12.6 pesos, representing a 126% 4.2% 6.5% growth in comparison with the previous year. The P/E is at 6.3, below the company’s historical average. 4.6% 3.2% A 126% growth in earnings per share, 3.0% in comparison with the previous year. ROI Cetes 28 DAYS Solvency Margin 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our solvency margin was $10,124 million pesos and a solvency margin percentage of 487%, which is $8,815 million pesos above 76.34 our goal of having 50% more than the required regulatory capital. The investments made during 2019 are considered in the PROFITABILITY (MXN) 66.52 balance sheet, as capitalizations to our geographic and vertical Cash per share subsidiaries (non-insurance business) and the share buyback 57.68 TACC: 20.5% program, among others. 46.39 31.92 33.34 226% 487% 27.32 172% 206% 23.04 Book value 21.03 20.93 17.15 17.67 TACC: 24.0% 13.89 13.50 4,585 11.05 2,260 3,606 7.96 9.71 10,124 5.72 8.35 4.55 3,151 3,386 3,634 2,618 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Regulatoty Capital Solvency Solvency Requirement Margin Margin % The calculation of the required regulatory capital varies in the countries where Quálitas operates. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 58 Distribution of Economic Value GRI 102-7, 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 201-4 Share’s Value At Quálitas Controladora we are committed to The income is distributed among the differQuálitas Controladora is listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de the generation of integral value for our different stakeholders and we reserve a part of Valores BMV: Q*), with a floating capital of ~ 40% of shares; the company’s market ent stakeholders, through the operation of the the resources as Economic Value Retained capitalization was $33,745 million pesos. It stood out as the best performing issuer in different insurance and non-insurance subsid(EVR) to continue growing. 2019, achieving a cumulative return of 91.9%, in comparison with a return of 4.6% for iaries, and the performance derived from the the Mexbol Index (IPC). management of the investment portfolio. It is worth mentioning that Quálitas does not receive any sort of financial support from the governments. Issuer with the best performance on At the end of 2019, Quálitas ControladoECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (FIGURES IN MILLION PESOS) ) 1 the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) in 2019 ra had 425 million outstanding shares. The issuer raised 18 positions in the Through the share buyback program, we have set a two-year target of 400 2019 2018 Δ19-18 2017 marketability index, from 46th place at the beginning of the year to 28th place at million, in accordance with the manthe end of December; the share is condate of the Shareholders’ Meeting and Total Revenues (GEV) 36,196 34,495 4.9% 33,820 sidered a high liquidity share. the amounts approved for this purpose. On the other hand, it should be noted Expenses (DEV) 33,095 31,432 5.3% 28,652 The average daily volume was 707,539 that since 2019 Quálitas Controladora is shares, with a 14.4% growth in relation part of the Sustainable Mexbol Index of Agents, automotive to 2018; they represented 2.3 billion dolthe Mexican Stock Exchange (S&P/BMV Acquisition financial institutions, 7,780 7,464 4.2% 7,851 lars, 59.8% more than the previous year. IPC Sustentable), which recognizes our suppliers, employees progress in sustainability among the listed companies in the country. Loss Suppliers, employees 20,687 21,048 (1.7%) 19,184 Besides, Quálitas Controladora is evaluOperation Service offices, suppliers, 2,029 1,568 29.4% 855 ated by SAM in its ESG performance and employees the results are part of the variable comEmployees pensation of the Finance Director. profit sharing Employees 665 329 102.1% 218 #1 (known in Quálitas Controladora is also listed on Spanish as PTU) the Institutional Stock Exchange (Bolsa Taxes Government and authorities 1,934 1,023 89.0% 544 Issuer Institucional de Valores BIVA), forming part of its main index, the FTSE BIVA. Best market performance Retained (GEV-DEV) 3,101 3,063 1.24% 5,168 on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) 1 There is a restatement regarding the information provided in previous reports due to an adjustment in the internal calculation methodology. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 59 QUÁLITAS CONTROLADORA Corporate governance, ethics and risk management Committees Board of Directors Audit and Investments, Structure Social Corporate Finance and Operations Responsibility GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, Practices Planning 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, It is integrated by 10 proprietary members, 7 Joaquín Brockman 102-31, 102-33, 102-35, 405-1 Lozano R R R R of them are independent, which represents President President At Quálitas Controladora we have a corpo70% of independent members. Additionally, Wilfrido Javier Castillo rate governance system in compliance with there are 2 alternate members. Sánchez Mejorada R R R R Vice President best reference practices and current regulations, where its members work in an ethDetails of the members of the Board of Directors María del Pilar are available at: Moreno Alanís R R ical and transparent manner, responsible http://qinversionistas.qualitas.com.mx/portal/ for their fiduciary duty. Madeleine Brémond board-of-directors-committees/?lang=en Santacruz I The General Shareholders’ Meeting apThe terms of office are annual, and seniority points the members of the Board of DirecMauricio Domenge tors, previously proposed by the Audit and is currently 8.7 years on average for propriGaudry I I etary members. The average attendance at Corporate Practices Committee. In addition, the meetings during the year was 92.36%; Juan Marco it approves the main decisions of the Board for this they receive remuneration proposed Gutiérrez Wanless I I of Directors and the profit and loss stateby the Audit and Corporate Practices Comment submitted by it. Juan Enrique mittee and approved by the General ShareMurguía Pozzi I I I holders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors defines the strateJuan Orozco gy of Quálitas Controladora. Its members The detail of the remuneration paid to the board y Gómez Portugal I I I must comply with the Assessment Policy members in 2019 can be found in the resoluPresident on the Suitability of Members and have the tions approved by the General Shareholders’ Alfonso Tomás necessary responsibilities and skills to carMeeting. http://qinversionistas.qualitas.com. Lebrija Guiot I I President ry out their functions, free from conflicts of mx/portal/wp-content/uploads/Puntos-aprobainterest. They also receive training on the dos-en-la-Asamblea-Ordinaria-y-ExtraordinaChristian Alejandro Pedemonte del Castillo I I most current issues and those that have the ria-de-Accionistas-22-abril.pdf greatest impact on the operation. The board Wilfrido Javier Castillo members conduct a self-assessment of The chairmanship of the Board is carried Miranda Olea A R their performance. The Board has the powout by Joaquín Brockman Lozano, founding er to appoint the company’s senior manshareholder of the company, who is also the José Antonio Correa agement, including the Executive President. Executive President of Quálitas Controladora. Etchegaray A R R R President As of December 31st, 2019 R Proprietary Related I Proprietary Independent A Alternate Related Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 60 The Board’s performance is supported by More information on the formation and It is worth noting the extensive experience of our exvarious committees, with specific duties and ecutive team, both in the structure of Quálitas Conwhose participants include board members. functions of the committees is available at: troladora and in the management of the different We have the following committees: The Auhttp://qinversionistas.qualitas.com.mx/ subsidiaries. There is fluent coordination between dit and Corporate Practices Committee; the areas, including weekly meetings of the main execInvestment, Finance and Planning Commitportal/consejo-de-administracion-comites/ utives and their teams. In this manner, we follow up tee; the Operating Committee and the Social the operation, address the circumstances arising Responsibility Committee. from the context and from our operations, and discuss the issues that are becoming increasingly relevant. This allows us to move forward according to our strategic guidelines, in order to achieve our obVice president President of jectives and goals. of the Board the Board BOARD OF Wilfrido Joaquín Castillo Brockman DIRECTORS CEO QC Joaquín Brockman Investment and Finance General General General General General General Other Investor Relation Management Management Quálitas Management Management Management Management Management Subsidiaries Management Bernardo Compañía de Seguros Quálitas Insurance Quálitas Costa Rica Quálitas El Salvador Quálitas Peru CristaFácil, Easy Car Wilfrido Risoul (MX) Company (USA) Rosa María Luisa Fernanda Rodolfo Antonio Glass y Outlet de Castillo José Antonio Eduardo Morales Albarracín García Refacciones Correa Pedrero Eduardo Brockman Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 61 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-25, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 412-1, 412-2 Our insurance subsidiaries have the Code of Across the company, we Ethics and Conduct, which includes the values and guidelines that are promoted for a promote the culture of proper performance. It applies to employees compliance, according with and service office staff; we also promote it among our agents and suppliers, encouraglegislation and internal ing them to perform their activities accordregulations, relying on ing to it. It is reviewed annually by the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee and aptechnology to follow up on our proved by the Board of Directors of Quálitas responsibilities. Controladora; and is complemented by other documents such as the Anti-Corruption Principles and Mechanisms policy and the Conflicts of Interest Policy. Additionally, at Quálitas Compañía de SeWe also have Q-Transparency, our channel guros we define the Ethical Principles for for reporting breaches of the Code of Ethics Business that govern our insurance offerand Conduct and other company policies. ings in the market and the relationship that It guarantees access to the general pubour employees, agents and service office lic, through a web portal, e-mail or phone staff have with the policyholders. We also line where they can anonymously make their require our suppliers to comply with the Opreports, and the platform is managed by erating Rules, guidelines that govern our an external third party. As of this year, it is business practice and that we include as available to all our insurance subsidiaries, part of our agreements with them. regardless of country, and we are working to extend it to the rest of the non-insurance subsidiaries, whose operational control we assumed during 2019. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 62 We make sure that complaints are hanally, we have a case that is being legally folQ CERTIFICATION TRAINING dled with guarantees for all parties. The lowed, and no resolution has yet been made. third-party service provider forwards the We at the company are concerned that they N° of employees in Quálitas N° of complaints to a Complaint Line Monitoring continue to be isolated cases, given the culQuálitas Quálitas Costa employees in Committee in the company; this Committee ture of ethics and integrity in our teams. Compañía de Rica and El Service Offices sends the cases to the appropriate areas Seguros Salvador (Mexico)1 within the company for resolution. The EthOn the other hand, it should be noted that Money Laundering Prevention ics and Conduct Committee analyzes the from Quálitas Controladora we did not 5,226 11 1,064 (Q-Transparency) most significant cases and follows up on make contributions to ppolitical and/or Code of Ethics and Conduct 4,945 39 1,067 the entire process described above, reportrepresentatives groups. ing quarterly to the Audit and Corporate Conflicts of Interest Policy 4,685 50 995 Practices Committee. There are no particuAt Quálitas, we train our employees to enPersonal Data Protection 5,045 39 1,070 larly recurrent and significant issues in the hance their ethical performance and their complaints filed, and all are handled with compliance with internal and external regANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING due guarantees. ulations, including those of the Quálitas Quálitas Compañía de Seguros 2019 2 University. All employees must annualIn addition to the above, there are those casly complete and pass the Q Certification, Number of Number of es that we identified through the audit, inwhich outlines the main courses, relattrained employees training hours ternal control and fraud prevention areas. ing to: Code of Ethics and Conduct, Money Director 24 160 During the year, we detected 8 cases of corLaundering Prevention (MLP), Conflicts of Assistant Director 44 241 rupt practices among our employees, of Interest Policy and Personal Data ProtecManager 154 885 which 6 were resolved by termination of our tion. We also train agents and service office employees and 2 are in process. Additionstaff in these subjects. Coordinator 712 4,294 Analyst 3,661 20,264 Assistant 667 4,108 Total 5,262 29,952 1 The number of people is higher than the total number of staff in the service offices at the end of 2019, due to the rotation. 2 It includes the Q Certification programs: training in Money Laundering Prevention, Code of Ethics and Conduct, Conflicts of Interest Policy and Personal Data Protection. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 63 In order to continue to make our employees aware of the company’s values, as well as the other guidelines that we have consolidated in our Code of Ethics and Conduct, we have developed the campaign Quálitas Citizen to implement the values. The employees of Quálitas Compañía de Seguros and the teams from Costa Rica and El Salvador participated. Furthermore, we made a special effort in our operations in Peru, after its incorporation to the company and as part of the process of knowledge and experience of the organizational culture. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 64 Risk Management Our insurance subsidiaries operate in a The total investment in the acquisition of GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 103-2, 103-3, highly regulated industry context, includtechnology, support and analysis services, 201-2, 206-1, 307-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 419-1 ing solvency requirements in response to fiwas $ 12.3 million mexican pesos. nancial risks. At Quálitas we inform the InAt Quálitas, we believe that in order to vestment, Finance and Planning Committee The impact of climate change also repachieve our strategy and the objectives and on a monthly basis about the status of the resents a risk to our operation, since the goals set, it is essential to identify and resubsidiary and we issue every year the Risk condition of the vehicles and the safety of the spond to the risks and opportunities of the and Institutional Solvency Self-Assessment drivers can be jeopardized by the occurrence operation, related to both the company’s (ARSI); we also train our collaborators unof rain, hurricanes and hailstorms of greatactivities and the context. The Board of Dider Solvency II regulation, through the Quáler intensity. On the other hand, the governrectors of Quálitas Controladora delegates itas University. In the other countries we ments of the main cities are promoting that to the Risk Management Area of Quálitas also operate in accordance with the authoritheir vehicle fleet be less polluting, which enCompañía de Seguros the operational manties’ requirements. courages the population to buy new hybrid agement and risk performance coordination or electric vehicles. In Quálitas Compañía de of all subsidiaries. Technology is a great ally of our operation. Seguros, we have a fleet of hybrid vehicles In 2018 we achieved PCI DSS (Payment Card named “Qualicoches” for our claim officers We regularly monitor the most significant Industry, Data Security Standard) certifiand attorneys that represent 14% of the 1,762 risks, proposing the necessary prevention cation by meeting the requirements of the vehicles that make up the total fleet. and response actions . PCI Council’s standards on security in handling of sensitive data in card payments by Our prevention and mitigation efforts, inMore information on this issue can be found in the policyholders on our collection lines. We cluding internal audits and the promotion of 2018 Integrated Annual Report, p. 99. thus strengthen the safekeeping of informaa culture of compliance, reinforce our obtion and prepare for possible cybersecurity servance of internal and external regulaThe main categories of our risks can be claims. The certification has different levels tions. We do not have significant monetary grouped into: depending on the maturity level, above the sanctions corresponding to our operations minimum values required, and in 2019 we in 2019; there are 11 appeal sanctions beFinancial Technical Operational Counterparty established the basis to go up a level in the fore CONDUSEF in Mexico and 2 before INMarket Technical Operational Credit next evaluation. DECOPI in Peru, but of less than 50,000 Risk Risk Risk Risk mexican pesos. Liquidity Technological Being aware that the risks extend to all our Risk Risk operations, we continue to provide conNational Commission for the Protection of Users tent on security standards at Quálitas Uniof Financial Services (Comisión Nacional para la Credit Legal versity. In addition, we perform an exterProtección y Defensa de los Usuarios de ServiRisk Risk nal third-party assessment of the exposure cios Financieros CONDUSEF); National Institute Concentration Reputational for the Defense of Free Competition and the ProRisk Risk our technology has to cyber risks in order to tection of Intellectual Property ( Instituto Nacional take the necessary actions. de Defensa de la Competencia y de la Protección Strategic Risk de la Propiedad Intelectual INDECOPI). Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 65 ABOUT OUR REPORT General Criteria Definition of contents and coverage GRI 102-32, 102-48, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, GRI 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 102-54, 102-56 The contents of the report reflect our performance regarding material subjects, which we We submit our fourth annual comprehensive reestablished in a participatory process with port, which includes the 2019 performance, providing continuity to the transparency commitment stakeholders. MATERIAL SUBJECTS TABLE with our stakeholders. The description of the We define potentially relevant subjects jointly 1 Support and education regarding traffic/road behavior corporate government and the financial informawith specialists, considering the results of dif2 Financial education and insurance culture tion corresponds to the set of Quálitas Controlaferent consultations to stakeholders performed 3 Operational innovation and efficiency dora; we add the information of the operations of by our teams for their ordinary activity and from 8 4 Relationship with suppliers our different subsidiaries. This time, we describe the analysis of sectoral trends. These issues 3 11 5 Insurance availability for all for the first time the activity of CristaFácil, Easy were prioritized in direct consultation to select19 6 Relationship with agents Car Glass and Outlet de Refacciones, after taking ed stakeholders, integrating the scores they de12 7 Data Protection of the policyholder 16 over the management of their operation. livered with those established from the company 2 4 8 Customer service based on the purposes and goals of the busi10 6 9 Accurate and relevant information about insurance conditions 18 IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS It is beyond the scope of the report, as to the deness. As a result of the process, we obtained the 10 Legal compliance 7 17 15 11 Ethics, transparency and anticorruption scription of the activities and operation data, Aumaterial subjects, that is, those of the greatest tos y Salvamentos, since our partner in ownership relevance from the double perspective, pursuant 1 9 24 12 Risk management (financial, operational) 14 13 Corporate Governance (management bodies of the company) manages this subsidiary. to the following matrix. 23 20 13 14 Involvement in the preparation of the public policies 5 15 Economic results This report has been prepared in accordance with The detail on the process for the determination of 16 Market and Brand positioning the GRI standards: Comprehensive option. We the material subjects and the limits (coverage) per 21 22 17 Attracting and retaining employees also consider the GRI supplement for the finaneach subject may be consulted in the Integrated 18 Labor atmosphere and employee satisfaction cial services sector, including those contained Reports 2016 (page 53) and 2017 (pages 99 to 102). 19 Career training and Development (employees) established for our material subjects. 20 Diversity and equal opportunities (employees) Due to the incorporation of the management of 21 Wages and benefits (employees) As a sample of the commitment with the most outnon-insurance subsidiaries and the growth of 22 Labor Security 23 Community support and donations standing international initiatives in sustainability, our international scope with the entry in Peru, 24 Environmental management (energy, this report serves as our Progress Reporting (Conext year we will update the material subjects wastes, emissions, ect.) municación del Progreso, COP) on the implementadetermination exercise, in order to adapt it to the tion of the 10 Principles of the United Nations Globnew scenario. al Compact. We also report our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Besides of the update of the material subjects, it INFLUENCE ON THE COMPANY’S STRATEGY shall include the redefinition of the internal and The Social Responsibility Committee validates external limits per each subject (coverage). the contents of this report in the first instance and then the Executive President does so. We have also submitted the report to external verification by an independent expert; the scope is referred in the verification letter. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 66 such as: ISAE 3000 Ethical Principles of Independence and the GRI publication The external assurance of sustainability reporting. Verification Letter of 2019 Consolidated Annual Report such as: ISAE 3000 Ethical Principles of Independence and the GRI publication The external assurance of sustainability reporting. “Together, moving forward safely” Conclusions To Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. Board of Directors: The report verification process did not present any factor that leads us to consider that: Conclusions VerificaTiion Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan, carried out a limited verification of certain information presented in the Consolidated Annual Report “Together, moving forward safely” corresponding to Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. 2019 financial year based  The verification The report published data contains process did not  The published data contains significant errors. present errors. significant any factor that leads us to consider that:  The Consolidated Annual Report does not meet the requirements requested by Letter the GRI Standards in accordance with the Comprehensive option and G4 Financial on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards in accordance with the Comprehensive  TheServicesConsolidated Annual Report does not meet the requirements requested by Sector Disclousures. option and G4 Financial Services Sector Disclousures. the GRI Standards in accordance with the Comprehensive option and G4 Financial An internal Servicesreport of recommendations Sector Disclousures. is delivered separately exclusively for the client, An independent and objective verification of a sample of GRI content related to the list which contains the areas of opportunity detected for a future report. GRI 102-56 of relevant topics of Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V, which are indicated in the An internal report of recommendations is delivered separately exclusively for the client, following table: which contains the areas of opportunity detected for a future report. 102-1 102-15 102-25 102-50 412-2 102-2 102-16 102-26 401-2 302-1 102-3 102-17 102-27 405-1 305-1 Alma Paulina Garduño Arellano 102-4 102-18 102-28 404-1 305-2 102-5 102-19 102-33 404-2 305-3 Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan S.A. de C.V Alma Paulina Garduño Arellano 102-6 102-20 102-40 419-1 416-1 Pico Sorata 180, Jardines en la Montaña, Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan S.A. de C.V 102-8 102-21 102-42 FS13 FS6 Tlalpan, C.P. 14210, CDMX. 102-9 102-22 102-43 FS14 204-1 Pico Sorata 180, Jardines en la Montaña, 102-12 102-23 102-46 FS16 201-1 paulina@redsociales.com Tlalpan, C.P. 14210, CDMX. 102-13 102-24 102-47 205-2 FS15 T. (55) 54 46 74 84 paulina@redsociales.com April 15th, 2020 In regard to: water consumption, solid waste, absenteeism rate, Quálitas wellbeing T. (55) 54 46 74 84 program and adherence to internal processes to ISO 39001, a deep revision was carried April 15th, 2020 out of the control and quality of presented information. Our verification process covered the following activities:  Knowledge of information management systems.  Verification of qualitative and quantitative information through visual, documentary and public evidence of the GRI content sample.  Validation of the methodological compliance of selected content (listed above) based on the GRI Standards.  Analysis of information presented in previous reports. Declaration of independence and competence of Redes Sociales LT Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan employees have the level of competence necessary to verify the compliance with standards used in the preparation of Sustainability Reports, so they can issue a professional opinion of non-financial information reports, complying Declaration of independence and competence of Redes Sociales LT Our commitment is to issue impartial opinions about the presentation and quality of the with the principles of independence, integrity, objectivity, competence and professional diligence, confidentiality and professional Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan employees have the level of competence necessary to verify the compliance with standards used behaviour. In no case our declaration of verification can be understood as an audit report and therefore no responsibility is assumed information contained in the 2019 Consolidated Annual Report prepared by Quálitas in the preparation of Sustainability Reports, so they can issue a professional opinion of non-financial information reports, complying for the systems and processes of management and internal control from which the information is obtained. This Letter of with the principles of independence, integrity, objectivity, competence and professional diligence, confidentiality and professional Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V., who is responsible for the selection of relevant topics and Verification is issued on April, 15th two thousand twenty and is valid as long as there are no subsequent and substantial modifications behaviour. In no case our declaration of verification can be understood as an audit report and therefore no responsibility is assumed to the 2019 Consolidated Annual Report of Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. reported GRI contents. Our work took as reference International Norms and Standards, for the systems and processes of management and internal control from which the information is obtained. This Letter of Verification is issued on April, 15th two thousand twenty and is valid as long as there are no subsequent and substantial modifications to the 2019 Consolidated Annual Report of Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 67 GRI content index GRI 102-55 GRI 102: CONTENIDOS GENERALES 20161 UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-1 14 102-2 14 3.6, 9.3 102-3 74 102-4 14 3.6, 3.13, 9.3 102-5 14 102-6 14,16 Organization GRI 102 General 102-7 7,53,58 profile Contents 2016 102-8 40 Principle 6 8.2, 8.5, 10.3 102-9 30 8.2 102-10 30 8.10 102-11 64 102-12 11,24 102-13 24 102-14 4 GRI 102 General Strategy Contents 2016 102-15 4,19,64 8.10 102-16 13,22,61 Principle 10 16.3 Ethics and GRI 102 General integrity Contents 2016 102-17 61 Principle 10 16.3 1 The correlation of GRI contents with the ODS and the goals has been established by integrating the reference framework Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets, and a strategic analysis of contribution to the SDGs by Quálitas. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 68 UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-18 59 102-19 59 102-20 22,59 102-21 23 16.7 102-22 22,59 5.5, 16.7 102-23 59 16.6 102-24 59 5.5, 16.7 102-25 59,61 16.6 102-26 13,59 102-27 59 102-28 59 102-29 64 16.7 GRI 102 General 102-30 64 Governance Contents 2016 102-31 59 102-32 65 102-33 59 Confidential, due to internal 102-34 guidelines of the company. 102-35 44, 59 102-36 44 102-37 44 16.7 Confidential, due to internal 102-38 guidelines of the company. Confidential, due to internal 102-39 guidelines of the company. Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 69 UN Global GRI Subject Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Compact 102-40 23 102-41 40 Principle 3 8.8 Stakeholder GRI 102 General 102-42 23 engagement Contents 2016 102-43 23 102-44 23 102-45 14 102-46 65 102-47 65 102-48 30,37,40,53,58,65 102-49 65 102-50 65 Reporting GRI 102 General practice Contents 2016 102-51 65 102-52 65 102-53 74 102-54 65 102-55 67 102-56 65, 66 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 70 CONTENT BY MATERIAL SUBJECT Material Subject UN Global Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Quálitas Compact GRI 103 103-1 65 Principle 6 Management approach 103-2 40 2016 103-3 40 Hiring and 401-1 40 Principle 6 5.1, 8.5, 8.6, 10.3 GRI 401 retention of Employment 2016 401-2 47,52 3.2, 5.4 employees 401-3 47 Principle 6 5.1, 5.4, 8.5 GRI 405 405-1 40,59 Principle 6 5.1, 5.5, 8.5 Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-2 44 Principle 6 5.1, 8.5, 10.3 GRI 103 103-1 65 Management approach 103-2 44 Employees 2016 103-3 44 training and 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1, career GRI 404 404-1 44 Principle 6 8.2, 8.5, 10.3 development Training and education 404-2 44,47 2016 404-3 44 Principle 6 5.1, 10.3 GRI 103 103-1 65 Management approach 103-2 64 2016 103-3 64 GRI 206 Anticompetitive behavior 206-1 64 16.3 2016 Legal GRI 307 Enviromental compliance 307-1 64 Principle 8 16.3 compliance 2016 GRI 417 417-1 26,30 12.8, 16.3 Marketing and labeling 417-2 64 16.3 2016 417-3 64 16.3 GRI 419 Socioeconomic 419-1 64 16.3 compliance 2016 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 71 Material Subject UN Global Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Quálitas Compact 103-1 65 GRI 103 Management approach 103-2 52 Financial 2016 103-3 52 education and insurance FS13 15,19 culture Sector Supplement FS14 19 Financial Services 2013 FS16 52 4.4 Principles: 1, 2, 103-1 65 GRI 103 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 Management approach 103-2 61 Ethics, 2016 transparency, 103-3 61 and anticorruption 205-1 61 Principle 10 16.5 GRI 205 205-2 61 Principle 10 16.5 Anticorruption 2016 205-3 61 Principle 10 16.5 Principles 1, 2, 4, 103-1 65 GRI 103 5, 6, 10 Management approach 2016 103-2 64 Risk 103-3 64 management 412-1 61 Principle 1 GRI 412 Human Rights 412-2 61 Principle 1 assessment 2016 412-3 53 Principle 2 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 72 Material Subject Título de UN Global Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Quálitas Estándar GRI Compact GRI 103 103-1 65 Principles 7, 8, 9 Management approach 103-2 26,34,37 2016 103-3 26,34,37 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 302-1 37 Principles 7, 8 13.1 Not applicable, Quálitas activity of insurance provision is not related to 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 302-2 GHG emissions in the use of Principle 8 13.1 GRI 302 vehicles by customers. Energy 2016 302-3 37 Principle 8 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 302-4 37 Principles 8, 9 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 Not available. Quálitas is working 302-5 to present the information Principles 8, 9 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 in the next exercise. 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-1 37 Principles 7, 8 Innovation and 14.3, 15.2 operational 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-2 37 Principles 7, 8 efficiency 14.3, 15.2 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 305-3 37 Principles 7, 8 14.3, 15.2 GRI 305 305-4 37 Principle 8 13.1, 14.3, 15.2 Emissions 2016 305-5 37 Principles 8, 9 13.1, 14.3, 15.2 Not applicable, Quálitas activity of insurance provision is not related to GHG emissions in the use of vehicles 305-6 by customers. Also, Quálitas Principles 7, 8 3.9, 12.4 operations do not require the use of refrigerant gases. Not available. Quálitas is working 305-7 to present the information Principles 7, 8 3.9, 12.4, 14.3, 15.2 in the next exercise. GRI 416 416-1 26,34 3.6 Customer health and safety 2016 416-2 64 16.3 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 73 Material Subject UN Global Content Standard Page Omission SDG´s / Goals Quálitas Compact GRI 103 103-1 65 Brand and Management 103-2 19,53 market approach 2016 103-3 19,53 positioning Sector Supplement FS6 53 Financial Services 2013 GRI 103 103-1 65 Relationship Management 103-2 30 with agents approach 2016 103-3 30 GRI 103 103-1 65 Management 103-2 30 Relationship approach 2016 103-3 30 with suppliers GRI 204 Procurement 204-1 30 practices 2016 GRI 103 103-1 65 Management 103-2 53,58 approach 2016 103-3 53,58 Economic 201-1 58 8.1, 8.2, 8.10, 9.1, results 9.4, 9.5 GRI 201 Economic 201-2 64 Principle 7 13.1 performance 2016 201-3 40 201-4 58 GRI 103 103-1 65 Management 103-2 26 approach 2016 103-3 26 Client service GRI 418 418-1 26 Customer Privacy 2016 Sector Supplement FS15 26 Financial Services 2013 Quálitas 2019 Integrated Annual Report · 74 contact Social Responsibility Phone +5255 5091 2914 www.qualitas.com.mx GRI 102-3, 102-53 tcosio@qualitas.com.mx Investors Relations Phone +5255 1555 6056 smonroy@qualitas.com.mx Quálitas Controladora, S.A.B. de C.V. Av. San Jerónimo 478, Álvaro Obregón, Jardines del Pedregal, 01900 Mexico City Hasta septiembre de 2019
