CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Co rp o ra t e R e s p o n sib ilit y figu re s 2 019 2019 2018 Change in % General data Revenue EUR millions 1,100.1 1,084.1 1.5 Adjusted EBITA EUR millions 144.8 173.2 – 16.4 Permanent staff 6,523 6,901 – 5.5 Responsible Management Number of employees who were trained on compliance topics online 1,233 2,350 – 47.5 Share of compliance online training courses completed on schedule % 96.6 96.5 n/a Number of discriminations and violations of freedom of association determined by courts 0 0 0.0 Business Solutions Number of invention applications 22 32 – 31.3 Defective parts ppm (parts per million) 6 7 – 14.3 Number of customer complaints per month average per month 6 7 – 14.3 Share of preferred suppliers who have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) % 100.0 100.0 0.0 Employees Share of manufacturing locations certified according to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 1 % 69 74 n/a Accident rate accidents / 1,000 employees 4.3 7.8 – 45.5 Average training hours per employee h 28.1 23.9 17.8 Share of female employees in permanent staff % 35.9 34.8 n/a Environment Share of manufacturing locations certified according to ISO 14001 1 % 90.0 93.0 n/a CO2 emissions from Scope 1 and 2 2 t CO2e 51,374 51,018 0.7 Energy consumption 2 kwh / EUR thousand of revenue 113.6 114.8 – 1.1 Water consumption 2 m3 / EUR thousand of ­revenue 150.1 141.1 6.4 Hazardous waste 2 kg / EUR thousand of ­revenue 0.5 n/a n/a Non-hazardous waste 3 kg / EUR thousand of ­revenue 8.3 n/a n/a Community Number of participants in NORMA Help Day > 700 > 700 n/a 1_The calculation considers only those locations that had been integrated for more than 12 months into NORMA Group as of December 31, 2019. 2_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., NORMA Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. 3_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., National Diversified Sales Ltd. (NDS), NORMA Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 2 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Ta b l e of 1 2 3 4 Contents Responsible Introduction CR Strategy ­Management Business Solutions Table of Contents  3 Management of CR  12 Strategic Approach  18 Strategic Approach  26 Introduction  4 Stakeholders and Materiality  13 Compliance  18 Innovation  26 Foreword  6 CR Roadmap 2020  14 Human Rights  21 Quality  28 NORMA Group at a Glance  7 Sustainability Ratings Awareness of CR within Sustainability in Purchasing  29 and Sustainable Finance 15 the Company  21 Customer Satisfaction  31 Outlook  22 Outlook  31 5 6 7 8 Employees Environment Community Data Strategic Approach  36 Strategic Approach  44 Strategic Approach  56 About this Report  63 Occupational Health and Environmental Management NORMA Clean Water  56 Key Performance Indicators  65 Safety  36 Systems  44 Corporate Volunteering  57 GRI Content Index  71 Training and Development  38 Climate Protection in Production  46 Commitment at the Sites  58 Assurance Report  77 Appropriate Remuneration Water in Production  47 Outlook  59 Imprint  79 and Employee Satisfaction  39 Resource Efficiency  48 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  40 Environmental Impact of Products 50 Outlook  41 Outlook  51 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 3 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Introduction NORMA Group NORMA Group is an international market and technology leader in engineered joining technology (joining, connecting and fluid ­handling technology) and o ­ ffers more than 40,000 high-quality products and solutions to around 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries. NORMA Group’s joining products are used in v ­ arious industries and can be found in vehicles, ships, trains, ­aircraft, domestic ­ appliances, engines and plumbing systems as well as in ­applications for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. From its headquarters in Maintal near Frankfurt, G ­ ermany, the Company coordinates a global network consisting of 29 p ­ roduction facilities as well as numerous sales and ­distribution sites across Europe, the Americas, and Asia-Pacific. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 4 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA The world is in the midst of fundamental changes. Climate change requires that decisive action be taken by society, politics and companies. Digitalization and new working models are changing the world of work. Regulatory requirements are constantly increasing. In short: “The world is changing.” On the following pages, you will learn how NORMA Group is dealing with this change and the associated expectations of the company. At the beginning of each chapter, we address the most current issues in each field of action and show what it means for us to actively assume responsibility. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 5 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Foreword [GRI 102-12, 102-14] Dear Readers, Last year, we continued to further develop the measures in our Our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact five fields of Corporate Responsibility. For example, we quantified in the fields of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-­ The world is changing: 2019 marks the end of the h ­ ottest decade environmental impacts in our supply chain for the first time and corruption forms the basis for our measures in the various areas since weather records began. New approaches, for example in incorporated them into our purchasing strategy for various p­ roduct of Corporate Responsibility. The efforts and commitment of our urban planning and mobility concepts, are transforming local, groups. In the area of quality, we reached an important milestone employees are crucial for successful implementation – we would regional and global markets. Society’s discussions are increasby having our water business in the US certified. At the same like to express our sincere appreciation to them! ingly focusing on how companies should be held r­ esponsible for time, we have driven certification of our Compliance organization their entire supply chain. and increased the number of training hours per employee. We present the status of our Corporate Responsibility activities in this report. We look forward to interacting with you and­­helping What do these changes mean for NORMA Group? How do we It is important to us that we establish Corporate Responsibility to shape NORMA Group’s path in a changing world! take our corporate responsibility to shape the change towards a at all levels within the Company. One example of this is the sustainable society? How do we deal with increasing ­sustainability component, which we have integrated into the loan Sincerely, ­environmental influences, stricter regulatory requirements and agreement on refinancing NORMA Group. The loan agreement changing market conditions? is linked to a sustainability rating. If we improve our rating, the terms and c­ onditions of the loan will also improve. Our answer is that we combine economic and ecological aspects in our business activities. The Water Management area, for example, not only represents an attractive, growing market for us; our products also help our customers to adapt to changing climate conditions, such as an increasing number of extreme weather events. Last, but not least, these products are made to a large extent from recycled materials. Dr. Michael Schneider Dr. Friedrich Klein Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Operating Officer (COO) NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 6 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA NORMA Group at a Glance Product portfolio and applications [GRI 102-2, 102-6] NORMA Group worldwide Business Model [GRI 102-4] [GRI 102-7, 103-1] The products that NORMA Group offers can for the most part technologically be divided into the three product categories water NORMA Group is an international market and technology leader management (WATER), fluid systems and connectors (FLUID) and in the area of advanced and standardized connecting technology clamps and joining elements (FASTEN). These functions have been With its 29 production sites and numerous sales offices, the Group established globally and cross-regionally in fiscal year 2019 to has a global network with which it supplies more than 10,000 improve supra-regional collaboration. customers in more than 100 countries. NORMA Group’s product portfolio includes more than 40,000 high-quality joining products The WATER product portfolio includes solutions for applications and solutions in the following three product categories: water in the sectors of storm water management and landscape management (WATER), fluid systems and connectors (FLUID) ­irrigation, but also joining components for infrastructure solutions and clamps and joining elements (FASTEN). The products in the area of water. NORMA Group offers are used across industries in a wide range of applications, whereby the product specifications differ FLUID products are single or multiple layer thermoplastic plug-in ­depending on the application and customer requirements. connectors and fluid systems that reduce installation times, ensure M1 D2 M1 D2 reliable flow of liquids or gases and occasionally replace convenHigh customer satisfaction forms the foundation of NORMA Group’s tional products such as elastomer hoses. NORMA Group’s fluid EMEA Americas continued success. The main factors here are the customized sysproducts are used in thermal management systems in hybrid and Germany Brazil France Mexico tem solutions, the global availability of products in consistently electric vehicles, among other applications. Italy United States high quality, delivery reliability and a strong brand image. Netherlands The FASTEN product group includes a wide range of clamp Poland ­products and connecting elements that are made from standard Portugal Asia-Pacific or stainless steel and are mainly used to clamp and seal hoses Russia Australia as well as to connect and to fix metal and thermoplastic pipes. Sweden China Switzerland India Serbia Japan Spain Malaysia Czech Republic Singapore Turkey South Korea United Kingdom Thailand 1_Manufacturing sites 2_Sales and distribution sites Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 7 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Market and competitive environment Two complementary distribution channels Personnel development at NORMA Group NORMA Group’s advanced engineered joining technology is used NORMA Group supplies its customers via two different sales 12,000 in all applications in which pipelines, tubes and other systems channels, need to be connected together. Because joining technology plays 10,000 8,865 8,521 a role in nearly all industries, NORMA Group serves many differEngineered Joining Technology – EJT 7,667 8,000 1,964 1,998 ent end markets. Besides the automotive, commercial vehicle, and and 6,664 1,552 aviation industry, NORMA Group is also active in the construction Distribution Services – DS. 5,975 6,306 1,214 6,000 1,185 4,947 1,147 and mechanical engineering industry, the pharmaceutical and 4,252 4,485 813 726 biotechnology fields, agriculture and the drinking water supply The two distribution channels differ in terms of the degree of 4,000 837 and irrigation industry as well as in other sectors. ANNUAL specification of ­­the products while having intersections in pro2,000 3,415 3,759 4,134 4,828 5,121 5,450 6,115 6,901 6,523 RE PO RT, P. 4 7 duction and development that enable cost benefits and ensure the highest quality standards. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 With its products, NORMA Group provides solutions for numerous industrial applications. Its expertise covers thermoplastic The area of EJT includes sophisticated, individually customized Core workforce Temporary staff materials (WATER and FLUID) as well as metal-based connecjoining technology and is particularly characterized by close develtion solutions and products (FASTEN). Thanks to the unique comopment partnerships with OEMs (original equipment bination of expertise in both metal and plastics processing and manufacturers). Via its Distribution Services (DS), NORMA Group the structure of our Group-wide central management responsithe broad diversification of its product portfolio, NORMA Group markets a broad range of high-quality, standardized brand bilities, can be found in the Annual Report. A N N UA L R EPO RT, can offer its customers a wide range of solutions to different prob­products. In addition to its own global distribution network, the P. 4 6 lems from a single source and thus distinguishes itself from its Company also relies on multipliers such as sales representatives, competitors who mainly specialize in individual product segments. retailers and importers. You will find further information on our Operative segmentation by regions distribution channels in the Annual Report. AN N UAL R EPO RT, P. 47 NORMA Group’s strategy is based, among other considerations, Sales by distribution channel 1 on regional growth targets. In order to achieve these, the operaOrganizational and legal structure tive business is managed by the three regional segments: EMEA, 61% (63%) [GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-7, 102-8, 102-10, 102-45] the Americas and Asia-Pacific. All three regions have networked EJT regional and cross-company organizations with different 8,521 employees worked for NORMA Group at the end of 2019, ­functions. The internal Group reporting and control system that of whom 1,998 were temporary staff. NORMA Group SE is the Management uses is also therefore quite regional in nature. parent company of NORMA Group. It has its headquarters in ­Distribution Services is based on regional and local priorities. Maintal near Frankfurt / Main, Germany. NORMA Group SE serves as the formal legal holding of the Group. It is responsible for the 39% (37%) strategic management of business activities. As of DecemDS ber 31, 2019, NORMA Group SE holds shares in 51 companies that belong to NORMA Group either directly or indirectly and are 1_Previous year’s figures in brackets. fully consolidated. In fiscal year 2019, there were no changes of the legal structure of the Group. Further information, e.g. ­regarding NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 8 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA NORMA Group value creation [GRI 201-1] 42.5% 36.6% Cost of materials NORMA Group value creation 76.1% Employees 14.3% 14.1% Shareholders (dividend and retention) Other expenses 5.5% Government 6.9% Amortization 4.1% and depreciation Creditors Group management [GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-23] NORMA Group SE has a dual management system that ­consists of a Management Board and a Supervisory Board. The ­Management Board manages the Company under its own responsibility, while the Supervisory Board advises and monitors the M ­ anagement Board. Detailed information on the composition of the Management Board and Supervisory Board as well as the allocation of responsibilities can be found in the Corporate ­Governance Report. A N N U A L R E P O RT, P. 3 7 Information on ­compensation structures can be found in the R ­ emuneration Report for the ­Management and Supervisory Boards. ANNUAL RE PO RT, P. 1 0 2 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 9 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 2 CR Strategy How does NORMA Group ­contribute to the Sustainable ­Development Goals? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA We focus on material areas Goal 13 – Climate Action: NORMA Group’s ­environmental strategy focuses on consistently of action that we manage R E D U C I N G G R E E N H O U S E G A S E S . This applies to both our own production sites as well as the entire with our CR Roadmap. value chain. In addition, NORMA Group also contributes to the implementation of other objectives (such as “Goal 3 – Good Health and Well-Being” as part of occupational health and safety measures or “Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities” through products in the area of infrastructure and water management). NORMA Group defined its sustainability targets in its CR RoadGoal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth: map. In many different areas, the Roadmap is in line with the NORMA Group pursues ambitious growth targets. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. The followAt the same time, FAI R PAY and the H EA LT H ing issues are particularly relevant for NORMA Group: A N D S A F E T Y of our employees are important The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted ­components of the CR Roadmap. by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015. The goals Goal 4 – Quality Education: Through measures ­encompass economic, ecological and social issues, and each in the area of training and development, Goal 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: consists of individual indicators that make implementation NORMA Group enables its employees to constantly I N N OVAT I O N S form the basis for future growth measurable. advance their career and personal development. and for developing environmentally friendly prodT RAINING A ND DEVELOPMENT ucts. For this reason, NORMA Group sets internal The target date for implementing the goals is 2030. The incentives for its employees to generate new ideas and has set primary addressees are the signatories, i.e. all nation states. Goal 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation: The quantitative targets in this area as well. However, the participation of other players, especially P RODUCTS NORMA Group offers globally make companies and civil society, is crucial for the implementation a contribution to the efficient use of water. Water Goal 12 – Responsible Consumption and of the goals. In the areas covered by the CR Roadmap, consumption is also to be reduced in NORMA Group’s ­Production: NORMA Group seeks to reduce conNORMA Group can make a contribution to achieving these P R O D U CT I O N processes. Furthermore, with its social project sumption of NATURAL RESOURCES IN PRODUCTION goals. N O R M A C L EA N WAT E R , NORMA Group sets a strong example and conducts measures to do so at every plant. for awareness-raising regarding water management in emerging Furthermore, we are increasingly taking sustainability criteria into Further information on the Sustainable Development Goals and developing countries. account when P URC H AS I N G M ATE RI ALS. can be found under S U STA I N A B L ED EVELO P MEN T.U N .O RG NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 11 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content NORMA Group’s approach to Corporate Responsibility Key stakeholders of NORMA Group [GRI 102-40] For us, Corporate Responsibility means reconciling the impact of 12 Management of CR our business with the needs of society. This is done by following 13 Stakeholders and Materiality regulatory requirements and integrating social and ­environmental Employees 14 CR Roadmap 2020 aspects into the corporate strategy and processes. Our products already make a valuable contribution to a more ­sustainable Financial markets Customers 15 Sustainability Ratings and Sustainable Finance ­society by helping to reduce the negative effects of global ­challenges such as resource scarcity and climate change. Our Science Suppliers CR strategy forms the basis of responsible actions and CR Strategy ­transparent business practices. Media Non-profit ­organizations Management of CR In order to strategically align and further develop our CR ­measures, Politics we set up the CR Roadmap, which includes specific objectives NORMA Group has systematically implemented Corporate for each area of action. C R R OA D M A P 2 0 2 0 The respective Responsibility (CR) since 2012. The goal is to act in a responsible, ­departments are responsible for defining and implementing sustainable and lawful manner in all areas of the Company. ­measures to achieve these CR objectives. Guidelines and manThe CR Steering Committee’s most important task is to further To ensure that NORMA Group as a whole remains oriented agement approaches are developed for the material CR topics. develop NORMA Group’s strategic CR management. In addition, toward this goal, CR was integrated as a core element of our These can then be implemented reliably and standardized the Committee also assesses cross-departmental coordination ­corporate strategy. ­internationally. The Group-wide approaches are complemented and the status of the achievement of objectives related to key CR by nationally adapted, decentralized measures. To what extent tasks. Last year, the CR Steering Committee met two times. The Group-wide C R PO L I CY defines our basic understanding CR topics are managed and implemented Group-wide or Between the meetings, the Corporate Responsibility Officers of responsibility as a Company. It covers five key areas of action: ­decentralized depends on how the respective CR objectives can manage departmental coordination, reporting directly to ­ responsible management, business solutions, employees, be achieved as effectively as possible. NORMA Group’s responsible member of the Management Board. ­environment and community. The policy describes our strategic A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 3 8 approach with the aim of coordinating NORMA Group’s Steering Committee develops strategic orientation of CR ­responsibility in a structured way and further developing it in a [GRI 102-18, 102-20] targeted manner. In its CR Policy, NORMA Group also reaffirms its commitment to the UN Global Compact and the United Nations’ Cross-departmental and multi-site coordination is important and Sustainable Development Goals (see explanation on previous necessary for institutionalizing CR throughout NORMA Group. page). Therefore, the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee is an inherent part of NORMA Group’s CR management. The CR ­Steering Committee comprises both the Management Board and all relevant functions at Group level. It includes the heads of ­purchasing, quality, environment, health and safety (EHS), human resources, investor relations, communications, legal and Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial ­compliance. Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 12 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Stakeholders and Materiality Materiality matrix Material CR topics [GRI 102-47] 6 6 Close exchange with stakeholders [GRI 102-21, 102-43, 102-44] Relevance Relevance NORMA Group sees itself as a transparent and open company. 5 We specifically and proactively seek exchange with our internal and external stakeholders. This enables us to effectively i­mplement Efficient production processes Compliance the continuous improvement that applies to all processes at 4 Elimination of discrimination management systems NORMA Group, including in the area of Corporate Responsibility. Health and safety Sustainable purchasing Customer satisfaction We consider it part of our responsible corporate governance that Training and development CO2 emissions through NG products Eco management systems stakeholders’ interests and the impact of our own business 3 5 Quality management Appropriate remuneration CO2 emissions in ­activities on stakeholders be reflected in our key decisions. production processes Recycling of waste ­Particularly in the strategic direction of the Company, we value Research and development Water consumption an open and appreciative approach to stakeholder expectations. Awareness of CR strategy through N­ G products 2 Freedom of Employee Innovation ­association satisfaction The Stakeholder Roundtable, which has taken place on an annual ­management basis since 2015, is an important event for NORMA Group to actively exchange with its stakeholders on CR issues. The focus 1 of the event has always been on sustainability topics that have Impact / Risk Impact / Risk a strategic relevance to NORMA Group (see table). Last year, NORMA Group invited stakeholders to discuss diversity 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 4 5 6 ­management and employer branding. DIV ERSIT Y AN D EQ UAL O P PO RT U NIT Y Materiality analysis defines scope of CR activities were assigned to NORMA Group’s five key areas of action. Impact [GRI 102-15, 102-42, 102-46, 102-49] and relevance assessments were then conducted on each of the Topics of Stakeholder Roundtables 40 individual topics. Year Topic NORMA Group has defined the most important social, ecological 2015 NORMA Group’s CR strategy and economic sustainability topics in its materiality analysis. The Internal and external stakeholders provided information on how methodology was based on the recommendations of the Global important certain sustainability issues are to them in the assess2016 Sustainability in the supply chain Reporting Initiative (GRI): We first put together a comprehensive ment of NORMA Group (relevance axis). In addition, various work2017 E-mobility list of CR issues based on topics that were considered to be shops were held with NORMA Group experts to assess the extent ­material in the previous analysis conducted in 2015 as well as to which NORMA Group’s business is influencing the various top2018 NORMA Group’s environmental strategy relevant standards and guidelines such as the Global Reporting ics and the resulting risks for NORMA Group (impact-risk axis). 2019 Diversity management and employer branding Initiative (GRI), the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and The latter was based on so-called gross risks, i.e. risks with which the CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG). Issues were NORMA Group is confronted if no suitable countermeasures are then aggregated, and a total of 40 topics were identified. These NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 13 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA implemented. The results of the materiality analysis were The status of implementing the CR Roadmap is shown in an ­aggregated and then prioritized (see chart). ­overview at the end of each chapter, further details can be found in the respective chapters of this report. A summary of all­ The materiality analysis was carried out in 2017. In the reporting CR Roadmap targets can be found on NORMA Group’s year, all members of the CR Steering Committee were asked again WE BS I TE . about newly emerging material topics. The analysis showed that the topics defined in 2017 are still valid and continue to set Based on an update of the materiality assessment, the­­ the framework for NORMA Group’s CR management. The main CR Roadmap’s targets will be updated in 2020 as well. topics of each area of action are presented in graphic detail at the beginning of each chapter of this report. Core objectives of the CR Roadmap 2020 In 2020, NORMA Group’s materiality assessment shall be revised and updated comprehensively, taking into account the feedback Core objectives 2020 Target Values 2020 from internal and external stakeholders. Responsible Management CR Roadmap 2020 NORMA Group is to be perceived as a responsible Company in Consistently good to excellent ­reviews on our activities and terms of all of its operations. ­measures that pertain to ­responsible management within our CR Roadmap as strategic steering instrument Group in surveys and ratings. [GRI 102-44] Business Solutions Based on the topics identified as being material, NORMA Group NORMA Group will improve and strengthen its market position, Sustained and continuous growth in all business fields of relevance formulates quantitative targets in its CR Roadmap. By integrat­taking sustainable business practices and relationships into to NORMA Group. ing the findings of the materiality analysis into the CR Roadmap, ­account. we ensure that our targets are also oriented towards Employees ­stakeholders’ expectations. NORMA Group will be viewed as an employer of choice for its Overall employee satisfaction ­determined in the Employee The CR Roadmap reflects the high ambitions for Corporate employees and will continue to attract, retain and inspire the most ­Satisfaction Survey (ESS) is to be improved (the satisfaction score talented people to live and to share the Company’s values and in the ESS 2017 was at 2.74 on a scale of 1 (very good) to 7 (very Responsibility that NORMA Group pursues and at the same time vision. poor)). sets objectively measurable targets. The Roadmap is therefore also a performance indicator for us in Corporate Responsibility: Environment our progress in the areas covered by the Roadmap is regularly reviewed internally and reported externally. NORMA Group will continuously and systematically reduce the 100% of NORMA Group’s global production sites are to be certified negative environmental impact of its production processes. according to ISO 14001 by no later than the end of 2018 and then ­continuously. Community NORMA Group will position itself ­as a responsible partner in the Consistently good to excellent ­reviews on the community ­community. ­involvement in stakeholder ­surveys. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 14 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR STRAT EGY 3 RE SPONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Sustainability Ratings and Sustainable Finance NORMA Group’s performance in sustainability ratings Refinancing integrates the sustainability component Positive feedback from sustainability ratings Sustainability ratings Rating 2019 For the first time, NORMA Group set up a loan last year ­containing a sustainability component to partially refinance its business In 2019, NORMA Group again received independent feedback • Rating: C activities. The sustainability component links the terms of from rating agencies on its performance in the area of Corporate CDP • Awareness level ­ refinancing to NORMA Group’s Corporate Responsibility Responsibility. The questions asked to NORMA Group in this • Rating: 78 of 100 ­commitment. If NORMA Group can demonstrate that it has ­context are based on the most important sustainability indicators EcoVadis • Gold Standard improved its sustainability performance, the Company gets access from the areas of environment, social affairs and corporate to preferential credit terms. • Rating: C+ ­governance. As a rule, the companies surveyed are required to ISS Oekom • Prime Status be able to substantiate their responses with documents and The evaluation of the Sustainalytics rating agency is the basis for ­certificates. The results of the ratings are primarily used by two MSCI • Rating: AA assessing our sustainability performance. The rating assesses stakeholder groups: customers and financial market players. • Risk Score: 21.2 of 100 NORMA Group holistically in various sustainability categories such Sustainalytics • Medium Risk as Corporate Governance, Climate Management and Human The feedback received on NORMA Group in 2019 was again Rights. NORMA Group’s sustainability management is already ­positive: the CR measures received consistently good to very good rated above average compared to the industry. The goal is to ratings from the rating agencies. As a result, we were once again ­further improve the management score. able to fully achieve the corresponding core objective of the CR Roadmap. With a loan term of up to seven years, the integration of the sustainability component in the refinancing is an important step Last year, NORMA Group participated in the CDP data survey, towards integrating sustainability aspects into NORMA Group’s for the first time. The disclosure in the “climate” category was core business in the long term. Further information on the rated with “C”, which assigns NORMA Group to the “awareness“ ­refinancing can be found H ER E . level. We consider this a solid basis to contiuously improve our rating in the next years. Detailed information on the results of further ratings can be found in the following table. For NORMA Group, the positive results mean a confirmation of its long-term CR orientation. At the same time, we are using the feedback to continuously develop our ­organization. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 15 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 3 Responsible ­Management There are various global legislative initiatives that aim to better protect whistleblowers. How does NORMA Group handle these developments? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA We systematically follow up on all reports Current legislative initiatives are aimed at making it easier for whistleblowers to report misconduct and offer them protection from employees and against reprisals. external parties – this The professional and trustworthy handling of information and the protection of whistleblowers are a matter of course for us – and not just a question of legal requirements. has been included in our For this reason, we introduced an electronic whistleblowing standards for years. ­system many years ago, through which confidential and, if desired, anonymous messages can be sent to our compliance department. The system is available not only to our employees, but also to external parties. We also offer alternative reporting channels besides the electronic whistleblower system. Regardless of the Incoming report in Validation and examinareporting channel, we treat all reports confidentially. whistleblower system tion by NORMA Group Compliance In the future, our employees will receive even more transparency on the reporting process and further assistance in reporting Managing ­information through a separate whistleblower guideline. This is reports in the whistleblower system because we not only keep an eye on legal initiatives and Individual processing ­market standards, but are also continuously developing our Individual C O M P L I A N C E M A N AG E M E N T SYST E M to contribute to “secure of case: gathering of identification and information and risk ­connections.” implementation analysis of measures Would you like to find out how you can report an incident at NORMA Group Group? Documentation & Please visit our CO MP L I A N CE W EB S I T E . reporting NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 17 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content Responsible Management Compliance Strategic Approach Clear understanding of values embedded in globally 18 Strategic Approach applicable guidelines 18 Compliance Acting responsibly is our basic principle [GRI 102-16, 103-1, 103-2] 21 Human Rights Responsibility, honesty and mutual respect – from both the Understanding NORMA Group’s values forms the basis for all 21 Awareness of CR within the Company ­management and our employees and from NORMA Group business decisions and activities at our Group. In particular, our 22 Outlook towards our business partners – shape our corporate culture. We global focus makes global implementation and compliance with are aware of our responsibility towards employees, customers, codes of conduct especially important. suppliers and our social and ecological environment. The implementation of compliance-specific frameworks sets rules Materiality matrix NORMA Group expects its managers and employees to not only clearly and transparently. The central compliance guidelines at comply with existing laws and regulations but also to respect NORMA Group are 6 Prevention of human Compliance important ethical standards. In particular, the compliance ­rights abuses management systems ­guidelines of NORMA Group have groundbreaking character. In • the “CO D E O F CO N D U CT ” , order to meet these requirements, we have set up and ­continuously • the two policy directives “CO N FL I CTS O F ­I N T ER EST PO L I CY ” Relevance Elimination of discrimination 5 develop the appropriate systems, including compliance and risk and the­ “A N T I CO R R U PT I O N PO L I CY ” as well as Awareness of CR strategy Freedom of management systems. In particular, the compliance guidelines of • the “ S U P P L I ER CO D E O F CO N D U CT.” Whistleblower systems Sustainable association NORMA Group have a directing character for the entire Group. 4 Development Requirements on H U MA N R I G H TS (regarding forced labor, no Goals Sustainability reporting When anchoring responsible action in the Company, it is ­essential child labor, freedom of association and anti-discrimination, among that all employees are aware of the principles and that each others) form an integral part of the compliance guidelines. In 2019, ­individual lives them. NORMA Group therefore continuously the Compliance guidelines were reviewed and revised regarding 3 ­implements measures to raise awareness of compliance and actuality and appropriateness. The updated guidelines will ­sustainability among its employees. become applicable in 2020 and will be communicated ­accordingly. 2 Our compliance management system aims to ensure that our values and rules are lived throughout the Group. Concrete steps are determined, implemented and comprehended each year in a 1 Compliance Action Plan. Impact / Risk ­ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 18 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Group-wide compliance management Close risk monitoring and control [GRI 103-3] [GRI 102-11, 205-1] NORMA Group’s Compliance Management System The Management Board of NORMA Group is responsible for an Based on a rating system that incorporates both internal and effective compliance management system. The Chief Compliance external factors (such as Transparency International’s Corruption Officer manages the Group-wide compliance activities and Perception Index), the risk exposure of each individual reports directly to the Management Board. A N N UA L R E PO RT NORMA Group company is evaluated centrally for possible comRisk analysis P. 38 Besides the central compliance department at Group level, pliance-relevant risks (compliance risk scoping) by NORMA Group Compliance Officers are appointed at the level of the EMEA, Compliance. ­Americas and APAC regions as well as in all operationally active individual entities. The Compliance Officers of the individual Group Together with the companies that have a higher risk value accordReporting Compliance channels Action Plan companies are in regular contact with the other local departments ing to the rating system, specific compliance risk assessments and regularly report to the responsible Regional Compliance are carried out on-site, performing a detailed analysis of the ­Officer, who in turn reports to the Chief Compliance Officer. ­specific compliance risks of the company. In addition to the local Compliance Officer, representatives of all relevant departments Any member of NORMA Group’s compliance organization can be are included, e.g. finance, purchasing, human resources, contacted at any time on any compliance issue. The compliance ­production, as well as research and development. department is in close communication with the legal department Training Guidelines of NORMA Group in order to continuously take into account new The risks to which NORMA Group is exposed form the basis for or changed legal requirements in the compliance risk analyses determining the compliance program and the corresponding Systematic, demand-oriented training of employees and in the compliance program. ­measures. Implementing these measures and adhering to the [GRI 205-2] compliance rules are also regular audit tasks of internal auditing. The effectiveness of the compliance organization set up by the To ensure the effectiveness of NORMA Group’s compliance manManagement Board is monitored by the Supervisory Board of agement system, all employees must be familiar with the relevant NORMA Group SE, which is regularly informed about legal requirements and internal compliance guidelines. Our goal ­compliance-relevant matters. is that all employees of NORMA Group know our compliance rules as well as the contact persons and reporting channels. In 2019, NORMA Group pushed ahead with preparations to ­conduct a concept review of the compliance management s­ ystem. The compliance training that NORMA Group offers serves as the Based on an internal self-assessment, NORMA Group implebasis for this. It takes place in the form of face-to-face and online mented the identified improvement measures. In the course of training sessions. Depending on the job and responsibility profile this, NORMA Group has started to map the relevant part of its of an employee, the training courses to be completed are assigned compliance-related processes in IT systems. In order to be able as needed. During the training, the employees receive concrete to take the associated changes fully into account in the review of support on which behavior is in line with the compliance g ­ uidelines the compliance management system, the implementation and and may test their knowledge in practical assessments and case completion of the concept review is now scheduled for 2020. studies. ­Subsequently, specific planning to implement the effectiveness review will be carried out. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 19 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Training of fundamental relevance must be completed as basic The need for training is checked regularly. Internal reporting For cases in which the electronic whistleblower system cannot training by every employee of NORMA Group. This includes the records the status of compliance training. This report is included easily be used by our employees for technical or organizational online training courses “Code of Conduct & Compliance Basics,” in the status report on the Compliance Action Plan and is reported reasons (for example, lack of PC access by employees in “Information Security” and “Compliance in Purchasing.” ­Depending to the Management Board on a regular basis. ­production), we offer other suitable reporting channels, such as on the employee’s job profile, specific focus trainings (including notice boxes at our plants. “anti-corruption,” “antitrust,” and “product liability”) must also be In 2019, a comprehensive review and revision of the training ­completed. In addition, we have developed a concept to refresh ­concept as well as the training contents with regard to topicality, the learning content so that the knowledge of employees on essential and basic compliance topics is updated and extended regularly in form of “refresher” courses. appropriateness and user-friendliness was also conducted. On the basis of this information, updated training courses will be made available in 2020. In this context, the languages offered in 1,233 the online training will be gradually expanded as well. employees trained in online­ In the past fiscal year, a total of 440 employees (2018: 487) were compliance training courses in 2019. registered in the online training system for the basic training Compliance-related topics are also communicated via additional courses, 514 employees (2018: 242) for the relevant focus t­ raining channels such as posters, brochures, Compliance Safety Cards, courses, and 1,089 employees for the “refresher” training courses (2018: 2,189). which summarize key compliance topics in a condensed form, and emails and intranet articles. In addition, the compliance ­website was substantially revised in 2019 in order to provide 3,278 A total of 1,233 employees received online training on compliance internal and external stakeholders with relevant information in hours of online compliance training topics (2018: 2,350). The decrease compared to the previous year an appropriate and appealing way. in total were attended by is due to the fact that 2019’s enrollment took place in the fourth NORMA Group employees in 2019. quarter, whereby the processing time extended beyond the Various ways of reporting violations end ofthe year and most of the training was completed at the beginning of 2020. We encourage our employees to report violations of rules and internal policies, even across hierarchical levels. Besides ­personally The above training courses were completed on ­schedule by 96.6% approaching supervisors, the human resources department or of registered employees as of the balance sheet date, taking into Compliance Officers, our I N T E R N E TB A S E D W H I S T L E B LO W E R account the processing time to be applied. ­SYSTE M is yet another example. It enables anonymous r­ eporting of matters by internal or external whistleblowers. The employees 3,278 hours of online compliance training were carried out in ­fiscal of the compliance organization always follow up on indications year 2019 in line with previously mentioned criteria (2018: 4,205). of possible compliance violations. Further information on the The decrease compared to the previous year can – again – be ­whistleblower system can be found on PAGE 17 . explained by the ongoing processing time for refresher training at the end of the year. In 2019, work started on a separate whistleblowing guideline, which is intended to provide even more transparency for those Employees who are unable to participate in online training due who report on the procedure for handling notifications. The to language or technical reasons, especially industrial employees, ­guideline will already take into account the requirements of are trained personally by the local Compliance Officers in ­currently foreseeable legal developments and established market ­face-to-face training sessions. standards. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 20 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Human Rights If employees observe human rights violations, they can report Awareness of CR within the Company them at any time via the CO M P L I A N C E R E PO RT I N G C H A N N E LS . NORMA Group is committed to international human Among other things, the NORMA Group whistleblower system Continuous exchange with external stakeholders ensures rights provides them with the category “Violations of social standards transparency [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] and human rights.” In the areas of anti-discrimination and ­freedom of association, NORMA Group also monitors whether its Communication is an important component of NORMA Group’s NORMA Group categorically rejects the violation and restriction ­commitment is being met through regular internal reporting of corporate responsibility activities. This applies on the one hand of human rights in any form. We are committed to the Universal legal disputes. In 2019, there were no cases of discrimination or to the mutual exchange with external stakeholder groups, which Declaration of Human Rights as well as to the core labor s­ tandards violations of freedom of association by NORMA Group that were is crucial for our long-term CR orientation. STAKEHOLDERS AND of the International Labor Organization (ILO). established by the courts. ­MAT ER I A L I T Y On the other hand, however, communication is also crucial in order to raise awareness of sustainability issues NORMA Group rejects all forms of forced, compulsory and child NORMA Group also takes its responsibilities seriously along the ­internally and to sensitize employees to these topics. Successfully labor. In doing so, ILO Conventions numbers 138 and 182 are value chain. In the SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT , we commit our implemented corporate responsibility measures – whether in the recognized as the minimum standard for protection against child suppliers to respect and comply with human rights. However, due areas of quality, the environment, compliance or many others – labor. We are also committed to preventing slavery and human to the size and complexity of the value chain, human rights depend on the commitment of every single employee. trafficking in our business activities. ­violations cannot be excluded as a matter of principle. Beyond its NORMA Group can operate successfully and sustainably only if direct business partners, NORMA Group has only limited ­influence everyone makes a contribution. Furthermore, we recognize the right of our employees to join on compliance with minimum standards. If we become aware unions and to found employee representations. We reject that our business partners are committing or tolerating human It is therefore NORMA Group’s goal to encourage its employees ­discrimination based on ethnic background, gender, sexual rights violations, we will re-evaluate the business relationship to act sustainably in their daily work. The objectives of the CR ­orientation and religion. With this in mind, NORMA Group ­supports and consider terminating the contract in accordance with the Roadmap are communicated to all locations via the departments measures to promote diversity within the company. DIVERSIT Y requirements of our clients. In the event of violations by e ­ mployees, responsible for the respective CR issues. In addition, we A N D EQUA L OP PORT U NIT Y we will take measures that may even lead to termination of ­communicate transparently about our corporate goals and the employment. implementation of a wide range of measures in the CR area. To Monitoring and awareness-raising measures this end, we primarily use internal channels such as the intranet, [GRI 406-1, 407-1, 408-1; 409-1] but also the N O R MA G RO U P B LO G and social media. NORMA Group’s commitment to human rights is also reflected in Informing and motivating through training and awards its Code of Conduct. In the course of the 2019 revision of the Code of Conduct, a separate section on human rights was added to NORMA Group has developed a Corporate Responsibility trainclarify NORMA Group’s position. In addition, NORMA Group has ing course, which will be introduced in 2020. In the course of this taken the issue of human rights into account in the design of a online training, e ­ mployees receive information on the strategic Group-wide Corporate Responsibility training course, which will orientation and significance of CR at NORMA Group. In addition, be introduced in 2020. All employees are to be informed and the training course introduces specific topics and uses exercises ­sensitized in this manner on topics such as child and forced labor, to i­llustrate the contribution employees can make in areas such freedom of association and discrimination. as diversity, human rights, the environment and social ­commitment. The development of the general CR training was accompanied NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 21 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA by specialized awareness-raising measures carried out by each Outlook specialist department represented in the CR Steering Committee. Acting responsibly is a fundamental principle of NORMA Group. At the local level, communication activities are implemented, for This principle must be constantly reviewed, further developed example, by environmental protection, occupational safety and and adapted to the social and business environment in order to local Compliance Officers. Measures such as Diversity Day, be put into practice. NORMA Help Day and the NORMA Clean Water project are intended to shed light on current societal challenges and NORMA Group’s compliance management is an integral part of encourage employees to engage in their own activities. ­ the Group’s integrated management system. In the interests of D I V ERSIT Y DAY COR PORATE VOLUNTEER ING long-term effectiveness, the compliance management system is also subject to continuous review and – where necessary – The internal CR Award, which was presented for the first time in improvement. The external review of concept and effectiveness 2019, is yet another component of motivating employees to of NORMA Group’s compliance management system underlines ­commit to sustainability issues. The goal is to recognize special the ambition of continuous improvement and the objective to achievements of individual locations or project teams. Initially, the ­contribute to “secure connections”. award was presented for projects that have made a special ­contribution in the area of the environment. The decisive factors Presentation of the In this way, NORMA Group ensures that the processes and here included the extent to which the applicant’s projects ­procedures of compliance management meet the dynamically ­contributed to the achievement of NORMA Group’s e ­ nvironmental internal CR Award evolving requirements, provide employees with constant support goals and whether they can also be applied to other locations or and underscore our commitment to responsible action both processes. The winner of the CR Award was a project team from ­internally and externally. Qingdao (see box). NORMA Group presented an internal CR Award in 2019 for the first time. The award was presented for In addition, NORMA Group will implement further measures to Success of measures is reviewed regularly projects that made a special contribution to the increase awareness of CR in the Company in 2019. This includes ­environment. The winner was a project from Qingdao. expanding internal reporting and communication as well as the Awareness and knowledge of Corporate Responsibility in the The team had installed a new oven that achieved implementation of obligatory online training on Corporate company was first addressed in 2017’s employee survey. Nearly ­significant energy savings compared to the previous ­Responsibility. 80% of our employees agreed that they are familiar with the model and replaced the water-cooling system with air ­ Corporate Responsibility Policy and NORMA Group’s CR cooling. The water savings are particularly important ­objectives. It is our ambition to ensure that all employees are because Qingdao is located in a region that suffers familiar with our CR Policy and its overarching goals. Our goal is from great water shortage. to increase CR awareness to at least 85% in the upcoming employee survey. The goal of the CR Award is to further increase ­awareness of corporate responsibility issues among the workforce and to recognize special achievements. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 22 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA CR Roadmap 2020: “Responsible Management” Core objective Target value for 2020 NORMA Group is to be perceived as a responsible company in terms of all of its o ­ perations. Consistently good to excellent reviews on our activities and measures that pertain to responsible management within our Group in surveys and ratings. Our goal Milestone Date Status All employees will know the CR Policy and its overarching At least 85% awareness of the CR Policy in the three-year 2020 2017: 79.6% objectives. Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS). We will receive advice on the orientation of our CR strategy and Once a year, a dialogue format with various stakeholder Annually 2019: Stakeholder Roundtable on on the main focuses in the individual fields of action from repre­representatives on a CR topic. “Diversity Management and Employer sentatives of ­external stakeholder groups. Branding” We will make sure that we employ effective compliance Externally conducted concept review of the compliance 2020 1 To be conducted in 2020 ­management systems. ­management system. Externally conducted effectiveness check. 2021 1 To be conducted in 2021 All employees are to be trained on compliance topics in a timely 100% of the employees have completed the required Annually 2019: 96.6% manner in accordance with their needs. ­compliance training courses within the defined time frames. The contact persons and reporting channels for compliance 100% agreement in the three-year Employee Satisfaction 2020 2017: 86.9% issues ­defined within NORMA Group will be known to all ­Survey (ESS). employees. NORMA Group will comply with all international and local laws 0 violations determined by courts. Annually 2019: 0 that ­protect employees against discrimination. NORMA Group will adhere to all international and local laws 0 violations determined by courts. Annually 2019: 0 protecting the freedom of association of workers. 1_Dates were adjusted in 2019. Details can be found on PAGE 20. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 23 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 4 Business Solutions A changing world requires new and sustainable ­solutions. How does NORMA Group intend to develop them? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA From development to We think about sustainability right from the beginning, starting with R E S E A R C H A N D D E V E LO P M E N T that is geared to the service: Sustainability ­megatrends of water scarcity and emissions reduction. We not only carry out structured foresight management in these plays a role along the ­segments, but also give all employees the opportunity to actively contribute their own ideas. The megatrends also play an­­important entire product life cycle. role in evaluating proposed ideas in order to ensure focused business development in the strategically important areas of water management and e-mobility. The ideas flow directly into product development in the form of innovative solutions such as the E M C O M PA C T Q U I C K C O N N E C TO R , which improves thermal ­management of batteries in electric cars. It is important to us that new products meet the highest quality standards in both development and production. For this reason, we carry out comprehensive simulations and tests on the designs before ­production actually begins. During the Solutions from nature for thermal management in batteries production and assembly of the ­products, we then use comprehensive QUALIT Y Pressure loss within the system represents a major challenge for optimal MANAGEMENT to ensure that our products thermal management of a battery: Even with piping systems up to 20 meters perform perfectly. long, the fluid must flow evenly at all points. Last, but not least, the origin of In order to meet these challenges, NORMA Group draws on existing the ­ materials used is of great ­solutions in nature, such as flow patterns of rivers. In simulations, we ­importance in developing sustainable ­transform circular arcs into river-like, distorted arch shapes. In this way, we products. This is why NORMA Group prevent pressure from being lost at single turns – thus contributing to takes sustainability aspects into ­improved battery performance and vehicle range. account when PURCHASING ­M AT E R I A L S by structurally integrating The nature of shark skin has also inspired us to take new approaches. Read these aspects into the procurement more in the NORMA Group B LOG . ­processes. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 25 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content Business Solutions Innovation Strategic Approach Innovation Roadmap addresses climate change and 26 Strategic Approach water scarcity 26 Innovation Sustainable solutions for our customers 28 Quality NORMA Group offers product solutions that help its customers NORMA Group’s product solutions address the increasing respond to megatrends such as resource scarcity and climate 29 Sustainability in Purchasing ­challenges posed by global megatrends such as resource ­scarcity change. NORMA Group’s long-term economic success also 31 Customer Satisfaction and climate change. The permanent adaptation and further develdepends on whether the Group keeps this promise. If this is not 31 Outlook opment of our products based on innovations play an essential the case, the Company would face medium to long-term risks in role, as they have to meet ever increasing demands. These ­include terms of its sales development. CL I MAT ER ELAT ED R I S KS stricter legal framework conditions and new technical requirements r­ egarding the quality of products. When used in engines, Consequently, the strategic orientation of NORMA Group’s Materiality matrix for example, this c­ oncerns physical c­ apacity at high pressure and ­innovation management, the “Innovation Roadmap,” is based on high temperature or resistance to chemical substances. these megatrends and focuses on water scarcity and reducing 6 Customer satisfaction ­emissions. Quality management At the same time, NORMA Group attaches great importance to Sustainable sustainable ­ s upply chain management. Our Corporate Starting from these long-term trends, FORESIGHT MANAGEMENT Relevance Sustainability in the purchasing 5 entire s­ upply chain ­Responsibility Policy refers to the e ­ ntire value chain, including our and Business Development derive potential market segments for Research and development Conflict materials indirect suppliers. We focus on compliance with human rights and NORMA Group in the areas of water management, battery ­cooling Capacity building within NG Research cooperations Innovation environmental standards. We are continuously e ­ xpanding our or exhaust treatment, for example. management 4 (with external partners) commitment to ensuring appropriate working conditions, for example by means of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Structured Group-wide idea management With high-quality products, innovative ideas for new solutions NORMA Group pursues a structured idea management system 3 and efficient and sustainable purchasing, we form the basis for to find answers to the requirements of the identified market our customers’ satisfaction. We regularly review the targets we ­segments. Our Research and Development (R&D) department is set in these areas to ensure that we can meet our customers’ responsible for identifying and evaluating innovative t­ echnologies. 2 needs and continuously improve customer satisfaction. Last year, 345 people (2018: 365) worked in NORMA Group’s product development and R&D worldwide. The expenditure in research and development in the Engineered Joining Technology 1 (EJT) business area amounted to EUR 31.2 million last year, which represents around 4,7% of EJT’s sales. A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 5 7 Impact / Risk 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 26 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA The development of ideas is not restricted to the Research and Besides these theoretic-technical analyses, prototypes are subThe role of climate change and water scarcity in the­ Development department, however. They can be contributed by jected to extensive physical tests. These tests ensure ­consistent ­i nnovation process every employee. NORMA Group therefore seeks to create an performance over the entire product life, with the exact design ­innovation-friendly climate in which all employees can develop varying greatly and following individual customer and m ­ arket MEGATRENDS new ideas. With its “Innovation Scouts,” NORMA Group offers its requirements. Water scarcity & emission reduction employees a platform to share and advance their ideas. The Scouts are represented globally and serve as contact persons Measuring the number of invention applications and multipliers for employees’ ideas. Idea workshops and Define search areas Evaluation ­campaigns as well as “Innovation Summits” on specific fields of Internal reporting of inventions, which precedes the external profor new markets criteria and technologies development and the cooperation with universities and research cess of a patent application, comes at the end of the research institutions are further instruments with which ideas are g ­ enerated and development process. The number of invention applications at NORMA Group. within the Company is the key indicator by which we manage and internally evaluate our research activities. NORMA Group innovation process All ideas are first collected, evaluated and then prioritized in a ranking. In order to ensure strategic alignment with the megaWe have set ourselves the goal of achieving at least 20 new trends here as well, these are incorporated into the evaluation of invention applications annually. This figure was 22 in 2019 (2018: Idea generation the ideas: The importance for e-mobility and the handling of water 32), which again surpassed our target of 20 applications. Both scarcity are one of the criteria in the ranking. the ideas generated and the invention applications are regularly reported to the Management Board member responsible for R&D. Idea prioritization A N N U A L R E P O R T, P. 3 8 Information on the number of The Innovation Excellence Award, which is presented internally, is a further incentive to develop new ideas. This award recognizes NORMA Group’s patents and ­patent families can be found in the process optimizations, higher earnings contributions, better A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 5 6 Product development ­product quality, competitive advantages or greater e ­ nvironmental friendliness, for example. The Management Board decides ­annually on the best ideas submitted by employees. Invention applications Comprehensive simulation and testing of new­­ ­technologies Possibly patents Technologies derived from the megatrends are directly ­incorporated into the development and design of new products. In addition to the usual requirements for sealability and ­impermeability, the optimal flow of coolant is also relevant today, as is the lightness of materials that contribute to both cost and emission reduction in the automotive sector. NORMA Group uses ­ N UM E RI CAL S I M ULATI O N , among other methods, to optimize the above-mentioned product properties and extend their durability. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 27 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Quality standards. Audit and certification of the Tijuana plant according Both KPIs are reported each month to the Management Board to IATF 16949 is planned for 2020. We can thus ensure for our by the Group Quality Manager. Root cause analyses are derived Product quality as a key customer promise customers that we are continuing to meet high quality standards. from this at site level, and countermeasures are defined. Progress In addition to the manufacturing sites, we achieved the ­certification on the measures is also reported to the Management Board. The quality of our products is of great importance in all industries of NORMA Group Holding under the ISO 9001 standard. This relevant to NORMA Group. As joining elements for various helps us to ensure that NORMA Group as a whole, including all We have set ourselves goals for the years to come: by 2020, we ­individual parts, NORMA Group’s products are often critical to administrative functions, complies with high quality standards. want the average number of defective parts in all regions and proper functioning for our direct customers. Even if only one s­ ingle The quality standards’ extensive requirements also ensure the throughout all product groups to stay well below 20 PPM. The element has a leak, this could affect the functioning and the safety final products’ safety through measures like risk assessments, number of monthly quality-related complaints is to stay below of an entire vehicle. The same applies in the area of water training, incident assessments and appropriate corrective actions. eight in the same period. ­management and other industries. That is why we want to ­guarantee our customers the highest level of reliability with our In 2019, NORMA Group took further steps to move towards a brands. Quality, customer requirements and added value for Group-wide quality management system that connects the Defective parts ­society are thus directly linked. ­existing quality management of our plants. Measures included in parts per million (PPM) the setting of standards for manufacturing processes and 40 Our product quality is based to some extent on high-quality raw ­connecting these standards as well as policies and procedures materials. This requires that high quality standards already be with the aim of increasing transparency and ensuring unified 32 adhered to during the first stages of our supply chain. ­controls and quality checks. These changes have already led to 30 ­ S U STA I N A B I L I T Y I N P U R C H A S I N G However, sub-suppliers can improvements regarding the sharing of knowledge and best 21 only be indirectly checked for the quality of their products. This ­practices, which in turn had a positive impact on quality KPIs. 20 16 stage of value creation is usually outside NORMA Group’s direct control. Risks lie in the fact that a lack of quality would directly Considerable improvement of key control parameters 10 lead to worsened customer relationships. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 97 7 6 NORMA Group measures the quality of its products and processes Certifications confirm the highest quality standards using two key control parameters, among others: defective parts rejected by the customer (in parts per million, PPM) and the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The aim of our management approach in the area of quality is to ­number of quality-related complaints. Due to the high importance permanently meet the quality requirements of our customers. The of quality assurance, both key figures are also significant introduction, certification and continuous implementation of ­ non-financial performance indicators for NORMA Group. ­ quality management systems is overseen by the quality­ AN N UAL RE PO RT, P. 54 ­management organization. At each of NORMA Group’s ­production sites, local managers are responsible for quality management. The number of defective parts was 6 PPM in 2019 (2018: 7), while They report to the regional Quality Managers and Global Quality the number of quality-related customer complaints per month Management. was 6 (2018: 7). This translates into an improvement of 14.3% in each case. All manufacturing sites (with the exception of the recently opened site in Tijuana, Mexico) are currently certified according to ISO 9001, IATF 16949 or EN9100 (for the areospace industry) NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 28 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Sustainability in Purchasing ­ rganization, and in our purchasing manual, for example, which o describes all essential processes and procedures used as a Corporate Responsibility in purchasing ­framework for the global organization. The basis for our sustain[GRI 102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] able supplier relations is our ­ S UP P LI E R CO D E O F CO N D U CT . This Supplier Code of Conduct: globally valid code of conduct outlines our expectations for the basic understanding of sustainability management In 2019, NORMA Group purchased goods and services worth sustainable management of our suppliers in the areas of human ­in purchasing, signing is a condition to be EUR 490.3 million. We ensure that Corporate Responsibility rights, occupational health and safety, environment and business graded ­“preferred” supplier aspects are taken into consideration: We work hard to make integrity. With regard to human rights, the Supplier Code of ­contractual relationships with our suppliers that are socially and ­Conduct is based on regulations issued by the International ­environmentally compatible and see to it that human rights, labor Labour Organization, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and environmental standards are adhered to. the UN Global Compact and the standard SA8000. Supplier Scoring: The main purpose of the purchasing process is to ensure Our commitment to the Supplier Code of Conduct plays an carried out once a year, environmental and health ­ NORMA Group’s high quality standards and to reduce direct costs ­important role in our regular purchasing processes. Only a s­ upplier and safety certificates as well as sustainability in order to achieve maximum value for the Company. The who signs the Supplier Code of Conduct can be classified as ­self-assessement are criteria in the scoring ­purchasing process is subject to risks with regard to the neglect ­“preferred” within the commodity group. At the reporting date, of environmental and social standards in the supply chain. these were 22 production material suppliers, which make up For this reason, we do not take only purely price factors into around 27.8% of our production material turnover. NORMA Group ­consideration, but also evaluate quality, logistics and supplier has introduced signing the Supplier Code of Conduct as ­mandatory ­sustainability as a core part of our purchasing processes. requirement for new suppliers. A N NUAL REPORT, P. 76 Sustainability in commodity ­management Commodity Strategies: Managing sustainability in purchasing is the r­ esponsibility of the contain sustainability fact sheets that ­quantify ­ impacts on climate and water and identify Global Purchasing organization, which reports to the Chief An important way of supporting sustainability in purchasing was ­improvement potentials ­Operations Officer. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 38 Every team member the introduction of a new Commodity Strategy Template. In these of the purchasing organization contributes to it in the course of strategy documents, we included Sustainability Fact Sheets as making sourcing and ­nomination decisions. an analytical approach to assess sustainability through our ­supplier base. The Sustainability Fact Sheets include information Supplier Code of Conduct forms the framework on suppliers’ environmental and health and safety certificates [GRI 102-16] (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 or comparable standards). The fact sheets are in line with NORMA Group’s E N V I RO N MEN TA L Training: We expect from our suppliers to conduct their business in STRATEGY and focus on the topics climate, water and waste. They standard training of all Purchasing employees ­ ­ compliance with laws, ethics, respect for human rights, quantify each commodity’s impact on greenhouse gas emissions on s­ ustainability tools in purchasing ­occupational safety and environmental standards. and water consumption in the supply chain and show ­commodity managers direct improvement measures. The majority of all For these reasons, we have integrated social and ecological ­ commodity strategies already contains this sustainability ­sustainability aspects into our purchasing processes and our ­information. In the next year, NORMA Group intends to include sustainability fact sheets into all remaining commodity strategies. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 29 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Sustainability Self-Assessment for suppliers Focus 2019: Quantification of environmental impacts We have therefore launched the “Conflict Minerals Roadmap,” [GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1] and training which aims to create maximum transparency within the supplier base. The NORMA Group Purchasing organization commits itself In order to be able to better assess, compare and manage our A further focus in 2019 was on quantifying environmental impacts to the principles of the Responsible Minerals Initiative, including suppliers, we use a Group-wide supplier scoring. In addition to in the supply chain. An estimate of CO2 emissions and water the use of due diligence processes provided by the initiative. The the price, numerous other factors are also taken into account, ­consumption was made for all direct materials based on an due diligence processes are based on the Conflict Minerals such as quality, cost transparency and logistics services. One of input-output model. The results of this analysis are shown on Reporting Template (CMRT) of the Responsible Minerals I­ nitiative, the four pillars of scoring is “sustainability,” in which we include PAGES 47 AN D 48 (for CO emissions and water consumption which all relevant suppliers have to fill out. The management of 2 environmental and occupational safety certifications into the respectively). the CMRT is integrated into our Group-wide eSourcing platform. ­scoring. In addition, the purchasing department conducted several trainWe trained purchasers at all sites on the importance of the issues In 2019, the voluntary sustainability self-assessment again ing sessions for its employees in 2019. Besides a workshop held of conflict minerals and the potential risk related to the materials formed part of our supplier scoring. We asked our suppliers for as part of the global purchasing conference, employees received coming from suppliers who might be involved. In addition, we detailed information on social issues (freedom of association, specific training in the use of the instruments described above. ensure that 100% of affected suppliers have signed our Supplier grievance mechanisms and accidents), environmental issues On the one hand, these measures serve to anchor sustainability Code of Conduct, which requires them to confirm that they (including CO2 emissions, water consumption and waste in everyday working life. AWA R E N E S S O F C R W I T H I N T H E ­cooperate with conducting due diligence on conflict minerals ­management) and compliance issues. The evaluation of the ­CO M PA N Y On the other hand, the specialist expertise of buyers issues. self-assessment showed that it was completed by 28.7% of the and c­ ommodity group managers forms the basis for the further suppliers included in the scoring. This was an increase of 4.6 per­development of CR activities in purchasing. We share the information we receive with our customers as centage points compared to last year (2018: 24.1%). In 2020, our ­transparently as possible. Given the large number of products, goal is to further increase participation in the sustainability Excluding conflict minerals from the supply chain suppliers and subcontractors, it is usually not possible with a self-assessment by at least 5%. ­whenever possible ­reasonable amount of effort to make any detailed traceability statements as to which melting operation or mine the raw NORMA Group also purchases minor amounts of components ­materials come from for a specific product for a particular that contain what are known as “3TG raw materials” – tin, tan­customer. talum, ­tungsten and gold in small quantities. These raw materials are particularly controversial in that a large part of the ore deposits lie in conflict regions (particularly those of the Democratic ­Republic of Congo), where they are partially mined and processed under serious violations of international law. NORMA Group aims to exclude these “conflict minerals” from its supply chains as far as possible. NORMA Group does not buy these minerals directly. However, they are partially included in components from ­suppliers. For example, small amounts of gold are used in our urea lines and some components are finished with a coating ­consisting of tin. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 30 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Customer Satisfaction Results from the 2018 Customer Satisfaction Survey­ Outlook Staying at the forefront by focusing on customers’ needs 2018’s CSS showed both a decrease compared to previous years NORMA Group is constantly working to develop new solutions regarding the general Customer Satisfaction Index, but also an and optimize existing systems to meet the increasing demands Customers are one of the key stakeholders of NORMA Group. improvement of the Net Promoter Score, which measures the of its customers. At the same time, we are continuing our work STAKEHO L DERS A ND MATER IALIT Y Satisfying their needs is the ­willingness of customers to recommend NORMA Group as to integrate sustainability aspects into our business practices and basis of NORMA Group’s business success in the short and long ­supplier. Focusing on the detailed feedback of the survey, relationships. terms. Orientation toward customer needs is therefore a top NORMA Group used the results to analyze its strengths and ­priority in each of our business processes. Through innovative ­weaknesses. Starting from this strategic approach, concrete We want our product solutions to systematically align with the high-­quality products and the continuous optimization of our pro­measures were developed in 2019 by cross-functional teams to needs of our ­customers. We will therefore implement measures cesses, we increase added value for our customers and thus form increase satisfaction among customers. The measures range from to continue improving the results of the Customer Satisfaction the foundation for long-term and successful cooperation. the development of new websites through internal training and Survey. Quality and innovation play a crucial role for our c­ ustomers. workshops to local projects to improve turnaround time. We have set ourselves specific targets accordingly: the number NORMA Group operates in an environment that is changing of d ­ efective parts are to be well below 20 parts per million (PPM) rapidly – industry standards, regulatory requirements and ­ Whether the measures taken show an impact on customers’ in the medium term and throughout all product groups, and in the ­consumer preferences demand further efforts in areas like ­ satisfaction will be verified via regular monitoring and in single-digit range in the long term. In addition, we aim to reduce ­emission reduction, space reduction or modularization. To stay at ­subsequent surveys. the number of monthly customer complaints to an average of the forefront, NORMA Group cannot rely only on internal data under eight. analysis – improvements also require active and close exchange with our customers. It is their needs that define measures in Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) at NORMA Group In R&D, we have set ourselves the goal of generating more than Q U A L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T, lean management or RESEARCH 20 invention a ­ pplications each year. In purchasing, we want to A N D DEVELO P M ENT. improve our sustainability performance by increasing the ­participation of our suppliers in our Sustainability Self-­Assessment, In order to obtain direct feedback on customers’ perceptions, through integrating sustainability fact sheets into all commodity Measurement of Analysis of NORMA Group’s marketing department conducts a Customer customer satisfaction results ­strategies and by training our employees accordingly. ­Satisfaction Survey (CSS) on a regular basis. The objective of the survey is to identify both areas that already satisfy customers’ needs as well as areas for further improvement. The survey is conducted via a quantitative survey among the key customer base. Implementation Priorization of improvement and ­planning measures of measures NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 31 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA CR Roadmap 2020: “Business Solutions” Core objective Target value for 2020 NORMA Group will improve and strengthen its market position, taking sustainable b ­ usiness practices and relationships Sustained and continuous growth in all business fields of relevance to into account. NORMA Group. Our goal Milestone Date Status New control systems and structures on innovative management The number of invention applications exceeds 20 per year. Annually 2019: 22 will increase the number of innovative products and processes on the market. Our authenticity together with trustworthy customer relations Implementation of an updated process to measure customer 2018 Implemented will contribute to continuous organic and sustainable growth ­satisfaction. supported by innovations when possible. Development of a baseline and improve in the following years. 2020 We will improve the quality of our products to satisfy our cusWe will reduce the share of defective parts to 20 PPM or fewer. 2020 2019: 6 tomers. The share of defective parts in our production (in PPM per month) will remain in the single-digit range in the long term. The number of reported customer complaints will be under 8 2020 2019: 6 In the medium term, this value is to be reduced to under 20 PPM. per month on an annual average. We want to procure raw materials, products and services at The share of suppliers in the Supplier Scoring process that parAnnually 2019: 28.7% optimal costs, also taking sustainability aspects into account in ticipate in the “Sustainability Self-­Assessment” will increase by 2018: 24.1% selecting our suppliers. 5% e ­ very year through 2020. We also systematically integrate sustainability aspects when 100% of existing commodity strategies will also include a 2020 Sustainability Fact Sheets in newly we develop our procurement strategies for our various groups ­sustainability fact sheet. ­developed commodity strategies of products. All team members of Group Purchasing will be trained on­ 2019 Implemented ­Sustainability aspects. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 32 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 33 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 5 Employees How does NORMA Group intend to promote diversity within the Company? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA In dialogue with our stakeholders, we have defined measures to further develop the Each of our 8,521 employees is unique. In 25 countries, they ­ combine their individual life situations with their work at diversity management NORMA Group. As a company, we seek to value every person because we are convinced that this leads to better ideas, more strategically. innovation, a improved working atmosphere and creates added value for our Company. NORMA Group signed the Diversity Charter back in 2013 and has organized a “Diversity Day” at many of its sites with various activities every year. Now, we want to further develop this topic strategically. The starting point for this was the STAKEHOLDER R O U N DTA B L E on diversity management and employer branding last November. We have set concrete goals: In the coming months, NORMA Group will, among other things, set up systems to ­measure various dimensions such as age, gender and nationality and integrate the topic of diversity and appreciation into training NORMA Group signed the Diversity courses for managers and employees. Charter back in 2013. Among other things, NORMA Group is committed The most important thing for us is that the persons and i­ndividual to fostering an organizational culture that is characterized by mutual life situations of our employees are appreciated. In order to respect and appreciation of every develop the Company further in a structured manner, we will single individual. examine this topic in the next Employee Satisfaction Survey. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 35 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content Employees various interactive methods and give employees the chance to discuss Company values with one another. Measures for Strategic Approach O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H AND S A F E T Y, EMPLOYEE 36 Strategic Approach and ­D EVELO P MEN T would not be as I N N OVAT I O N MA N AG EMEN T 36 Occupational Health and Safety Employees make valuable contributions every day effective without the appropriate Company culture. 38 Training and Development [GRI 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Occupational Health and Safety 39 Appropriate Remuneration and Employee At the end of December 2019, NORMA Group had 8,521 employ­Satisfaction ees throughout the Group (core workforce including temporary The health and safety of our employees is a priority 40 Diversity and Equal Opportunity workers), which is 3.9% less than in the previous year (2018: [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-2, 403-4] 41 Outlook 8,865). The number of temporary workers as of the reporting date was 1,998 (2018: 1,964). This corresponds to a share of the total According to the International Labor Organization (ILO), about workforce of around 23%. 374 million work-related accidents occur worldwide each year. I LO.O R G For this reason, companies have a particular Materiality matrix Due to its internationality, HR management at NORMA Group is ­responsibility with regard to the health and safety of their organized locally. This allows sites to take varying local conditions employees.­Accordingly, NORMA Group places top priority on the 6 Training and better into account in their daily HR work. On the basis of a firmly health and safety of its employees. Regular risk assessments at development Health embedded employee culture, we implement various measures in our ­production sites identify machinery and vehicle traffic to be Equal pay for and safety occupational health and safety, training and development, the most important factors to control. However, we assess these Relevance men and women 5 Work-life balance ­remuneration as well as diversity and equal opportunities. The risks to be minor due to our systematic and Group-wide approach Appropriate high average satisfaction of our employees confirms our approach. to health and safety management. Diversity in remuneration E M P LOY E E SATI S FACTI O N leadership positions Employer 4 Cultural diversity branding Laws and regulatory frameworks are clearly defined standards ­and international­ exchange Company culture is the basis for employee satisfaction for occupational health and safety in the Company, but in many Employee cases we go significantly beyond merely meeting requirements. ­satisfaction Last year, NORMA Group updated and amended its core v ­ alues In light of the subject’s importance, it is addressed in our HEALTH 3 to ensure that they reflect the fundamental convictions of the A N D SA F ET Y PO L I CY , which is valid throughout the Group. In the Company. The core values are the compass for our actions and policy, we commit to providing a safe and risk-free working the guiding principles of how we act and work with our ­business ­environment for all employees and any other stakeholders 2 partners. The goal of our employees is to live out these values affected by our business or actions. With supplementary proevery day. This includes change readiness, team spirit, open mindgrams, we want to ensure that all workplaces offer the highest set, commitment and reliability, trusted partners, and customer level of ­safety to avoid accidents. In particular, we make technical 1 focus. arrangements and conduct training courses to prevent accidents at work. Our high standards apply to temporary workers as well Impact / Risk To bring Company values closer to our new colleagues, we as to our regular staff, and we also include health and safety 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 ­conduct “Living Our Values” training courses in small groups from ­certifications into our supplier scoring process. SUSTAINABILIT Y Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial different divisions during our standardized onboarding program. I N P U RCH AS I N G Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. These make our Company values practically tangible through NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 36 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Certification of all manufacturing sites Accident rate as the key performance indicator Health and safety governance on global, regional and [GRI 403-1, 403-2, 403-3] [GRI 403-9] local levels Throughout NORMA Group, all manufacturing sites have local Introducing management systems for work safety is not an end The success of our health and safety management is assessed health and safety representatives, who – along with the ­respective in itself. To control their effectiveness, we monitor the accident by regular reporting from our global Health and Safety plant management and safety committees – ensure the rate, which counts the number of accidents per 1,000 employees ­Management to the Management Board. Thorough root cause ­implementation of health and safety standards and serve as conthat result in a loss of work of more than three working days. Our analyses are derived from this at site level, and countermeasures tacts for questions on the topic. At the end of 2019, 20 of 29 of declared goal is to further reduce the accident rate in the coming are defined. Progress on the measures is also reported to the the production sites that had been part of NORMA Group for more years. By the end of 2020, we want to improve to a maximum Management Board. than 12 months were externally audited and certified according of four notifiable accidents per 1,000 employees per year. to the international standards OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. C R ROAD M AP 2020 Since 2014, we have already been able to In addition, every region has now introduced a regular “Health ­Compared to end of 2018, the absolute number of certified sites reduce the accident rate. In 2019, the accident rate per 1,000 and Safety Circle” that requires all locations to conduct self-­ stayed the same while the share dropped from 74% to 69% due employees was 4.3, which means a significant decrease assessments on the current status quo of their health and safety to newly acquired locations that have not yet been certified. ­compared to 2018 (7.8). As in previous years, there have been no activities in 2019. Participants included the health and safety fatalities. managers of each location in the respective region as well as the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 prescribe the conduction of r­ egular regional and global health and safety management. Usually the assessments on site level to identify risks for the health and safety We also monitor the number of medical treatments or accidents circles also invite participants from other regions to increase the of workers. On this basis, regular internal audits are carried that result in a work loss of less than three days (medical ­treatment sharing of best practices on a global level. out in order to identify potential for improvements and to define rate). In 2019, this was 29.1 treatments per 1,000 employees. appropriate measures. Progress resulting from these m ­ easures This value, too, decreased significantly compared to 2018 (40.9). is tracked regularly. Development of the accident rate In order to focus on preventive rather than reactive measures, we in accidents per 1.000 employees also monitor the number of “near miss” events, which are 15 ­occasions where an accident nearly happened but was just avoided. Incidents, medical treatments and near misses are reported to line managers who report it to local health and safety 10.0 representatives. 10 7.6 7.8 6.3 4.9 5 4.3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 37 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Training and Development Ensuring employee development through training 2020 will also see the launch of the global management training [GRI 404-1] program “Leadership-Culture@NORMA,” which is specifically taiSuccess factor of our business activity lored to the needs of NORMA Group and seeks to promote of [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] In order to meet our requirements for training and developing our Group-wide networks. In addition to teaching the theoretical employees, we have firmly rooted the subject in our HR strategy. basics, existing knowledge and social skills will be deepened in NORMA Group sees itself as a “learning organization,” aspiring Among other measures, we founded the global Competence order to achieve a uniform understanding of leadership within to continuously develop. One of the reasons why this is so­ ­Center Learning and Development in 2016 that is supported at NORMA Group along the lines of its core values. Within the next ­important is that we operate in a very dynamic environment with the regional level by learning & development managers and three years, all executives, top management and shift supervisors constantly changing demands placed on us. Trends such as on-site by HR business partners. The goal of this Competence in production are to be trained via the global program. In the first ­ digitalization, connectivity, flexibility and sustainability are Center is to provide processes and tools to identify, develop and half of 2020, for example, all NORMA Group plant managers will ­particularly relevant. retain the right talent at the right place, at the right time and at participate in a global six-day management training program. an acceptable cost. This comes from NORMA Group’s values as Afterwards, the training will be continued in the regions and The core of NORMA Group’s business model is to adapt quickly well as our Company and HR vision. plants. and flexibly to changing customer requirements as well as ­economic and social conditions. Targeted and sustainable ­training Our goal is to ensure that every NORMA Group employee receives We also ensure the effectiveness of our training through regular and development of our employees along with harnessing their an average of at least 30 hours of training per year. Training internal reporting on participation rates and feedback as well as creative potential in a “learning organization” are our keys to includes internal as well as external training courses and through specific questions in our Employee Satisfaction Surveys ­innovation and success. ­workshops, but also so-called “bubble assignments” (see next (ESS). EMP LOY EE SAT I S FACT I O N page). In 2019, that average was at 28.1 hours per employee, All sides benefit from continuing education and training which is slightly below the target due to ongoing cost pressure. Development of training hours As a responsible employer, we want to offer our employees a Still, the figure shows a significant improvement of 17.8% in hours per employee demanding environment that includes the opportunity for further ­compared to 2018 (23.9 hours per employee). This is due to the 40 40 development. At the same time, today’s working environment fact that NORMA Group has been continuously building up more expects skills that can cope with the changes megatrends bring. internal training capacity in order to meet the demand for 29.7 30.1 Training and continuing education thus not only serve ­continuous, high-quality training for its employees and m ­ anagers, 30 30 28.1 NORMA Group as a company, but also the long-term prospects even in the face of demanding budgets. An important component 23.9 for our employees. of this is NORMA Group’s Learning Management System. The 20 20 aim is to provide employees with an online platform on which ­standard training courses can be offered, while at the same time enabling them to advance their training in line with their i­ndividual 10 10 needs. 0 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 38 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA The acquisition of proper competences is also integrated in our Appropriate Remuneration and Employee Competency model Performance Management Process (PMP). The obligatory annual ­Satisfaction employee appraisals based on this not only include defining a target agreement with management, but also supporting Fair pay for all employees Job and success ­employees in acquiring the necessary skills. [GRI 102-41, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-2] profiles Performance Recruiting International exchange Our HR policy is based on ensuring that all employees receive management [GRI 401-2, 404-2] competitive and fair pay for their work. At the end of 2019, 46,3% Succession Competency Onboarding of NORMA Group’s permanent staff were covered by collective planning framework For an international Company such as NORMA Group in a bargaining agreements. Development Assessment ­globalized world, cross-border exchanges and intercultural skills are crucial for success on both a personal and Company level. This usually goes beyond the pay of local statutory or collective DIVERSIT Y AND EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y Our assignment programs minimum wages – these are at best a minimum standard for us. Feedback offer our employees the opportunity to expand their experiences In addition, we set the target in our CR Roadmap to introduce and skills abroad. Programs generally distinguish between performanceor success-based incentive systems at all sites ­short-term bubble assignments (up to three months) and longworldwide. At the end of 2019, we had achieved this goal at Targeted acquisition of competencies term assignments (more than three months). Skilled employees 100% of our sites. [GRI 404-2, 404-3] and managers who participate in these initiatives bring with them specialist knowledge and experience from other places, while at Employee training is most effective when it aligns with the the same time benefiting from the expertise of their local Development of personell expenses (adjusted) demands of the working environment. To ensure this, our approach ­colleagues. Exchanges can take place within a country or­ in EUR million is principally demand-oriented, based on bottom-up d ­ epartmental ­internationally between countries and regions. 400 reporting. In addition, the competency model, which was ­developed specifically for NORMA Group, defines the skills that 302.4 300 280.8 are important to us, based on numerous workshops and with the 269.6 234.1 243.9 participation of employees in all regions. 200 We systematically integrate the competence model into our global and local HR structures (see chart). For example, managers have 100 been trained in how to further develop their employees using the competency model, and methods have been introduced to ensure that the selection of new employees is carried out along the framework of the competencies that are of importance to NORMA Group. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 39 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Employee satisfaction as a important parameter in the coming year. These include, among other things, setting up systems to measure the various diversity dimensions in the Occupational health and safety, continuing education and t­ raining workforce and sensitizing employees and managers to ­ as well as fair pay – all these aspects serve the satisfaction of ­unconscious bias by means of online and face-to-face training. our employees. We are convinced that satisfied employees are also more committed in their daily work. For us, measuring Another measure resulting from the Stakeholder Roundtable is employee satisfaction is an “organizational thermometer” for identhe adaptation of NORMA Group’s Diversity Mission Statement. tifying strengths and quickly launching potential for improvement. On the one hand, the mission statement now defines the d ­ rivers for diversity at NORMA Group (market proximity, ­innovation and NORMA Group carries out a global employee survey regularly. All employee satisfaction) and sharpens the focus on a ­ ppreciation permanent employees working for NORMA Group at the end of and equal opportunities within the company. 2016 were able to take part in the 2017 survey. The majority of respondents said that they were satisfied or very satisfied with Exchange on diversity To coordinate diversity management, we have appointed d ­ iversity their work situation at NORMA Group. Average satisfaction was officers at the Group and regional levels. Every year, we celebrate at 2.74 on a range from 1 (very satisfied) to 7 (very dissatisfied). management and our commitment to diversity at NORMA Group on our Diversity Day. In the past year, activities were again carried out at n ­ umerous Diversity and Equal Opportunity ­employer branding locations around the world to sensitize our employees to the topic of diversity and to drive it forward. Diversity pays off [GRI 102-12, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Last year, NORMA Group organized a Stakeholder Equal treatment for men and women Roundtable on “Diversity Management and Employer [GRI 405-1] Studies show that companies that value diversity are more Branding.” Besides its own employees, NORMA Group ­successful than those with largely homogeneous teams. As an also invited representatives from the worlds of busiMen and women have the same opportunities at NORMA Group, international Company with sites and representative offices in ness, science, politics and society to participate in the also with respect to assignment of management positions. We 25 countries, NORMA Group is already structurally characterized discussion. The participants first expressed their actively oppose discrimination and take for granted that women by a high degree of diversity. By signing the DIVERSIT Y ­C HARTER , expectations: active promotion of equal opportunities, and men should be paid the same amount for the same jobs and NORMA Group commits itself to ensuring that all employees are respectful treatment of all employees and credible and qualifications. The proportion of women depends on the p ­ roportion valued – regardless of gender, nationality, ethnicity, religion or binding action by the company. of women who are available through the job market and who belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or identity. have the necessary qualifications. Accordingly, it varies ­worldwide The groups then discussed measures, objectives and between sites. At the end of 2019, the proportion of women in NORMA Group will strategically develop its diversity managecommunication channels and how to use diversity in the total core workforce was 35.9% (2018: 34.8%). NORMA Group’s ment in the future. As a starting point for this development, we the company. NORMA Group uses the insights gained Supervisory Board currently has two female members, which again held a Stakeholder Roundtable last year under the motto in this process to integrate them into the strategic equates to a share of 33%. A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 4 2 “Diversity Management and Employer Branding” (see box). development of its diversity management. As a result of the Roundtable, NORMA Group will implement ­concrete measures to further develop its diversity management NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 40 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Outlook We want to remain an attractive employer for our­ the OHSAS 18001 standard or the succeeding standard employees in the future. Accordingly, our primary goal is to ISO 45001. We have also set ourselves the goal of reducing ­ further improve the satisfaction of our employees. We will the accident rate per 1,000 employees to less than four ­continue to invest in o ­ ccupational safety and health at work. per year. In continuing ­training and development, we aim to To ensure the ­effectiveness of occupational safety measures, have our employees attend at least 30 hours of training all ­ production sites are to be certified in accordance with per year. CR Roadmap 2020: “Employees” Core objective Target value for 2020 Overall employee satisfaction determined in the Employee Satisfaction NORMA Group will be viewed as an employer of choice for its employees and will c­ ontinue to attract, retain and inspire the most S ­ urvey (ESS) ­is to be improved (the satisfaction score in the ESS 2017 talented people to live and to share the Company’s values and vision. was at 2.74 on a scale of 1 ­(very good) to 7 (very poor)). Our goal Milestone Date Status As a responsible Company, we will invest in a safe and efficient 100% of the production sites 1 are to be certified according to 2020 2019: 69% ­working environment and working conditions that protect the OHSAS 18001 (or its successor ISO 45001). ­health of our employees and maintain their well-being. None of ­our employees shall have a work-related accident. Our accident rate (per 1,000 employees) will be under 4 per 2020 2019: 4.3 year. As a “learning organization,” we will ensure our continuous An average of at least 30 training hours per year and Annually 2019: 28.1 hours ­development. employee. We will see to it that systems for ensuring appropriate Performance-oriented incentive systems to be in place at all 2020 2019: 100% ­remuneration are used at all of our sites. sites 1. 1_With a transition period of 12 months for newly integrated sites. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 41 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 6 Environment How does NORMA Group manage the opportunities and risks of climate change? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Climate change mitigation and adaption Ongoing climate change requires a consistent reduction of ­further are essential parts of greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and adaptation to the consequences of global warming on the other. NORMA Group sees opportunities to make a contribution to both challenges with our business strategy. the help of its wide-ranging expertise. For example, the growing e-mobility market is making a major contribution to reducing ­emissions. NORMA Group is driving this development with its innovative systems for thermal management of batteries and exploiting the potential of this growing business area. Among the already noticeable consequences of climate change, there is an increase in extreme weather events such as seasonal heavy rainfall or water shortages. Households, companies, cities and municipalities must adapt to this. They are supported by the growing NORMA Group product portfolio in the field of water management. At the same time, changes always go hand in hand with risks. NORMA Group sees long-term risks in a potential increase in the cost of production processes through the pricing of greenhouse gases or possible business downturns in the automotive sector with conventional powertrains, for example. Products such as the “EZ-Drain” French drain­ An overview of the opportunities and risks within the guidelines ­support our customers of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) during heavy rain and other can be found in the NORMA Group’s public CD P R EPO RT . extreme weather events that occur more frequently due to a changing climate. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 43 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content Environment The targets set in the environmental strategy have been integrated into the CR Roadmap. Detailed approaches to the three Strategic Approach different topics will be explained in the following chapters. Other 44 Strategic Approach environmental topics such as biodiversity were viewed to be less 44 Environmental Management Systems NORMA Group’s environmental strategy relevant for NORMA Group. As a result, they are not the focus of 46 Climate Protection in Production our CR activities. The lower materiality of biodiversity is due to Megatrends such as resource scarcity and climate change are the fact that NORMA Group mainly operates its production sites 47 Water in Production fundamentally and lastingly transforming the world. NORMA Group in designated industrial and commercial areas. 48 Resource Efficiency is aware of its responsibility in this respect because our products 50 Environmental Impact of Products and services directly influence the challenges that arise for Environmental Management Systems 51 Outlook ­customers, society and our Company itself from these ­megatrends. Our products particularly contribute to greater energy efficiency, Certification of manufacturing sites according ISO 14001 reduced emissions and more efficient use of water. [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 308-2] Materiality matrix In order to further structure and enforce our efforts in these areas, We can only contribute to a more efficient and environmentally we developed a comprehensive environmental strategy in 2018. friendly economy if environmental protection is integrated into 6 Eco management systems Efficient In developing the strategy, 2018’s Stakeholder Roundtable was the processes and workflows of all NORMA Group sites. The production Water consumption processes an important milestone as it helped to validate our approach and increasing importance of environmental management in at NORMA Group provide new impulses which were subsequently integrated. ­production processes is reflected in the increasing scarcity of Relevance Recycling Air pollution of waste 5 STAK E H O LDE RS AN D M ATE RI ALI T Y resources, stricter regulatory requirements and expectations from Training of employees in environmental topics CO2 emissions in customers, capital markets and society towards the Company. If production processes CO2 emissions in CO2 emissions through The basis of our strategy form the material topics which we not managed systematically and implemented throughout the logistics and energy mix 4 NG products ­identified in our ­materiality analysis in 2017: climate, water and entire Group, these trends might translate into risks for the Water consumption through NG products waste. STAK E H O LD E RS AN D ­M ATE RI ALI T Y The strategy clusters ­Company. each of these topics into three levels (see graphic detail on the next page): at the core is the management within our own In order to confront these risks, NORMA Group has set itself the 3 ­operations, the second level targets impact assessments along goal of 100% integrated manufacturing sites certified according the value chain followed by the outer level of pilot projects. This to the international standard ISO 14001. Considering the strong three-level approach allows us to focus on those operations that growth through acquisitions in the past, the target only refers only 2 lie in our direct sphere of influence while not neglecting impacts to those locations that have been integrated into NORMA Group that arise in our supply chain or during the use phase of our prodfor more than 12 months. As of December 31, 2019, 90% (26 of ucts. The environmental strategy is framed by ­­communication 29) of these production sites were certified according to 1 measures and the further development of due diligence and risk ISO 14001. The three locations missing are a manufacturing site management approaches. of our subsidiary NDS in the United States, the newly opened site Impact / Risk in Tijuana, Mexico, and Connectors in Switzerland (no ­certification 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 due to relocation to a new site in 2019). Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 44 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Responsibility for the environmental management systems and the associated topics regarding climate, water and waste at Environmental strategy NORMA Group’s manufacturing locations, lies with our department for environment, health and safety (EHS), which is staffed Pilot with qualified personnel at all production sites. On the global level, (Project-based) W the EHS management reports to the Management Board. at e A N NUAL REPORT, P. 38 e r at im This structure enables us to develop and implement specific Cl Assess tify impact ) ­measures in accordance with local environmental challenges on (Quan the one hand and site-specific production processes on the other. km Ris To ensure compliance with ISO 14001 standards, our sites are Other Use of Use of NORMA audited regularly by external specialists. Progress on the­ indirect products sold M ana g e products sold Clean Water an a ­achievement of targets in the areas of climate, water and waste tive targ n ita emissions a t ets is evaluated in regular management reviews on a local level and (Emissions from u ) (Q t and due diligen investments, reporting of aggregated data to the Management Board on a Transportation gemen Emissions at Communication capital goods, global level. and distribution Water consumption waste, product own sites and and responsible end of life, etc.) through energy water discharge ce Along the supply chain, similar environmental risks as for Purchased purchased goods Purchased NORMA Group itself exist because the majority of our suppliers goods also come from the manufacturing industry. Assessment and Business Waste travel ­verification of these potential sustainability and financial risks management are the responsibilities of our purchasing department. and reduction SU STA INABIL IT Y IN PURCHASING ANNUAL R EPORT, P. 96 Purchased Waste goods recycling Product end of life Waste NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 45 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Climate Protection in Production Further details on opportunities and risks, the methodological approach to identifying them and the NORMA Group strategy Development of greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) Climate change risks and opportuntities to address them can be found in NORMA Group’s public from gas, electricity and district heating, in tons of CO2 equivalents C D P RE PO RT . 60,000 Climate change has a direct impact on various sectors of the 52,145 51,018 51,374 economy. With regard to a long-term time horizon until 2030, it Ongoing climate change not only poses risks and opportunities 50,000 could also have direct and indirect consequences for for NORMA Group’s business. NORMA Group’s business ­activities NORMA Group. also contribute to the emission of greenhouse gases. This applies 40,000 in particular to emissions caused by the production of purchased 30,000 On the one hand, both the reduction of greenhouse gases and materials and its own production processes. the adaptation to global warming offer opportunities for 20,000 NORMA Group. These include, for example, new or growing Target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 10,000 ­market segments in the areas of e-mobility and water manage[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] ment, which could have a positive impact on sales development. At the same time, energy savings also offer the potential to reduce With our environmental strategy, we aim at making a c­ ontribution 2017 2018 2019 NORMA Group’s operating costs. Last, but not least, NORMA Group in combating climate change. The strategy focusses on emissions can benefit from the increasing relevance of this topic in the generated by production processes at our manufacturing­­locations No increase of scope 1 and 2 emissions ­financial markets by positioning itself as a sustainable investment (scope 1 and 2). For these emissions we set ourselves an ­absolute [GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5] and thus reducing its cost of capital. reduction target: NORMA Group wants to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 16% by 2025 (baseline 2017). The NORMA Group is currently concentrating on the collection and Conversely, these developments may also result in certain risks. calculation of this target was based on the Sectoral management of its greenhouse gas emissions from gas For example, the increase in the production of alternatively ­Decarbonization Approach (version 8.1.) of the SCIENCE-BASED ­consumption (scope 1) as well as from purchased electricity and ­powered vehicles is leading to a decline in the market for TARGETS I N I TI ATI V E and excludes those emissions resulting from district heating (scope 2) at its production sites. Last year, scope ­conventional powertrains, in which NORMA Group is also active. growth by acquisitions. To ensure achievement of the targets 1 emissions amounted to 5,754 tons of CO2 equivalents while Increased pricing of greenhouse gases may result in higher also on a local level, we are integrating the targets into our scope 2 emissions were 45,620 tons of CO2 equivalents. The sum ­operating costs. On the capital market side, a changed reputation ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. At NORMA Group, the of both scope 1 and 2 emissions remained almost unchanged at can lead to restraint on the part of capital market players focused individual plant management is responsible for the concrete 51,374 tons compared to the previous year (2018: 51,018 tons). on ­sustainability and thus to higher capital costs. ­ measures taken to reduce energy consumption and thus ­greenhouse gas emissions. For both scope 1 and 2 combined, this translates into 46.7 kg CO2 NORMA Group counters these opportunities and risks in general equivalents per EUR thousand of revenue, which is a slight by means of a clear strategy and active management in the decrease to the previous year (2018: 47.1 kg per EUR thousand areas E M O B I L I T Y and WAT E R M A N AG E M E N T as well as of revenue). The corresponding energy consumption of gas, RESEA RCH A ND DEVELOPMENT . With regard to the risks arising ­electricity and district heating (combined) was 124.954 megafrom its own production processes, NORMA Group operates a watt hours or 113.6 kilowatt hours per EUR thousand of revenue structured e ­ nvironmental management system at all its p ­ roduction (2018: 114.8 kilowatt hours per EUR thousand of revenue). sites, with clear targets for reducing greenhouse gases. Regarding electricity and district heating, emissions are c­ alculated using a combination of location-based and market-based NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 46 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA ­ ethodologies: We use emission factors from specific suppliers m Quantification of emissions along the value chain Water in Production wherever these are available (market-based). If this is not the [GRI 308-2] case, we use country emission factors provided by the I­ nternational Actively address water scarcity Energy Agency (location-based). Values on emissions calculated In addition to our ambitions to lower emissions generated at our [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 303-1] according the location-based methodology can be found under manufacturing locations, we also take action to manage greenDATA . house gas impacts along the value chain (scope 3 emissions). On The United Nations estimates that demand for water will increase the one hand, we aim at reducing the carbon footprint during the by 40% b ­ y 2050. According to current calculations, one in four In 2019, the sites of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., NORMA usage phase of our products. This is especially important in the people will then be living in a country with water scarcity. ­Manufacturing NA SW, LLC und Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH automotive industry where – among other products – we develop U N I T ED N AT I O N S NORMA Group recognized this megatrend at were not yet included in the calculation of energy and emissions new applications in the area of e-mobility. E N V I R O N M E N TA L an early stage and has reacted accordingly. In the meantime, data. Their integration started with the financial year 2020. IMPACT OF PRODUCTS On the other hand, we also include our ­supply NORMA Group’s product portfolio consists to a considerable chain in our approaches since in many cases large volumes of extent of water management products, which help our c­ ustomers energy are needed to manufacture the materials and components optimally control water consumption. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Development of specific energy consumption we purchase. O F P RO D U CTS in kilowatt hours per EUR thousand of revenues 140 Last year, we quantified the emissions that arise during the A total of 19% of the world’s water consumption is attributable ­ production of the production materials we purchase. The to the production processes of industry alone. FAO With its 114.4 114.8 113.6 120 ­calculation was not based on supplier data, but on a multi-­ worldwide presence, NORMA Group is also represented in regions 22.4 20.9 20.9 regional input-output analysis that estimated the emissions of with a medium to high risk of water scarcity. Against this ­backdrop, 100 various product groups. The underlying data was based on NORMA Group also has a special responsibility to handle this 80 ­purchasing data from 2018. As a result, the production of direct resource carefully in its own production. Our production sites are 60 materials is responsible for 201,850 tons of CO2 equivalents, to serve as a model for the more sustainable and resource-­ 40 92.0 93.9 92.7 which is approximately four times the amount of emissions from efficient use of water. Water consumption at NORMA Group is the production processes of NORMA Group itself. Among other largely generated by cooling systems within our production 20 things, the data is integrated into the sustainability fact sheets, ­processes. which are part of the commodity strategies. S USTAI N A B I L I T Y 2017 2018 2019 I N P URC H AS I N G Reduction of our own water consumption Electricity Gas [GRI 303-1, 303-3] For years, NORMA Group has been working to continuously reduce the use of water in its own production processes. In our environmental strategy, we address both the water consumption at our manufacturing sites and along the value chain. For our own sites, we set ourselves the target of reducing water consumption in relation to net sales by 15% by 2025 (baseline 2017) which translates into a 2% efficiency improvement per year. In order to achieve this target, we have a special focus on locations in areas NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 47 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA of water risk (quantitative and qualitative according to the Resource Efficiency AQ U EDU CT methodology). Water consumption in liter per EUR thousand of revenue Economic and environmental drivers for resource efficiency We focus on our production sites as a framework for data [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 301-1] 200 collection and targets because water consumption at our ­ ­administrative and distribution sites plays only a minor role due As a manufacturing Company, NORMA Group depends on ­various 149.9 150.1 to significantly lower consumption levels. The control of water 150 141.1 raw materials and primary products as important precursors of consumption f­ollows the structure and responsibilities of our our products. NORMA Group’s total production materials turnover e nvironmental management systems. ­ E N V I R O N M E N TA L amounted to EUR 335.1 million in 2019 (2018: 336.3 million). The 100 ­M A N AG E M E N T SYST E M S. It is implemented globally and locally by largest share was accounted for by steel and metal components, the environmental ­department and at plant level in accordance granules and plastic and rubber products. A N N U A L R E P O RT, with ISO 14001 standards. 50 P. 7 7 Efficient handling of the raw materials required for our ­production is therefore both needed from an environmental point NORMA Group’s water is mainly sourced from municipal water of view and economically necessary to reduce production costs. supplies or other public or private water utilities and – at some 2017 2018 2019 locations – from ground and surface water. Last year, the water Taking into account NORMA Group’s procurement portfolio, price consumption of NORMA Group’s production totaled 165,155 cubic Water consumption in the supply chain increases for raw materials are considered likely overall. H ­ owever, meters. This translates into an increase of water consumption by [GRI 303-1, 308-2] the associated financial impact is estimated to be minor. 8.0% (2018: 152,943 cubic meters), which is mainly attributable A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 9 6 to the installation of new thermoforming ovens and the water Water consumption also plays an important role in the supply needed for corresponding cooling processes. Accordingly, the chain: For example, NORMA Group purchases granulates, molded Consistently reducing waste volumes ­specific water consumption rose by 6.8% to 150,1 liters per rubber parts and plastic parts, some of which are manufactured EUR thousand of revenues (2018: 141,1 liters). using water-intensive processes in the chemical industry. As in In our environmental strategy, we set the target of continuously the area of CO2 emissions, NORMA Group in 2019 also ­quantified reducing waste generation in relation to net sales every year. In The implementation of ISO 14001 at NORMA Group also covers the water consumption resulting from the production of the order to improve its measurement and management of waste the handling of wastewater. The vast majority of wastewater at ­purchased direct materials. The result showed that the­p ­ roduction throughout the Company, NORMA Group rolled out new waste NORMA Group sites is discharged to municipal wastewater processes in the supply chain required around 1.9 million cubic categories at all manufacturing sites last year. In particular, this ­systems or local sewage treatment plants. meters of water. This corresponds to twelve times the water includes the measurement of hazardous waste. Handling ­consumption of the NORMA Group production sites. We therefore ­hazardous substances affects only a few production sites, and see it as our task to strengthen the awareness of responsible use the legal requirements are being met. As the new categories only of water in the supply chain. We have included both the ­reduction partly correspond with the previous ones, this impedes an of water consumption and the safe handling of waste water in ­inter-year comparison within some categories. our Supplier Code of Conduct and have included ­sustainability fact sheets in our commodity strategies. S U STA I N A B I L I T Y I N P URC H AS I N G NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 48 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA The current waste categories include metallic waste, which Efficient production processes decreased last year both in absolute terms and in relation to sales. 6,280 tons were generated in 2019, 8.2% less than in the previThe reduction of waste generation is controlled in accordance ous year (2018: 6,841 tons). This represents a 9.5% decline of in with our environmental management systems. The Environment, relation to revenue (see chart). Health & Safety (EHS) department is responsible for ensuring adequate waste management that is implemented at the plant level in accordance with ISO 14001 standards. Volumes of various forms of waste [GRI 306-2] ­ YST EMS. At the same time, we EN VI RO N MEN TA L MA N AG EMEN T S in kg per EUR thouoptimize the ­ e fficiency of our production through the sand of revenue 2019 2018 Change in % ­implementation and c­ ontinuous improvement of the NORMA Metallic waste 1 5.7 6.3 – 9.5 ­Production System (NPS). A N N UA L R EPO RT, P. 7 5 Plastic waste 1 0.6 n/a n/a Among others, NORMA Group uses the NBS to monitor i­ndicators Cardboard / paper to improve material efficiency. This includes the number of waste 2 0.7 0.7 – 0.2 ­defective parts produced internally but not delivered to the Wood waste 1 0.5 n/a n/a NORMA Group promotes ­customer (cf. defective parts under Q UA L I T Y ) and the scrap rate, which sets the value of the scrap in relation to the total Hazardous waste 0.5 n/a n/a repairability of fuel lines 2 ­production material consumed. To make management as e ­ ffective Other waste 1 0.9 n/a n/a as possible, data is collected at the machine, department and plant levels. 1_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., National Diversified Sales Ltd. (NDS), NORMA Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and A car’s fuel line can be on average 2.5 meters long. Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. In case of a defect through external factors, replacing In addition to the introduction of these indicators, Scrap 2_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., NORMA the entire line is not only time-consuming and costly, Marketplaces were set up at all sites. The aim of these ­ Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. it also requires the resources to produce the ­“Marketplaces” is to sensitize the workforce to the avoidance of ­replacement. scrap and waste. Scrap is collected on machine-level in red boxes and displayed visibly in the production halls. The clear visibility is To confront this, NORMA Group developed a kit that intended to encourage employees to look for solutions to produce allows garages to easily and selectively repair less waste. Depending on the plant, the contents of the Scrap the damage. Using the repair kit not only lowers Marketplaces are checked weekly or even daily, the causes the time needed for repairing, but it also reduces ­analyzed and appropriate countermeasures defined. the amount of resources needed by ­repairing a few centimeters of damaged section instead of ­replacing the entire line. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 49 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Closing recycling cycles Environmental Impact of Products Risks from business activities Depending on the type of waste, we employ different recycling NORMA Group offers sustainable product solutions With respect to various environmental aspects, certain risks may methods. For example, a large share of the waste generated in arise from business relationships, products and services. In the production processes is externally recycled by NORMA Group’s The product solutions of NORMA Group in the categories waterfield of water management, for example, our products offer the contractors. Plastic waste is reintroduced into the manufacturing management (WATER), fluid systems and connectors (FLUID) and benefit of managing stormwater onsite to protect waterways, process as far as possible, depending on the type of plastic and clamps and joining elements (FASTEN). are processed within end oceans, lakes and streams from runoff, which is becoming an reasonable costs. A certain portion of the resulting plastic waste products. Above all, our products have the task of ensuring the increasingly important regulatory trend among cities and is re-granulated. If possible, we also purchase recycled plastic, efficient transport and use of liquid or gaseous substances. The ­municipalities. Left untreated, there is a possibility that water particularly at our subsidiary NDS, where more than 50% of main advantages of our joining solutions lie in their optimization ­significantly damages the assets and properties of our c­ ustomers, ­plastic purchased is recycled. in the areas of emissions, leakage and weight, as well as in which is of increasing importance against the background of a ­minimized assembly space and time. In addition, we are ­expanding rising amount of extreme weather events. We are currently not in the position to recycle our own products our product portfolio in the area of electromobility to support future because these are used in end products such as engines and turmobility concepts (see below). In the automotive industry, a primary environmental risk is the bines, and doing so would require a disproportionately high emission of pollutants. This can be caused by leakages, poor investment of time and resources on the part of NORMA Group. When developing new products, we focus on our customers’ exhaust gas purification or unnecessary vehicle weight, which All ­contractually regulated specifications on material type and ­specifications and requirements. Satisfying their wishes and would increase fuel consumption. This also creates risks for our ­recyclability are of course fulfilled. Compliance with the statutory offering solutions to their problems is a top priority for ­ business: quality defects could lead to legal disputes, liability for labeling requirement is also guaranteed. In this way, NORMA Group NORMA Group. The basic requirement that all our products must damages or the loss of customers. complies with statutory regulations such as end-of-life vehicle always meet is the effective prevention of leaks and pollutant regulations and guidelines such as RoHS (Restriction of ­Hazardous spills. We meet this basic requirement for our customers and Substances), REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and ensure the highest reliability and quality. QUALIT Y At the same Restriction of Chemicals) or California Proposition 65 on the time, we also develop ideas for our customers in respective requirements on drinking water infrastructure and supports its ­projects that improve the environmental friendliness of their and customers’ recycling concepts. our products. I N N OVAT I O N To assess our improvements, we have set ourselves the task of estimating and quantifying the impact of our products in their usage phase both regarding ­greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3 emissions) and water ­consumption. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 50 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Active management of e-mobility opportunities This management approach is showing results. Last year, Outlook NORMA Group received several large orders for thermal Transport accounts for around 14% of global greenhouse gas ­management systems. This includes both orders from traditional We will continue to consistently pursue our efforts and measures emissions. IPCC The target to reduce global warming to well car manufacturers and battery manufacturers. PRESS RELEASE in the area of environmental and climate protection in the years below 2 °C by 2050 is accompanied by increasing pressure on to come. The main focus for NORMA Group will be on c­ ontinuously the automotive industry to reinforce efforts to realize e ­ -mobility Sustainable water management as a key growth market and systematically reducing the environmental impact of its as a primary mode of transportation. ­production processes. We will therefore see to it that 100% of the With worldwide water shortages on the rise, there is an i­ncreasing production sites that have been part of NORMA Group for more Still, many challenges have yet to be overcome, with the range need for efficient water management and infrastructure solutions. than 1­ 2 months are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. of e-cars and the installation of an adequate charging NORMA Group is leveraging this trend by continuously ­developing ­infrastructure being the most prominent ones. NORMA Group aims its water management portfolio. In 2019, water management In the areas of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption to make an active contribution by developing new products such amounted to 20% of NORMA Group’s annual sales. Among many and waste generation, we will continue to pursue the ambitious as thermal management systems for the cooling and heating of others, products include drip irrigation systems that save up to goals that we set for ourselves for our production sites. The aim batteries. During product development, they are tailored to solve 60% of water consumption compared to sprinklers and hand is also to quantify NORMA Group’s impact along the value chain: the main challenges faced by customers: weight savings, lack of watering, or residential stormwater management solutions which This applies especially to the environmental impact of space and the reduction of pressure drops of coolants in the­ support our customers by protecting their property from water NORMA Group products during their service life. ­system. The latter is decisive to ensuring optimal performance of damage due to stormwater runoff. Other important areas of the batteries’ thermal management systems: only if the flow of activity are flow management products like specialty valves and coolant is properly managed throughout the entire system is the fittings as well as high-capacity subsurface detention and thermal management working efficiently and no additional pump ­infiltration systems to manage large stormwater runoff volumes upsizing (and thus extra weight) needed. in commercial applications. In addition to providing solutions to these requirements, NORMA Group’s water management organization is d ­ ecentralized NORMA Group also ensures high safety standards by applying with NORMA Group’s US subsidiary NDS in the Americas and its experience in the design of fuel transport systems in the growing organizations in EMEA and APAC. All regions maintain ­delicate environment of batteries and cooling water. a constant and intensive exchange in order to adapt existing ­products to market needs and develop new solutions. One Currently, NORMA Group is managing its e-mobility efforts in a example in 2019 was the “Water Management Synergy ­ project-based organization with dedicated engineering and sales ­Workshop” in Malaysia and India with participants from all staff. In doing so, we have the flexibility to confront an emerging regions. In addition, NORMA Group expands its internal and very dynamic market and to connect the new challenges to ­competencies and increases its market penetration by selective our already existing product portfolio and customer expertise. acquisitions. Last year, relevant internal stakeholders again received extensive training. To ensure global alignment and steering, all projects are coordinated and supported by the Global Product Management E-Mobility. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 51 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA CR Roadmap 2020: “Environment” Core objective Target value for 2020 100% of NORMA Group’s global production sites ¹ are to be certified accordNORMA Group will continuously and systematically reduce the negative environmental impact of its production processes. ing to ISO 14001 by no later than the end of 2018 and then continuously. Our goal Milestone Date Status We will reduce the CO2 footprint of our production, taking Absolute reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 16% 2025 2019: ­Reduction by 1.5% science-­based targets into account. c­ ompared to 2017. (baseline 2017) We will lower our consumption of water as a resource in Reduction of water consumption in relation to sales by 15% 2025 2019: ­Increase by 0.2% ­production focusing on areas of high water-stress. ­compared to 2017. (baseline 2017) We will reduce waste and increase the efficiency of material Yearly reduction of waste in relation to sales. 2025 2019: Reduction of metallic waste per use in ­our production processes. EUR thousand of revenue by 9.5% (baseline 2018) Introduction of “scrap rate” and “defective parts in production” 2018 Implemented ­as new KPIs in the area of production. 1_With a transition period of 12 months for newly integrated sites. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 52 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 53 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 7 Community How does NORMA Group ­promote social ­commitment in its workforce? 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Every year, NORMA Group calls on its employees to participate in NORMA Help Day. This day is organized at production sites as well as in distribution and sales locations. The main goal is to give back to society. Last year, for example, employees renovated childcare facilities, supported soup kitchens, or became involved in environmental protection. CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING On NORMA Help To evaluate the impact of Help Day and continuously improve the Day, we enable format, NORMA Group also conducted a study in cooperation with the University of Mannheim last year. You can find more our employees to information H ER E . support local communities. Our employees are committed worldwide – whether in Germany (right) or in the US (left). NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 55 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Content Community NORMA Clean Water Strategic Approach Water as a vital resource 56 Strategic Approach 56 NORMA Clean Water NORMA Group is committed to society Many regions of the world face major challenges in the areas of 57 Corporate Volunteering water supply, sanitation and hygiene. However, in a report by the NORMA Group considers it self-evident to act as a socially comWorld Health Organization (WHO), more than 80% of the 58 Commitment at the Sites mitted company and an active member of society. We want to ­countries surveyed responded that they do not have sufficient 59 Outlook have a positive impact on the regions and local communities in funding to meet their national water, sanitation and hygiene goals. which we operate. In our core business, we make an important W H O The lack of funding is also associated with social contribution in a variety of ways, for example through our human ­consequences: children, especially girls, suffer from the often resources management, anti-corruption measures and ­precarious situation as they are traditionally responsible for the Materiality matrix ­environmental management. domestic water supply. 6 We value exchange and close contact with our neighbors at all For NORMA Group, water is a strategic focus area with a direct NORMA Group sites. We conduct Corporate Citizenship activities connection to our core business. E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PACT O F closely related to our core business. Employee involvement makes P R O D U CTS Our lighthouse social commitment project therefore Relevance 5 a decisive contribution to the success of our activities. naturally focuses on water. At the same time, it seeks to show how challenges in the areas of water, sanitation and hygiene can NORMA Clean Water Our social commitment activities are based on our Corporate be met through cooperation between business and civil society. 4 ­Citizenship Guideline (CCG) and are managed at Group level by Corporate Volunteering Dialogue on local Donations and or regional level the CR Officers. They receive support from employees with Longstanding partnership with Plan International sponsoring ­decentralized responsibilities at our production sites, on o ­ rganizing our global Help Day, for example. With the NORMA Clean Water Today, the NORMA Clean Water project can already look back 3 project, we are also developing model measures to show how on several years of history. Our partner is always the children’s global challenges – especially the scarcity of water as a resource – charity Plan International, which supervises and implements the can be addressed. work on-site. In 2018, the cooperation between NORMA Group 2 and Plan International received public recognition: NORMA Clean All activities are weighted and evaluated after their Water was among the finalists for the German CSR Award in the implementation. Depending on the respective projects, key ­ category “Civil Society Engagement.” The prize is awarded to 1 ­figures are collected and communicated, in the CR Roadmap, projects and initiatives that demonstrate exemplary corporate for example. C R ROAD M AP 2020 responsibility. Impact / Risk 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Between 2014 and 2017, NORMA Clean Water focused on the water supply and hygiene situation in Indian schools in the greater Pune area. Construction measures for the repair and renovation Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial of toilet facilities were implemented at a total of 25 schools, and Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 56 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA almost 16,000 pupils and around 650 teachers were trained in members of the water committees was held in 2019. The aim of the use of clean drinking water and hygiene. The training formed the meeting was to promote the exchange of information, expethe core of the work as they ensure that the water facilities are rience, good practice and challenges between the communities. used to improve hygiene even after the end of the project. In addition, vegetable gardens were planted in two communities. NORMA Clean Water in Brazil Seeds and the necessary agricultural tools were purchased and distributed in the communities. In separate training courses, the Following the success in India, NORMA Clean Water is being conparticipating community members received knowledge about tinued in the Codó and Peritoró regions in the state of Maranhão vegetable growing and gardening. in northeastern Brazil. Here, too, safe access to clean water is lacking. The aim of the project is therefore to improve the living Based on the success of the project so far and the continuing and health conditions of children and their families. To this end, need in the project region, NORMA Group has decided to support NORMA Group launched the three-year project in Brazil in 2017. the project in Brazil in its second phase for another three years. In concrete terms, a total of 400 families are to have access to clean water by September 2020 through the construction and Water scarcity Corporate Volunteering repair of new drinking water facilities. In addition, at least 170 families are to benefit from vegetable gardens that diversify and in Brazil NORMA Group promotes civic involvement of employees expand their food supply. Here, too, training is at the heart of the [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3] project to ensure the long-term success of NORMA Clean Water. Brazil is a water-rich country and holds about­ Civil society is crucial for the functioning of society as a whole. In 2019, NORMA Clean Water made significant progress in B ­ razil: 12 percent of the freshwater reserves on the planet. Against the backdrop of the current social challenges arising from In all participating project communities, well work has been However, the amount of water is distributed very megatrends such as migration and global disparities, ­completed and new water supply systems installed. In one unevenly across the country. While just under NORMA Group aspires to get involved and play an active role. To ­community, there had been no running water for more than five three-quarters of the country’s water resources are this end, we specifically promote social projects at NORMA Group years. In total, nearly 550 families in six communities are now found in the Amazon region, the north-east of the sites. We also encourage our employees to make a contribution, benefiting from an improved water supply. The project has thus country has only a share of around 4 percent and faces for example, by m ­ aking current projects known throughout the already clearly exceeded the target of 400 families. long dry seasons. company. AWA R EN ES S O F CR W I T H I N T H E CO MPA N Y In the period under review, a series of workshops were held on Studies also show that around 37 percent of drinking topics such as health, hygiene and menstruation, as well as water in Brazil is wasted due to a lack of knowledge ­participation and conflict management. 360 community members among the population. In rural regions, hardly any took part in the workshops in 2019. households are connected to the sewage system. In surveys conducted by Plan International in In all project communities, water committees are actively involved ­northeastern Brazil, 50 percent of young women and in the implementation and maintenance of the construction and 29 percent of young men cited the lack of sanitation training measures, thus helping to anchor the project in the comas the greatest challenge in their communities. munities across the board. Another networking meeting for the NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 57 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Worldwide commitment at NORMA Help Day We received a lot of positive feedback from our employees and [GRI 413-1] the external project partners. The evaluation, which was conducted in cooperation with the University of Mannheim, confirmed A foundation for the civic involvement of our employees was the positive impact (see box). This makes the NORMA Help Day ­created with NORMA Help Day, which was first held in 2014 in a complete success for our Company and all participants. For this Maintal with 35 employees. The program has spread internationreason, the action day is to be continued in the coming years. ally since 2015 to all NORMA Group sites, with employees’ ­participation being voluntary. More than 700 employees at 29 Commitment at the Sites sites participated in Help Day activities in 2019. Compared to the previous year (also more than 700 employees), the number of In dialogue with local stakeholders participants remains stable. 28 non-governmental organizations (NGOs) benefited from the commitment of our employees worldBesides the activities already described, NORMA Group is in wide. Since contributions and projects vary greatly depending on ­constant dialogue with local stakeholders and actively ­participates the region, they are organized and implemented locally. Here are in society. We have long been supporting local non-­governmental a few examples of our commitment. organizations through donations and sponsorship, focusing on social, philanthropic and cultural projects in the regions. The At the Shaoxing and Wuxi sites, employees took advantage of approach is again decentralized because we believe that the the proximity of the Chinese Moon Festival to bake moon cakes Help Day commitment ­efficiency of the support measures depends on the conditions in at a retirement home and a center for autistic children. Baking the region. campaigns for a children’s center and a senior citizens’ home were and job satisfaction also held in Anderstorp in Sweden and Marsberg in Germany. The Corporate Citizenship Guideline (CCG) serves as the controlling instrument. The guideline, which applies to all At other locations, Help Day teams focused on maintaining the What added value does NORMA Help Day offer NORMA Group sites, describes the main issues, target audiences premises of social facilities, such as in Ciudad Juarez (Mexico), NORMA Group? And how can NORMA Group further and forms of our commitment. It thus serves as an important oriMaintal (Germany), Newsbury (England) and Singapore, where improve its volunteering program? entation aid for those responsible in our plants with regard to the employees repainted rooms in social facilities. At the Linsday and design of their site-based donation and sponsoring activities. The St. Clair (both USA), Hustopece (Czech Republic) and Subotica These questions were investigated in a study conguideline explicitly prohibits donations to political parties and (Serbia) sites, employees contributed by maintaining green spaces ducted by NORMA Group together with the University organizations. Approval processes and reporting are also linked and parks. of Mannheim. The result: on average, the participants to NORMA Group’s international Compliance Management. in Help Day are significantly more satisfied with their C O M P L I A N C E Since 2013, spending on donations and In Auburn Hills (USA), employees joined forces to sew blankets job than non-participants and see more importance ­sponsoring has also been uniformly recorded internationally in for seriously ill children, among other things. In Barcelona, the in their daily work. Satisfaction with Help Day coraccordance with the CCG. As in all other areas, NORMA Group NORMA Group team donated home-made toy cars to the chilrelates with job satisfaction in particular when there attaches great importance to transparency in terms of its local dren in children’s shelters. Numerous other small locations is positive recognition from the company for the cominvolvement. donated food and clothing to soup kitchens and social services. mitment of the volunteers. NORMA Group is currently using the findings to improve Help Day even further. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 58 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Sponsorship expenditures in the past year were at EUR 177 thouOutlook sand, while spending on donations totaled EUR 60 thousand. The donations were used, for example, at the Nashik site in India to Consolidating and expanding commitment support various social institutions near the site. Among other ­projects, the site supported the establishment of a public library, NORMA Group intends to continue and expand its social the improvement of the drinking water supply, healthcare at a ­commitment in the years to come. In doing so, we continue to rely school and other local educational projects. At other sites, the on our successful cooperation with Plan International as part of donations also went to support social institutions. the NORMA Clean Water project. We also want to achieve the project objectives in the communities in Brazil, thus setting an example of how sustainable water management can make a ­contribution to solving social and ecological challenges. In addition, we want to motivate our employees to continue their active social commitment. This applies above all to the ­implementation and expansion of the annual NORMA Help Day, which has proven to be a successful model for ­corporate ­volunteering in recent years. Last but not least, we intend to ­continue supporting non-governmental organizations in the ­vicinity of our sites with ­donations and sponsoring in the years to come. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 59 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA CR Roadmap 2020: “Community” Core objective Target value for 2020 Consistently good to excellent reviews on the community NORMA Group will position itself as a responsible partner in the community. involvement in stakeholder surveys. Our goal Milestone Date Status We will show that water is a scarce and valuable resource at 400 families in six rural communities in the Codó and Peritoró 2020 2019: 543 families many of our sites and demonstrate how important an efficient ­regions of Brazil receive a secure water supply and deepen water supply is. Together with partners, we will conduct model their knowledge of domestic and agricultural water use and projects to improve the current situation. hygiene. The employees of NORMA Group engage voluntarily in All production sites participate in the annual Help Day. Annually 2019: Participation of 29 production ­charitable causes at their sites. and distribution sites. By making donations and engaging in sponsoring in the areas NORMA Group’s investments in the community will be based Ongoing 2019: of ­environment, sports and social affairs, we will strengthen the on the Corporate Citizenship Guideline. donations: EUR 60 thousand local structures at all of our sites. sponsoring: EUR 177 thousand NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 60 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 61 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA 8 Data 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Inhalt Structure References to disclosures outside the Consolidated Management [GRI 102-46] Report or C ­ onsolidated Financial Statements constitute additional information and are as such not part of the non-financial report. 63 About this Report The structure of this report is based on NORMA Group’s 65 Key Performance Indicators ­CR-specific areas of a ­ ction: Responsible Management, Business The non-financial report has undergone an assurance 71 GRI Content Index Solutions, Employees, Environment and Community. The focus of ­engagement according to ISAE 3000 (Revised) with limited the individual chapters, on the other hand, is on the “material ­ a ssurance. The opinion of the independent a ­udit firm 77 Assurance Report ­ t opics” which were defined in a materiality analysis. ­PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is shown on page 77. 79 Imprint S TA K E H O L D E R S A N D M AT E R I A L I T Y Throughout the report, ­highlighted boxes p ­ resent examples from the Company’s p ­ ractice, After the implementation of the net method in the determination which should illustrate ­individual topics. of reportable risks according to CSR-RUG, NORMA Group is not aware of any reportable net risks that are very likely to have a About this Report To aid in the readability of the CR Report, we generally refrain materially adverse effect on reportable ­aspects. For a description from using male and female forms of language. Of course, terms of NORMA Group’s risk management system, please refer Scope and Purpose such as employee always ­include all genders. to pages 89 – 101 of the A N N U A L R E P O RT . The gross risks [GRI 102-45, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52] ­identified in the materiality analysis are briefly described in the Non-financial report, GRI and UN Global Compact subchapters of the CR Report. This CR Report covers fiscal year 2019 and presents information [GRI 102-54] on NORMA Group’s CR-relevant goals, approaches and actions, Reportable relations to the amounts of the Consolidated Finanas well as on its strategic ­direction in the area of Corporate This CR Report serves to fulfill the legal requirements that have cial Statements have not been determined. Responsibility. The statements and i­nformation given in this report arisen for NORMA Group in accordance with the Law on Strengthapply to all subsidiaries of NORMA Group. Exceptions are ening the Non-Financial Reporting of Companies in Management The CR Roadmap also includes the precise objectives of our Com­expressly indicated. Stakeholders and companies outside the and Group Management Reports (CSR Directive Implementation pany up to the end of 2020 and the current status of correspondscope of consolidation of NORMA Group are not the subject of Act, CSR-RUG). NORMA Group has embedded a separate ing activities. The progress of the Roadmap is regularly discussed this report. ­non-financial report in accordance with the German Commercial in the CR Steering Committee and published ­externally. The Code (­“Handelsgesetzbuch”, HGB) into this CR Report. The ­Management Board of NORMA Group is actively involved in This report is published simultaneously with the the Annual Report ­mandatory parts of the non-financial report are indicated by a ­review activities; the Roadmap is thus a central instrument of due on March 25, 2020. By publishing a separate CR Report and the dotted line next to the respective text. An overview of the diligence for NORMA Group. CR content on our website, we seek to provide detailed informa­compulsory components according to HGB can be found in the tion on NORMA Group’s strategic CR approach and exemplary table on the following page. action. This allows NORMA Group to create the basis for open and trusting dialogue with its stakeholders. Information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-­financial Group report, is marked with a vertical dotted line next to the respective text. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 63 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Content of non-financial disclosure ­­Standards: Core ­option. This includes the implementation of the Mandatory information according to HGB Reconciliation in report content / material topics Pages materiality analysis. Business Model NORMA Group at a Glance 7 It also offers an orientation to GRI Standards within the non-­ Environmental Management Systems 44 financial report. Above all, the materiality analysis, the presentaCO2 Footprint in Production 46 tion of management approaches, and the key figures are oriented Water Consumption in Production 47 toward the specifications of the GRI Standards. The GRI C ­ ontent Recycling of Waste 48 Index can be found on pages 71 – 76. Efficient Production Processes 48 Environmental Issues Sustainable Purchasing 29 This report also serves as a Communication on Progress for the Compliance Management Systems 18 implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Elimination of Discrimination 21 References to the Global C ­ ompact principles have been integrated Freedom of Association 21 Occupational Health and Safety 36 into the GRI Content Index. Labor Issues Training and Development 38 Other CR-specific data can be found on the following pages. AddiThis aspect was found to be non-material in the ­ Social Issues materiality analysis. see 13, 56 tional general data can be found in the A N N UA L R EPO RT 2 0 1 9 . Compliance Management Systems 18 Elimination of Discrimination 21 Freedom of Association 21 Respect for Human Rights Sustainable Purchasing 29 Combating Corruption and Bribery Compliance Management Systems 18 Presentation of Risks See corresponding subchapters Correlations to the Consolidated Financial Statements About this Report 63 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 64 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Key Performance Indicators General data / Description of business model KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard Number of manufacturing locations 29 30 – 3.3 102-7 Number of manufacturing locations that have been integrated into NORMA Group for at least 12 months 29 27 7.4 Number of countries in which NG is currently represented (with sites and offices) 25 26 – 3.8 102-4 Number of products > 40,000 > 40,000 n/a 102-7 Revenue EUR millions 1,100.1 1,084.1 1.5 102-7 Adjusted gross profit EUR millions 630.6 626.6 0.6 Adjusted EBITA EUR millions 144.8 173.2 – 16.4 Share of sales realized internationally % 83.0 81.2 n/a 102-7 Total number of employees including temporary employees 8,521 8,865 – 3.9 102-8 Permanent staff 6,523 6,901 – 5.5 102-8 EMEA employees (permanent staff) 3,549 3,744 – 5.2 102-8 Americas employees (permanent staff) 1,601 1,842 – 13.1 102-8 Asia-Pacific employees (permanent staff) 1,373 1,315 4.4 102-8 Temporary employees 1,998 1,964 1.7 102-8 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 65 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Responsible Management KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard Compliance management systems & compliance training Number of registrations for online training courses (“Basics”) 440 487 – 9.7 205-2 Number of registrations for online training courses (“Focus”) 514 242 112.4 205-2 Number of registrations for online training courses (“Refresher”) 1,089 2,189 – 50.3 205-2 Share of completed online training courses completed on schedule (all) % 96.6 96.5 n/a 205-2 Number of employees who were trained on compliance topics online 1,233 2,350 – 47.5 205-2 Completed hours in compliance online training (all) h 3,278 4,205 – 22.0 205-2 Completed hours in compliance online training per participant h per employee 2.66 1.79 48,6 205-2 Substantial fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations EUR thousands 0 103 – 100.0 307-1 Elimination of discrimination Number of discriminations determined by courts 0 0 0.0 406-1 Freedom of association Number of violations of freedom of association determined by courts 0 0 0.0 407-1 Percentage of permament staff covered by collective bargaining agreements % 46.3 n/a n/a 102-41 Awareness of CR strategy Share of ESS participants who know the CR Policy % 79.6 (2017) 79.6 (2017) n/a NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 66 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Business Solutions KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard Innovation Number of invention applications 22 32 – 31.3 Employees in R&D 345 365 – 5.5 Share of R&D employees in relation to the consolidated core workforce % 5.3 5.3 n/a R&D expenditure in the EJT area EUR millions 31.2 30.5 2.3 R&D ratio in terms of EJT sales % 4.7 4.5 n/a Quality Number of manufacturing locations certified according to ISO 9001 or TS 16949 26 26 0.0 Number of manufacturing locations certified according to EN 9100 2 2 0.0 Defective parts PPM (parts per million) 6 7 – 14.3 Number of customer complaints per month average per month 6 7 – 14.3 Sustainability in Purchasing Purchasing turnover EUR millions 490.3 497.5 – 1.4 Total production materials turnover EUR millions 335.1 336.3 – 0.4 301-1 Share of preferred production material suppliers who have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) % 100.0 100.0 n/a 308-1, 414-1 Number of preferred production material suppliers 22 24 – 8.3 Share of preferred suppliers in production material purchasing spend % 27.8 27.0 n/a Share of suppliers in supplier scoring that participated in sustainability self-assessment % 28.7 24.1 n/a 308-1, 414-1 Customer satisfaction on a scale of 0 (low ­satisfaction) to 100 (high Customer satisfaction index (CSI) 1 ­satisfaction) 65 (2018) 65 n/a Net Promoter Score (NPS) 1 % 27 (2018) 27 n/a 1_Further information on the calculation of both the CSI and the NPS can be found on PAGE 31 . NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 67 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Employees KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard Occupational health and safety Number of manufacturing locations 1 certified according to OHSAS 18001 20 20 0.0 Share of manufacturing locations certified according to OHSAS 18001 1 % 69 74 n/a accidents / Accident rate 1,000 employees 4.3 7.8 – 45.5 403-9 treatments / Medical treatment rate 1,000 employees 29.1 40.9 – 28.9 403-9 Number of lost time incidents 38 61 – 37.7 403-9 Number of medical treatments (non-notifiable accidents) 258 358 – 27.9 403-9 Training and development Average training hours per employee h 28.1 23.9 17.8 404-1 Appropriate remuneration / payment Share of locations with performance-oriented incentive systems % 100.0 97.7 n/a Adjusted personnel expenses EUR millions 302.4 280.8 7.7 Employee satisfaction Participation rate in Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) % 82.3 (2017) 82.3 (2017) n/a on a scale of 1 (very Overall satisfaction of employees good) to 7 (very poor) 2.74 (2017) 2.74 (2017) n/a Diversity and equality of opportunity Share of female employees in core workforce % 35.9 34.8 n/a 405-1 Number of women in the six-person Supervisory Board 2 2 0.0 102-22, 405-1 1_The calculation considers only those locations that had been integrated for more than 12 months into NORMA Group as of December 31, 2019. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 68 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Environment KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard Eco-management systems Number of manufacturing locations 1 certified according to ISO 14001 26 25 4.0 Share of manufacturing locations certified according to ISO 14001 1 % 90 93 n/a CO2 footprint Scope 1 emissions (from gas consumption) 2 t CO2e 5,754 5,654 1.8 305-1 Scope 2 emissions (from purchased electricity and district heating) 2, 3 t CO2e 45,620 45,364 0.6 305-2 Scope 3.1 emissions (from purchased production materials) t CO2e 201,850 n/a n/a 305-3 Energy Gas 2 MWh 23,018 22,617 1.8 302-1, 302-4 Electricity 2 MWh 101,435 101,834 – 0.4 302-1, 302-4 District heating MWh 501 n/a n/a 302-1, 302-4 Water in production processes Water consumption 2 cbm 165,155 152,943 8.0 303-3 Water consumption from purchased production materials cbm 1,882,254 n/a n/a Resource efficiency Hazardous waste 2 t 525 n/a n/a 306-2 Non-hazardous waste t 9,181 n/a n/a 306-2 Metallic waste 4 t 6,280 6,841 – 8.2 306-2 Plastic waste 4 t 617 n/a n/a 306-2 Cardboard / paper waste 2 t 750 741 1.3 306-2 Wood waste 4 t 496 n/a n/a 306-2 Other waste 4 t 1,037 n/a n/a 306-2 1_The calculation considers only those locations that had been integrated for more than 12 months into NORMA Group as of December 31, 2019. 2_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., NORMA Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. 3_Market-based emissions in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, using supplier-specific data as well as IEA emission factors 2018. Scope 2 emissions calculated using “location-based” method (calculated using exclusively IEA emissions factors): 49,113 t (2018: 47,913 t) 4_Figures do not include locations of Kimplas Piping Systems Ltd., National Diversified Sales Ltd. (NDS), NORMA Manufacturing NA SW, LLC and Statek Stanzereitechnik GmbH. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 69 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Community KPI Unit Data 2019 Data 2018 Change in % GRI Standard NORMA Clean Water Number of families benefitting from infrastructure measures 543 0 n/a Number of participants in workshops on health, hygiene and gender equality 360 443 – 18.7 NORMA Help Day Number of production and distribution sites that participated in NORMA Help Day 29 34 – 14.7 413-1 Number of participants in NORMA Help Day > 700 > 700 n/a Participation at the sites Donations EUR thousands 60 66 – 8.7 Sponsoring EUR thousands 177 18 905.1 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 70 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA GRI Content Index [GRI 102-55] Universal Standards Universal Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 13, AR pp. 89 Organizational profile Besides the general presentation of the risk identification in the chapter “Stakeholders and Materiality,” ­descriptions 102-1 Name of the organization 8 of impacts and risks in the individual subject areas are 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7 described in the individual subchapters. Detailed information 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 on risks concerning NORMA Group’s financial, assets and 102-4 Location of operations 7, 65 earnings position can be found in the risk and opportunity 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 report of the annual report. 102-6 Markets served 7 102-7 Scale of the organization 7, 8, 65 Ethics and integrity Information on total assets, equity and liabilities can be found 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 18, 29 10 in the Annual Report. AR pp. 46 Governance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8, 36, 65 102-18 Governance structure 9, 12, AR pp. 37 102-9 Supply chain 29 102-19 Delegating authority 9 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 19 102-20 ­environmental,and social topics 12, AR p. 38 102-12 External initiatives 6, 40 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and United Nations Global Compact Diversity Charter ­(Germany) 102-21 social topics 13 Charta zur Vereinbarkeit von Pflege und ­Beruf in Hessen Composition of the highest governance body and its commit(Charter on reconciling care and work – Hesse, Germany) 102-22 tees 68, AR p. 39 102-13 Membership of associations 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 9, AR p. 39 NORMA Group SE is member of the following associations 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR pp. 39 (memberships in local or regional subsidiaries not included): 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR p. 39 Berufverband der Compliance Manager (BCM) e.V. 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR pp. 33 (Association of Compliance Managers) In accordance with section 171 (1.4) AktG (new ­version), the Bundesverband deutscher Pressesprecher e. V. (Federal Supervisory Board is obliged to review the content of the Association of German Press Spokespersons) non-financial report. Deutsches Aktieninstitut e. V. (German Equity Institute) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes AR pp. 43 Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision e. V. (German Institute 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting AR pp. 36 of Internal Auditing) In accordance with section 171 (1.4) AktG (new version), the DIRK Deutscher Investor Relations Verband e. V. (German Supervisory Board is obliged to review the content of the Investor Relations Association) non-financial report. Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unter­ 102-35 Remuneration policies AR pp. 102 nehmensführung e. V. (Society of Corporate Finance in 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR pp. 102 ­Management) Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e.V. (Associa102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR pp. 102 tion for the Promotion of German Science and Humanities) NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 71 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC Stakeholder engagement Economic Topics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39, 66 Economic Performance 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 7 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13, 14 103-2 The management approach and its components AR pp. 46 Reporting practice 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach AR pp. 46 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 8, 63 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Further information on the entities included in the annual 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 9 report can be found in the annual report. AR pp. 138 201-4 Financial assistance received from government AR p. 194 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 13, 63 102-47 List of material topics 13 Procurement Practices 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 In this report, there have been no re-statements of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29 ­information from previous reports. 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 102-49 Changes in reporting 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 102-50 Reporting period 63 102-51 Date of most recent report 63 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 63 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 79 NORMA Group’s purchasing philosophy is to purchase all goods and services locally if possible. The only exceptions are 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the ­GRI Standards 63 procurement opportunities at significantly lower rates or if 102-55 GRI content index 71 the goods are not available locally. While materials for use 102-56 External assurance 77 are purchased largely locally, only two-thirds of production materials can be obtained from regional suppliers due to the special (quality) requirements. One-third comes from a few (global) suppliers who supply to all NORMA Group sites. Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 18 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 72 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Topic-specific Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Energy 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 19 10 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-2 and procedures 19, 66 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44, 46 7, 8 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 46 7, 8 During the reporting period, there have been no confirmed 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 46 7, 8 incidents of corruption. GRI 302: Energy 2016 Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 46, 69 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity 46 7, 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 46, 69 7, 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 18 Water 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44, 47 7, 8 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 47 7, 8 206-1 monopoly practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 47 7, 8 In the reporting period, neither penalties nor fines were GRI 303: Water 2018 imposed on NORMA Group for infringements, ­violations 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 47, 48 7, 8 or non-compliance with antitrust laws, ­regulations or ­obligations. 303-3 Water withdrawal 47, 69 7, 8 Environmental Topics Emissions Materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44, 46 7, 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 46 7, 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44, 48 7, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 46 7, 8 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 48 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 48 7, 8 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 46, 69 7, 8 GRI 301: Materials 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 46, 69 7, 8 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 48, 67, AR p. 77 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 46, 69 Reducing the volume of materials used is an important goal 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 46 7, 8 of NORMA Group. The purchase value (in euros) of materials 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 46 9 is NORMA Group’s most important measure for simplifying control worldwide. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 73 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Topic-specific Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC Effluents and Waste Social Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44, 48 7, 8 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 48 7, 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 48 7, 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 36, 39 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 39 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 39 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 49, 69 7, 8 GRI 401: Employment 2016 Environmental Compliance Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not proGRI 103: Management Approach 2016 401-2 vided to temporary or part-time employees 36, 39 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 44 7, 8 In principle, the outlined offers from NORMA Group are addressed to all members of the core workforce ­(generally pro103-2 The management approach and its components 44 7, 8 portionate for part-time employees). The only exception are 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 7, 8 part-time employees in the US with an average weekly workGRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 ing time of less than 25 hours, who do not receive certain 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and ­regulations 66 7, 8 social benefits. In the reporting period, NORMA Group has not paid any Occupational Health and Safety ­penalties or fines in the environmental area for significant offenses, violations or non-compliance with environmental GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 laws, regulations or obligations. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 36 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29 7, 8 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 37 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 7, 8 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 7, 8 403-2 ­investigation 37 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 403-3 Occupational health services 37 New suppliers that were screened using environmental “Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 308-1 ­criteria 30, 67 7, 8 403-4 occupational health and safety” 36 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and The proportion of employees represented by safety 308-2 actions taken 30, 44, 47, 48 7, 8 ­committees is currently not tracked by NORMA Group. 403-6 Promotion of worker health NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 74 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Topic-specific Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC Larger NORMA Group sites have occupational health physiGRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 cians which do also provide regular information on general 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 21, 66 6 non-work related health topics. Awareness-­raising on healthy living is also part of dedicated “Health and Safety Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Days” which are organized by ­individual entities on their own initiative. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 403-9 Work-related injuries 37, 68 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 21 3 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 Training and Education 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 38 6 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 407-1 association and collective bargaining may be at risk 21, 66 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 Child Labor GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 38, 68 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 21 5 404-2 ­assistance programs 39 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 Percentage of employees receiving regular ­performance and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 404-3 career development reviews 39 6 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 The proportion of employees regularly participating in a Operations and suppliers at significant risk for ­incidents of ­performance assessment is currently not tracked by 408-1 child labor 21 5 NORMA Group. During the reporting period, no structured analysis of respecDiversity and Equal Opportunity tive risks was carried out. No respective significant risks became known via other reporting channels during the GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 reporting period. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 40; AR p. 42 6 Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-2 The management approach and its components 40; AR p. 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40; AR p. 42 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 21 4 40; 68, AR p. 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 21, 40 6 103-2 The management approach and its components 21, 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21, 40 NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 75 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Topic-specific Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 Supplier Social Assessment Operations and suppliers at significant risk for ­incidents of 409-1 forced or compulsory labor 21 4 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 During the reporting period, no structured analysis of respec103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29 2 tive risks was carried out. No respective significant risks 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 became known via other reporting channels during the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 reporting period. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Human Rights Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 30, 67 2 Public Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 412-1 or impact assessments 415-1 Political contributions In 2019, there has been no human rights assessment of Donations directly or indirectly to political parties, politicians NORMA Group locations. 1 and their families or entities they hold interests in, or organiLocal Communities zations affiliated with political parties are not permitted by NORMA Group. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 57 1 103-2 The management approach and its components 57 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 18 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 Operations with local community engagement, impact 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 413-1 assessments, and development programs 58, 70 1 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the ­social and 419-1 economic area During the reporting period, NORMA Group paid no ­significant penalties or fines for infringements, ­violations or non-compliance with laws, regulations or obligations in the area of compliance and products. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 76 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Assurance Report [GRI 102-56] Independence and quality control of the audit firm engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Independent practitioner’s report on a limited We have complied with the German professional provisions the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from January assurance engagement on non-financial reporting 1 regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. 1 to December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to To NORMA Group SE, Maintal Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and 289e HGB. ­professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the sepGerman Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors In a limited assurance engagement, the assurance procedures arate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. ­(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement, (paragraph) 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. Code”) of NORMA Group SE, Maintal, (hereinafter the “Company”) ­published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 (hereinafter Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for judgment. the “Non-financial Report”). audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we performed The Non-financial Report comprises the sections marked with a QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of amongst others the following assurance procedures and further vertical dotted line in the Corporate Responsibility Report of the quality control including documented policies and procedures activities: Company for fiscal year 2019. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. • Obtaining an understanding of the execution of the Responsibilities of the executive directors ­materiality analysis Practitioner’s responsibility • Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the Non-financial Report regarding the preparation process, the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on internal control system relating to this process and selected §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. the Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement disclo-sures in the Non-financial Report we have performed. • Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes the Non-financial Report the selection and application of appropriate methods of Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform an audit • Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Non-­ ­non-financial reporting as well as making assumptions and on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to financial Report ­estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures which in the Non-financial Report. • Assessment of the implementation of central management are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive requirements, processes and specifications for data collection directors are responsible for such internal control as they­ We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with through on-site visits at the following sites have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) • NORMA Germany GmbH, Maintal, Germany ­Non-financial Report that is free from material misstatement 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or • NORMA POLSKA Sp. z.o.o., Pilica, Poland whether due to fraud or error. Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. • NORMA Grupa Jugoistočna Evropa d.o.o., Subotica, Serbia This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance 1_PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial group report 2019 of NORMA Group SE, Maintal and issued an independent assurance report in the German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 77 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA • Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report • Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information Assurance conclusion Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. Intended use of the assurance report We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the limited assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Frankfurt (Main), 9 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Nicolette Behncke ppa. Dieter W. Horst Wirtschaftsprüfer [German public auditor] NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 78 1 I NTR OD U C TI ON 2 CR ST RATEGY 3 RES PONSI BLE MA NAGE ME NT 4 B U SI NE SS SOLU TI ONS 5 E M P LOY E E S 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 CO M M UN I T Y 8 DATA Imprint Forward-looking statements This sustainability report contains certain future-oriented statements. Future-­ oriented statements ­include all statements that do not relate to historical facts Editor and events and contain future-oriented expressions such as “believe,” ­“estimate,” “assume,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “could” or “should” or expressions of NORMA Group SE a similar kind. Such future-oriented statements are subject to risks and uncertainties since they relate to future events and are based on the Company’s Edisonstraße 4 ­current assumptions, which may not in the future take place or be fulfilled as D-63477 Maintal expected. The Company points out that such future-oriented statements p ­ rovide Germany no guarantee for the future and that the actual events including the financial ­position and profitability of NORMA Group SE and developments in the e ­ conomic and regulatory ­fundamentals may vary substantially (particularly on the down Contact [GRI 102-53] side) from those explicitly or implicitly assumed in these statements. Even if the actual assets for NORMA Group SE, including its financial ­position and profitability and the economic and regulatory fundamentals, are in accordance with Contacts for Corporate Responsibility ­such future-oriented statements in this sustainability report, no guarantee can be given that this will continue to be the case in the future. Andreas Trösch Vice President Investor Relations, Note on the sustainability report Communications & Corporate Responsibility This sustainability report is also available in German. If there are differences between the two, the ­German version takes precedence. E-Mail: Andreas.Troesch@normagroup.com Phone: +49 6181 6102 741 Note on rounding Elias Schwenk Please note that slight differences may arise as a result of the use of rounded amounts and percentages. Manager Corporate Responsibility E-Mail: Elias.Schwenk@normagroup.com Phone: +49 6181 6102 7602 Design MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz Photo credits P. 10: nikwaller – stock.adobe.com P. 16: GCapture – stock.adobe.com P. 25: kwasny221 – stock.adobe.com P. 42: nd700 – stock.adobe.com Other photos: P. 4, P. 6, P. 22, P. 24, P. 34, P. 40, P. 43, P. 49, P. 54, ­P. 55, P. 57, P. 58 – NORMA Group. NO RMA Gro u p S E – CR Rep o r t 201 9 79 NORMA Group SE Edisonstraße 4 63477 Maintal Germany Phone: + 49 6181 6102-740 E-mail: info@normagroup.com Internet: www.normagroup.com
