20 19 CO RP OR AT E RE SP ON SI BI LI TY RE PO RT ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES About PVH Corp. PVH is one of the most admired fashion and lifestyle companies in the world. We power brands that drive FASHION FORWARD — for good. We manage a diversified brand portfolio, including the CALVIN KLEIN, TOMMY HILFIGER, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene brands, as well as the digital-centric True&Co. intimates brand. We market a variety of goods under these and other nationally and internationally known owned and licensed brands. PVH has over 40,000 associates operating in more than 40 countries and generated $9.9 billion in revenues in 2019. That’s the Power of Us. That’s the POWER OF PVH. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES About This Report Our annual Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) Report provides information and performance data on our operations during our 2019 fiscal year. We report our performance under the Global Reporting Initiative’s (“GRI”) Standards under the “Core” option and in line with the Ten Principles of the Leadership Messages...............3 United Nations Global Compact. Strategy & Highlights............7 Questions, comments or feedback regarding this Report or our Forward Fashion strategy are welcomed. Please direct them to cr@pvh.com. Priorities & Progress........13 For more information on our policies, including CR Governance & Stakeholder Engagement, Performance Our Approach to CR and Human Rights, Code of Conduct, CR Supply Chain Guidelines and Summary......................21 other resources, please see responsibility.pvh.com/resources. Indices.......................36 For more information please see responsibility.pvh.com. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES A Note From Our CEO Emanuel Chirico, Chairman & Environmental and social impact issues have captured the world’s Chief Executive Officer attention like never before — influencing purchasing behavior and driving sustainability-focused consumer activism. Led by younger generations, investors and NGOs, consumers and supply chain workers, their families and in many cases supported by brand owners, and their communities. movements calling for social justice reform, climate action and more have gained global momentum. The Our values as an organization and our longstanding conversation around the responsibility of business commitment to CR continue to drive our approach to support sustainable development has shifted to decisions we make as a business — and this is “We strive to do the right thing from a nice-to-have to a need-to-do. especially important in times of crisis. Nothing is more important to us than our people, and our priority for our people, our stockholders, Fulfilling this expectation requires many organizations is the health, safety and wellbeing of our associates. to adopt an entirely new approach to business but, To date, we have supplied over ten million face masks our communities and our planet for PVH, it further validates the critical role corporate to associates worldwide and we have expanded the — and prioritize long-term responsibility (“CR”) has always played within our offerings on our education platform, PVH University, benefits over short-term goals.” broader business strategy. We strive to do the right which includes courses ranging from remote working thing for our people, our stockholders, our communities skills to mental health and wellness. Our global and our planet — and prioritize long-term benefits over employee assistance programs are available 24/7 to short-term goals. In May of 2019, we launched our new provide advice and guidance and, for colleagues in the CR strategy — Forward Fashion — setting a new level U.S. in need, our Associate Relief Fund is providing of ambition and transparency to drive transformational financial support to those severely impacted as a change across both PVH and our industry. result of the pandemic. It is important to acknowledge that we are living in a very We collaborated with our industry peers, NGOs, different world than we were just a few months ago. As I governments and worker and employer representatives write this letter, we are still navigating our way through to create and endorse the International Labour the COVID-19 pandemic, which has severely affected Organization’s call to action to protect garment every aspect of the apparel industry, from the closure workers during the pandemic. Thanks to the of retail stores globally, to impacts on associates, innovative thinking and agility of our associates, 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES CEO Letter we were able to source and supply over six million industry will be uniquely transformed post-pandemic, •W  e signed the “Open to All” pledge, joining a units of personal protective equipment (“PPE”) for we have a responsibility to help shape this “new normal” nationwide campaign in the U.S. to build awareness healthcare workers on the front lines. And, through for the benefit of all stakeholders. We are steadfast in and understanding about the importance of protecting The PVH Foundation, we have donated over $2 million our commitments to prioritize climate action, to build people from discrimination — and to defend the to COVID-19 relief efforts, including to our long-term tighter, more resilient supply chains, to fight for social principle that when businesses open their doors partner Better Work, to support activities benefitting justice, and to deliver more sustainable products to to the public, they should be Open to All. suppliers and workers through the crisis. We continue our consumers. to explore meaningful ways to address the needs of •W  e commenced a partnership with Fordham the communities where we work and live, collaborating This cannot be achieved by one company alone. I’ve University’s Gabelli School of Business to alongside our partners to address ongoing human and been encouraged by the shift in our industry toward establish an academic hub for the study of CR and business impacts. collaboration for common solutions. 2019 saw a number Sustainability. The program is intended to advance of significant initiatives and partnerships that I believe the relationship between industry and academia Against the backdrop of the pandemic, we are also will be powerful forces for achieving change at scale. and, most importantly, to invest in the education witnessing a global movement against systemic racism of talented students and support their development and social inequality in the U.S. and around the world. •W  e signed the Fashion Pact, a coalition of more than into conscientious business leaders of tomorrow. At PVH, we condemn racial discrimination and stand 60 global fashion and textile companies pledging against the social injustice that has plagued the U.S. to reduce the environmental impact of the fashion Particularly with the significant challenges we have and other countries for so long. We believe that Black industry. Forming a cohesive front at this scale all faced so far in 2020, I could not be prouder of our lives matter. This should not be a controversial or shows how serious the fashion industry is about PVH associates around the world. I want to thank every divisive statement — it is a universal truth. Within this taking tangible action to protect our planet. one of them for their hard work, dedication and integrity. report we have been transparent about representation It is through the hardest times that we see the true and diversity across our company. We have a lot more • I joined with more than 75 U.S. CEOs and labor strength of our collective character, and my confidence to do — and we are fully committed to doing the work. leaders in signing a collective statement supporting in PVH and its ability to drive fashion forward — for Over the next few months we will be publishing a set the Paris Agreement to combat climate change, good — is unwavering. of targets focused on racial equality, representation reaffirming our promise to continue to play our and advancement, and we commit to disclosing the part in the fight for climate action. actions being taken across our organization to meet these targets. • I was appointed to the United Nations Global Compact Board, affording me with an opportunity Our current reality and evolving business challenges to work with like-minded business leaders at the require us to be agile but we remain committed to helm of a group whose mission aligns with my own delivering on our long-term Forward Fashion strategy and leadership philosophy — that business leaders have targets, and to reporting on our progress. We cannot an obligation to take a stand on the pressing issues Emanuel Chirico, lose the momentum gained in 2019. While the apparel that we face as a global society. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 4 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES A Note From Our CR Leadership 2019 was a year defined by positive momentum for CR at PVH. Centered around the launch of our ambitious sustainability strategy — Forward Fashion — we set a new level of ambition and transparency for sustainable business — and our 15 timebound targets provide a clear plan of action to achieve this. Melanie Steiner, Building on many years of hard work, the launch of narratives about our work. While there is still much more Chief Risk Officer Forward Fashion was a landmark moment for us as to do, we are dedicated to making our progress publicly leaders of the CR team. We quickly pivoted from available, and to holding ourselves accountable to being planning to action through program implementation, transparent about opportunities for improvement. signing impactful pledges, and joining industry groups that aligned with our strategy and harnessed the The unprecedented challenge brought on early this year power of partnership to drive lasting positive change. with the rapid spread of COVID-19 continues to have a profound impact across the entire apparel value chain. We are pleased to share our 12th annual CR Report with A crisis of this scale demands a collaborative industry you, which honors our commitment to accountability and response and, while the power of collective action has transparency by reporting the advancements we have always been at the heart of our strategy and how we lead made over the last 12 months. We are extremely proud our teams, during these challenging times it has never of what our teams have accomplished and, while you been more critical. We are working actively alongside will notice that we have approached this year’s report our peers and stakeholders, and adapting many of our differently and scaled back our storytelling content to CR actions both to tackle immediate issues and to plan be sensitive to the current pandemic environment, we ahead for emerging social and environmental needs. continue to increase transparency by sharing more Marissa Pagnani McGowan, Senior Vice President, detailed performance data and progress indicators. We Both the pandemic and the recent global uprising against Corporate Responsibility will continue to expand our data disclosure from year to systemic racism and social inequality have exposed the year and, as appropriate, we will also share more in-depth fragility and injustices of many of our global systems. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES CR Leadership Letter “The unprecedented challenge brought on early this year with the rapid spread of COVID-19 continues to have a profound impact across the entire apparel value chain. A crisis of this scale demands a collaborative industry response and, while the power of collective action As we navigate the path toward recovery, we are It is a journey that is often difficult, always humbling and has always been at the presented with a responsibility — and an opportunity infinitely rewarding. We thank you all for joining us. heart of our strategy — to emerge stronger than before and build back a better, more just and resilient future for all people, and how we lead our for the planet and for business. teams, during these Melanie Steiner, While this moment in time is truly trying for so many, Chief Risk Officer challenging times it has we can — and will — rebuild stronger by doing the hard never been more critical.” work required to reach our Forward Fashion targets, by ensuring CR continues to play a vital role in our business recovery plans, and by fostering the connections and Marissa Pagnani McGowan, collaborations with our stakeholders that are necessary Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility to drive transformation at scale. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 6 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Strategy & Highlights 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES We believe that brilliant design and creative actions we will take to move our business and solutions are not just reserved for the clothes the fashion industry toward a more innovative Our Forward we make but also for the way we make them. There is a story woven into every piece we and responsible future. We recognize that resources are limited, and for us, human rights Fashion Strategy create. It is the story of the fingers that pick the cotton, the hands that spin the fabric and are non-negotiable. the communities where they are crafted. A Through Forward Fashion, we aim to reduce story about how the materials are selected, our negative impacts to zero, increase positive how our factories are powered and their impacts to 100% and improve the over one impact on people and the environment. A million lives throughout our value chain: our story about the kind of business we are and associates and supply chain workers, their the one we want to be. families and their communities. The fashion industry is changing and, at PVH, we recognize Forward Fashion is our strategy to transform our responsibility and opportunity to drive how clothes are made and (re)used, and the fashion forward — for good. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 8 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES WHERE WE FOCUS We are prioritizing our impact on three strategic focus areas where we can drive the most transformative change. Within these areas, we are focusing on 15 priorities, each with a specific, measurable and timebound target for our business to achieve. Forward Fashion represents a deepening of our commitment to do the right thing and a renewed sense of urgency to use our scale to transform ourselves and the industry. ZERO 100% 1M+ Reduce negative Increase positive Improve 1 million+ lives impacts to zero impacts to 100% across our value chain ELIMINATE CARBON EMISSIONS SOURCE ETHICALLY EMPOWER WOMEN Our offices, warehouses and stores will be powered by 100% of PVH suppliers will meet or exceed all of our social Professional and life skills development programs and 100% renewable electricity by 2030 and we will drive a and environmental standards by 2030. services will be made available to 500,000 women across 30% reduction in our supply chain emissions by 2030. the PVH supply chain by 2030. AMPLIFY WORKER VOICES END WASTE 100% of workers employed by key suppliers will have their FOSTER INCLUSION & DIVERSITY All PVH offices, distribution centers and stores will achieve voices heard through representative workplace committees Expand unconscious bias training to all 38,000+ PVH zero waste and eliminate single-use plastics by 2030. by 2025. associates globally by 2023 and achieve gender parity in leadership positions by 2030. ELIMINATE HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS & MICROFIBERS PROMOTE SAFE WORKPLACES Water leaving our wet processors will have zero hazardous 100% of our suppliers will promote and maintain safe and DEVELOP TALENT chemicals and be filtered for harmful microfibers by 2025. healthy work environments by 2025. Expand professional skills development and digital literacy programs through PVH University to reach all 38,000+ PVH INNOVATE FOR CIRCULARITY ADVANCE LIVING WAGES associates globally by 2023. Three of our most commonly purchased products will be 100% of our key suppliers in two key production countries completely circular including the full traceability of key raw by 2025 and four by 2030 proactively support industry-wide EDUCATE THE FUTURE materials by 2025. collective bargaining to achieve living wages. Reach 135,000 individuals worldwide through early education and childcare services, teacher training, parenting resources RECRUIT ETHICALLY and training, and youth employability training services by 2023. 100% of migrant workers at our Level 1 & key Level 2 suppliers will not pay recruitment fees by 2025. PROVIDE ACCESS TO WATER Establish five collective action projects in our most REGENERATE MATERIALS water-stressed sourcing communities by 2025. Sustainably source 100% of our cotton and viscose by 2025, and 100% of polyester by 2030. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES 2019 We launched circularity HIGHLIG HT S training for our associates. We launched a U.S.-wide internal ZERO clothing takeback campaign to test and learn how we can repurpose Our CEO signed a collective statement post-consumer used materials as supporting the Paris Agreement to we work towards producing circular combat climate change. O UR A M B I TION IS FO R O UR products at scale. P RODUC TS A ND BUSIN ESS OP E R ATI ONS TO G EN ERAT E ZERO WA S TE, Z ERO CARBO N We received approval of our absolute GHG emission reduction targets EM I S S I ONS A ND ZERO All of our (over 190) key wet from the Science Based Targets H AZ A R DOUS C H EMICALS, processors provided verified initiative, furthering our commitment A ND F OR OUR PRO D UCT S TO SAC Higg 3.0 FEM data. to a zero-carbon economy. B E TR ULY C I R C U LAR IN T HE C ONS UM ER CYCLE Tommy Hilfiger launched its first collection We committed to the Arctic Shipping of 100% recycled jeans, made from leftover Corporate Pledge by Ocean Conservancy, cotton scraps from cutting tables and factory voluntarily agreeing to suspend our products floors and thread from recycled plastic bottles, from being shipped on vessels via the arctic and using more-sustainable buttons. shipping routes, acknowledging the climate risks threatening these ecosystems. We joined over 300 U.S. companies in the LEAD on Climate We signed the “Uniting Business and Governments to Recover initiative calling for resilient, long-term climate solutions to Better” statement as part of the UNGC and Science Based 2020 be included in future economic recovery plans. Targets initiative’s “Business Ambition for 1.5°C” campaign along with more than 150 major companies. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES 2019 We joined Canopy’s Pack4Good initiative HIGHLIG HT S with a 2022 target to eliminate the sourcing of wood-derived materials 100% from ancient and endangered forests. We implemented the Social and Labor Convergence Program (“SLCP”) assessment with 99 facilities across India, China and OUR A M B I TIO N IS Approximately 50% of Sri Lanka with the goal of 100% adoption F OR 1 0 0 % O F our cotton footprint was by the end of 2022.* OUR PROD UCT S sustainably sourced, *The SLCP is an industrywide data collection tool that aims to create an efficient and sustainable solution for social audits A ND PAC K AG IN G TO including Better Cotton, and with a goal of alleviating audit fatigue for our suppliers B E ETHIC A L LY AN D organic and recycled cotton. S US TA INA B LY SO URCED, A N D F OR 1 0 0 % O F O UR SUPPL IER S TO RESPECT HUM A N R I GHTS AN D BE We continued to disclose all Level 1 direct factories GOOD EM PLOYERS and key fabric and trim suppliers, We were named one of the two leading along with details such as facility companies by Platform Living Wage names, addresses, count of Financials for our efforts to advance living workers and product type, under wage payments for supply chain workers. the Transparency Pledge. We joined 144 brand owners in signing the American Apparel and Footwear Association and Fair Labor Association’s Commitment to Responsible Recruitment. Supported the convening of, and fully endorsing, the views, priorities and Issued updated supplier guidelines for addressing actions outlined in COVID-19: Action in the Global Garment Industry published the impact of COVID-19, sharing the latest 2020 by the International Labour Organization (“ILO”) together with the International information from the World Health Organization Organization of Employers (“IOE”), the International Trade Union Confederation (“WHO”), ILO and other international organizations. (“ITUC”) and IndustriALL Global Union. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES We signed the “Open to All” pledge, 2019 a national nondiscrimination campaign. HIGHLIG HT S We partnered with Howard University, a prominent 1M+ 50.6% of leadership positions* now filled by females. historically black university (“HBU”), to develop *PVH defines leadership positions as young students’ business acumen specifically VP level and above related to our industry. The goal is to bring more diverse students into our talent pipeline. O UR A M B I TION IS FO R O UR B US INES S TO I MPROVE T HE We announced a $3 million, OVER ONE M I L LIO N LIVES three-year grant extension We were the first apparel company AC ROS S OUR VA LUE CHAIN , with Save the Children. to obtain a license for the Personal FOC US I NG ON E D UCAT IO N Advancement Career Enhancement A N D OPPOR TUN IT IES FO R (“P.A.C.E.”) learning program aimed at WOM EN A ND CHILD REN , providing female garment workers the We improved our CDP water score ENS UR I NG ACCESS TO professional and life skills they need and moved into the Leadership C L E A N WATER F OR ALL, AN D band with a score of A-. to succeed in their lives holistically. CONTI NUING TO CHAMPIO N I N C L US ION A ND D IVERSIT Y S O EVER YONE C AN ACHIEVE THEI R F UL L POT EN T IAL We worked with our partners WWF and GIZ on collectiveWe were re-certified as a Great Place To Work® action efforts to preserve and provide access to clean in the U.S. for the second year in a row. water in four key basins globally — Ethiopia’s Lake Hawassa, China’s Taihu basin, Vietnam’s Mekong Delta and India’s Cauvery river basins. The PVH Foundation — our philanthropic fund specifically Among seven global companies Proud patron of the UN Global Compact initiative dedicated to nonprofit donations and volunteer programs — — together with the UN Global ‘Target Gender Equality,’ which aligns with our goals to 2020 committed more than $2 million toward COVID-19 relief efforts, Compact’s CEO Water Mandate — advance gender equality, and calls on others to join including funds to our long-term partner Better Work, to support to spearhead the formation of us in setting clear targets and commitments for equal activities benefitting suppliers and workers through the crisis. the Water Resilience Coalition. representation and leadership in business. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 12 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Priorities & Progress 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Zero R E D U C E N E G AT I V E I M PA C T S TO Z E R O To drive fashion forward, we cannot stop at simply reducing our negative impacts; we must work to eliminate them. Our ambition is for our products and business operations to generate zero waste, zero carbon emissions and zero hazardous chemicals, and for our products to be circular. PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Eliminate Carbon Our offices, 2030 •E  valuate and mitigate the risks to our business •2  8% of energy used in our offices, warehouses, and stores was Emissions warehouses and created by climate change. derived from renewable sources in 2019. Protect our global stores will be • Develop and implement greenhouse gas (“GHG”) • We received approval of our absolute GHG emission reduction targets climate by reducing powered by 100% reduction and climate resiliency strategies for our from the Science Based Targets initiative, furthering our commitment energy use and renewable electricity owned and operated facilities, and with our supply to a zero-carbon economy. PVH’s targets are in line with the most powering our business and we will drive a chain stakeholders. ambitious level of decarbonization set by the Paris Agreement at through renewable 30% reduction in • Lower our GHG footprint by cutting energy 1.5 degrees Celsius. sources our supply chain consumption, increasing energy efficiency • We are collaborating with our industry peers to reduce Scope 3 emissions. and driving investment in renewables. emissions (including supply chain emissions) through several initiatives including our involvement in the Apparel Impact Institute, the UN Fashion Charter on Climate Change, and the Fashion Pact. End Waste All PVH offices, 2030 •D  ivert waste from stores, distribution centers • We established our first global waste baseline and calculated our Divert the waste distribution centers and offices by establishing and tracking against 2019 waste footprint, which found that we diverted 57% of waste we send to landfill and stores will baselines, and setting standards to embed that would otherwise be sent to landfills. achieve zero waste into PVH’s general facility management and • We established internal guidelines for waste management that and eliminate singleprocurement practices. includes the ban of single-use plastics across all North American use plastics. • Monitor and apply alternative options for materials offices. generating significant damage to our environment, notably plastic polybags. • Educate and enable associate behavior change, particularly related to reuse and recycling. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 14 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Reduce Negative Impacts to Zero PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Eliminate Hazardous Water leaving our 2025 •C ommit to using safer substances in the materials • As of 2019, all of our key wet processors (over 190) provided verified Chemicals & wet processors will and processes required to manufacture our Sustainable Apparel Coalition (“SAC”) Higg 3.0 Facility Environmental Microfibers have zero hazardous products and protect our consumers, workers, Module (“FEM”) data that enables tracking on compliance and critical Eliminate water chemicals and be sourcing communities and the natural environment. foundational chemical management in facilities. This is an essential pollution from our filtered for harmful • Utilize standardized industry tools to contribute to step to track environmental data from our wet processers. wet processors microfibers. enabling efficient removal of hazardous chemicals • We released the official Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals from our supply chain. Programmes’ (“ZDHC”) Manufacturing Restricted Substances • Drive effective chemical management practices List (“MRSL”) to our supply chain partners, to advance chemical across the product life-cycle: managing inputs and management compliance. outputs, and innovating chemistries. • We contributed toward the exploration of advanced wastewater treatment technologies in partnership with Fashion for Good to test the technical and economic feasibility of a new wastewater treatment system, created by SeaChange Technologies. The system aims to sustainably eliminate wastewater from industrial processes in a single step. • We evolved our full-cycle approach to responsible chemical management by tailoring training programs to priority regions. Innovate for Three of our most 2025 • T ackle the circularity challenge with a three-prong • T ommy Hilfiger launched its first collection of 100% recycled jeans, Circularity commonly purchased approach: made from leftover cotton scraps found on cutting tables and factory Foster and harness products will be Design products with safe and renewable floors and thread from recycled plastic bottles, and using moreinnovation to design completely circular, materials; sustainable buttons. and manufacture including the full Make products that are “made to be made again”; • We rolled out global Circularity 101 trainings to educate associates products that eliminate traceability of key Develop new business models to extend the use about key circularity concepts, circular design principles and business product waste raw materials. of clothing, and capture rental and resale market models. Tommy Hilfiger also kicked off circular design trainings with share. London College of Fashion. • Instill a circular-mindset across PVH in product • We launched a U.S.-wide internal clothing takeback campaign to design, development and (re)distribution through test and learn how we can repurpose post-consumer used materials, guidelines, training, measurement tools and as we work towards producing circular products at scale. The over systems integration. 3,300 pounds of gently worn garments donated are enabling us to • Test, invest in and apply new technologies, test new mechanical and chemical recycling technologies, industrial materials and business models to enable upcycling into insulation, and repair and re-commerce opportunities. circularity throughout our value chain. • We established internal global sustainable product and packaging • Incentivize and collaborate with supply chain guidelines. partners, innovators and other actors throughout • We participated in two pilots focused on traceability in the fashion our value chain to implement new technologies industry: the Organic Cotton Traceability Pilot, the first digitized and practices. project of its kind to track the organic cotton journey from farm to • Leverage PVH’s digital acceleration efforts and retail garment, and the Connect Fashion Initiative, which tests the new technologies to enable more efficient design use of EON’s CircularID designed to promote circularity by creating a production and traceability as critical components new standard for communicating information about fashion products. to producing circular products. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES 100% I N C R E A S E P O S I T I V E I M PAC T S TO 1 0 0 % Fashion has the power to be a positive force in the world. So when we identify areas where we can make a positive impact for our people and planet, we won’t stop halfway. Our ambition is for 100% of our products and packaging to be ethically and sustainably sourced, and for 100% of our suppliers to respect human rights and be good employers.* PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Source Ethically 100% of PVH 2030 •D  rive the adoption of industry tools across •9  4% of suppliers scored a yellow rating or higher (meeting or exceeding Expand the application suppliers will meet social and environmental assessments to create our expectations) on our social assessment. of our social and or exceed all of a level playing field and provide standardized • We committed to adopt the Social and Labor Convergence Program environmental our social and measurements. (“SLCP”) assessment, an industry-wide data collection tool that aims standards to the environmental • Enable supplier improvements to social and to create an efficient and sustainable solution for social audits, by the manufacturing of all standards. environmental practices and programs. end of 2022. We initiated implementation of the SLCP assessment products and materials • E xpand the scope and scale of our programs, with 99 facilities across India, China and Sri Lanka in 2019 and encourage adoption by more — and varied — (representing 5% of total applicable facilities). suppliers. • 692 facilities (inclusive of all Level 1 Tier 1 and 2 facilities and • Equip our suppliers with tools to identify key mills, trims and wet processors) completed the SAC Higg FEM opportunities for improvement, implement and self-assessment and approximately 28% had this data verified. We sustain these improvements, and track and continue to engage facilities on Performance Improvement Plans to report progress. ensure sustain solutions to minimizing the environmental impacts of manufacturing. Amplify Worker 100% of workers 2025 •P  rovide our suppliers with training and advisory •2  71 factories are currently involved in PVH’s Workplace Cooperation Voices employed by key services to establish workplace committees, Program or Better Work’s Advisory Services to strengthen workerImprove working suppliers will thereby enabling them to more independently management committees (representing 54% of total applicable environments through have their voices manage and improve working conditions through facilities), and we continue to increase the number of key suppliers worker engagement heard through worker engagement and representation rather reached by the program. and representation representative than relying on audit results alone. workplace • Commit to improving factory working conditions by committees. promoting worker engagement and representation, primarily through our Workplace Cooperation Program in partnership with Better Work, which focuses on cooperation and communication between workers and managers. * At PVH we define “good employers” as those who do not violate the human rights standards included in our Code of Conduct, and go beyond these requirements to provide a working environment consistent with our Forward Fashion targets. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 16 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Increase Positive Impacts to 100% PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Promote Safe 100% of our 2025 •U  se data to inform a risk-based approach to • T hrough the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh Workplaces suppliers will address workplace safety risks in our supply chain. (“Bangladesh Accord”), we remediated 97% of initial safety issues Ensure safe and promote and • Leverage multi-stakeholder partnerships to found at factories. healthy workplaces maintain safe assess and improve workplace safety at an • 8 3% of in-scope* PVH factories have completed all Bangladesh Accord for all workers in our and healthy work industry level, focusing on those countries with health and safety training sessions. supply chain environments. the highest safety risks. • Globally, 65% of facilities who have received PVH’s advisory services showed improvement in the number of health & safety issues found in their assessments in 2018-2019. * In-scope is defined by factories located outside of export processing zones; all but 2 Bangladeshi vendors were trained. Advance Living 100% of our key Two •U  nderstand the compensation and payment •N  amed one of the two leading companies by the Platform Living Wage Wages suppliers in key countries systems of all suppliers by conducting factory Financials for our efforts to advance living wage payments for supply Create conditions production countries by 2025 assessments and providing advisory services. chain workers. for national living proactively support and four • Embed “global purchasing practices commitments” • We invited all of our tier 1 and tier 2 vendors to complete a better buying wage agreements industry-wide by 2030 across our company to better support our suppliers’ survey and anonymously provide feedback about our business practices through industry-wide collective bargaining ability to pay workers the agreed upon living wage to gain insights into how we can be a more responsible partner. Overall, collective bargaining to achieve living in their respective countries, including: we received positive feedback on how we communicate deadlines for linked to our wages.* Negotiated wages as itemized costs in order activities, and noted room for improvement in providing more purchasing practices purchasing prices; frequent order forecasts. Fair terms of payments; • We play an active role in convening key stakeholders in Ethiopia, Better planning and forecasting; a key production country, to strategize about ways to promote Training global associates on responsible freedom of association, social dialogue and fair wages. sourcing and buying; and Responsible exit strategies. • Work alongside other global brand owners and IndustriALL, a global union federation, to create conditions that support industry-wide collective bargaining agreements at a national level to establish living wages. Recruit Ethically 100% of migrant 2025 •P  artner with industry initiatives and international •We issued more robust guidance to, and conducted trainings with, Partner with our workers at our Level organizations to engage suppliers in countries all our suppliers on our Migrant Labor Policy. suppliers to ensure 1 and key Level 2 with high-risk migrant labor practices to ensure • Based on risk indices, we identified high-risk countries to prioritize ethical recruitment suppliers will not migrant workers are recruited ethically, live in safe for enhanced due diligence and training. practices for migrant pay recruitment fees. and healthy conditions, and are integrated into workers the workforce. • Train our suppliers to establish procedures to effectively identify and remediate recruitment fees issues, and enact management systems to prevent the charge of recruitment fees when migrant workers are initially recruited for employment. *The countries included in our living wage target align directly with countries where our partner ACT is active, and are relevant sourcing countries for PVH. For more information about our Living Wage strategy, including our strategic approach and our ACT partnership, click HERE. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Increase Positive Impacts to 100% PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Regenerate Materials Sustainably source Cotton •S  ource raw materials while taking into account •A  pproximately 50% of our cotton footprint was sustainably sourced, Transition key product 100% of PVH’s cotton, and environmental and social considerations. including Better Cotton, organic and recycled cotton. and packaging viscose and polyester. viscose • Pursue our sustainable cotton target by procuring • Approximately 10% of polyester was sustainably sourced. materials to sustainable by 2025, a variety of more sustainable cotton sources, • 4% of viscose was sustainably sourced. alternatives, and polyester including organic and Better Cotton, as well as • We underscored our commitment to sustainable viscose by committing support regenerative by 2030 testing and evaluating opportunities to expand to eliminate Ancient and Endangered Forests fiber from our viscose agriculture practices, this portfolio with recycled cotton, the forthcoming fabrics by the end of 2020. while protecting animal U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol, and regenerative cotton. welfare. • Pursue our sustainable polyester target by working to scale the procurement of recycled fibers and identifying opportunities for all our divisions to feature products made with recycled polyester. • Promote our Forest Protection Policy, alongside a formal commitment to Canopy’s CanopyStyle and Pack4Good initiatives, which addresses both our wood-based materials in the supply chain and paper and packaging use, with an added focus on materials that can negatively contribute to the clearing of forests throughout our value chain. It includes a commitment to eliminate Ancient and Endangered Forests fiber from our viscose fabrics by the end of 2020. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 18 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES 1M+ IMPROVE THE 1M+ LIVES ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN At PVH, we honor the fundamental role our collective workforce has in the success of our business and we are committed to continually improving the lives of our associates and supply chain workers, and those of their families and communities. Our ambition is for our business to improve the over one million lives across our value chain, focusing on education and opportunities for women and children, ensuring access to clean water for all, and continuing to champion inclusion and diversity so everyone can achieve their full potential. PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Empower Women Professional and life 2030 • F ocus on partnering with our strategic suppliers •O  ver 3,400 women from across our supply chain participated in Remove barriers to skills development to embed women’s empowerment as part of their professional and life skills development programs in 2019. advancement and create programs and services human resources strategy. • Nine supply chain vendors, representing 35 factories in India, pathways to opportunity will be made available • Train our suppliers’ professional development Sri Lanka and Bangladesh have made long-term commitments to and choice for women in to 500,000 women teams on women’s empowerment principles. implement professional life skills and development programs, and are our supply chain across the PVH • Partner with peer companies and multicurrently participating in the P.A.C.E. program in their respective supply supply chain. stakeholder initiatives to harmonize industry chains to the benefit of their female workers. approaches, and ensure that female garment workers can access empowerment and skillbuilding programs. Foster Inclusion Expand unconscious Training by •C  ultivate inclusion, equity and diversity for all in • 98% of associates completed unconscious bias training to date. & Diversity bias training to 2023 and our workplace, marketplace and our communities. • 50.6% of leadership positions* now filled by females. Create an environment all 38,000+ PVH gender • Focus Inclusion & Diversity (“I&D”) efforts where every individual associates globally parity in across three pillars: workplace, marketplace * PVH defines leadership positions as VP level and above is valued and achieve gender leadership and community. These three pillars drive our parity in leadership by 2030 I&D initiatives across PVH to grow the business positions. and to drive fashion forward — for good. At the foundation of the pillars are the following support systems: leadership support and engagement, governance, strategic partnerships, metrics and analytics, business resource groups (“BRGs”), communications, and education and awareness. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Improve the 1M+ Lives Across Our Value Chain PRIORITY TA R G E T BY APPROACH N O TA B L E P R O G R E S S Develop Talent Expand professional 2023 •E  mpower associates across the company to •3  9% of Associates have taken Professional Skills or Digital Literacy Develop a talented skills development design their futures and build core competencies Course through PVH U. and skilled workforce and digital literacy by delivering engaging and impactful learning • PVH U launched its Digital Academy to build enterprise digital literacy, that embodies programs through content through PVH University (“PVH U”). data literacy, and to support digital transformation initiatives. PVH’s values and an PVH University to • PVH U supports PVH’s global priorities by: entrepreneurial spirit reach all 38,000+ 1. Developing leaders, while empowering PVH associates 2. Preparing the workforce of the future, and associates to design globally. 3. Creating a strong associate experience. their future • PVH U programs include Academies for Leadership, Digital, Supply, Logistics, HR, Systems & Applications, Formal Development Programs for Leaders, Professional Skills Certificate Programs, and a Leaders as Teachers program in which PVH associates instruct on topics in their area of expertise. All leverage inperson and virtual classes, digital-learning, and tools for application. Educate the Future Reach 135,000 2023 • T hrough our partnership with Save the Children •O  utreach was provided to 30,585 individuals worldwide through Support the needs of individuals worldwide and others, invest in programs that ensure that Save the Children’s training and programming in 2019. women and children through early education is accessible to everyone, especially around the world by education and those in underserved or vulnerable communities. creating safe spaces, childcare services, • Support the needs of women and children around improving access teacher training, the world by creating safe spaces, improving to education and parenting resources access to education and enhancing quality of life. enhancing quality and training, and • Invest in early intervention programs that are of life youth employability crucial for children to have the opportunity to training services. reach their fullest potential in school and beyond. • Invest in continuing education for teens and young adults, ensuring that at-risk youth have the necessary skills to achieve employment. Provide Access Establish five 2025 •E  nable access to clean water through locally •W  orking with our partners WWF and GIZ on collective-action efforts to Water collective action rooted, cross-stakeholder collective action to preserve and provide access to clean water in four key basins Ensure access to projects in our projects in strategic water-stressed sourcing globally – Ethiopia’s Lake Hawassa, China’s Taihu basin, Vietnam’s clean water for most watercommunities for PVH. Mekong Delta and India’s Cauvery river basins. communities in our stressed sourcing • Leverage the expertise of non-profit experts, • We improved our CDP water score and moved into the Leadership key basins through communities. WWF and GIZ’s International Water Stewardship band with a score of A-. collaborative action Programme, and engage peers to drive scaled impact of programs to preserve and restore local water resources. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 20 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Our 2019 performance summary can be found on the following pages and presents data progress from the year. In preparing this report, we have been guided by the GRI Standards framework. Emissions Scope 1 (MT CO2e) Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions by Facility Type (MT CO2e) 2019 33,776 Retail Offices 2018 35,039 2019 71,315 2019 9,857 2017 32,689 2018 92,807 2018 12,203 2016 37,323 2017 111,052 2017 15,363 2015 41,293 2016 117,068 2016 13,684 2015 106,050 2015 19,206 Scope 2 (MT CO2e) Warehouses Vehicles 2019 70,369 2019 19,894 2019 3,080 2018 93,839 2018 21,046 2018 2,822 2017 119,758 2017 22,659 2017 3,374 2016 118,707 2016 22,457 2016 2,821 2015 106,055 2015 19,867 2015 2,225 Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO2e) 2019 104,146 2018 128,878 2017 152,448 Note: • In 2018, we restated our 2015 global baseline because we are now using the market-based approach instead of the location-based approach to calculate our footprint. 2016 156,030 The market-based approach allows us to account for renewable energy in our footprint, whereas the location-based method did not. 147,348 • Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and from PVH Neckwear Factory. 2015 • Offices include emissions from showrooms. • Includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 22 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions by Region (MT CO2e) North America Eastern Asia Europe 2019 55,700 2019 16,993 2019 25,240 2018 65,903 2018 19,551 2018 41,082 2017 93,017 2017 17,978 2017 39,461 2016 99,690 2016 16,883 2016 36,395 Other Scope 3 Emissions by Category 2019 6,213 2018 2,342 2017 1,992 2016 3,062 2,713,907 MT CO2e 54.45% Purchased goods and services Total Scope 3 <1% Fueland energy-related activities Emissions 6.75% Upstream transport and distribution 6.87% Franchises 1.29% Business travel 2.57%  End-of-life treatment of sold products 5.36%  Downstream transportation and distribution 21.97% Use of sold products • The categories listed above are in line with the GHG Accounting Protocol — Scope 3 categories Note: • In 2018, we restated our 2015 global baseline because we are now using the market-based approach instead of the location-based approach to calculate our footprint. The market-based approach allows us to account for renewable energy in our footprint, whereas the location-based method did not. • Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and from PVH Neckwear Factory. • Offices include emissions from showrooms. • Includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Energy/Electricity Total Renewable Renewable Electricity Use, Non-Renewable Electricity Use, Energy Use by Facility Type by Facility Type (kWh) Retail 112,098,969 34% Retail Warehouses 37,354,310 28% 5% Offices 27,100,409 Renewable Energy Warehouses 24% Vehicles 21,687 72% Non-Renewable Energy Offices Total 176,575,375 0% Vehicles Renewable Energy – Renewable Energy Use, Energy Consumption (GJ) Supply Chain by Region (kWh) 1,485,670 North America 48,387,000 Total Energy Consumption Europe 20,448,792 10% Total 68,835,792 Renewable 90% 572,333 Non-Renewable Total Fuel Consumption 530,361 Total Heating Consumption Note: • WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. • Data covers electricity purchased by offices, showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory and retail facilities worldwide. • Offices include emissions from showrooms. • Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. • Almost all natural gas and some propane for heating, and a mixture of gasoline, diesel oil, and compressed natural gas for vehicles. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 24 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Waste: Owned & Operated This represents data from our 2019 waste baseline.* Total Waste Footprint (MT) Single-Use Plastics, Global (MT) 57% Waste Diverted From Landfill 7,428 190.60 Total Recycling Single-Use Total Materials 5,400 Total Hard Plastics 26,453 MT 12,828 Total Waste 2,052.51 259.75 Single-Use Total Amount of Soft Plastics 1,602.16 Non-Hazardous Waste Poly Bags Single-Use Plastics, by Facility Type (MT) Waste by Facility Type Waste by Region 1,500 10,000 8,000 1,200 7,500 6,000 900 5,000 4,000 600 2,000 300 2,500 Retail Offices & Warehouses Showrooms Retail Offices & Warehouses Americas Asia Europe Africa Showrooms Single-Use Hard Plastics Single-Use Soft Plastics Est. Trash per Year (MT) Est. Recycling per Year (MT) Est. Trash per Year (MT) Est. Recycling per Year (MT) Poly Bags * PVH created its global waste baseline in 2019 to identify the current diversion rate from landfill Note: The baseline was created by: Single-use hard plastics include: drink cups, bottles, food containers, hangers, security • Using the results of 19 waste audits performed across various owned and operated facility types in North America; and tags, neck inserts, plastic utensils. Single-use soft plastics include: shopping bags, • Square footage and sales volume data, to scale up the results and findings across our global portfolio. general-use plastic bags, trash bags, fast food drink tops and straws, packaging material, plastic labels, tape, snack bags, food wrappers, plastic film/wrap, bubble wrap. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Water (in cubic meters) Total Water Use: Owned and Operated and Supply Chain 92,521,783.5 Total Water Use Total Water Use Supply Owned and Chain 92,385,550.5 Operated 136,233 Total Water Use by Region and Source Water Use by Facility Type Americas SA 43,767 Rainwater 0.0 Rainwater 52,195.0 Offices Ground Water 73,922.7 Ground Water 14,273,164.2 73,819 Municipal Water 23,111.0 Municipal Water 3,173,175.9 Retail 18,648 Produced/Process Water 79,471.4 Produced/Process Water 4,250,919.6 Distribution centers and warehouses Surface Water 0.0 Surface Water 837,588.0 Waste Water From Other Organizations 0.0 Waste Water From Other Organizations 0.0 EMEA ESA Rainwater 7,047.8 Rainwater 20,887.4 Ground Water 8,504,680.6 Ground Water 1,768,130.0 Municipal Water 1,343,411.8 Municipal Water 25,252,417.1 Produced/Process Water 1,455,297.0 Produced/Process Water 9,955,844.0 Surface Water 299,658.0 Surface Water 17,975,353.0 Waste Water From Other Organizations 0.0 Waste Water From Other Organizations 3,039,276 Grand Total Water Use by Facility Type Rainwater 80,130.2 Ground Water 24,619,897.5 Municipal Water 29,792,115.7 15,677,963.83 Tier 1 Produced/Process Water 15,741,532.0 76,707,586.64 Surface Water 19,112,599.0 Beyond Tier 1 Waste Water From Other Organizations 3,039,276.0 20% of water was recycled across Tier 1 and Tier 2 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 26 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Materials Total Materials Use 27% (43,402 MT) of total material use was from sustainable materials Sustainable materials include those with sustainable certifications such as organic and recycled. Cotton Use by Volume (MT) Other Materials Use by Volume Packaging 37%: 41,014 Man Made Cellulosic Fibers (MMCF) Conventional Polyester 74% Sustainably Sourced 20,827 MT Recyclable (Better Cotton, Organic, Recycled) 2,861 MT Recycled Polyester 63%: 68,941 (including Cellulosics Note: Conventionally Sourced (Non Lyocell), Acetate, 2,190 MT The content provided is vendor sourced, and we are continuously working to improve the quality of the data. This data is dependent on what each supplier can Tencel and Lyocell) (10.5%) provide and there can be substantial variances year to year. As our teams work together, we are learning every year how to make the collection process more efficient and accurate. Sustainable This data does not include Tommy Hilfiger. MMCF Sustainable Cotton Use by Volume (MT) Down 103 MT (3.8%) 76 MT 100% of our Down 0.1%: 59 Recycled Cotton Conventional Nylon is certified by the 5.9%: 2,410 Responsible Down Organic Cotton 8,287 MT Standard 94.0%: 38,454 Recycled Nylon BCI Cotton 95 MT (1.1%) In 2019, we sourced an estimated 49% of our cotton as Better Cotton. Note: The above represents data from the 2018 fiscal year (which commenced February 5, 2018 and ended on February 3, 2019). Material As part of our annual Scope 3 GHG footprint we report on the emissions from all materials used to make our products. We use the ‘Raw mapping is a compilation of data that captures the amounts of materials PVH uses in its production within a given time period. This material Material Source’ impact score from the HIGG Materials Sustainability Index (“HIGG MSI”) to calculate the total impact from the volume mapping exercise is essential for measuring and tracking progress against our Forward Fashion corporate responsibility goals. The data in of each type of material present in the company’s annual material mapping exercise. The remainder of the impact of the production this report represents the amount of direct raw materials procured globally throughout the company during fiscal year 2018. lifecycle for each material is captured by the HIGG FEM data we received from our suppliers. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Develop Talent Inclusion & Diversity Global Workforce, by Gender Global Workforce, by Gender and Level* 67.1% 50.6% 100% Female Men vs. Women Females in leadership positions Director 62.3% Females at Director level Office associates were in Leadership 32.9% 49.4% 37.7% Positions** Males in provided with unconscious bias leadership Males at Male Director level module as part of the annual positions required PVH Complies Global Retail & Warehouse Workforce, training program by Gender 42.2% 67.3% 68.3% Females at Females at Female Manager level SVP+ level 31.7% Senior Vice 32.7% 57.8% Manager Male President & Above Males at Males at SVP+ level Manager level 39% Global Office Workforce, by Gender Associates who have taken professional skills 67.4% 55.2% or digital literacy course 64.0% Females at Females at Female Individual through PVH U 36.0% VP level Individual Contributor level Vice President 44.8% Male Contributor 32.6% Males at Males at VP level Individual Contributor level **This data excludes Europe, where it is not reported and not available. **PVH defines Leadership Positions as VP level and above. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 28 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Inclusion & Diversity Total U.S. Workforce, by Race/Ethnicity Total U.S. Workforce, by Race/Ethnicity and Level White 38.6% Total Non-white 60.9% 81% 81% 70% % White White Black or African American 15.0% White 4% White % 4% Black 3% Black Hispanic or Latino 32.1% Leadership Black 5% Black % Hispanic Director Hispanic Asian 8.8% Positions*** 5% 7% 7% % Hispanic Asian Hispanic Asian Multi-ethnic 3.1% 7% Other* 3% 17% Other* % Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 1.5% Asian Asian American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.4% 3% 3% Other* Other* Declined to self-identify 0.5% 86% % 51% % White White White White 2% % Black 9% % Black Senior Black % Black % Vice President 4% Hispanic % Manager** 26% Hispanic % & Above Hispanic Asian Hispanic Asian 5% % 10% % Other* Other* U.S. Retail & Warehouse Workforce, U.S. Office Workforce, Asian Asian 3% 5% by Race/Ethnicity by Race/Ethnicity** Other* Other* 31% % White 63% % White 78% % White 31% % White White % White % White % White % 17% Black % 9% Black% 5% Black% 18% Black % Black Hispanic Black Hispanic Vice Black Hispanic Individual Black Hispanic 39% % 11% % President** 6% % Contributor** 36% % Asian Asian Asian Asian Hispanic % Hispanic % Hispanic % Hispanic % 7% Other* 13% Other* 9% Other* 8% Other* Asian Asian Asian Asian 6% 3% 3% 6% Other* Other* Other* Other* ***Other includes American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Multi-ethnic and those who declined to self-identify their race/ethnicity. **Due to rounding of underlying data, numbers don’t add to 100%. ***PVH defines Leadership Positions as VP level and above. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Inclusion & Diversity Board Directors, by Gender Board Directors, by Race/Ethnicity Senior Executives*, by Gender Senior Executives*, by Race/Ethnicity 33.3% 91.7% White 33.3% 100% White Female Female 8.3% 0% Non-white Non-white 66.7% 66.7% Male Male Board Directors, by Age Under 30 0% Age 30-50 8.3% Over 50 91.7% **C-Suite and Executive Officers 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 30 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Inclusion & Diversity Total New Hires, Global Retail & Warehouse Total U.S. New Hires, by Gender* New Hires, by Gender*, *** by Race/Ethnicity White 28.8% 61.5% 61.7% Female Black or African American Hispanic or Latino 19.7% 35.9% Female 38.1% Asian 7.6% Male 0.3% Multi-ethnic 4.4% 38.2% Declined to Self-Identify Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 2.1% Male American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.5% Declined to Self-Identify 1.0% 0.3% Declined to Self-Identify Global Office New Hires, U.S. Retail & Warehouse U.S. Office New Hires, by Gender* New Hires, by Race/Ethnicity by Race/Ethnicity*** 27.4% 46.7% 60.5% White White Female 19.6% 20.5% 39.1% Black Black Male 38.0% 9.5% 0.4% Hispanic Hispanic Declined to 7.0% 15.6% Self-Identify Asian Asian 8.0% 7.6% Other** Other** ***This data excludes Europe, where it is not reported and not available. ***Other includes American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Multi-ethnic and those who declined to self-identify their race/ethnicity. ***Due to rounding of underlying data, numbers don’t add to 100%. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Inclusion & Diversity Employee turnover in 2019 57.8% Of the 57.8% total turnover, 89% occured in the retail population and 11% occured outside of the retail population. Total Turnover, Global Retail & Warehouse Turnover, Total U.S. Turnover, by Gender* by Gender* by Race/Ethnicity White 31.9% 61.3% 61.0% Female Black or African American Hispanic or Latino 19.2% 34.1% Female 38.8% Asian 7.0% Male 0.2% Multi-ethnic 4.6% 38.5% Declined to Self-Identify Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 2.1% Male American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.5% Declined to Self-Identify 0.6% 0.2% Declined to Self-Identify U.S. Retail & Warehouse Turnover 71.6% U.S. Office Turnover 19.1% Global Office Turnover, U.S. Retail & Warehouse Turnover, U.S. Office Turnover, by Gender*, *** by Race/Ethnicity by Race/Ethnicity 30.1% 58.6% 64.2% White White Female 19.8% 9.2% 35.8% Black Black Male 35.6% 11.4% 0.1% Hispanic Hispanic Declined to 6.4% 15.4% Self-Identify Asian Asian 8.1% 5.4% Other** Other** ***This data excludes Europe, where it is not reported and not available. ***Other includes American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Multi-ethnic and those who declined to self-identify their race/ethnicity. ***Due to rounding of underlying data, numbers don’t add to 100%. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 32 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Supplier Social Assessments Factory Performance (color ratings)* Operations Assessed, by Region Gold Orange — 2nd 3% 1% Green Red 199 975 Europe, East & Southeast 13% 0% 359 Middle East & Africa Asia (ESA) (EMEA) Americas Yellow White 63% 1% 301 Orange — 1 st Gray South Asia (SA) 4% 15% 80% 1,943 1,834 of suppliers assessments suppliers assessed conducted assessed *Factory ratings inform compliance performance, cadence for remediation and subsequent assessments, and production decisions for PVH businesses. “Gold” rating indicates that the supplier is an industry leader with a formal CR program and systems in place to self-manage environmental and social performance. “Green” and “Yellow” ratings indicate that the supplier exceeds or meets code of conduct standards. “Orange–1st” and “Orange-2nd” ratings mean that the supplier has critical issues. While these suppliers are authorized for production, PVH exercises vigilance and actively intervenes to remediate issues and continue business relationships. “Gray” ratings mean that the supplier is authorized for production, falls under a de minimis or other exemption category and may undergo a self-assessment, short-form assessment or rating equivalency. “Red” and “White” ratings mean that the supplier is not authorized for production and PVH will make a responsible exit, if applicable. Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and undergo a Better Work assessment. Red and white factories are not authorized for production. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Living Wages This wage data depicts how average hourly wages paid to workers in PVH supplier factories compare to legal minimum hourly wages and average hourly wages in the apparel sector across sourcing countries constituting 75% of PVH’s global FOB value in 2019. PVH is committed to transparency about how we are seeking to advance the payment of living wages and is continuously working to improve how this data is reported. PVH supplier factories’ average hourly wage Apparel sector’s average hourly wage Legal minimum hourly wage 60.000 16.000 50.000 All values listed in local currency. All PVH-specific supplier data is based off Local Currency (in Indian Rupee) 14.000 50.000 directly-sourced facilities and does not 40.000 include facilities in the Better Work program. 12.000 Local Currency (in Taka) Local Currency (in Yuan) 40.000 All data for the analysis was provided by 10.000 ELEVATE from its EiQ platform. Wage data 30.000 captures wage rates for regular working 30.000 8.000 hours and does not include statutory deductions or overtime payments. Source: 6.000 20.000 20.000 https://www.elevatelimited.com/services/ analytics/eiq 4.000 10.000 10.000 2.000 Country-specific notes: Bangladesh: ELEVATE data includes factories Bangladesh China India located in Export Processing Zones. Better Work does not operate its program in factories within Export Processing Zones. 140.000 12.00 30,000.00 Vietnam: ELEVATE data represents a subset Local Currency (in Vietnamese Dong) of PVH supplier factories located in Central Local Currency (in Sri Lanka Rupee) Vietnam or not yet onboarded in the Better Local Currency (in Turkish Lira) 120.000 10.00 25,000.00 Work program. Better Work operates in North and South Vietnam, engaging 57% of PVH’s 100.000 supplier factories in Vietnam. 8.00 20,000.00 80.000 6.00 15,000.00 60.000 4.00 10,000.00 40.000 2.00 5,000.00 20.000 Sri Lanka Turkey Vietnam 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 34 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Performance Summary Charitable Giving This data is from the 2019 calendar year. Corporate Philanthropic Charitable Contributions Total Volunteer Contributions by Category by Type Hours $1,713,888 $5,132,249 $9,627,292.09 7,948.50 Charitable donations Cash In-kind $757,771 $142,207 $593,425 Community investments Corporate match Store collections $2,660,590 $62,434 Commercial initiatives Associate fundraisers Total Charitable Giving $15,557,607 in 2019 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Indices 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 36 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES GRI Content Index 2019 All topics follow GRI 2016 Standards, unless otherwise noted. Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization PVH Corp. (“PVH”) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services PVH is one of the most admired fashion and lifestyle companies in the world. We power brands that drive FASHION FORWARD — for good. We manage a diversified brand portfolio, including the CALVIN KLEIN, TOMMY HILFIGER, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga and Geoffrey Beene brands as well as the digital-centric True&Co. intimates brand. We market a variety of goods under these and other nationally and internationally known owned and licensed brands. PVH has over 40,000 associates operating in more than 40 countries and generated $9.9 billion in revenues in 2019. That’s the Power of Us. That’s the POWER OF PVH. 102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations PVH Form 10K, Page 1 and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Ownership and legal form PVH is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 102-6 Markets served PVH Form 10K, Pages 1-2 102-7 Scale of the organization PVH Form 10K, Pages 1-8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employees by employment type: Employees by region: Female, full-time: 13,583 Asia Pacific — 5,069 Female, part-time: 10,872 Europe — 12,350 Female, grand total: 24,455 South America — 648 North America — 18,311 Male, full-time: 7,016 Africa — 47 Male, part-time: 4,954 Male, grand total: 11,970 All, full-time: 20,599 All, part-time: 15,826 All, grand total: 36,425 57% of all jobs are full-time 102-9 Supply chain PVH Global Supply Chain PVH Factory List Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply No significant changes. chain 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Organizational Profile (continued) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We consider the precautionary principle as a key component of the organization’s management of risks related to people, environment and communities. Notably, the precautionary principle was an important guiding principle in the development of PVH’s Chemical Management Commitment and Action Plan. 102-12 External initiatives General CR/Sustainability — American Apparel & Footwear Association (AAFA), Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Fordham University Gabelli School of Business, Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), UN Global Compact, Women’s Empowerment Principles Human Rights & Safe Workplaces — Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh (“The Accord”), ACT, Better Work, Responsible Labor Initiative, Ronald McDonald House New York, SAC, Safe Horizon, Save the Children, Social and Labor Convergence Project (SLCP), UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights, World Vision Inclusion & Diversity — CEO Action to Promote Diversity & Inclusion, CFDA, NEST, P.A.C.E., Plan International, UKAID, UN Free and Equal Campaign, USAID, Women’s Empowerment Principles Environmental Sustainability — AFIRM Group, Apparel Impact Institute, Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Business for Social Responsibility, Business Renewables Center (BRC), Canopy, CEO Water Mandate, Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Fabscrap, Fashion for Good, G7 Fashion Pact, Global Fashion Agenda, How2Recycle program, Plug and Play, RE100, REBA, SAC, Science-based Targets Initiative (SBTi), Sustainable Apparel Coalition, Sustainable Packaging Coalition, Textile Exchange, The UN CEO Water Mandate, UN Fashion Charter for Global Climate Action, UN Global Compact, WWF International, ZDHC, Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Programme 102-13 Memberships of associations Leadership Positions: • Emanuel Chirico, CEO, is on the Board of Dick’s Sporting Goods, Board of Trustees for Montefiore Medical Center, Board of Trustees for Save the Children and on the Board of the UN Global Compact • Melanie Steiner, Chief Risk Officer, is on Advisory Board for Change Fashion Challenge at New York Academy of Sciences and is a Board Member for Fashion for Good • Marissa Pagnani McGowan, Senior Vice President of Corporate Responsibility, sits on the Steering Committee of the Global Fashion Agenda, and previously sat on the Steering Committee of the Bangladesh Accord PVH Representation: • Sustainable Apparel Coalition: Steering Teams for Brand Module 3.0 and Facility Advisory Council, part of other working groups and task teams, including transparency working group and European Policy working group • SLCP: Signatory member, Technical Advisory Committee and other working groups • Textile Exchange: Working groups for Responsible Down Standard, Responsible Wool Standard and Responsible Leather Stakeholder group • Apparel Impact Institute: Founding brand • BSR: Responsible Luxury Initiative (ReLI) working group Maximizing Worker Engagement, HERproject • AFIRM: Four committees: Training, RSL, Public Policy and Compliance, and we lead the packaging RSL committees • ZDHC: Wastewater, Audit protocol and MRSL working groups • AAFA: Environmental Committee initiative • Better Work: PVH CR VP sits on the Advisory Committee for Better Work representing North American brands, founding brand of Better Work Academy • Responsible Labor Initiative: PVH CR Senior Manager is on the Steering Committee • ACT: Working groups focused on Purchasing Practices Communications, and Accountability & Transparency • CEO Water Mandate: Apparel Industry working initiative • Nest: Steering Committee Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker See our CEO's letter in the 2019 CR Report. of the organization 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 38 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response 102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, PVH Materiality Assessment and opportunities Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior PVH's Values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Associates and workers can report any suspected policy violations, inappropriate behavior and unethical practices via Tell PVH, our global reporting hotline. Tell PVH creates a direct channel for open and anonymous communication to report concerns about misconduct and violations of our code of conduct and to ensure that concerns are heard and addressed in a timely manner. Since 2017, Tell PVH is open to all workers in our supply chain, in addition to PVH associates. To ensure that our supply chain workers are aware of Tell PVH, auditors hand out information cards to workers during PVH CR assessment. Tell PVH acts as a channel for PVH to capture and address concerns or complaints raised by the people who work for us directly and indirectly in our supply chain. Workers and associates, subject to certain legal limitations, can report any suspected policy violations, inappropriate behavior and unethical practices via the hotline. In the majority of cases, they can make reports anonymously, either online or by telephone, in one of 15 languages. We provide regular updates to the associate or worker concerned, who can also track the progress of the complaint online. When we receive a worker grievance, either from the worker directly or via a union or NGO, CR associates document the issue and escalate it immediately to our CR leadership via a weekly reporting and escalation process that is documented through a standard operating procedure, from factory notification through executive review. The corporate and regional CR teams coordinate to address the issue by engaging the worker, factory managers, the relevant PVH sourcing team and potentially third parties. The CR team verifies the validity of the claim, arranges appropriate investigations and works with relevant parties to address any gaps. All parties are kept informed of developments. The CR team looks for trends or similarities to other findings in comparable factories, and incorporates such learnings in remediation activities. We had 18 supply chain grievances in 2019: 8 from Tell PVH, 8 from workers, and 2 from unions. All are considered resolved. Governance 102-18 Governance structure PVH Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Associates, investors, suppliers, workers in our supply chain, nongovernmental organizations (“NGOs”), industry associations and multistakeholder initiatives, labor unions, governments, communities, wholesale accounts and consumers. Please see our most recent Materiality work here. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements PVH Form 10K, Page 15 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders PVH Materiality Assessment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement PVH Materiality Assessment 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised PVH Materiality Assessment Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Notes to consolidated financial statements — See 2019 Annual Report, Pages 110-164. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries PVH Materiality Assessment 102-47 List of material topics PVH Materiality Assessment 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Reporting Practice (continued) 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements have been made. 102-49 Changes in reporting PVH Materiality Assessment 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2019. If any data points are reported as other than fiscal year, this is noted. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report May 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the cr@pvh.com report or its contents 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index responsibility.pvh.com/resources/ 102-56 External assurance This report has not received external verification. We are continuing to build our internal processes to allow for consistent data collection and enhancement of verification. Economic Performance 103-1 Economic Performance PVH 2019 Annual Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed PVH 2019 Annual Report 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities PVH 2019 Annual Report due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans PVH 2019 Annual Report 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial support was needed from the U.S. Government in 2019. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 40 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Anti-Corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We understand the importance of implementing strong policies and procedures around bribery and anti-corruption. We have systems in place to train associates on ways to identify and report potential cases of bribery and/or corruption. Legal and 103-2 The management approach and its components Compliance personnel also conduct ongoing risk assessments. We strive to ensure that all of our policies and procedures reflect our commitment to upholding the highest moral, ethical and legal standards in everything we do. In order to help our associates understand our policies and procedures, we require mandatory in-person and online compliance training, in local 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach languages. To measure effectiveness, internal and external auditors conduct periodic reviews of our anti-corruption program at the global, regional, country and business unit levels. Our policy development and distribution, training and assessments are reported to our key stakeholders. We engage senior management, Legal, Audit, HR, Corporate Responsibility and key business leaders in every geography in which we do business to assist with the dissemination and socialization of our program, policies and procedures. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related We have identified our supply chain as the main risk area of our operations. All suppliers are required to go through our social to corruption assessment program. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 100% — We require that all PVH associates, as well as PVH Board members, participate in PVH Complies, our compliance and procedures training program consisting of online courses on key topics that include our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and legislation, insider trading and conflicts of interest. For more information see our Code of Conduct. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Omission reason: Information unavailable. PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our sustainable materials strategy focuses on sourcing with more environmental and social considerations in respect of all materials, including natural, synthetic and animal-based. We are taking action in relation to each of these three categories based on volume, risks and new market opportunities and work with each business division to determine which initiatives make the most sense for its business priorities. With the release 103-2 The management approach and its components of our 2018 CR Report, we launched our target around sustainable materials. Our target is to sustainably source 100% of PVH’s cotton and viscose by 2025, and 100% of polyester by 2030. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach We conducted a global materials mapping exercise to inform our sustainable materials strategy. Considering the volumes of various raw material types, as well as business risks and opportunities, we identified priority areas of focus within natural, synthetic and animal-based raw material categories. To implement this strategy, we are introducing new resources, tools and trainings to our raw materials and design teams to enable them to incorporate sustainability considerations into their daily activities. Sourcing cotton more sustainably for the environment and farming communities is a particular global focus for us. Cotton represents nearly 70% of our raw material use, so we have a great need and opportunity to invest in sourcing more sustainable cotton. We are taking a portfolio approach to sustainable cotton by procuring and supporting the market growth for a variety of more sustainable cotton sources. As our program continues to evolve, we are continuously addressing the need to move further into our materials supply chain due to the high level of impact at the growing/ milling stage. A core component of our global sustainable cotton program is sourcing Better Cotton, which is produced by farmers in a way that is measurably better for the environment and farming communities. In terms of synthetic fibers, several of our divisions are taking a lead on initiating the procurement of recycled or upcycled fibers with a view to scale these efforts, where appropriate. We are also continuously identifying opportunities for all our divisions to feature products made with recycled polyester, with the aim of eventually sourcing recycled polyester whenever possible. Responsible sourcing of animal-based materials has become an increasingly important issue to our company and stakeholders. Although these materials represent a very small portion of our global material footprint, we rolled out a global animal welfare policy in 2017. The policy addresses animal-based materials across seven categories, including wool, leather and down. We refer to the “Five Freedoms” concept, promoted by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), as the guiding principles for our animal welfare policies. PVH has discontinued the use of angora in our products. Additionally, animal fur, as defined by Fur Free Retailer, is prohibited, and all products containing synthetic fur must be labeled appropriately. PVH believes the sheep and goats that produce wool for our products should be treated responsibly and raised on farms that preserve land health. We became members of the Textile Exchange (TE), and we intend to use their Responsible Wool Standard (RWS) wool in our products moving forward in order to support our commitment to this goal. We also have made the decision to remove all mohair products by 2020 due to concerns about its production. In addition, we will explore other standards introduced in the market. PVH does not allow down and/or feathers from birds that have been live plucked or force fed. We also require that down used in our products be certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down Standard (RDS) to ensure it has been sourced responsibly. PVH is committed to sourcing exotic skins in a responsible manner. PVH does not source exotic skins from any endangered or threatened species, as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) in its red list. We strive to improve traceability and collaborate on responsible sourcing practices for exotic skins. All leather must be a byproduct of the meat industry. Additionally, PVH is actively exploring commercially viable substitutes to animal-based materials that meet the needs of our brands and customers. These changes will be reflected in products that will be in stores and e-commerce sites from 2019 and onward. As a step toward achieving our Forward Fashion commitment to procuring sustainable viscose, PVH joined the CanopyStyle initiative in 2019, spearheaded by the not-for-profit Canopy, which has galvanized brands and retailers to eliminate the sourcing of wood-derived fabrics from endangered species habitats and ancient and endangered forests by 2020. Furthermore, PVH will continue its work with the Leather Working Group and Textile Exchange to better assess and implement responsible leather sourcing practices. We have also banned the sourcing of leather from endangered species habitats and ancient and endangered forests. Additionally, initiatives undertaken to achieve our Innovate for Circularity and Regenerate Materials targets support this effort. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 42 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Materials (continued) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Top 5 Materials by Volume Top 5 Sustainable Materials by Volume 2019 Tonnage (MT) Material 2019 Tonnage (MT) Total Cotton 109,956 Total Sustainable Materials 43,402 Conventional Cotton 68,941 Sustainable Cotton 41,014 Better Cotton* 38,545 Better Cotton* 38,545 Organic Cotton 2,410 Organic Cotton 2,410 Recycled Cotton 59 Recycled Cotton 59 Total Polyester 23,016 Sustainable Polyester 2,190 Conventional Polyester 20,827 Recycled Polyester 2,190 Recycled Polyester 2,190 Sustainable Polyester 95 Total Nylon 8,382 Recycled Nylon 95 Conventional Nylon 8,287 Sustainable Viscose 103 Recycled Nylon 95 Lyocell 44 Total Viscose 2,862 Tencel 59 Acetate 169 Sustainable Wool 1 Cellulosics (non Lyocell) 2,589 Recycled Wool 1 Lyocell 44 Tencel 59 Elastane, Spandex, & Lycra 2,718 *BCI focuses on sustainable farming practices and does not require physical segregation of the BCI cotton from conventional cotton. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Material 2019 Tonnage (MT) Total Recycled Materials 2,344 Recycled Cotton 59 Recycled Nylon 95 Recycled Polyester 2,190 Recycled Wool 1 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials In 2019 we launched a U.S.-wide internal clothing takeback campaign to test and learn how we can repurpose postconsumer used materials, as we work towards producing circular products at scale. The over 3,300 pounds of gently worn garments donated are enabling us to test new mechanical and chemical recycling technologies, industrial upcycling into insulation, and repair and re-commerce opportunities. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Water & Effluents (GRI Standards 2018) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water is used at every stage of our product life cycles — from growing raw materials (such as cotton) to dyeing, tanning, printing and finishing garments, to the way consumers launder clothes. It is vital that we take steps to safeguard water resources in our sourcing 103-2 The management approach and its components countries, especially as the global population expands, increasing pressure on the world’s available fresh water supplies. Access to safe water is a human right, and water and sanitation are essential for communities to thrive. The United Nation’s SDG 6 sets a target 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach for achieving safe, sustainably managed water for all by 2030. In support of this, we developed a global water strategy to safeguard and preserve water resources in the communities where we manufacture. We aim to ensure continuity and quality of water supply for community members and our business. We have used a number of different resources, insights and tools to develop a comprehensive global water strategy. The strategy is informed by our UN CEO Water Mandate commitment, a global water risk analysis conducted by WWF and insights into the life cycle impacts of our products. Additionally, we have been leveraging the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (“ZDHC”) Programme’s work, notably its new Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (“MRSL”) and Wastewater Guidelines. We have also taken steps to gain greater insight into our Level 1 and 2 suppliers’ water use, particularly through the SAC’s Higg Index Facilities Environmental Module (“FEM”). Our water strategy focuses on reducing water use in our own facilities, across our supply chain, at the product level (by introducing technologies such as waterless dyeing) and within our sourcing communities. PVH initiated a water risk assessment that accounted for approximately 90% of all Level 1 suppliers and strategic Level 2 suppliers. PVH collected the location of suppliers uploaded onto the WWF-DEG Water Risk Filter. Using the criteria provided by the Water Risk Filter, determinations were made on each facility’s water risk based on calculations of physical, regulatory and reputational risk. The WWF Water Risk Filter Tool gave us initial insights as to the regions where our suppliers are located and the associated basin risks. This assessment provided the foundation of our water strategy that aims to preserve and safeguard water resources to ensure the continuity and quality of water supply for our operations and the communities where our goods are produced. In an effort to reduce water use and contribute to water conservation, PVH has created a robust program that focuses on tracking and reducing use at our own facilities (stores, offices, warehouses, distribution centers, neckwear factory and joint venture shirt factory), as well as within our supply chain, driven largely through our rollout of the SAC Higg FEM and membership in the SAC Apparel Impact Institute. We are also exploring various product and process innovations that will lead to less water use, such as Tommy Hilfiger’s Low Impact Denim program. Finally, we took a major step in 2017 to drive important water stewardship work through new partnerships with WWF and GIZ’s International Water Stewardship Programme. The partnership will serve as the foundation of our water stewardship strategy and focus on four key areas: 1. Examining and improving water use in our supply chain 2. Evolving our sustainable materials strategy 3. Embarking on water stewardship projects 4. Working to implement SDG 6 Each of our businesses will contribute to WWF’s stewardship work by sponsoring a critical water basin in one of our strategic sourcing destinations. Tommy Hilfiger will continue to support work in the Mekong River in Vietnam and the Taihu River in China. Calvin Klein will support the first of its kind of work in the region of the Cauvery River in India. Additionally, our Heritage Brands business will support our work in Preserving Lake Hawassa in Ethiopia, where we are already reducing water use through the Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) plant at the Hawassa Industrial Park which recycles more than 90% of the water used in the park. Together, PVH and WWF will identify water risks and engage in collective efforts to advance water conservation activities for local communities in other strategic sourcing locations across the globe. We aim to be inclusive with our partnerships in the locations where we work and live. With the involvement of WWF, we are co-initiating a multistakeholder collaboration with GIZ’s International Water Stewardship Programme and are identifying opportunities through the UN CEO Water Mandate to work collectively with apparel companies in additional strategic sourcing communities. PVH has also taken measures to reduce the water impact of products by sourcing more sustainable raw materials and by establishing a program to reduce the water consumption in the denim finishing process. Our Tommy Hilfiger business conducted a pilot project to explore different finishing techniques for its denim products, helping suppliers to adopt practices that significantly reduce water and energy consumption and require less chemical use per garment. Participating suppliers used the Environmental Impact Measuring software, a tool from Jeanologia that assesses the environmental impact of various garment finishing processes. The methodology encourages suppliers to use renewable energy, recycled water and more sustainable technologies (e.g., laser and ozone, which are water and chemical free). 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 44 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Water & Effluents (GRI Standards 2018) (continued) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared source Omission reason: PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts The PVH CR Supply Chain Guidelines require that the quantity and quality of all wastewater comply with relevant permits. PVH suppliers are obligated to follow all legal requirements for wastewater generated and disposed. In particular, suppliers should maintain valid wastewater and waste disposal permits to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. To manage wastewater in a way that will remove hazardous chemicals from the supply chain, we encourage suppliers to go beyond legal requirements, for example, application of the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines and more advanced wastewater treatment technologies. 303-3 Water withdrawal 303-4 Water discharge Omission reason: PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting 303-5 Water consumption Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing us today. At PVH, we are committed to playing our part in reducing 103-2 The management approach and its components GHG emissions and combating climate change, in line with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Paris Agreement. We are taking steps to lower our GHG footprint by cutting energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach using more renewable energy at our facilities and across our supply chain. Our commitment extends beyond measuring and reducing energy consumed in our own operations (Scope 1) and purchased electricity (Scope 2) emissions. We are also committed to measuring and reducing our indirect emissions (Scope 3), including emissions generated through third-party logistics and distribution of goods, business travel and those arising through purchased goods and services, including impacts from our supply chain and procurement. We measure our GHG reduction progress against our global 2015 owned and operated baseline, which reflects data provided by approximately 2,300 PVH facilities (including offices, stores and warehouses) in 40 countries. We established our Scope 3 baseline in 2017, have reported our 2018 footprint, and worked toward and established our Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) target in 2019, which includes a 30% reduction in global supply chain emissions by 2030. PVH tracks reductions against our global GHG footprint through our commitment to the UN Fashion Charter Industry for Climate Action — to reduce emissions across Scope 1, 2 & 3 by 30% by 2030. Associates from our facilities around the world, including facility managers, office administrators, IT teams and travel coordinators, play a critical role in helping to monitor, report and analyze energy use. These associates also champion local GHG reduction efforts. Through our multi-year energy reduction strategy, we aim to generate both environmental and financial savings, focusing initially in North America and Europe, and prioritizing energy reduction and efficiency in our retail stores. Our GHG reduction initiatives center on reducing consumption (e.g., by controlling temperature and lighting at all our stores), improving energy efficiency (e.g., by switching to LED lighting and updating air conditioning), and sourcing more renewable energy. We also plan to implement a centralized energy management system, starting with North America Retail, to measure and manage our building energy use. For more data and information on our energy/electricity use please see our CR Report Performance Summary. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Emissions (continued) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions a. 33,776 metric tons of CO2e b. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-410A, HCFC-22 c. n/a d. i. & ii. 2015. 41,293 metric tons of CO2e 2015 was the first year that we have conducted a global GHG footprint. Scope 1 emissions decreased between 2015 and 2017 due to: • Decreased consumption of natural gas. • Increased primary data availability (improved tracking of natural gas for North America Retail and replaced some modelled figures). From 2017 to 2018, Scope 1 emissions increased due to two factors: • First, about 6% more facilities were added which consume natural gas. • Second, the overall square footage of PVH facilities increased by 24%, leading to higher modelled values for the majority of sites. From 2018 to 2019, Scope 1 emissions decreased mostly due to the closing of a number of facilities. iii. We restated our 2015 baseline using the market-based approach so that we can account for renewable energy purchases and generation. e. GWP Source: IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), 100-year GWP (AR5); Emission factor source: IEA, EGrid, Green-e, AIB, WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. f. Operational control g. WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. Data covers refrigerants, fuel and natural gas consumed by offices, showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory and retail facilities worldwide. It also covers PVH U.S. Fleet and leased vehicles in the U.S. and Europe. Scope 1 = 33,776 MT CO2e. Offices = 9,857, Retail = 71,315, Warehouses = 19,894, Vehicles = 3,080. Offices include emissions from showrooms. Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers and vehicles includes fugitive emissions from vehicle refrigerants. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions a. 94,536 metric tons of CO2e b. 70,369 metric tons of CO2e c. CO2, CH4, N2O d. i. & ii. 2015. 106,055 metric tons of CO2e (market-based). 2015 was the first year that we had conducted a global GHG footprint. Scope 2 emissions increased between 2015 and 2017 due to: • New facilities opened and increased electricity consumption. Scope 2 emissions decreased between 2017 and 2018 due to: • The purchase of renewable energy credits in North America and the Netherlands, reducing over 31,000 metric tons of CO2e. • Improved tracking of electricity for North America Retail resulting in a 2% decrease in modelled data. Scope 2 emissions decreased further between 2018 and 2019 due to: • The increased purchase of renewable energy credits throughout Europe • The closing of facilities • Increased primary data • Updated emission factors iii. We restated our 2015 baseline using the market-based approach so that we can account for renewable energy purchases and generation. e. GWP Source: IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), 100-year GWP (AR5); Emission factor source: IEA, EGrid, Green-e, AIB, WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. f. Operational Control g. WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. Data covers electricity purchased by offices, showrooms, warehouses, distribution centers, the PVH Neckwear Factory, Hawassa Factory, and retail facilities worldwide. Scope 2 = 70,369 MT CO2e. Offices = 9,857, Retail = 71,315, Warehouses = 19,894, Vehicles = 3,080. Offices include emissions from showrooms. Warehouses include emissions from distribution centers. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 46 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Emissions (continued) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions a. 2,961,960 metric tons of CO2e b. CO2, CH4, N2O c. 878,617 metric tons CO2e d. Categories reported i. Purchased Goods & Services: 1,741,980 metric tons CO2e ii. Fuel & Energy Related Activities: 24,534 metric tons CO2e iii. Upstream Transport & Distribution: 194,714 metric tons CO2e iv. Business Travel: 33,706 metric tons CO2e v. Downstream Transportation & Distribution: 139,497 metric tons CO2e vi. Use of Sold Products: 557,562 metric tons CO2e vii. End of Life Treatment: 74,967 metric tons CO2e viii. Franchises: 195,001 metric tons CO2e e. The base year calculation is from 2017 which was the earliest time data was available to calculate our Scope 3 emissions. f. GWP Source: IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), 100-year GWP (AR5); Emission factor source: IEA, EGrid, Green-e, AIB, WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol. g. WRI’s Corporate GHG Accounting Protocol was used. Higg MSI Data along with various electricity EFs and EPA EFs were used for the majority of purchased goods and services emissions, and MSI EFs were used for our raw materials. DEFRA factors were used to calculate our category 3 emissions, and T&D was calculated using actual logistics data and tonne.km EFs from our TH team in Europe. Business travel was calculated using mileage data and CO2e/mile EFs from DEFRA. Use of sold products was calculated using a number of various sold goods and the energy required to wash, dry, and iron them. EOL was calculated using a DEFRA EF and finally, franchises were calculated with actual electricity and fuel data. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity a. i. Scope 1 and 2 & Employee number: 2.60 ii. Scope 1 and 2 & Revenue: 0.000010510142 iii. Scope 1 and 2 & Square footage: 0.006270806816 iv. Scope 1, 2, and 3 & Employee number: 76.7 v. Scope 1, 2, and 3 & Revenue: 0.0003094263 b. Employee number, revenue & square footage for Scope 1 and 2 and employee number & revenue for scope 1 and scope 2 and scope 3 c. Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions d. CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-404A, R-410A, HCFC-22 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions a. 32,518 metric tons of CO2e reduced (Scope 1 & Scope 2) b. Scope 1: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC 134a, R-404A, R-410A, HCFC-22 c. Scope 2: CO2, CH4, N2O 2015 was the first year that we have conducted a global GHG footprint. d. Scope 1 & Scope 2. e. See response for letter G in 305-1 and 305-2. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Omission reason: Information unavailable. PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Omission reason: Information unavailable. PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Effluents & Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Chemicals are used throughout the apparel manufacturing process. Managing these chemicals effectively and identifying safer substances is central to protecting human health and the environment. We are committed to using safer substances in materials 103-2 The management approach and its components used to manufacture our products and within the manufacturing processes themselves to protect the consumer, workers, sourcing communities, and the natural environment. We manage chemicals within our products through our Restricted Substance List (“RSL”), which sets concentration limits for substances found in our finished products. PVH’s published RSL applies to all products for 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach PVH brands including, but not limited to: apparel, components, footwear, packaging, trims, home goods, and accessories. We also aim to address chemicals in the manufacturing process through the required adoption of the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) and encouraged adoption of the Wastewater Guidelines. To monitor compliance with our chemical management program, we take a risk-based approach to auditing suppliers and testing products. We focus our efforts on the parts of our supply chain where the most significant chemical impacts occur, such as our mills and facilities with wet processing. As such, we require these suppliers to complete the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Index FEM, as well as achieve minimum scores in the chemical and wastewater modules. In order to drive facility-level improvements and compliance, we expanded our Corporate Responsibility assessment program in 2017 to include a more comprehensive set of chemical indicators, including wastewater testing, in line with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemical (ZDHC) requirements. This information was collected as part of our roll-out of the Higg FEM. This has allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of chemical performance and compliance at the facility level and to identify areas for improvement. In 2018, we expanded the scope of this work with more than 125 strategic mills slated to provide us with verified SAC Higg 3.0 FEM data. 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination (Supply Chain) a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges: 85,989,086 cubic meters Industrial: 22,500,272 cubic meters Domestic: 11,372,092 cubic meters Combined (Mixed industrial and domestic): 52,116,722 cubic meters b. Facilities that completed Higg FEM reported if they treated Domestic and Industrial wastewater separately or together. • Industrial wastewater: Water used in production, lubrication, cooling, maintenance, cleaning of production machines, etc. • Domestic wastewater: Water used in toilets, showers, kitchens, cleaning, etc. • If they reported that their Industrial and Domestic wastewater was treated together, their wastewater amount was reported as Combined wastewater • The total volume is the sum of Industrial, Domestic, and Combined wastewater Only facilities with verified data are included in this analysis. This data is from 2018. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 48 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Effluents & Waste (continued) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method a. n/a b. 2019 Totals (all metric tons) 2019 Global Owned & Operated Waste Baseline results: 5,400 tons of waste 7,428 tons of recycling 57% diversion rate 306-3 Significant spills PVH has no significant spills to report. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Omission reason: Information unavailable. PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Omission reason: Information unavailable. PVH does not collect data of sufficient quality to enable reporting. Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We recognize the importance of the environmental impact of our suppliers. We include environmental criteria in full (“long form”) supplier assessments (this applies to approximately two thirds of new suppliers). The assessments are implemented and managed 103-2 The management approach and its components by assessors, regional leads, report QA and brand liaisons, and overseen by CR leadership, through regular updates and escalations when necessary. We evaluate assessments at the regional level, with controls at the brand liaison and report QA levels. CR leadership is responsible for oversight. In 2019, PVH utilized the SAC’s Higg FEM across our supply chain. The Higg 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach FEM is a standardized tool for measuring apparel suppliers’ environmental impacts and helping them drive improvements across seven impact areas. The tool enables us to manage the environmental impacts in our supply chain more effectively and improve the quality of our reporting. In 2019 we rolled out the Higg FEM to 692 (Direct) facilities in the PVH supply chain. Virtually all of these facilities have completed the data gathering process and approximately 25% had this data verified. In 2020, we anticipate that approximately 630 facilities in the PVH supply chain, including approximately 150 that involve wet processors (e.g., mills, laundries and dyehouses), will complete the Higg FEM along with our core CR assessment. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 77% of new suppliers were screened using environmental criteria. criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and We utilized Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM) to assess environmental impacts. actions taken a. 692 direct facilities were assessed. b. 149 wet processing facilities were identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. c. Industrial wastewater discharge. d. 100% of them were engaged by PVH advisors and they needed to submit performance improvement plans. e. Zero. We did not use Higg FEM result to terminate business relationship. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We are committed to providing our most important asset — our approximately 40,000 associates around the globe — with a 103-2 The management approach and its components great place to work and the opportunities to develop personally and professionally. In addition, we offer competitive pay and benefits, tailoring our offerings to the countries and regions where we work. We continuously strive to improve the benefits we offer. Some of the benefits we offer are listed below (401-2). 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 15,686 or 43% total jobs are U.S.-based. Between 2017 and 2019 there was -5% change in U.S. job creation. New Hires & Turnover Total number of employee hires in 2019 13,679 Total number of employees that turned over in 2019 13,908 Percentage of employee turnover in 2019 57.80% 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees We are committed to providing our most important asset — our approximately 38,000 associates around the globe — with a great place to work and the opportunities to develop personally and professionally. In addition, we offer competitive pay and benefits, tailoring our offerings to the countries and regions where we work. Specific benefits vary by associate grade, type of facility, and region and may include: • PVH Wellness Program • Health, dental, and vision insurance • Life and Accidental Death & Dismemberment insurance • Critical Illness, Accident and Hospital Indemnity Insurance Programs • Disability insurance • Retirement plan benefits (401(k) and pension) are available to part-time employees meeting minimum IRS hours requirements • Domestic partner benefits • Employee Assistance Program “EAP” • Equity Program • Flexible Spending and Health Savings Accounts • Financial wellness/planning and pre-retirement workshops • Flexible working arrangements • Paid time off • Paid parental leave benefits • Identity Theft Protection • Group Legal • Group Auto & Home Insurance • Adoption Assistance • Outplacement services for severance situations • Backup Care for Children and Eldercare • Tuition Reimbursement ($5,000 for undergraduate and $8,000 for graduate courses per year) • College Scholarship Program, 529 College Savings, College and Educational advisory program • Employee product discounts program • Other benefits relevant and applicable to certain offices and geographies 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 50 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Employment (continued) 401-3 Parental leave Total males entitled to parental leave — 2,986 Total females entitled to parental leave — 4,761 Total employees entitled to parental leave — 7,747 Total males who took parental leave — 42 Total females who took parental leave — 207 Total employees who returned to work after parental leave — 100% Note: These numbers are for Americas and Asia only, we currently do not have this information available for Europe. This includes non-retail, full-time employees only. Occupational Health & Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We work to provide our associates with safe working environments, as well as initiatives and benefits that promote health and wellbeing and foster a positive work-life balance. In our warehouses and distribution centers, our management approach involves 103-2 The management approach and its components providing site and division safety leadership, ensuring facility and division compliance with corporate safety standards, implementing safety directives, continuously improving safety performance, and ensuring safety policies and procedures are aligned with governmental regulations. To measure effectiveness, we perform safety audits and inspect facilities, machinery, and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach equipment to identify and correct potential hazards, and to ensure safety regulation compliance. We also conduct ergonomic evaluations of job functions and provide recommendations on methods and techniques. We investigate industrial accidents, near-miss incidents, and occupational injuries to determine causes, install preventive measures, and manage return-to-work activities. We set internal targets and objectives in relation to the above management approach. We also provide for the safety of associates through a business continuity program, which involves associate preparedness, local site preparations, crisis management, and business recovery. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication Our warehouses and distribution centers have Safety Committees. Facilities with multiple shifts have committee meetings on each on occupational health and safety shift and meet at least once per quarter. Safety Committees are made up of representatives from multiple departments. They represent all associates in their respective area(s), inclusive of the entire workforce (100%). 403-9 Work related injuries OH&S Claims reported — 347 Total Fatalities — 0 Total Lost Days due to sickness or injury — 4,909 Record/report only claims — 136 Indemnity claims — 160 Repetitive motion claims — 7 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Training & Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary PVH University (PVH U) empowers associates across the enterprise to design their futures and enables them to build core competencies through engaging and impactful learning content. 103-2 The management approach and its components PVH U supports the global HR priorities by: 1. Developing leaders, 2. Preparing the workforce for the future, and 3. Creating a strong associate experience. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach PVH U includes: • Academies for Leadership, Digital, Inclusion & Diversity, Supply, Logistics, HR, and Systems & Applications • Formal development programs for leaders • Professional skills certificate programs • In-person and virtual classes • eLearning and digital • Leaders as Teachers In 2019 PVH U added its Digital Academy to build enterprise digital literacy, data literacy, and to support digital transformation initiatives within specific functions, such as Marketing. We are committed to providing professional skills and digital literacy upskilling to all global associates by 2023 and are already 39% to our goal. The Logistics Academy launched its first leadership development program for warehouse supervisors and built out some curated onboarding. PVH U’s Leaders as Teachers program features leaders and subject matter experts within PVH to teach associates about our business, leadership, and other important topics. In 2019, topics covered in Leaders as Teachers included: Licensing at PVH, Legal 101, How to Read Your Paycheck, Supply at PVH, Merchandising, Digital Transformation, Managing through Change, Cybersecurity, Innovation Partnerships, and PVH Product. Globally PVH U offers a wide range of different courses, tailored to regional needs. This includes several courses developed by our Talent Development team, including Design Your Future, a course to guide associates in setting and achieving personal career goals. This aligns with an increased focus on self-directed development and growth through our performance cycle. More than 300 courses were offered in 2019 across classroom and virtual options. PVH U’s digital content includes LinkedIn Learning, Open Sesame, General Assembly, TED Talks, and Business of Fashion, among others. More than 600 people, from front-line associates to executives, have participated in PVH University’s suite of Leadership Programs. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Approximately four hours of training per employee. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 52 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Training & Education (continued) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition A core objective of PVH University is to prepare our workforce for the future. This is done through a number of ways, including assistance programs formalized upskilling programs. In 2019 PVH U partnered with the brand marketing organizations to upskill the teams in core areas: digital marketing foundations, consumer insights, eComm, and data-driven marketing. This aligned with a large consumer data platform implementation that was shifting the way the marketing organizations were working. PVH U also upgrades associate skills by planning out curricula according to needs elevated by the business, data from engagement surveys, and market and industry trends. Some highlights from 2019 include: • Consumer centricity • Change and inclusive leadership • Python • Product management • Interview skills • SAP end-user training • Agile methodology • Cybersecurity To support the successful implementation of enterprise systems, PVH has taken a blended approach to training and upgrading skills. Business Power Users (BPUs) are identified from the business to go through in-depth training in the systems and the business processes to enable them to teach and coach other business users to support their successful implementation. PVH U is also responsible for designing and developing formal end-user training and support materials. PVH provides outplacement services for associates who retire or who are terminated. These services include transition coaching and job search support. PVH also supports associates in maintaining CPUs or in pursuing advanced degrees or certificates related to their fields of work. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and In 2019 PVH transitioned to a new approach to performance & development that focuses on quarterly performance discussions career development reviews between managers and their direct reports. 100% of employees have annual reviews, but due to start dates and other considerations, these may not all have fallen within the reporting period. 91% of employees received performance reviews in 2019 reporting period. Diversity & Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary PVH’s Inclusion & Diversity (“I&D”) mission is to cultivate inclusion, equity and diversity for all in our workplace, marketplace and our communities. We focus Inclusion & Diversity (“I&D”) efforts across three pillars: workplace, marketplace and community. 103-2 The management approach and its components These three pillars drive our I&D initiatives across PVH to grow the business and to drive fashion forward — for good. At the foundation of the pillars are the following support systems: leadership support and engagement, governance, strategic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach partnerships, metrics and analytics, business resource groups (BRGs), communications, and education & awareness. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Diversity & Equal Opportunity (continued) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Gender Workforce Data, percentage by level: Employee Age Demographics: Males at SVP+ level 57.80% Silent Generation (1928-1945 | 75-92) 0.20% Females at SVP+ level 42.20% Baby Boomers (1946-1964 | 56-74) 7.60% Males at VP level 44.80% Generation X (1965-1980 | 40-55) 21.20% Females at VP level 55.20% Generation Y/Millennials (1981-1996 | 24-39) 40.70% Males at Director level 37.70% Generation Z (1997 and onward | 23 and younger) 30.40% Females at Director level 62.30% Males at Manager level 32.70% Board of Directors Demographics: Females at Manager level 67.30% Male 66.70% Males at Individual Contributor level 32.60% Female 33.30% Females at Individual Contributor level 67.40% Aged under 30 0% Total males at company 32.90% Aged 30-50 8.30% Total females at company 67.10% Aged over 50 91.70% White 91.70% Non-white 8.30% 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Please see our UK Gender Pay Gap report. PVH is undergoing a data collection project to collect gender pay gap information for our business globally. We do not have sufficient information ready to share for 2019, but are excited to share more in the future. Non-Discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components Discrimination is prohibited by our Code of Conduct (“CoC”) and is an integral part of our Human Rights program. It is measured via our assessment tool and included in every assessment. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Omission reason: Information unavailable. Due to a change in data systems, we are no longer able to track this information. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We require our suppliers to support workers’ rights to freedom of association (“FOA”) through our Code of Conduct. This is also an integral part of our Human Rights program. 103-2 The management approach and its components We also promote FOA through Corrective Action Plan (“CAP”) remediation and training activities, or when challenges arise within worker-management relationships. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our suppliers’ ability to respect FOA is also measured via our assessment tool and included in every assessment. When challenges arise between workers and managers, the issue is escalated to our CR leadership. Subsequent interventions may involve collaborating with third parties and partners in civil society. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of The PVH CoC includes FOA/collective bargaining agreements and covers all suppliers. All suppliers undergo labor and human rights association and collective bargaining may be at risk assessments against the CoC. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 54 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Child Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Preventing child labor is a requirement of our Code of Conduct (“CoC”) and is an integral part of our Human Rights program. 103-2 The management approach and its components Child labor information is measured via our assessment tool and included in every assessment. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 408-1 Significant risk of child labor in operations and suppliers A Shared Commitment, The PVH CoC includes child labor restrictions and covers all suppliers. All suppliers undergo labor and human rights assessments against the CoC. Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Forced or compulsory labor is prohibited by our Code of Conduct. Compliance is measured via specific indicators in our 103-2 The management approach and its components assessment tool and included in every assessment. In 2018, we revised our Migrant Worker Policy & Guidelines to provide more guidance to suppliers on our expectations around implementing policies, procedures, and monitoring mechanisms regarding this issue, and published said Guidelines in 2019. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 409-1 Significant risk of forced or compulsory labor in operations CA Transparency in Supply Chain & UK Modern Slavery Statement and suppliers PVH CR Supply Chain Guidelines The PVH Code of Conduct includes forced or compulsory labor and covers all suppliers. All suppliers undergo labor and human rights assessments against the Code of Conduct. By working with a third-party partner, we developed a list of high-risk countries for migrant labor issues leveraging public domain indexes and PVH supply chain data. We have identified 12 high-risk countries for migrant labor issues for PVH as: Thailand, Taiwan, Mauritius, Bahrain, Japan, Malaysia, Italy, South Korea, Egypt, Jordan, Vietnam and Cambodia. Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary PVH’s longstanding commitment to human rights is rooted in A Shared Commitment, our Code of Conduct. Besides the human rights assessment, training and capacity building are also integral components to our CR supplier program, with targets and 103-2 The management approach and its components plans presented to the CR Committee of the Board. We share practical strategies and deliver training to support our suppliers to develop systems to better manage human rights and environmental risks in their factories. With a focus on driving positive change in working conditions and employment practices, our training sessions cover topics including fire safety, human rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach implementation, worker-management dialogue, chemical management, assessment practices and data management. In 2019, we started adopting the Social Labor Convergence Program (SLCP) assessment, an industry-wide tool for collecting data via one mutually recognized assessment. 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Total operations assessed 1,834 or impact assessments East & Southeast Asia (ESA) 975 — 53.2% Americas 359 — 19.6% South Asia (SA) 301 — 16.4% EMEA 199 — 10.9% 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Human Rights Assessment (continued) 412-2 Employee training on human rights Omission reason: Information unavailable. Due to a change in data systems, we are no longer able to track this information. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that In all of our licensing agreements, our policy and branded merchandise agreement, we have standard language around auditing, include human rights screening, disclosure, and meeting our standards. Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary PVH is committed to driving fashion forward — for good. Our global philanthropic efforts are led by the PVH Foundation, a nonprofit corporation dedicated to improving the lives of women and children by creating safe spaces, improving access to education, and 103-2 The management approach and its components enhancing quality of life. PVH Cares is how we bring that purpose to life — organizing our almost 40,000 associates around the world to dedicate their time, talent, and resources in the communities where we work and live. Giving back is embedded in our culture, and we know that we are strongest when we all come together. We give associates the flexibility to contribute to and lend 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach their professional expertise to local causes they care about, and in the U.S. and Canada, we offer 48 hours of paid volunteer time along with our matching gift program. PVH also offers an Associate Relief Fund — a charitable program funded by our associates for our associates. It provides cash grants to eligible colleagues in need due to natural disasters and personal hardship. Save the Children is PVH’s global partner, and in 2019, we announced a three-year, $3 million commitment to continue our funding of programs in the US, China, Bangladesh, India, and Ethiopia. That’s the Power of Us. That’s the Power of PVH. See below for a list of some of the organizations that we gave to in 2019: American Cancer Society Inc., American Cancer Society — New York, American Heart Association, Inc., Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health, Breast Cancer Research Foundation, Camp Boggy Creek, Cancer Support Community Central New Jersey, Comprehensive Youth Development, Daily Bread Food Bank, Dayton Foundation Depository, Delivering Good, Inc., DKMS, Dress for Success, Fashion Institute of Technology Foundation, Feeding Children Everywhere Inc., Fondation CHU Sainte-Justine / Sainte-Justine UHC Foundation, Food Bank of Somerset County Inc., Fordham University, Free Arts for Abused Children of New York City, Inc., Gilroy Garlic Festival Association, Inc., GMHC, Howard University, Hudson Guild, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR), Kids in Need of Defense (KIND), La Fondation, La Fondation des amis de l’enfance (Montréal) Inc., L’Hôpital de Montréal pour enfants — The Montréal Children’s Hospital Foundation, Inc., Montefiore Health System, Inc., NRF Foundation, OnePULSE Foundation, Inc., Paso del Norte Foundation, Race to Erase MS, Raritan Valley Habitat for Humanity, Ronald McDonald House New York, Ronald McDonald House of Central & Northern New Jersey, Inc., Room to Grow National, Runway of Dreams Foundation, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Safe Horizon, Inc., Save the Children Canada/Aide à l’enfance Canada, Save the Children Federation, Inc., SNACK & Friends, Inc., The Conference Board, Inc., The Father’s Day/Mother’s Day Council, Inc., The Fresh Air Fund, The Foreseeable Future Foundation, The Hospital For Sick Children Foundation, The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Eastern Pennsylvania Chapter, The Memorial Foundation, Inc., The New School, Tiegerman (formerly School for Language & Communication Development (SLCD), Tuesday’s Children, Inc., Visions and Pathways, World Wildlife Fund (WWF), YMA Fashion Scholarship Fund. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 56 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Local Communities (continued) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Local community engagement activities exist in all major office locations. We do not report on the percentage of our operations assessments, and development programs implementing community engagement activities, but rather a selection of the projects that take place throughout the year. We are proud to highlight our youth employability program in Hawassa Ethiopia run in partnership with Save the Children. The program trains local youth in the area and many program participants go on to be hired in our joint venture facility, the Hawassa Industrial Park. To date, there have been 89 participants (59 female) that have completed the youth employability program. Of those 89 participants, 65 (45 female) have been hired by the PVH factory. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative While we know that our operations may have potentially negative impacts, the PVH Foundation is committed to making a positive impacts on local communities impact in the communities where we live and work. Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human rights assessments are part of our supplier onboarding policy. We do not begin working with a supplier unless they have been assessed in line with labor/human rights criteria. If a potential new supplier is given a “Red” or “White” rating, this supplier 103-2 The management approach and its components is not approved for production, and we require a waiting period of 12 months before considering working with the facility again, during which time the facility is expected to complete a set of corrective actions. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our supplier assessments are implemented and managed by assessors, regional leads, quality assurance (“QA”) and brand liaisons, and overseen by our CR leadership, through regular updates and escalations (where necessary). We evaluate supplier assessments at the regional level, with controls at the brand liaison and QA levels. Our CR leadership is responsible for oversight. Following initial assessments, we re-assess suppliers based on the previous rating, participation in continuous improvement programs, and production volume. Supplier ratings inform purchasing decisions and training initiatives. We confer with specific sourcing divisions to determine how particular suppliers might be incentivized to raise their performance. We maintain a Responsible Exit policy, based on ACT’s Responsible Exit Policy and Check-List. Prior to exiting a factory, CR confers with specific sourcing divisions to ensure that measures were taken to address the reasons for exiting. If the supplier is unable to demonstrate sufficient improvement, we work with the supplier to conduct an impact assessment and mitigate adverse impacts on workers. In 2019, we continued the expansion of our assessment program beyond finished goods suppliers to trim facilities and mills, laundries, and other wet processors. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 100% We have an onboarding policy covering this topic. We do not begin working with any supplier without first screening them in line with labor/human rights criteria. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Disclosure Number and Title 2019 Response Supplier Social Assessment (continued) 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Total number of suppliers assessed for social impacts: 1,834 taken Factory ratings inform compliance performance, cadence for remediation and subsequent assessments, and production decisions for PVH Business Divisions. “Gold” rating indicates that the supplier is an industry leader with a formal CR program and systems in place to self-manage environmental and social performance. “Green” and “Yellow” ratings indicate that the supplier exceeds or meets Code of Conduct standards. “Orange — 1st” and “Orange — 2nd” ratings mean that the supplier has critical issues. While these suppliers are authorized for production, PVH exercises vigilance and actively intervenes to remediate issues and continue business relationships. “Gray” ratings mean that the supplier is authorized for production, falls under a de minimis or other exemption category and may undergo a self-assessment, short-form assessment or rating equivalency. “Red” and “White” ratings mean that the supplier is not authorized for production and PVH will make a responsible exit, if applicable. Color Ratings Global Gold 3% Green 13% Yellow 63% Orange — 1st 4% Orange — 2nd 1% Red 0% White 1% Gray 15% Total Factories 2,290 Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and undergo a Better Work assessment. “Red” and “white” factories are not authorized for production. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 58 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the efficiency of capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. This table references the Standard for the Apparel, Accessories & Footwear industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS). Topic Accounting Metric Code Response Description of environmental and social risks CG-AA-440a.1 associated with sourcing priority raw materials Please see our Materiality assessment For more information on our Regenerate Materials target and strategy please see our GRI Index and Priorities & Progress. Percentage of raw materials third-party certified to CG-AA-440a.2 In 2018 we sourced 35% of our total cotton as Better Cotton. an environmental and/or social sustainability standard, Raw Materials Sourcing by standard In 2019, we estimate that we sourced 49% of our cotton as Better Cotton. This was calculated using the BCCU’s sourced in 2018 and assuming business specific growth rates in PVH total cotton consumption year over year. PVH does not allow down and/or feathers from birds that have been live plucked or force fed. We also require that down used in our products be certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down Standard (RDS) to ensure it has been sourced responsibly. Discussion of processes to maintain compliance with CG-AA-250a.1 restricted substances regulations For information about our Restricted Substances List (RSL) and Management of Chemicals in Products Assessment and Management of Chemicals in our Supply Chain, Discussion of processes to assess and manage risks CG-AA-250a.2 please see our GRI Index and our Restricted Substances List. and/or hazards associated with chemicals in products Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) CG-AA-430a.1 The PVH CR Supply Chain Guidelines requires that the quantity and supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 in compliance with quality of all wastewater complies with relevant permits. Suppliers are wastewater discharge permits and/or contractual asked to maintain valid wastewater permits to ensure compliance with all agreement applicable laws and regulations. (Ref: Supplier Guidelines, pages 106-111) Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) CG-AA-430a.2 692 facilities completed Higg FEM self-assessment and 193 of them supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have completed had verification. Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Facility Breakdown: Environmental Module (Higg FEM) assessment or 450 Tier 1 suppliers an equivalent environmental data assessment 142 Tier 2 suppliers 100 licensees 30% (692 out of 2,290 active facilities) of our Tier 1 and beyond Tier 1 facilities completed a Higg Self-Assessment in 2019. This includes facilities directly sourced by PVH. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES Topic Accounting Metric Code Response Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) CG-AA-430b.1 Percentage of Tier 1 and beyond Tier 1 facilities that have been supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have been assessed to a labor code of conduct: 80%. assessed to a labor code of conduct, (3) percentage of total assessments conducted by a third-party auditor Percentage of total assessments conducted by a third-party auditor: 85%. Priority non-conformance rate and associated CG-AA-430b.2 Color Ratings Global corrective action rate for suppliers’ labor code of Gold 3% conduct assessments Green 13% Yellow 63% Orange — 1st 4% Orange — 2nd 1% Red 0% White 1% Gray 15% Total Factories 2,290 Factory ratings inform compliance performance, cadence for remediation and subsequent assessments, and production decisions for PVH Business Divisions. “Gold” rating indicates that the supplier is an industry Labor Conditions in the Supply Chain leader with a formal CR program and systems in place to self-manage environmental and social performance. “Green” and “Yellow” ratings indicate that the supplier exceeds or meets Code of Conduct standards. “Orange — 1st” and “Orange — 2nd” ratings mean that the supplier has critical issues. While these suppliers are authorized for production, PVH exercises vigilance and actively intervenes to remediate issues and continue business relationships. “Gray” ratings mean that the supplier is authorized for production, falls under a de minimis or other exemption category, and may undergo a self-assessment, short-form assessment, or rating equivalency. “Red” and “White” ratings mean that the supplier is not authorized for production and PVH will make a responsible exit, if applicable. Note: This includes factories that are part of the Better Work program and undergo a Better Work assessment. “Red” and “white” factories are not authorized for production. Description of the greatest (1) labor and (2) CG-AA-430b.3 environmental, health, and safety risks in the Please see our Materiality assessment supply chain 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 60 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES UN Sustainable Development Goals Our corporate responsibility strategy Forward Fashion is intentionally aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDG”) to ensure our efforts are also helping scale global solutions and advancing the needle toward a cleaner, more just and healthy future. We consider the SDGs critical markers in defining our ambitions and targets. Here’s a look at how our 15 priorities map to the UN SDGs. UN SDG OUR PRIORITIES UN SDG OUR PRIORITIES Advance Living Wages Eliminate Carbon Emissions Recruit Ethically End Waste Empower Women Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals & Microfibers Provide Access to Water Innovate for Circularity Educate the Future Regenerate Materials Provide Access to Water Provide Access to Water Educate the Future Eliminate Carbon Emissions Innovate for Circularity Regenerate Materials Amplify Worker Voices Promote Safe Workplaces Source Ethically Advance Living Wages Amplify Worker Voices Recruit Ethically Promote Safe Workplaces Empower Women Advance Living Wages Provide Access to Water Recruit Ethically Empower Women Foster I&D Empower Women Develop Talent Develop Talent Educate the Future Educate the Future Eliminate Carbon Emissions End Waste Amplify Worker Voices Innovate for Circularity Advance Living Wages Recruit Ethically Empower Women Foster I&D Educate the Future 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 ABOUT PVH LEADERSHIP MESSAGES STRATEGY & HIGHLIGHTS PRIORITIES & PROGRESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY INDICES UN Sustainable Development Goals UN SDG OUR PRIORITIES UN SDG OUR PRIORITIES Amplify Worker Voices Eliminate Carbon Emissions Promote Safe Workplaces End Waste Advance Living Wages Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals Recruit Ethically & Microfibers Empower Women Innovate for Circularity Foster I&D Regenerate Materials Develop Talent Provide Access to Water Educate the Future Eliminate Carbon Emissions Eliminate Carbon Emissions End Waste End Waste Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals & Microfibers & Microfibers Innovate for Circularity Innovate for Circularity Regenerate Materials Promote Safe Workplaces Provide Access to Water Advance Living Wages Recruit Ethically Provide Access to Water Source Ethically Amplify Worker Voices Promote Safe Workplaces Eliminate Carbon Emissions Recruit Ethically End Waste Empower Women Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals & Microfibers Innovate for Circularity Every priority for us aligns with SDG Goal Regenerate Materials #17, given our firm belief that we cannot Provide Access to Water succeed systemically without partnerships and collaborations. So for every priority, we partner with our peers, NGOs and Eliminate Carbon Emissions other stakeholders in our supply chain End Waste regularly to ensure we are conducting best Eliminate Hazardous Chemicals practices, sharing lessons and increasingly & Microfibers moving our industry toward a common set Regenerate Materials of terms and standards. 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 62 responsibility.pvh.com
