To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Heineken Serbia reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Nikos Zois Managing Director Doing business comes with important responsibilities that extend beyond just running a profitable business. We strive to have a positive impact in the market in which we operate and sustainability is embedded in our business strategy. Achieving real and lasting change is only possible through the collective efforts of everyone who works at HEINEKEN, our partners and suppliers, NGOs, governments, local communities and other stakeholders. Our sustainable development strategy, Brewing a Better World, includes 2020 targets across six key focus areas. We are determined to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our focus areas are linked with specific SDGs and their targets, ensuring that we make a meaningful and transparent contribution to the global goals to protect the planet, ensure prosperity and end poverty. We have defined new 2030 strategies for water and climate change and we are in the process of developing strategies and targets beyond 2020 for other focus areas. We measure and report transparently on our progress through the Sustainability Report and online. HUMAN RIGHTS At HEINEKEN we do business with respect for people’s fundamental dignity and their human rights. This is anchored in our:  Values, reflected in ‘We Are HEINEKEN’ company’s manifesto.  Code of Business Conduct, the underlying policies, and the HEINEKEN Supplier Code.  Commitment to international standards as listed below. Our policy is aligned with the following international standards:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  The Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization (ILO).  The Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).  The United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This policy sets out ten standards for those human rights topics that HEINEKEN considers most significant. These ten standards are based on a global identification of our ‘salient’ human rights issues in our Operating Companies (OpCos) and in their local value chains. The standards in relation to forced labour and respect for human rights in high risk contexts are based on external commitments we made. Our respect for human rights is not limited to these ten standards. We expect our employees, our management, individuals working for HEINEKEN through a third party contract, our suppliers and business partners, to respect human rights in line with this policy and to ensure that our work complies with our Company’s commitments to human rights. Our Human rights Policy is the foundation to help us to understand, avoid and address human rights related risks. LABOUR Our policies clearly state the following provisions that we all respect to the highest extent:  No forced labor we do not tolerate situations in which persons are forced to work through the use of violence or intimidation, or by more subtle means such as retention of identity papers. This means that none of our employees should pay for their job. Fees and costs associated with recruitment and employment should be paid by HEINEKEN. All our employees should work freely and be aware of the terms and conditions of their work and be paid regularly and timely as agreed.  Rest and leisure We recognize the right to rest and leisure and will therefore always comply with local laws, regulations and local customs with regard to working hours, overtime and rest. We support a healthy balance between the working and private lives of our employees.  Fair wages and income All of our employees should be paid sufficiently for a decent standard of living, enough to satisfy basic needs for the employee and his/her family. Where the local statutory minimum wage is non-existent or not sufficient to ensure a decent standard of living, we will pay our employees enough to meet this standard.  Child protection We respect the rights of the child as stated in the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child, including the right to education, the right to rest and play and the right to have basic needs met. We will not engage in, or allow, child labor within our facilities or in those of our suppliers. We are also committed to supporting the elimination of child labor in our value chain. We follow the ILO definition of the minimum age for admission to employment or work. This age shall not be lower than the age of completion of compulsory schooling and in any case not be under 15 years of age, except in some countries, where it is 14. We comply with local law if it sets a higher age to define child labour.  Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining We respect our employees’ freedom of choice to be legally represented by a labor union without fear of retaliation. Where employees are represented by a legally recognized labor union, we will establish a constructive dialogue with this labor union. Where local laws and practices restrict the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, we endeavor to develop other ways to have a meaningful dialogue with employee representatives, without breaking local law. ENVIRONMENTAL ANTI-CORRUPTION We work with our customers, suppliers and other business partners to grow together. This also involves creating goodwill, fostering long-lasting business relationships and showing appreciation. In addition, hosting and participating in events that contribute to the enjoyment of life are central to our business. However, the offering or receiving of gifts, entertainment and hospitality, including entertainment and hospitality at our Company’s sponsored events, should never influence, or appear to influence, the integrity of business decisions or the loyalty of the persons involved. In other words: it may never be meant or be perceived as a bribe. Our Policy clearly explains what our do’s and don’ts are when providing gifts, business meals, entertainment and hospitality to others, as well as when receiving these. It is intended to clarify matters and to avoid accusations of improper conduct, reputations being damaged or even laws being violated.  WE RESPECT PEOPLE AND THE PLANET through the strict policies on: 1. Health and safety 2. Human rights 3. Discrimination and harassment 4. Environment  WE CONDUCT BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY AND FAIRNESS through the strict policies on: 1. Competition 2. Bribery 3. Gifts, entertainment, hospitality and donations 4. Money laundering and sanctions 5. Conflicts of interest 6. Business partners  WE SAFEGUARD OUR COMPANY’S ASSETS through the strict policies on: 1. Use of company resources 2. Fraud 3. Privacy and data protection 4. Intellectual property and confidential information 5. Insider dealing 6. Responsible communications
