GRI Report 2019 G RI RE P ORT 201 9 2 Introduction The GRI Report 2019 is integral to Clariant’s corporate reporting suite, providing comprehensive insights into Clariant’s sustainable value creation. For each material topic in the »Focus« and »Advance« categories — as presented in the materiality matrix — Clariant outlines a management approach according to the GRI Standards, as well as the corresponding, topic-specific GRI disclosures.1 Clariant Materiality Matrix More in-depth information on Clariant’s holistic approach to financial and non-financial value creation can be found in the following reports: Integrated Report 2019 Financial Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report 2019 Compensation Report 2019 1 For the material topic »Corporate Governance,« the information is not presented in a management approach, as it is reported in detail in the online Corporate Governance Report. Information about the material topic »Value Chain Collaboration for Sustainability« is covered by several other topics. Therefore, no separate management approach is presented in this report. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 3 Index 4 Material Topics Focus 4 Circular Economy 6 Customer Relationships 8 Digitalization 11 Environmental Protection and Resources 23 Growth and Profitability 25 Innovation and Technological Advances 27 Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being 34 Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry 38 Talent Attraction and Development 41 Material Topics Advance 41 Climate Change 44 Employee Engagement 50 Ethics and Compliance 54 Human Rights 58 Policy and Stakeholder Relations 60 Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain 66 General Disclosures 74 GRI Content Index 85 Assurance Report G RI RE P ORT 201 9 4 GRI Report 2019 MATERIAL TOPICS – FOCUS Circular Economy Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Increasing awareness of planetary resource limits has highlighted the circular economy as a necessary alternative to the current linear economic model. The circular economy is driven by policy objectives linked to climate change, environmental protection, and resource efficiency, as well as resource scarcity. Policy examples include the European Union Plastic Strategy and the waste ban in China, as well as a multitude of other plastic sustainability initiatives around the globe. In addition, the circular economy promotes the opportunity to reinvent today’s unsustainable take-make-dispose economy and its associated production and consumption patterns. Contribution to value creation Clariant is committed to supporting the transition toward a circular economy and is engaged in projects and activities that promote a more resource-efficient and sustainable society. Unnecessary material losses throughout the life cycle of products negatively impact business competitiveness and the environment. In contrast, ongoing circulation of materials and products benefits both business and the environment. A circular economy has the potential to support additional business opportunities and product or service developments, given emerging regulations and customer markets that are advancing on circular business models. Boundary Within Clariant’s operations, opportunities for advancing the circular economy include energy, materials, and other resources that affect operational efficiency and costs. Company efforts in the field are closely linked to its environmental-protection and resource-efficiency objectives. The circular economy goes beyond Clariant’s own operations, however, and includes analyzing the life cycle of products and business models to support a more circular society that uses less G RI RE P ORT 201 9 5 while reusing and recycling more. Supporting a circular economy thus has a strong value-chain orientation, seeking to connect waste-material loops and linking directly to innovations driven by sustainability considerations. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Opportunities offered by an increasingly circular economy are evaluated across several company functions. Among them are Corporate Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs (CSRA), Group Technology and Innovation (GTI)—especially the new Innovation Excellence & Business Incubator—as well as the different Business Units. Further, with EcoCircle and the associated Centers of Excellence, Clariant will establish dedicated sites for collaborative development of products for a circular plastics economy. Specialized teams and facilities will allow Clariant to channel expertise and develop specialty products for specific circular topics. Goals and targets Clariant established targets regarding resource efficiency and sustainable production with its 2025 environmental targets, which are being reported under the topic »Environmental Protection and Resources.« Further components Clariant’s contributions to a circular economy are manifold. They include continuously increasing eco-efficiency of production processes, choosing waste and renewable resources instead of virgin or fossil ones where suitable, process redesign, reducing water and energy use, closedloop recycling on sites, industrial symbiosis, and value-chain clusters. Promoting a circular economy is fueled by the development of new products and technologies. Clariant’s wide range of innovative detergents, stabilizers, pigments, and masterbatches supports obtaining higher-value plastics from recycling streams, while other products focus on increasing durability of materials. In order to foster symbiosis and promote circularity along the whole value chain, Clariant is represented in the following organizations: – Alliance to End Plastic Waste (Founding Member) – Plastics Recyclers Europe (PRE) – Petcore Europe (the association representing the PET value chain in Europe) – Cefic’s Circular Economy Working Group – Circular Economy Initiative Deutschland – Numerous local associations G RI RE P ORT 201 9 6 GRI 301:2016 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume PwC CH in m t 2016 2017 2018 20191 Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce the organization’s primary products and services during the reporting period 4.48 4.86 4.6 4.50 Total production 4.09 4.6 4.34 4.25 1 Every three years, Clariant validates the production volume from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Clariant tries to use recycled materials in production wherever possible. However, the percentage is low due to the nature of the production processes, as recycled raw materials often cannot be used due to purity or safety standard requirements. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials When supplying customers, Clariant provides mostly reusable packaging, which can be returned to Clariant for cleaning and reuse. Other products are shipped as bulk goods in tank trucks and rail tank cars or silo trucks. To the extent possible, non-reusable packaging is recycled for material purposes or, especially in the case of hazardous materials, used to generate energy. Customer Relationships Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Customer engagement lies at the core of Clariant’s commercial strategy. Clariant is committed to creating added value for customers by delivering innovative, competitive, and sustainable solutions. Contribution to value creation Engaging with customers is essential to understand their needs and create continuous, profitable growth. After taking significant steps in recent years to turn Clariant from a product-driven into a customer-centric organization, Clariant aims to further strengthen the customer experience and increase interactions to uncover new business opportunities. Boundary All Business Units have installed a tailored marketing organization that focuses on strengthening relationship relationships with customers. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 7 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant Commercial Excellence strengthens customer-centricity throughout the organization by continuously improving customer engagement and sales operations through ongoing dialogues with existing customers, new prospects, and other partners along the value chain. Commercial Excellence is part of Group Excellence Services, an integral element of Clariant’s Business Services units, which reports to the Executive Committee. As part of the »Leading Marketing Organization« (LMO) initiative, each Business Unit focuses on enhancing Clariant’s customer-centricity through the tailored marketing organization structure. In every Business Unit, a global Head of Marketing now leads a dedicated team of marketing professionals. To identify and capture profitable growth opportunities, marketing teams work closely with technical sales functions. To strengthen exchange between marketing professionals, Clariant established a Marketing Advisory Board in 2018. It consists of the Business Units’ Marketing Heads, the Head of Marketing Communication, the Head of Sustainability Strategy, and the Head of Commercial Excellence, who convene regularly to share best practices and drive further development of strategic marketing processes, tools, and capabilities, ensuring continuous improvement of the marketing organizations. Further components Clariant Commercial Excellence supports the Business Units in developing and implementing actionable commercial growth plans and accompanies a growing number of projects on customer segmentation, cost-to-serve analysis, customer engagement, and value-based pricing and selling initiatives. In addition, Commercial Excellence contributes to systematic capability building with a »Commercial Curriculum« for professionals in commercial and leadership functions. After introducing a Marketing Essentials training in 2018, Clariant created a marketing training curriculum in collaboration with the renowned Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in the United States to foster commercial competencies across the organization in 2019. In 2019, Clariant piloted an advanced marketing program with MarketEdge, in which participants focused on further deepening their marketing plans in an interactive workshop environment. In 2019, Clariant also updated its incumbent Customer Relationship Management in order to improve and intensify customer relationships. Read more: Integrated Report, Core Processes for Value Creation Read more: Integrated Report, Customer Relationships 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome In addition to the feedback received from customer interactions throughout the year, Clariant conducts a biennial survey to monitor customer satisfaction. This survey is a critical opportunity to learn about customers’ perceptions of Clariant as a supplier and business partner, providing an invaluable outside-in perspective to improve touchpoints along the entire customer journey. Following the last survey in 2018, several measures were implemented in 2019. The next customer satisfaction survey will be conducted in 2020. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 8 Indicators Clariant tracks several indicators to monitor the success of its approach to marketing and customer engagement. One of the most important indicators is the additional margin generated from Commercial Excellence projects (in commercial margin), which gives a good indication of how well Clariant translates customer insights into profitable growth. Since 2014, this indicator has grown substantially from CHF 2 million to CHF 19 million in 2019, underscoring that Clariant is moving in the right direction toward true customer-centricity. GRI 418:2016 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data In 2019, Clariant received no complaints from outside parties or regulatory bodies regarding data breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data. Similarly, Clariant is not aware of any identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. Digitalization Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Digitalization is a megatrend that is reshaping many areas of the chemical industry. While some of the changes may only be visible in hindsight, Clariant is already adapting to gradual developments that could potentially impact the business. Contribution to value creation In the area of innovation and marketing, digitalization allows Clariant to anticipate and capitalize on market trends. Speed and quality of new product developments and related applications can be increased by using data science and High-Throughput Experimentation. This is particularly important for customers that are exposed to fast-changing demand due to the increase of online sales. Clariant also predicts an evolution in the buying behavior of demographically younger buyers who are accustomed to accessing information at any time. This could lead to a higher interest in buying and selling activities on transparent Internet platforms. Even though the benefit and impact of platform economics cannot yet be determined, Clariant closely monitors developments in this field and, through the launch of Chemberry™, helps shape the chemical platform landscape. Digitalization also creates an opportunity to enhance Clariant’s solutioncentric go-to-market approach by offering additional digital insights and services to customers. In particular, the combination of chemical knowledge and data science enables Clariant to offer completely novel services. They can be provided to the market as stand-alone »software as a service« or as part of regular service packages. Regarding production and supply chain management, the combination of traditional automation processes and data science is expected to have a considerable impact. Predictive process and quality control have the potential to increase yields, lower energy consumption, and avoid bottlenecks in production, leading to increased speed, higher quality, and reduced costs. In 2019, Clariant made significant progress in laying the technological foundations. For example, ClariG RI RE P ORT 201 9 9 ant built a data lake—a central data repository that facilitates access to data and information across the organization to facilitate the automated application of data science tools and identify potential process improvements, particularly in production and supply chain operations. In procurement, Clariant is observing promising impacts on price predictions and material flow planning. Data-driven tools are enabling exploitation of price advantages, and improved demand predictions and risk management are facilitating strategic buying. In addition, automated e-auctions are expected to lower raw material prices, as Clariant can easily compare a large number of offers from suppliers, making the selection process more competitive. Clariant believes that displaying digital material flows is an opportunity to increase supply stability and enhance monitoring of sustainability factors in the supply chain. By improving multilayer inventory, predictive planning tools are expected to lower net working capital and increase the On-Time, In-Full (OTIF) rate. In addition to these high-impact areas, digitalization may also further streamline services and digitize processes to improve efficiency and lower costs, for example, in finance or service organizations. Boundary Digitalization impacts all stages along the value chain, from the sourcing of raw materials to the delivery of finished products and the provision of services. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant’s dedicated cross-functional digital program, »Digital4Clariant,« is supported by top management. All workstreams and projects under Digital4Clariant have steering committees, typically consisting of a member of the Executive Committee, the Head of the involved Business Unit, a member of the Business Unit’s Management Committee, the Chief Information Officer, and the Head of Digital4Clariant. Goals and targets Goals and targets in the area of digitalization are set individually for each Business Unit and functional level. Further components »Digital4Clariant« consists of three core workstreams that pursue the following objectives: – Develop and grow new business models around digital offerings. – Improve Clariant’s operations with digital means (Digital@Operations). – Utilize the potential of big data and advanced data analytics. In close collaboration with Clariant Operational Excellence (COX), Digital@Operations systematically identifies improvement potential in the operational processes. It subsequently implements corresponding projects, particularly along six clusters considered relevant for Clariant: predictive process and quality control, predictive maintenance, digital material flow, connected workforce, retrofitting, and robotics. In 2019, this approach was embedded in the Clariant Production System (CPS). Early involvement of security, legal, and tax experts is crucial to speed up digital projects. Consequently, Clariant instituted three supporting workstreams concerning cybersecurity, legal, and tax issues. The results of these workstreams were integrated into general working procedures of relevant functions. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 10 Clariant’s digital innovation approach is inspired by rapid innovation methods widely used in the technology sector. It incorporates elements of design thinking, agile project management, and SCRUM. To make sure that new solutions satisfy customer needs, Clariant starts its innovation sprints with customer interviews and continuously refines ideas based on customer feedback. As a principle, ideas are also rigorously sorted, embracing the spirit of fail fast, fail early, and fail cheaply. To exploit digitalization’s full potential, Clariant also plans to adjust its current IT and support functions and further develop internal digital skills beyond classical IT capabilities. Enhanced support services, which include legal advice on data protection and intellectual property, employer branding to attract digital talents, and capacity-building of digital skills among existing staff will help the businesses navigate in the digital world. Read more: Integrated Report, Digitalization 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome The steering committees meet regularly to assess the progress of each project and decide on its continuation using a set of digital key achievement and performance indicators. In addition, the Executive Committee and Board of Directors receive regular updates about the direction and progress of digitalization projects. Clariant is currently analyzing whether the existing governance and collaboration structure is still appropriate and will adapt it if the need arises. As the biggest potential for growth and cost savings was identified in the field of data science, Clariant established a dedicated Competence Center for Data Science that focuses on data intelligence and process simulations as part of Group Process Technology. Data science tools were developed in cross-business teams following agile principles. The influx of new ways of working in digital and innovation teams has also impacted other areas. As expected, in 2019, agile work organization in sprints gained more importance throughout the company. Experience shows that successful digital projects require alignment of digital initiatives and projects by sharing resources efficiently among Business and Service Units. Indicators Performance indicators vary depending on the type and maturity of each workstream or project. They range from standard financial KPIs to indicators that reveal the product/market fit, such as the number of returning/paying visitors to a platform or the customer lifetime value to customer acquisition cost ratio. They are complemented by indicators that reflect sound customer-centric project management, such as the number of customer and industry expert interviews conducted, the number of pilot customers in the incubation phase, and the number of full-time equivalents assigned to a sprint. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 11 Environmental Protection and Resources Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant's commitment to environmental sustainability and ethical practice is reflected in the company’s responsible approach to resources and the environment. Maintaining energy efficiency, optimizing operations, and reducing emissions through technology and behavioral changes help Clariant decrease its environmental impact. Pollution Prevention Clariant is fully committed to operating sustainably and decreasing pollution that results from its business activities. Its approach includes a clear goal of reducing air emissions and minimizing the discharge of harmful pollutants into water bodies. Decreasing pollution is not only a social mandate, but also part of global legislation with which Clariant fully complies. Waste Management As a highly regulated topic, waste management is critical for Clariant and the entire global chemical industry. Handling waste appropriately is not only a sustainability commitment for Clariant, as accumulating waste also results in higher costs. Optimizing production to reduce waste is beneficial for Clariant’s profitability, since increasing yield decreases the amount of waste generated. Energy To conserve resources and improve cost-efficiency, managing energy is paramount for Clariant. Clariant’s energy management aims to minimize emissions and greenhouse effects from energy use and acknowledge the development and implications of climate change. Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Climate Change Water Water management is a key topic for the chemical industry, as water is used in numerous production processes and as a product ingredient. Clariant uses water for a variety of purposes in the production of chemical products, resulting in the release of wastewater effluents. Protection of Ecosystems Ecosystems provide a variety of critical goods and services such as the provision of clean water, energy, recreational areas, and protection from flooding, all of which benefit society at large as well as companies like Clariant. Clariant takes care in monitoring and remedying impacts in order to maintain invaluable ecosystem services. Contribution to value creation Pollution Prevention Pollution prevention adds value to the company by minimizing the risk of harming human health and the environment, while also reducing potential liabilities and negative impacts on the company’s brand image. Waste Management Clariant’s waste management approach adds value by reducing the risk of environmental harm as well as costs associated with waste treatment. These efforts are in line with Clariant’s commitment to sustainability and lend credibility to its operations around the world. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 12 Energy By reducing energy consumption, Clariant increases its profitability, safeguards natural resources, and enhances its brand reputation. Thanks to sustainable product developments, Clariant’s customers profit from solutions that enable them to significantly save energy in their production processes. Water Apart from protecting resources, efficient water management saves cost in wastewater treatment. Through collaborative and innovative initiatives, Clariant strives to develop efficient water use solutions that work in industrial settings across the globe. Protection of Ecosystems By protecting the surrounding ecosystems and fostering ecosystem services, Clariant guarantees the future availability of resources and helps conserve vital services for society at large. Boundary Clariant currently focuses on the impacts of its own operations, which can be controlled and monitored directly. Potential effects along supply chains are considered as well. Pollution Prevention Clariant strictly adheres to regulatory requirements regarding wastewater, air emissions, and waste management across all its operations. Waste Management Clariant makes every effort during the development and manufacture of products to ensure that as little waste as possible is generated. Clariant monitors closely which plant generated the waste, the amounts that accrued during which period, the properties of the waste components, whether the waste is classified as hazardous, and how it can be recycled or disposed of. Energy Clariant is continuously improving energy efficiency in its own operations, but also strives for high standards in its value chain by providing products that help customers reduce their energy consumption. Water Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Protection of Ecosystems Since most of Clariant’s sites are located in industrial areas, vulnerable ecosystems are usually not impacted. Where possible, the monitoring is extended along the value chain, for example, by evaluating products with Clariant’s Portfolio Value Program (PVP). In addition, Clariant carefully addresses the impacts of sourcing raw materials, such as palm oil and bentonite. Read more: Corporate Website: Portfolio Value Program (PVP) G RI RE P ORT 201 9 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources At Clariant, the Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs (CSRA) department supports businesses with strategic and operational activities, for example, by providing input on product screenings and customer requests. The corporate Environmental Safety and Health Affairs (ESHA) unit, whose head reports to the Executive Committee (EC), is encompassed in CSRA. Its specialized teams within the different Business Units and country organizations are responsible for managing environmental protection and resources. While they set and monitor the standards, the full operational responsibility lies with each site, which also nominates a responsible person for day-to-day operational ESHA topics. The total amount of ESH investments in 2019 was about CHF 35.3 million, including CHF 15.8 million for environmental protection. The expenditures for ESH protection in operative facilities amounted to over CHF 151.4 million in 2019, of which CHF 82.6 million were spent on environmental protection. Goals and targets By 2025, Clariant aims to achieve significant improvements on six major parameters compared to the base year 2013. With respect to metric ton of production, Clariant aims to reduce – energy consumption by 30% – direct CO2 emissions by 30% – greenhouse gas emissions by 35% – water consumption by 35% – waste volume by 35% – wastewater volume by 40% Further components Clariant abides by the principles of the Responsible Care® Global Charter, which was initiated by the members of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) to create a global vision and highlight the commitment of the industry to continuous improvement in the environmental, health, and safety performance of chemical producers worldwide. Furthermore, Clariant adheres to its Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct, Internal ESHA Management System, ESHA Guidelines and Guides, internal audits, and bylaws of the Executive Committee. The ESHA guidelines contain several common principles for environmental protection, including prioritizing measures that avoid or minimize negative environmental impacts over pollution control (end-of-pipe) measures. Pollution Prevention Clariant implemented several measures to improve its performance regarding pollution prevention. Air emissions and wastewater quality of all sites are monitored closely at the corporate level. All Clariant production sites strictly comply with local regulatory requirements regarding air and water emissions limits. In addition, Clariant uses its own standards and guidelines to ensure its operations are running in an environment-friendly manner all the time. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 14 Waste Management Clariant’s waste management performance has improved continuously over recent years thanks to global programs and ongoing efforts at individual sites. Wherever possible, Clariant recycles or reuses materials in order to avoid landfilling hazardous waste, and thus decreases adverse consequences for the environment. On the site level, waste generation is minimized by comprehensive planning and high-quality standards. Each type of waste is recorded and precisely analyzed. Proper disposal must be proven and documented in internal records. Energy The main governing programs at Clariant to minimize energy consumption and increase energy efficiency are eWATCH™, Clariant Operational Excellence (COX), and the YEE initiative. The eWATCH™ program is a three-dimensional energy efficiency and management approach that combines an operating system, management system, and employee system to reduce operational costs at production sites. The Clariant Energy Intelligence Guide (CEIG), a component of the eWATCH™ Employee System, supports careful management of the company’s energy demand. This guide combines information, advice, best practices, and successful optimization projects, as well as key figures and tools that support energy efficiency, enabling users to systematically improve the energy efficiency of equipment. An important component of the Operational Excellence program is the Clariant Production System (CPS). The goal of CPS is to achieve optimal productivity and financial performance in the production sites of all Business Units by identifying, developing, and implementing good practices across all production sites. Implementing the CPS leads to improvements in safety, productivity, conversion costs, energy consumption, and product quality. The Clariant Production System’s Yield, Energy, Environment (YEE) initiative increases yields, improves energy efficiency, and reduces waste streams by analyzing specific production processes or production units to create a comprehensive picture of energy optimization. Water Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Protection of Ecosystems To guarantee sustainable sourcing of palm oil-based oleo chemicals, Clariant pursues certification of its palm oil derivatives supply. Clariant is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and achieved mass-balance certification for all its sites in 2016. In 2019, Clariant continued working intensively to broaden its RSPO mass-balance–certified product portfolio for the personal and home care markets in Europe, Asia, North America, and Latin America. This helps Clariant’s customers comply with increasing demand for certified palm ingredients in the end-consumer markets. As a member of the »Sustainable Palm Oil and Traceability in Sabah« (SPOTS) initiative, Clariant also implements specific action plans regarding the sustainability of the palm oil supply chain. These include working on the transparency of supply chains and providing support services to independent smallholders to improve their income and quality of life. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant established the Target 2025 Group to exchange knowledge between stakeholders in the Business and Service Units on projects undertaken to reduce environmental impacts. At the same time, Clariant instituted its Clariant Excellence program, which has clear targets for resource savings. Moreover, ideation workshops were coordinated by Corporate ESHA in collaboration with various Business Units to identify bottlenecks and generate new ideas to achieve the 2025 targets. The participants in these ideation workshops were the operations managers from the production sites, who are the main stakeholders in implementing the strategies at the site level. Indicators Clariant annually collects ESHA key figures to monitor the progress towards Clariant's 2025 environmental targets. The ESHA key figures are also used as a basis to improve performance and efficiency. Clariant's Project Tracking Tool (CPTT) tracks the progress of projects related to environmental performance. Pollution Prevention Parameters tracked for air emissions include volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur oxides (SOX’s), nitrogen oxides (NOX’s), and particulate matter. For assessing wastewater quality, biological and chemical oxygen demands (BOD and COD, respectively), as well as organic content (TOC), suspended solids (TSS), heavy metals, nitrogen compounds, and phosphorus are recorded. Waste Management Indicators monitored include the weight of hazardous and nonhazardous waste by disposal method as well as the number and volume of significant spills. Energy Since its inception in 2012, YEE led to savings of almost CHF 80 million. In 2019 alone, YEE allowed cost savings of CHF 5.8 million. Water Clariant tracks several water-related indicators, such as the total volume withdrawn from different sources, the water consumption in relation to production, and the volume discharged to different water sources. Protection of Ecosystems Parameters tracked include the number chemical production sites that are located in biological reserves or in areas with a high biodiversity value. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 16 GRI 302:2016 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization / 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization / 302-3 Energy intensity PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 20191 Total energy consumption within the organization (in m kWh) 2 950 3 245 3 209 3 058 Relative energy consumption (in kWh/t production) 720 706 739 720 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. PwC CH 2017 2018 20191 Total fuel consumption within the organization (in m kWh) 1 777 1 781 1 634 Oil 87 83 60 Natural gas 1 231 1 254 1 218 Diesel 57 54 55 Energy crops (bagasse/briquettes) 122 121 125 Coal + Waste 280 269 176 Total electricity consumption (in m kWh) 844 768 704 Total steam consumption from outside the organization (in m kWh) 626 660 685 1 See footnote under the previous table. Clariant’s plants primarily require energy in the form of steam, electricity, and heat. Electricity is mainly used for electric motor drives in mixers, pumps, and other process-engineering equipment. Measurement and control technology, as well as lighting, also require electricity. Clariant uses natural gas for heating dryers, firing furnaces, and generating electricity and steam in its own power plants. Clariant uses steam to heat reactors and separators, such as distillation columns. The resulting condensate is, whenever possible, used for heating purposes. Across the Group, Clariant records total energy consumption, regardless of whether it has been internally produced or externally procured. Small energy procurements, such as transport services during business trips, are not recorded, as they are insignificant in Clariant’s overall energy balance. Direct energy consumption (i.e., the use of primary energy sources) occurs at Clariant’s sites, mainly for process heatand steam-generation purposes. The primary energy source used most often is natural gas; coal is only used in very few locations, and Clariant is currently seeking alternatives where possible. Indirect use of energy stems from the consumption of electricity and steam from external sources in lieu of Clariant’s own energy generation. Electricity and steam procured from third parties are produced with a mix of different primary energy carriers. Clariant endeavors, however, to increase the share of energy obtained from renewable sources on an ongoing basis. To estimate the relative energy consumption per ton of production, Clariant accounts for all the energy it consumes described above (Scope 1 and Scope 2). G RI RE P ORT 201 9 17 Energy consumption outside of the organization is closely related to Scope 3 emissions. The most relevant Scope 3 emissions–related activities for Clariant are the purchase of raw materials, fueland energy-related activities, transportation and distribution of supplied materials and sold products, and the end-of-life treatment of its products. Read more: GRI 305-3, Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Clariant evaluates the energy consumption of products through its Portfolio Value Program (PVP), which includes the innovation pipeline. Read more: Corporate Website: Portfolio Value Program (PVP) GRI 303:2018 Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource One of the main auxiliary materials for the chemical industry is water. Foremost, it is used as a coolant and as process water in production. Of the 44 million m3 of Clariant’s total water quantity purchased in 2019, about 70% was used for cooling production plants, 20% for production processes, and 10% as a product component or for steam/ice generation, irrigation, or sanitary purposes. Clariant’s plants and office buildings are located almost exclusively in industrial parks or appropriate commercial districts, where the required infrastructure, including sufficient and stable water availability, already exists. The water supplies, especially at large production sites, are primarily guaranteed with river water supplied via third parties. Before being discharged into the piping system at each site, the river water is cleaned using various filter systems. Remaining amounts are obtained from the respective local water grids, but not in volumes that would significantly impair the water system. For plants located next to rivers, Clariant implements strict environmental regulations so that its activities have no measurable impact on the surrounding flora and fauna. The wastewater produced by Clariant in the year under review had no measurable impact on biodiversity. To ensure continuous operations in areas under water stress, reducing water consumption and increasing water reuse is essential. Clariant prioritizes actions that increase efficient water use, ensure proper water management, and address potential risks. Clariant systematically tracks water-related impacts and engages with stakeholders where necessary to deal with specific water-related impacts. Clariant strengthened its water-risk management in 2017 by establishing an annual water-risk assessment for sites operating under high water stress. By systematically mapping water risks with a comprehensive tool, the Aqueduct Water Risk Map developed by the World Resources Institute, a facility’s overall water-risk score (a combination of quantity, quality, regulatory, and reputational risks) is calculated, and the facilities that rank as medium to high risk are shortlisted. Based on this initial assessment, Clariant refined the Aqueduct analysis by performing a more detailed internal risk assessment. Relevant sites reported on impacts and emerging risks according to certain classifications and categories, allowing Clariant to identify sites with water risks that could have a substantial impact on operations, revenue, or expenditure. Clariant is one of eleven partners in the European INSPIREWATER project, which explores innovative solutions for industrial water management. The project includes developing a pilot G RI RE P ORT 201 9 18 wastewater treatment plant in the water-limited region of Tarragona, Spain, with the aim of achieving zero liquid discharge. Knowledge obtained from this project can be transferred to other Clariant sites, particularly those located in water-stressed areas. Furthermore, Clariant engaged in internal quality audits, which are a central element of the ESHA management system, supporting the external environmental management certification according to ISO 14001. The importance of water management differs according to local conditions. Targets regarding water consumption are therefore set based on local water stress, and different regions and countries monitor their own regulatory developments. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Clariant adheres to local regulatory requirements regarding discharge limits at all sites. Production wastewater is often subjected to multistage, chemical-physical pretreatment before being routed to biological wastewater treatment plants. This multistep treatment approach and constant monitoring guarantee that discharged wastewater does not negatively impact ecosystems. Water that is only used for cooling is monitored and directly released into rivers. To prevent pollution of the intake water through undetected leaks in the cooling system, the cooling water and rainwater are constantly analyzed at the individual sites as an additional safety measure. If contamination is discovered, discharge into rivers (or other receiving water bodies) is prevented by various on-site containment systems. At some Clariant locations, cooling water is guided into circulatory systems, where the temperature is again lowered after use in recooling plants. This environmentally compatible cooling method is used in plants where technically possible. In 2019, it saved 113 million m3 of industrial water that would otherwise have been additionally procured. 303-3 Water withdrawal / 303-4 Water discharge / 303-5 Water consumption PwC CH 2017 2018 20191 Total volume of water withdrawn (in m m3) 49 49 44 Surface water 7.6 8.0 7.5 Groundwater 9.1 8.9 5.7 Seawater 0.1 0.1 0.1 Produced water 0.1 0.1 0.1 Third-party water 32.1 31.9 30.9 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. The disclosures on fresh water based on Total Dissolved Solids are omitted until internal processes on the collection and reporting of such data have been completed. Clariant is in the process of standardizing the water stress/water risk assessment disclosure in accordance with various sustainability reporting requirements. The respective disclosure is thus omitted until the process is complete. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 19 PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 20191 Relative water consumption (in m3/t product) 11.7 10.6 11.3 10.4 1 See footnote under the previous table. PwC CH 2017 2018 20191 3 Total water discharge to all areas (in m m ) 12.7 12.6 11.9 Surface water 10 8.2 7.9 Groundwater n.a. n.a. n.a. Seawater 0.6 0.5 0.5 Third-party water treatment 2 3.6 3.5 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. In 2019, Clariant recorded two incidents of noncompliance with discharge limits of priority substances of concern. Clariant considers the entire volume of water withdrawn and used as its total water consumption. Cooling water returned to the source after being used in cooling cycles is not excluded from total consumption. For Clariant, priority substances of concern are heavy metals, organic pollutant parameters such as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD), nitrogen and phosphorus compounds, soluble salts, and suspended solids. Clariant is compliant with regulatory requirements and treats the priority substances of concern as identified in the wastewater discharge permit. The substances of concern are defined based on the type of industrial operation and cannot be generalized at the Group level. GRI 304:2016 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Clariant does not operate chemical production sites in biological reserves or in areas with a high biodiversity value. The company’s sites are exclusively located in industrial parks or areas designated as industrial zones by local municipalities. If there are protected areas near Clariant’s sites, the company ensures local guidelines to prevent pollution in the protected areas are followed. 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity If forests, which are generally unprotected areas, are located in the immediate vicinity of production sites, Clariant ensures the nature of the plant and activities carried out do not have an appreciable adverse effect on the surrounding flora and fauna. Clariant is also aware of the possible impact of certain raw materials and their cultivation on biodiversity, as in the case of palm oil. Clariant cooperates with customers to improve traceability of palm-based raw materials and is a member of RSPO, offering RSPO mass-balance-certified material. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 20 304-3 Habitats protected or restored In areas that were reclaimed by Clariant following bentonite extraction (such as Southern Bavaria), certain types of animals that are on the Red List of Threatened Species have repopulated. Clariant North America has long-standing relationships with two local NGOs in the Charlotte, North Carolina, area that focus on protecting water quality. Clariant makes an annual monetary donation to the Catawba Riverkeeper Foundation and the Catawba Land Conservancy, and Clariant employees actively volunteer in river cleanup and local awareness-raising events. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Because of the targeted locations of Clariant’s sites, animal and plant species included on the Red List of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) and on national protection lists are not visibly affected by Clariant’s business activities. In cases where Clariant’s operations could have an influence on biodiversity, the company is usually informed by the authorities and acts according to its high standards to ensure no negative effects on the fauna occur. GRI 306:2016 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 20191 Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges (in m m3) 13.2 12.7 12.6 11.9 Relative wastewater discharge (in m3/t production) 3.23 2.75 2.90 2.8 1 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2018, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. The absolute quantity of water discharged decreased by 5.7% in 2019. Water discharged in relation to production decreased from 2.9 m3 per ton of production to 2.8 m3 in the same time range. Clariant has reduced the chemical oxygen demand (COD)—the indicator of the organic content in wastewater —in its wastewater discharged by ~25 % from 2014 to 2019. Consequently, fees and production costs were reduced. Only small amounts of heavy metals remain in the wastewater discharged from Clariant’s individual sites. The values are partly based on concentrations that are at or below detection limits. The wastewater discharged by Clariant is largely cleaned and does not affect the quality of the receiving water bodies. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 21 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method PwC CH in thousand t 2016 2017 2018 20193 Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable:1 54 56 55 61 Recycling2 20 23 23 16 Landfill2 10 7 8 14 Treatment2 39 41 37 31 Total weight of nonhazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable:1,4 92 142 177 190 Recycling2 17 27 20 21 Landfill2 69 107 148 161 Treatment2 7 9 10 8 Total waste (hazardous and nonhazardous)1,4 147 198 232 2505 1 Waste from Clariant activities 2 The listed waste handling channels also contain waste from other producers on site but managed by Clariant. This additional 3rd party waste is not reflected in the total waste figures. In 2019, waste from other producers decreased significantly mainly due to the change in ownership of one site. 3 Every three years, Clariant validates environmental data from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production. 4 The increase in the total amount of waste compared to 2018 is mainly due to the increase in generation of gypsum waste which is generated during wastewater treatment in a few bentonite processing sites. This type of waste represents 40% of the total waste generated. These sites are exploring different commercial avenues to deal with the gypsum waste. In addition, a site in Brazil, produced larger amounts of non-production related hazardous waste due to legacy soil remediation projects. 5 All figures are rounded resulting in discrepancies between the total waste generated and the breakdown figures 306-3 Significant spills PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 20191 Process safety event rate1 0.21 0.35 0.46 0.48 1 Process Safety Event rate = Number of Process Safety Events * 100 / FTE. Since 2018 Clariant have changed the reporting criteria from Cefic to ICCA. If Clariant had used the Cefic criteria the number would have been 0.38. PwC CH 2017 2018 20191 Number of significant spills 3 4 2 Total volume of significant spills (m3)1 110 6 1 1 Only two significant spills with a limited amount released. All spills were contained on-site without any releases to the environment. In 2019, Clariant recorded two spills, which is considered significant under the definition of ICCA, category 2. The total volume of the spills amounted to 1 m3. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 22 Guaranteeing safety of people and environment is Clariant’s highest priority. An effective safety management system that can identify, assess, and control risks in the production process and reduce or even entirely avoid these risks through appropriate measures is indispensable. For this reason, Clariant, in close cooperation with the European Process Safety Centre (EPSC), has actively supported the development of a simple and representative measurement system with the aim of establishing an industry-wide standard. This system records and systematically assesses smaller substance and energy releases in order to avoid major incidents. These incidents, or Process Safety Events (PSEs), are categorized according to criteria stipulated by the European Chemical Industry Council (Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l’Industrie Chimique, Cefic) and the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). They are a component of the ongoing improvement procedures for the process safety of the production systems. In 2019, the process safety event rate in Clariant increased slightly from 0.46 to 0.48, according to ICCA criteria. Due to the change in PSE reporting criteria starting in 2018, many training sessions and webinars were conducted, which impacted in the reporting culture and increased the total number of reports in 2019. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Hazardous waste transport is performed by certified companies fully compliant with all requirements of transport and waste legislation. It is important to know from which plant the waste originates, the amounts that accrue during which period, the properties of the waste components, whether the waste is classified as hazardous, and how it can be recycled or disposed of. GRI 307:2016 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Clariant’s operative business adheres strictly to the company’s internal control guidelines for the area of »Environment, Safety, and Health« (ESH). This directive aims to ensure that there are no breaches of internal and external regulations. Clariant is continuously improving when operations are not aligned with internal or external guidelines. As a result of these efforts and stringent voluntary commitments, Clariant did not have any cases in 2019 in which it was accused of not having acted essentially in compliance with laws, regulations, and voluntary codes of practice in connection with nature and environmental protection. Clariant did not pay any substantial fines or nonmonetary penalties for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 23 Growth and Profitability Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant strives to provide innovative, differentiated, and customer-specific solutions while delivering a superior customer experience with fast and reliable fulfillment. The company’s ability to achieve this aspiration is based on above-industry growth, profitability, and Total Return to Shareholders (TRS). Thus, Clariant established growth and profitability as two of the five pillars of its Group strategy and set related financial goals. Read more: Integrated Report, Becoming a More Focused Specialty Chemicals Company Contribution to value creation Clariant aspires to stand out through above-average value creation for all stakeholders—customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, society, and the environment. By providing high-performing, innovative, and sustainable products and services, Clariant fulfills pressing customer needs safely, reliably, and efficiently. This ensures attractive jobs and fair salaries for employees, solid returns to shareholders, stable business relationships with suppliers, and a responsible management of natural resources. Boundary Clariant’s business activities impact the entire value chain, from the extraction of natural resources to suppliers, industry partners, customers, and end consumers. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Although achieving growth and profitability is a shared responsibility of all management functions, the overall direction of the Group is defined by Clariant’s Board of Directors. The Board reviews and further develops the company’s strategy once a year during a two-day Board of Directors meeting. The Board has delegated the executive management of the Clariant Group to the Executive Committee, which consists of the CEO, the CFO, and two other members. The Executive Committee is mainly responsible for implementing and monitoring the Group strategy for the financial and operational management of the Group, and for continuously improving the efficiency of the Group’s structure and organization. Read more: Corporate Governance Report Goals and targets Strategic discussions with each Business Unit include growth and profitability targets at the segment level as well as for the whole Business Unit. From these discussions, Clariant derives growth and profitability objectives for its Business Areas. For Care Chemicals, Clariant expects an annual sales growth of 5–7% and aims to achieve an EBITDA margin of 19–21% by 2021. For Catalysis, the expected annual sales growth rate is 6–9%, and the EBITDA margin to be achieved by 2021 is 26–30%. The respective targets for Natural Resources are set at 5–7% and 18–20%. Read more: Integrated Report, Becoming a More Focused Specialty Chemicals Company G RI RE P ORT 201 9 24 Further components Read more: Management Approach, Growth and Profitability 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant’s Strategic Management Process (SMP) ensures that the Group strategy is executed within each Business Unit. As part of the SMP, each Business Unit reviews cross-Business Unit topics derived from market trends and the five pillars of the Group strategy. Each Business Unit selects specific topics for deep dives, which are integrated as core elements into their Business Plan, including must-win battles that support the Business Area’s growth and profitability targets. As a result of a strategy update in 2018, Clariant intended to create a joint venture with majority shareholder SABIC. However, Clariant and SABIC decided to suspend negotiations due to current market conditions in order to safeguard the best interests of their respective shareholders. Clariant now focuses on its core Business Areas Care Chemicals, Catalysis, and Natural Resources. Since 2019, Business Unit Additives is part of Business Area Natural Resources. Clariant is continuing with the divestments of the Business Units Pigments and Masterbatches, which are expected to be concluded by the end of 2020. Indicators Read more: Integrated Report Read more: Financial Report GRI 201:2016 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Read more: Financial Report 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Clariant discloses details about the risks and opportunities posed by climate change through a number of sustainability reporting programs, such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The assessment includes a detailed description of the opportunities and risks per type of impact (transitional and physical parameters) as well as the methods used to manage the risks. In addition, Clariant is currently assessing how to integrate the recommendations of the »Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures« (TCFD) at the Group level. Main transition risks: – Climate and energy policies leading to increased fuel/energy taxes and regulations (e.g., cap and trade schemes and environmental taxation). – Stigmatization of a sector or company, which could lead to negative impacts on brand image, opposition from communities at the production sites, and unfavorable media coverage. – Higher awareness for environmental impacts among customers and shifting preferences toward climate-friendly solutions. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 25 Main physical risks: – Change in precipitation extremes and droughts (e.g., water scarcity), induced changes in natural resources, tropical cyclones (hurricanes and typhoons), impact on infrastructures, and/or impacts on the supply chain. Main opportunities: – Innovation and R&D activities focused on low-carbon products and differentiation through a more sustainable product portfolio, spurred by the shift in consumer preferences for climate-friendly solutions. – Increased demand for solutions related to megatrends such as low-carbon mobility, recycling, and urbanization. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Pension and other employee benefit plans are monitored globally by Clariant for relevance, compliance, costs, and suitability as a valuable employee benefit. Clariant is aware of the significance of pension and other benefit plans as a lever for retaining staff. These plans are regularly evaluated against benefits in the respective countries in order to be in line with current practices. Before every adjustment, Clariant carefully examines the impact the changes have on the employees and, if necessary, directly consults with them. Clariant offers retirement or pension plans as a benefit to protect employees after completing their active working life and to enable them to retire. Clariant aims to offer benefits that are competitive in the local markets; existence and type of retirement or pension plans differ widely from country to country based on local legislation, social security systems, and market practices. Read more: Financial Report, Retirement benefit obligations Innovation and Technological Advances Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality A strong focus on innovation and Research & Development is the first of the five pillars of Clariant’s strategy to become a globally leading company for specialty chemicals. By leveraging technology and expertise, Clariant tackles emerging macrotrends to stay ahead in dynamic markets, creates high-performing solutions for rapidly changing customer needs, and drives profitable growth in all its businesses. Contribution to value creation Innovation also supports Clariant’s second strategic pillar—adding value with sustainability—by continuously improving the company’s sustainability performance, which enhances its ability to create long-term value for its stakeholders. Sustainability likewise promotes innovation by meeting the increasing demand for sustainable solutions while spurring growth and higher financial results. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 26 Living a culture of innovation is also an increasingly important factor in creating a compelling working environment. It contributes to employee motivation and thus helps Clariant attract and retain people. Boundary Clariant’s innovation activities focus on products and processes, impacting the entire value chain from suppliers and internal operations to customers and end users. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources As of 2019, a newly established Innovation Committee oversees all innovation activities at Clariant. Under the lead of the Chief Technology Officer, the Innovation Committee comprises representatives from the Business Units (Heads of Innovation, Heads of Marketing & Innovation, and Innovation Champions), key functions from Group Technology & Innovation, the Head of Innovation Excellence & Business Incubator, the Head of the Technology & Innovation Office, and a representative from Corporate Planning & Strategy. The charter of the Innovation Committee outlines its focus: to review the innovation strategy at the corporate level and within each Business Unit; define corporate growth fields and technology focus fields; and coordinate innovation activities across Business Units. Moreover, the committee steers Clariant’s innovation portfolio to maximize the value of the projects in the innovation pipeline and increase the number of innovation projects that are successfully commercialized. The Innovation Committee is ultimately responsible for ensuring best practice application in innovation, intellectual property management, and adherence to Clariant’s technology & innovation governance. It is also tasked with fostering open innovation, which includes acquiring public funding and strengthening Clariant’s position as industry leader in R&D and innovation. Research & Development activities are bundled in the department Group Technology & Innovation (GTI) and structured along four Technology Platforms: Chemistry & Materials, Biotechnology, Catalysis, and Process Technology. GTI collaborates closely with the Business Units to ensure that technology push and market pull go hand in hand. This setup is complemented by Innovation Excellence & Business Incubator (which provides leading innovation approaches, tools and capabilities, and the platform for incubating and accelerating businesses before they are integrated into a Business Unit), Group Engineering (which is responsible for the management and execution of capital investment projects), and Group Intellectual Property Management (which secures the generated value through intellectual property protection). Goals and targets Clariant strives to realize a local currency growth rate of 2–3% through innovation, with a target of 1–2% sales growth from top-line innovation alone. Further components Read more: Integrated Report: Core Processes for Value Creation Read more: Integrated Report: Innovation and Technological Advances 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome The innovation approach is regularly reviewed as part of the yearly Strategic Management Process. In 2018, Clariant identified untapped potential for its innovation portfolio management G RI RE P ORT 201 9 27 and stringent allocation of funds toward attractive business opportunities. Business Units thus further focused their resources and budgets on identified customer-centric and macrotrendderived opportunities, raising innovation’s contribution to profitable growth and the return on technology and innovation spend. The innovation governance was also adjusted, and the Innovation Committee, with a new functional reporting structure, was introduced in 2019. Indicators After achieving the growth target in 2018, Clariant met the expectations again in 2019 and grew by almost 3% through innovation. Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality As a global employer, Clariant is committed to promoting a healthy culture at the workplace. Processes regarding occupational safety are top priorities to ensure seamless manufacturing operations, protect the health and safety of Clariant’s employees, and meet legal and reputational requirements. Failing to meet requirements has a direct negative impact on staff morale, labor costs, and productivity, as well as on operational costs. Moreover, negative incidents of occupational health, safety, and well-being have a detrimental effect on the company’s brand image. Contribution to value creation Occupational health, safety, and well-being add value to Clariant by minimizing the risk of harm to both people and the environment and reducing potential liabilities for the company. Additionally, Clariant acknowledges the physical and mental well-being of its employees as a prerequisite for engagement and performance. Boundary Occupational health, safety, and well-being are relevant for all Clariant businesses, including management-controlled joint ventures. The impacts of this topic occur within Clariant’s own operations. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant’s Corporate Environmental Safety and Health Affairs (ESHA) Department and ESHA experts in all regions, countries, Service Units, and Business Units are responsible for managing occupational health and safety. Managing the well-being of Clariant’s employees is a shared responsibility of the well-being experts, the Corporate Human Resources Department, and the regional and local human resources departments. Goals and targets Clariant is focused on its goal of zero accidents and its desire to embed process safety into the daily life of all operations. Milestones are defined on Group, Business Unit, and regional levels, and progress toward zero accidents is linked to top management bonuses. A zero-accident goal also reflects the company’s focus on the people dimension, one of Clariant’s brand values. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 28 Further components Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-3 Occupational health services Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach Disclosure 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome To protect employees from work-related hazards, every workplace at Clariant is subject to a systematic assessment that includes workplace ergonomics, illumination, noise, indoor air quality, humidity, and temperature. Clear minimum requirements are defined for each factor, and measures to redesign the workplace are taken if these requirements are not met. The health of employees is regularly examined by Clariant. Depending on the workplace, extensive health checks are carried out in order to detect signs of illness as early as possible. For some activities, special health certificates and vaccinations are required, and special attention is paid to ensure that these are obtained and given. Medical health professionals anonymously report issues noticed through personal health checks of employees, for example, from blood or urine monitoring, to either the local ESHA organization or the area responsible depending on local laws. The reported information is used to review the mandatory workplace risk assessments required by »Protection from Hazards to Health.« Clariant ensures medical confidentiality. Initial workplace risk assessments define whether or not personal health monitoring is a necessary measure. Indicators Clariant monitors several key performance indicators on a regular basis: Lost-Time Accident Rate (LTAR) and Restricted Work cases are continuously and globally reported on a monthly basis. Recorded Injuries are reported quarterly, and Occupational Illnesses are tracked continuously and reported globally on an annual basis. Safety Deviations are continuously monitored at respective sites and quarterly on a global level. Furthermore, Clariant monitors all Process Safety Events (PSEs). All reported PSEs are assessed quarterly and published in Corporate ESHA dashboards. When Clariant identifies a trend in Process Safety Events that must be corrected, the corresponding units are contacted and instructed to take corrective measures. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 29 GRI 403:2016 Occupational health and safety management system 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system To ensure operational health, safety, and well-being, Clariant has several policies and guidelines in place, including an Employment Standards Policy, which underscores Clariant’s commitment to global workplace rights and acknowledges its social responsibility toward all employees. Clariant’s Sustainability Policy also contains a section on the safety and security of employees and the environment. Several additional guidelines cover a large number of safety and security issues, such as fire and explosion precautions, the handling of hazardous substances, and the identification of risks associated with chemical production. In addition, Clariant adheres to the Precautionary Principle when dealing with risks where scientific understanding is incomplete. Clariant has prepared the shift from the current OSHAS 18001 certification to ISO 45001 in 2020. A gap analysis was conducted to identify improvement potentials for our occupational health and safety management system, and actions were defined and implemented. The standard will apply to all employees and contractors where Clariant controls the workplace. For workplaces that Clariant does not control, the management system only applies to Clariant’s employees. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation The internal Clariant guideline »Protection from Hazards to Health« serves to avoid work-related illnesses and regulates the identification of occupational health hazards for all workplaces. The guideline includes defined revision criteria and cycles. For the control measures, the STOP principle has to be applied, which defines the hierarchy of measures to be taken to avoid incidents. A comprehensive internal audit system ensures the quality and triggers continuous improvement. To report work-related hazards or near-miss incidents, Clariant’s employees can either approach their supervisors directly, submit a report using »Safety Counts!« cards, or utilize an online system at some sites. If employees identify a hazardous situation, they are permitted and encouraged to stop the activity and report to their superior. The application of this rule is part of the »AvoidingAccidents@Clariant« training. After a work-related incident, Clariant conducts an investigation to identify corrective actions and to avoid recurrence. Specific methodologies are provided and described in Clariant’s investigation guide. According to internal processes, Lost-Time Accident and Restricted Work case reports are only closed if an appropriate investigation report is available and filed. The decision to close a report is made on the Group level by an assigned member of Corporate ESHA. As part of Clariant’s Audit Program, internal experts from Corporate ESHA and the Integrated Group System Management (IGSM) regularly visit sites to check process safety standards by assessing the facilities and establishing corrective measures to tackle the main risks. Process Hazard Analyses (PHAs) are conducted periodically by competent personnel at the sites. The PHAs are reviewed at least every five years and updated in the event of modifications. Whenever modifications are done in the facilities, management of change procedures is applied, ensuring that no new or additional risks are introduced without being assessed and controlled. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 30 403-3 Occupational health services The promotion of workplace health and well-being is a local responsibility that each Clariant region addresses with tailored programs. Exceptions are the company-wide family-friendly policy and standards that ensure a healthy and safe working environment for all employees. Further, Clariant’s Employee Assistance Program offers free counseling by external specialists in the event of stress (whether work-related or not), burnout, personal crisis, drug addiction, or other challenging circumstances. Certain locations implemented voluntary programs to support employees in quitting smoking. For drug addiction, Clariant established a procedure for treatment through medical plans and in-hospital care, if necessary. Flexible working arrangements can be made and apply to both work-related stress management and unrelated, extenuating circumstances. Clariant performs an assessment of health habits and special health issues of all employees and updates local programs based on these findings. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety Ninety-four percent of staff employed per capita in production are represented by a safety committee. Taking the workforce as a whole (production, procurement, sales, and management), 85% of staff per capita are also represented. At Clariant, safety issues are also addressed in committees that do not primarily deal with this topic. A working group is established if there is a need for new internal standards or to update existing ones. The resulting draft is sent to the different stakeholders in Clariant's Business Units and regions to solicit feedback. Feedback and requests for revisions are duly considered before the standard is finalized and approved. The relevant information is subsequently published in the Group Management System (GMS) database and on SharePoint. Clariant’s »Safety Counts!« cards also play an important role in ensuring health and safety by providing employees with an opportunity to report critical safety situations and the circumstances that led to them. Employees can also submit their proposals to improve occupational health, safety, and well-being in suggestion boxes. Furthermore, they have access to an Integrity Line hosted by an external service provider, where they can raise their complaints anonymously and around the clock. The system guarantees that concerns are dealt with by representatives of Group Compliance. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Since 2007, Clariant runs the AvoidingAccidents@Clariant program, underscoring its commitment to the occupational health, safety, and well-being of its employees. Under the umbrella of the program, Clariant rolled out multifaceted trainings and tools to achieve the zero-accidents objective. These include, for example, safe behavior trainings, safety leadership improvements, safety checks, safety days, and safety weeks. In addition, Clariant has a Learning Management System (LMS) that is used to provide, steer, and monitor various programs such as occupational health and safety-related e-Learnings, webinars, and workshops. Furthermore, according to the »Protection from Hazards to Health« guideline, the area responsible is tasked with informing workers and contractors about any specific hazard and training them on specific standard operating procedures and work instructions. Additionally, there are special trainings regarding work-related hazards, hazardous activities, or potential hazardous situations provided by the respective plant and the building management. These trainings are customized and depend on the jobs to be performed. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 31 403-6 Promotion of worker health Since balance between work and family life significantly contributes to the well-being of employees, Clariant also offers a wide range of flexible working arrangements, such as flextime, part-time work, or working from home. Further benefits designed to enhance the work-life balance of its employees include healthy meals in the cafeterias, the provision of fitness facilities and contributions to external fitness programs, childcare facilities and contributions to external childcare, support for employees who care for elderly family members, as well as access to nutrition counseling and health checks. To further support Clariant’s local activities and promote a shared culture of health and well-being, the company plans to initiate a global policy to provide a framework for new ways of working, including agile and mobile work. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships Read more: GRI Report, Management Approach – Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees covered by an occupational health and safety management system 100% 100% 100% Percentage of employees covered by an occupational health and safety management system that has been internally audited 100% 100% 100% Percentage of employees covered by an occupational health and safety management system that has been externally audited or certified 100% 100% 100% 403-9 Work-related injuries PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 1 Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 2 0 0 Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury (per 200 000 hours) 0.00529 0 0 Number of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) 0 12 0 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) (per 200 000 hours) 0 0.0052 0 Number of recordable work-related injuries 302 248 232 Rate of recordable work-related injuries (per 200 000 hours) 1.57 1.31 1.21 1 Fatalities disclosure includes employees and contractors 2 Restated due to one reclassified injury, which was not considered by the statutory insurer to be an incident, but was determined to be a personal health issue. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 32 PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Number of hours worked 38 134 000 37 796 000 38 556 000 1 Fatalities disclosure includes employees and contractors 2 Restated due to one reclassified injury, which was not considered by the statutory insurer to be an incident, but was determined to be a personal health issue. Additional indicators: PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Occupational accidents with at least one day's work lost 37 38 272 28 male 35 34 272 27 female 2 4 0 1 Lost-time accident rate (LTAR)1 0.19 0.2 0.142 0.15 male 0.18 0.18 0.142 0.14 female 0.01 0.02 0 0.01 Lost-time accident rate (LTAR)1 for contractors 0.46 0.21 0.24 0.22 Lost-time accidents by supervised (nonClariant) workers (included in the overall number of occupational accidents) 2 2 6 1 male 2 1 6 1 female 0 1 0 0 Lost workdays (LWDs) caused by occupational accidents 1 955 1 135 8792 661 male 1 865 1 051 8742 648 female 90 84 5 13 Lost workday rate (LWDR) 9.8 5.95 4.682 3.43 1 Occupational accidents with at least one day's work lost relative to 200 000 hours of work. 2 Restated due to one reclassified injury, which was not considered by the statutory insurer to be an incident, but was determined to be a personal health issue. PwC CH 2018 2019 Male Female Male Female Occupational accidents with at least one day's work lost 271 0 27 1 Europe 13 0 12 0 Greater China 0 0 0 0 India 1 0 1 0 Japan 0 0 0 0 Latin America 7 0 4 1 1 Restated due to one reclassified injury, which was not considered by the statutory insurer to be an incident, but was determined to be a personal health issue. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 33 PwC CH 2018 2019 Male Female Male Female Middle East/Africa 1 0 3 0 North America 4 0 7 0 Southeast Asia-Pacific 1 0 0 0 1 Restated due to one reclassified injury, which was not considered by the statutory insurer to be an incident, but was determined to be a personal health issue. PwC CH 2018 2019 Male Female Male Female Occupational accidents of contractors, with at least one day's work lost 10 0 10 0 Europe 4 0 4 0 Greater China 0 0 0 0 India 1 0 3 0 Japan 0 0 0 0 Latin America 4 0 3 0 Middle East/Africa 1 0 0 0 North America 0 0 0 0 Southeast Asia-Pacific 0 0 0 0 403-10 Work-related illness PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Number of cases of recordable work-related ill health 0 1 3 male 0 1 3 female 0 0 0 G RI RE P ORT 201 9 34 Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Protecting customers, consumers, and the environment by providing safer and more sustainable solutions is one of Clariant’s top priorities. Product stewardship is evolving from a primarily legal prerequisite for a chemicals company into a key enabler of regulatory market intelligence for Clariant’s businesses. Sustainability leadership goes even further, requiring a company to proactively pursue more sustainable and innovative solutions. Clariant steers its portfolio toward products that consider all three dimensions of sustainability: people, planet, and performance. For Clariant, embedding sustainability aspects in product development and other business processes is a must. Driven by societal demand and policy attention, customers and markets are increasingly aware of and sensitive to the sustainability features of products. By proactively screening its products and innovation projects against strict and forward-looking sustainability criteria, Clariant aims to develop more sustainable and innovative solutions that support long-term value creation. Contribution to value creation By providing the information required to ensure the safe use and handling of its products, as well as to comply with national and international regulations, Clariant adds value to its portfolio and prevents reputational or legal damages. In addition, product stewardship supports Clariant’s business through active communication with customers on product safety for their applications, thereby playing an important role in supporting business and environmental and health protection. Boundary Product stewardship and sustainable chemistry applies to all product cycles from cradle to grave, as impacts can result from all phases of product development, operations, and downstream value chains. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant’s approach to product stewardship is globally oriented and ensures that local and regional product stewardship teams play an integral role in the Global Product Stewardship organization and support business and external customer communication on all regulatory issues regarding the management of chemicals. Goals and targets Clariant does not publish its goals regarding product stewardship and sustainable chemistry. Further components Clariant's product stewardship practices are embedded in the innovation process, guaranteeing that chemical safety is considered throughout the entire product life cycle. Regulatory compliance and communication to customers on the safe use and management of the products are thus ensured when placing products on the market. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 35 Regulatory Compliance Clariant monitors and assesses the impact of changes in chemical management regulations worldwide in order to be prepared for any shifts in the regulatory landscape. Proximity to regulatory bodies and participation in expert groups and associations support proactive management. Ensuring regulatory compliance also includes substance registration with relevant regional and national authorities and supply chain communication on product safety. European Union Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (EU REACH) Targets Clariant is fully committed to the REACH targets. After successfully registering all relevant chemicals in 2018, the company ensures that all product dossiers are kept up to date. Clariant maintains cooperation with regulatory bodies, such as the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) and EU member states. Clariant is committed to the CEFIC / ECHA Cooperation Agreement on the Review/Improvement of REACH Registration Dossiers and is part of the »REACH Dossier Improvement Action Plan.« Clariant goes beyond mere compliance: Its Global Toxicology & Ecotoxicology Group has initiated and codeveloped in a Cefic (European Chemical Industry Council) LRI (Long-Range Research Initiative) project the so-called AMBIT tool—an open IT-based system on a predictive toxicity model. AMBIT helps predict the properties of one chemical using the known properties of similar chemicals. The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) supports this tool by giving access to nonconfidential registration data. Policies and Guidelines As a signatory to the Responsible Care® Declaration, Clariant supports the Responsible Care® Global Charter. Clariant embedded the Responsible Care® principles in its Sustainability Policy, underlining the company’s strong commitment and leadership in sustainable chemistry, and promoted the program in several countries. Reflecting a holistic approach to fulfilling the Responsible Care® principles, Clariant’s Global Product Stewardship Organization takes care of the health, safety, environmental, and other regulatory aspects of the company’s portfolio throughout product life cycles, following clear guidelines and process descriptions. Product Portfolio Sustainability Screening Beyond product safety, a sustainability screening is mandatory for all major product developments at Clariant. Under the Portfolio Value Program (PVP), Clariant systematically assesses its product portfolio for strengths and weaknesses in terms of sustainability, comparing its performance against alternatives on the market and against defined sustainability risks and benefits. The product portfolio, which includes all existing products and the innovation pipeline, is screened for sustainability performance based on 36 criteria that consider the entire life cycle and all three dimensions of sustainability: people, planet, and performance. Clariant awards products that show an excellent sustainability profile based on the PVP criteria with its EcoTain® label. These products are nominated by Business Units and undergo the scrutiny of an internal EcoTain® panel, comprised of Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs (which includes relevant product stewardship experts), Group Technology & Innovation, and Group Communications. By participating in the development of a Product Portfolio Steering Framework of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Clariant supported the development of a set of sustainability indicators for evaluating product portfolios in the chemical industry. The initiative supported bringing best practice forward in evaluating product portfolios from a sustainability perspective and encourages companies to adopt methodologies for evaluating and steering their product portfolio toward increasing sustainability based on facts, market, and stakeholder expectations. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 36 Animal Testing Clariant engages in research on alternatives to animal testing. Recently, Clariant participated in a project led by the Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors (IfADo) that was awarded the »Animal Welfare Research Prize 2019« by the German Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture as it has the potential to reduce or replace animal experiments in the long term. The research team developed a new test to assess how well an in-vitro-system reflects processes in the human body, which could help better predict drug-induced liver injuries resulting from daily drug intake levels. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome The overall evaluation of the management approach includes internal controls, Portfolio Value Program progress-tracking dashboards, benchmarking against peers using external references, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, as well as participation in external networks, discussions, and report reviews. Clariant is a member of the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In this forum, Clariant develops and discusses best practices in the chemicals industry. For example, Clariant contributed to the development of a sustainable portfolio assessment methodology for the chemical industry. In the development of the Portfolio Value Program, external stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, scientists, non-governmental organizations, policymakers, and authorities were consulted. They commended the 36 criteria for being comprehensive and fit for purpose. In 2015, Clariant received an independent third-party assurance statement on the PVP/EcoTain® system from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). GRI 416:2016 Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement1 80% 80% 80% 1 Assessments are performed as part of the Portfolio Value Program (PVP) screening mentioned under 103-3. Read more: Integrated Report, Product Stewardship/Sustainable Chemistry 416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services In 2019, there were no fines, penalties, or warnings resulting from incidents of noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 37 GRI 417:2016 Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Clariant fosters permanent contact with customers, who are supported in the application and use of Clariant’s products. Laboratories are available to solve any specific problems. The service offering also features comprehensive product information, particularly in respect to optimum and safe application, health risks, waste disposal, and handling of packaging. Safety data sheets containing the relevant substance data, information on safe handling and storage of products, and measures in the event of incidents such as product spillages/release and fire are provided by Clariant to all parties involved in the handling of the substances. Clariant has a close relationship with its customers and provides all REACH-relevant information about the supply chain through an IT tool. With this, every Clariant customer is able to securely receive REACH-relevant information on the specific products they have purchased. Comprehensive customer support services ensure compliance with the high communication requirements set by REACH regarding the use of products in the customer chain. 417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning product and service information and labeling In 2019, there were no fines, penalties, or warnings resulting from incidents of noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning information and labeling of products and services. 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing communications In 2019, Clariant had no incidences of noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 38 Talent Attraction and Development Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Empowered, motivated, and highly skilled employees who create value for the company and its stakeholders are essential to Clariant’s long-term success. Clariant is thus striving to build its reputation as a preferred employer in order to attract, engage, develop, and retain the right people with the right skills. Contribution to value creation Efficient recruitment and onboarding processes help new employees quickly contribute to the implementation of the Business Units’ strategies. Skills development is also imperative to remain agile and drive innovation in fast-evolving markets. Boundary Human resources management is central for all Business Areas and regions of Clariant. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Engaging and developing talent is a shared responsibility of all management functions. Clariant’s leaders are key in shaping a high-performance culture. They are supported by Group Human Resources, which has established strong processes for talent acquisition, onboarding, performance management, and talent management in all regions. Globally, Clariant’s operational and strategic Human Resources departments comprise 219 employees dedicated to Talent Attraction and Development. Goals and targets The objective of talent management is to have a consistent and structured talent pipeline for each management level and to ensure the best fit between role requirements and individual capabilities. Further components For the management of Talent Attraction and Development, Clariant abides by its Global Talent Acquisition Policies (Recruitment Policy, Global Recruitment Agency Policy, Onboarding Policy, and Employee Referral Policy). The policies clarify and specify the roles and responsibilities of the hiring manager, recruiter, and other Human Resources personnel to ensure an efficient, effective, and professional talent acquisition process. More specifically, highly trained talent acquisition teams partner with the Business Units to identify and select the best external talent. Employer branding programs create awareness in the job market and attract potential candidates. Moreover, line managers are trained in the »License to Hire« program to ensure they make the right hiring decisions. Maintaining a structured talent pipeline entails systematically identifying, developing, and retaining internal talent. This ensures successful short-, mid-, and long-term succession planning and availability of candidates. For years, Clariant has filled at least 80% of open positions at the management level with internal candidates. Dedicated talent managers review potential talents, G RI RE P ORT 201 9 39 manage talent review sessions, create individual development plans, and participate in internal placement decisions. They also organize so-called »talent engagement sessions« to give internal talent visibility and exposure to senior managers and to receive feedback on corporate culture topics. Clariant’s People Excellence strategy ensures that the different employee initiatives are closely linked to business needs and implemented effectively and efficiently. It specifies the people requirements needed for the successful execution of the corporate and the business strategy and breaks down business challenges into people-related measures that address existing shortcomings in a focused manner. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome The evaluation of the management approach regarding »Talent Attraction and Development« includes a structured analysis of the results and impact of diverse talent management initiatives. All trainings are carefully evaluated. The feedback collected after each training course is systematically reviewed, and required amendments are performed to ensure high-quality training courses. For Clariant’s Leadership trainings, for example, preand debriefing calls with participants are conducted. Also, a feedback survey containing quantitative and qualitative questions is sent out directly after the training, followed by a survey after three months to evaluate the impact of the training on daily work. In 2019, the average feedback score for Clariant Academy trainings was 3.6 (with 3 meaning »expectations were met« and 4 meaning »expectations were exceeded«). For selected programs of the Clariant Academy, feedback on the mid-term impact is collected from participants. Other evaluations include competency assessments for key position holders, management appraisals for external or internal placement of key positions as well as yearly performance evaluations. All evaluations are documented, transparently shared, and followed up on with individual development planning. GRI 404:2018 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Number of training hours 192 435 234 240 205 861 Male n.a. 167 734 140 548 Female n.a. 66 506 65 277 Management Level 1-5 n.a. 26 679 19 318 Local managers, professionals, and employees n.a. 207 561 186 543 Number of employees participating in training1 9 720 15 791 13 891 Average hours of training that the organization’s employees undertook during the reporting period 19.8 14.8 14.8 1 The sharp increase in training participants from 2017 to 2018 is due to the global data privacy training conducted in 2018 and the increased usage of e-learning modules by the Business Units. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 40 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs The Clariant Academy encompasses all global learning offerings designed to support Clariant’s strategy and promote common language and values across the organization. A global nomination process for the Clariant Academy programs ensures that all relevant people participate in the training programs. Besides the Clariant Academy programs, local trainings, social learnings such as learning communities, as well as mentoring, peer coaching, and on-the-job learning opportunities are offered. The training offering is based on the 70:20:10 model from Lombardo and Eichinger, which corresponds to a proportional breakdown of effective learning. The Individual Development Plans for employees generally include 10% coursework and formal training, 20% interaction and peer exchange, and 70% challenging assignments to promote learning on the job. Overall, the training participation covers the areas of functional skills, safety and sustainability, personal development, leadership, legal / compliance as well as IT skills and general management skills. Within the Clariant Academy, global trainings targeted at business, leadership, and functional skills offer a standard curriculum for each level in the organization. Furthermore, the annual training catalog with a focus on leadership skills and personal development extends the training offering with recommendations on external classes. Clariant’s support of its employees’ education is described in global and regional learning policies, which include budget frameworks and study assistance guidelines. In 2019, 1 397 employees benefited from 13 Clariant Academy programs. Overall, the training participation covers the areas of functional skills (14%), safety and sustainability (43%), personal development (5%), leadership (2%), legal / compliance (23%) as well as IT skills (11%) and general management skills (2%). This includes training beyond Clariant Academy. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Total number of employees who receive regular performance and career development reviews 10 300 10 350 10 063 Management Level 1-5 900 819 776 Local managers, professionals, and employees 9 400 9 531 9 287 Male n.a. 7 611 6 687 Female n.a. 2 739 3 376 Percentage of total employees who receive regular performance and career development reviews 51% 58% 58% Male n.a. 55%1 50%1 Female n.a. 93%1 91%1 1 The percentage is calculated based on the total of employees in the respective group. One of the aims of the annual »performance dialogue« is to identify the ongoing development potential of all employees and to agree on appropriate development goals. Currently, the performance-management process comprises 58% of all employees. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 41 MATERIAL TOPICS – ADVANCE Climate Change Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality The discussion on how to halt and mitigate climate change is in full swing as its potential impacts, such as shifting weather and risk of flooding, are intensifying. If global warming cannot be contained to a safe level, society at large and thus Clariant’s business and its markets can be seriously impaired. An increasing number of business stakeholders are focusing on the issue: customers are demanding low-carbon alternatives, while financial players show a growing interest in climate-resilient companies. In addition, more corporations are opting for renewable energy sources for business operations. As the environmental performance of companies continues to gain importance, Clariant aims to actively contribute to a carbon-neutral economy, helping the company to maintain or increase its customer base and to enhance its reputation. Contribution to value creation Clariant contributes to avoid greenhouse gas emissions with its numerous sustainable products, ranging from catalysts to second-generation bioethanol solutions. Clariant also reduces its own carbon emissions through the optimization of its operations. Decreasing materials and energy consumption reduces cost and further increases the company’s competitiveness. Boundary Climate change is relevant for Clariant’s own operations, its customers, its global supply chains, as well as the entire life cycle of its products. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources At Clariant, managing climate change is the responsibility of Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs (CSRA). Within CSRA, the topic is managed by the teams Corporate Sustainability Strategic Issues and Corporate Environmental, Safety, and Health Affairs (ESHA), whose Heads report directly to the Executive Committee. CSRA is also working closely with other departments, such as Group Technology & Innovation (GTI), Group Procurement Services, as well as different Business Units that are developing low-carbon and climate-friendly solutions. Goals and targets To abate its climate impact, Clariant pursues environmental targets to be achieved by 2025. Compared to a 2013 baseline, Clariant aims to reduce energy consumption and direct CO2 emissions by 30% and emissions from greenhouse gases by 35%, each per metric ton of production. These environmental targets are an integral part of Clariant’s planning and investment strategy. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 42 Further components Beyond Clariant’s goals to reduce emissions, the company is running multiple initiatives related to energy management, such as Yield, Energy, Environment (YEE) and eWatch™, an energy efficiency program that identifies savings potential through detailed analyses of energy consumption across operations. Finally, Clariant and its Business Areas contribute to the fight against climate change with their sustainable offering. Climate change-related criteria, such as raw material sourcing, material efficiency, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions, are part of Clariant’s Portfolio Value Program (PVP), which integrates sustainability into the product portfolio and the innovation pipeline. With its EcoTain® label, Clariant identifies best-in-class solutions that address sustainability challenges such as climate change. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant monitors its climate impact by collecting and analyzing data on energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions across its Business Units. Thus, Clariant keeps track of the trajectory necessary to achieve the 2025 environmental targets. Clariant is well on track to meet these ambitious goals. Since 2018, Clariant also reports on its Scope 3 emissions in order to meet growing expectations of external stakeholders regarding the development of a holistic climate strategy. This strategy will include a reduction in value chain emissions by opting for cleaner energy sources, fostering collaboration along the value chain, and deploying additional mitigation measures. GRI 305:2016 Emissions 305-1: Scope 1: Direct energy GHG emissions 305-2: Scope 2: Indirect energy GHG emissions 305-4: GHG emission intensity PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 20191 Total emission (in m tCO2e) 0.89 0.97 0.93 0.84 in kg/t production 218 211 215 198 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (in m tCO2e) 0.41 0.44 0.43 0.38 Direct emission (Scope 1) in kg/t production 101 95 98 89 Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (in m tCO2e) 0.48 0.53 0.51 0.46 Indirect emission (Scope 2) in kg/t production 117 116 117 109 1 Every three years, Clariant validates the production volume from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production Direct greenhouse gas emissions result largely from the combustion processes operated by Clariant and are proportional to the amount of carbon in the fuels burned. Emissions of greenhouse gases, such as methane and nitrous oxide (N2O), are measured locally and integrated into G RI RE P ORT 201 9 43 the consolidated calculation. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from external energy procurement, predominantly in the form of electricity and steam. Their emergence correlates with the type of production and the amount produced, and they are less influenced by Clariant than direct emissions. To calculate Scope 1 emissions, stoichiometric emission factors of the primary fuels are applied. To calculate Scope 2 emissions, either specific emission factors from the local providers or country grid factors, which are published by the GHG Protocol, are used. For internal and ISO 50001 reporting, the eWATCH™ team calculates site-specific conversion factors in close interaction with the site energy managers. These factors help benchmark the carbon intensity of different energy carriers and utilities and may pinpoint operational improvements. The amount of all greenhouse gases (expressed in CO2 equivalents) decreased from 0.93 million t to 0.84 million t, mainly due to the change of ownership of a site in Muttenz, Switzerland, from Infraserv to Clariant, as well as a shift away from heating oil to natural gas and the purchase of green electricity at certain sites. These changes also had a positive impact on the emission intensity, which decreased from 215 to 198 kg per manufactured ton of production. 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (in m tCO2e) 5.21 5.69 4.99 Purchased goods and services 3.31 3.58 3.21 Fueland energyrelated activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 0.30 0.27 0.29 Upstream transportation and distribution 0.13 0.17 0.17 Downstream transportation and distribution 0.34 0.37 0.33 End-of-life treatment of sold products 1.14 1.30 1.00 To provide extensive reporting for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), as well as develop a holistic climate strategy, Clariant reports on its Scope 3 emissions. Clariant focuses on the categories deemed most relevant for its business: purchased goods, fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2), upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. The categories and calculation methods are in line with the »Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain« issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the GHG Protocol. 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 99 projects within Clariant’s eWatch™ and YEE initiative delivered energy and CO2-reduction benefits in 2019. Since 2013, a total of CHF 37.3 million was saved by implementing energyefficiency measures and energy-purchasing optimizations. In 2019, Clariant managed to save CHF 4.4 million. 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Clariant no longer uses ozone-depleting substances. Cooling agents, if relevant, are reported under greenhouse gases. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 44 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions PwC CH Significant air emissions in tons, for each of the following: 2016 2017 2018 20191 Total inorganic emissions 973 930 847 839 NOX 512 634 618 613 SOX 379 241 180 172 Hydrogen chloride HCI 58 40 33 33 Ammonia NH3 24 14 16 21 Total organic emissions (VOCs)2 156 208 439 543 Particle emissions (fine particles) in t 225 380 294 201 in g/t production 55 83 68 47 1 Every three years, Clariant validates the production volume from all production sites. The last full reporting campaign was in 2017. In interim years, including 2019, the reduced reporting Scope comprises the larger sites responsible for 95% of production 2 The total organic emissions (VOCs) increased from 2017 to 2018 due to acquisitions and from 2018 to 2019 due to changes in the product portfolio and higher production in certain sites. To calculate emissions, standard emission factors are applied that are based on stoichiometry and common waste gas treatment techniques. When available from suppliers, more specific local factors are used. Employee Engagement Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant carefully manages Employee Engagement to be an employer of choice, attracting top talent and helping the company deliver lasting results. Employee Engagement and retention programs thus improve Clariant’s internal and external reputation as an attractive employer, increasing interest of potential external candidates and motivation and commitment of Clariant’s employees. Contribution to value creation Employee Engagement and retention programs enhance employee motivation and commitment and hence drive employee performance. As a consequence, they reduce employee turnover, mitigate early-leaver risks, lower cost per hire, and hence support Clariant's overall cost-saving targets. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 45 Boundary Knowing that real performance excellence comes from challenged, empowered, and rewarded teams, Clariant continuously strives to keep people motivated and increase its Employee Engagement levels worldwide. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Employee Engagement is a responsibility of each leader in the organization. The strongest drivers of engagement are trust in the leadership team, a motivating work environment and atmosphere, a vision that employees can identify with, and a clear sense of purpose in what they are doing. Goals and targets The objective of employee engagement is to provide a clear direction to people by explaining strategic decisions and the implications of everyone’s responsibilities. The second dimension is to enable employees to deliver upon challenging objectives by providing the necessary infrastructure and implementing consistent processes. Further components Clariant’s strategies for Employee Engagement include regular communication on the direction of the company, involvement of employees in strategy sessions and an inclusive leadership. Key parameters for employee engagement include authentic leadership, recognition programs, career opportunities, and personal development. Clariant’s Employee Policy includes key principles and minimum standards for working conditions and labor practices. These are crucial to ensure a fair, transparent, and discrimination-free work environment. The policy is globally applicable and must also be applied by employment agencies and contractors doing business with Clariant. The framework underscores Clariant’s commitment to its six corporate values: Drive for Excellence, Disciplined Performance Management, Deliver to Promise, Courageous and Decisive Leadership, Lived Appreciation, and Corporate Responsibility. Clariant has a comprehensive Recognition Program in place that recognizes strong results with a diversity of rewards. The program includes monetary recognition awards for outstanding achievements and non-financial awards that encourage employees to recognize efforts and contributions of their peers and supervisors in the form of vouchers or presents. The Global Benefits Policy contains key elements to be covered within all local benefit programs, including benefits related to retirement, flexible work arrangements, death, travel, accident, health, and well-being. It acknowledges country-specific circumstances. The policy was developed based on the input received through the global benefit survey conducted in 2018. Read more: Integrated Report, Employee Engagement G RI RE P ORT 201 9 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant offers diverse platforms to collect employees’ feedback related to their engagement. Employee engagement surveys, team barometer evaluations, and functional feedback surveys are conducted on a regular basis. To evaluate Employee Engagement across the organization, Clariant conducted a »Pulse Survey« in 2018 with a group randomly selected from the global workforce. Compared to former engagement surveys, the revised format covered more strategic and Clariant-specific topics, such as strategy, vision, and change, and asked for concrete reasons why people want to work for Clariant. The survey results are used for organizational development and help Clariant position itself as an employer of choice. The company plans to use »Pulse Surveys« to involve the different Business and Service Units more systematically to ensure that the specifics of each Unit are sufficiently considered. A global »Pulse Survey« will be conducted biennially. Indicators Apart from the survey, Clariant tracks employee turnover and compares it to industry benchmarks to detect and mitigate decreases in employee retention. GRI 202:2016 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Clariant pays wages and salaries that are determined by local relevant competitive market data rather than by legally defined minimum wages. However, as prescribed by Clariant’s global Employment Policy, minimum wage standards always have to be adhered to by local Human Resource departments. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 1 Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation who are hired from the local community 75% 57%2 60% 1 All relevant Group companies except those in North America where no nationality data is recorded. 2 A new methodology for calculating this number was introduced in 2018. At the end of 2019, 60% of all senior managers (Executive Committee and top four management levels) were citizens of or had an indefinite right to reside in the country where they were employed. Within the European Union, nationalities of all member states are considered »local.« G RI RE P ORT 201 9 47 GRI 401:2016 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Total number of new employee hires 1 983 2 142 1 5701 Male 1 412 1 453 1 080 Female 571 689 490 Under 30 969 985 744 30-50 922 1 045 750 Over 50 92 112 76 Europe 622 751 561 Latin America 341 359 317 Middle East/Africa 130 93 61 North America 402 436 273 Asia-Pacific 488 503 358 Employees who left 1 991 2 047 1 817 Male 1 448 1 515 1 322 Female 543 532 495 Under 30 603 540 461 30-50 893 970 915 Over 50 495 537 441 Europe 658 588 544 Latin America 400 358 398 Middle East/Africa 90 142 78 North America 424 536 433 Asia-Pacific 419 423 364 Turnover rate (%) 11.0 11.1 10.3 1 The decline is new employee hires was due to a hiring freeze in 2019 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees No intentional differentiation is made in the company benefits provided by Clariant according to the type of employment contract. This does not exclude differences depending on the individual case and local circumstances, such as local industry standards or cultural expectations. The deciding criterion in this case is the customary market standard. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 48 401-3 Parental leave 2017 2018 2019 Total number of employees who were entitled to parental leave, by gender 17 687 17 382 17 223 male 13 986 13 613 13 497 female 3701 3 769 3 726 Total number of employees who took parental leave, by gender 644 732 643 male 482 464 432 female 162 268 211 Total number of employees who returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender 611 689 599 male 477 466 419 female 134 223 180 Clariant promotes family-friendly job opportunities: All mothers are guaranteed a comparable position upon their return to work for up to one year following the birth or adoption of a child. For the two years following the birth or adoption, Clariant grants all parents a minimum of ten days of paid leave for family purposes, in addition to their standard annual vacation. Considering that all permanent employees of Clariant are theoretically entitled to this provision, this would extend to all 10 914 males and 3 331 females for 2019. In 2019, 211 mothers and 432 fathers took advantage of this opportunity. In the same year, 599 employees returned to their workplaces, of which 180 were female and 419 were male. GRI 402:2016 Labor/ Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Clariant complies with all local statutory and operational requirements regarding the provision of information to employee representatives and employees. All employees are promptly informed of all significant operational changes. In addition, regular and ad hoc information is provided to all employees via the intranet as well as information letters from the CEO and management in all relevant languages. Corporate information sessions such as town hall meetings are regularly held. GRI 405:2016 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees PwC CH 2018 2019 Percentage of individuals within the Board of Directors male 75% 75% female 25% 25% 30-50 8% 0% over 50 92% 100% G RI RE P ORT 201 9 49 PwC CH 2018 2019 Male Female Male Female Number of employees by age group (FTEs) 14 006 3 895 13 497 3 726 under 30 1 832 743 1761 713 30-50 8 304 2 360 7 844 2 248 over 50 3 870 792 3 891 766 PwC CH 2018 2019 Breakdown of employees by nationality FTEs Percent FTEs Percent German 4 619 25.8% 4 595 26.7% Indian 1 864 10.4% 1 798 10.4% Brazilian 1 116 6.2% 1 181 6.9% Chinese 1 284 7.2% 1 179 6.8% Indonesian 726 4.1% 724 4.2% Mexican 598 3.3% 597 3.5% Italian 529 3.0% 515 3.0% Spanish 414 2.3% 427 2.5% Turkish 400 2.2% 396 2.3% Polish 347 1.9% 351 2.0% Japanese 269 1.5% 279 1.6% Colombian 261 1.5% 268 1.6% French 488 2.7% 2361 1.4% Argentinian 230 1.3% 219 1.3% Malaysian 189 1.1% 191 1.1% South African 189 1.1% 182 1.1% Thai 181 1.0% 181 1.0% Ukrainian 152 0.8% 153 0.9% Swiss 138 0.8% 139 0.8% Others (incl. North American, for whom no nationality data is recorded) 3 909 21.8% 3 612 21.0% 1 The decline in French workforce was due to the divestment of Healthcare Packaging 2018 2019 Total management functions 819 812 male 688 674 female 131 138 1 Excutive Committee and Management Levels 1-4 2 Management Level 5 G RI RE P ORT 201 9 50 2018 2019 Senior management functions1 248 234 male 219 209 female 29 25 Junior management functions2 571 578 male 469 465 female 102 113 1 Excutive Committee and Management Levels 1-4 2 Management Level 5 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men With regard to the zero-tolerance approach of Clariant against any form of discrimination, regional and local Human Resources departments work toward ensuring avoidance or elimination of any discriminatory practices in work-related activities, particularly regarding remuneration, training, vocational guidance, and social security. Globally, the average basic salary of female employees was 99.75% of that of the average male employee in 2019. New hires and exits were excluded from these calculations. Ethics and Compliance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant aspires to be perceived by its stakeholders as a world-class, high-performance company that acts with the utmost integrity. It believes that sustainable business success is closely linked to compliance with laws, regulations, and ethical standards. Clariant’s stakeholders and society at large do not tolerate bribery or corruption—adhering to this expectation is a mandate for a reputable and sustainable company. Contribution to value creation Applying the highest standards of ethics and integrity is fundamental to sustainable growth and essential for Clariant’s long-term business success. Boundary Compliance and ethical behavior apply not only to Clariant’s own operations, but also to third parties acting for or on behalf of Clariant. 103-2 The Management Approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant’s Business Units are responsible for managing business ethics and compliance in their daily operations. Group Compliance and Group Legal Services provide support to the businesses in adhering to Clariant’s ethical standards by providing trainings and advice as well as by gaining G RI RE P ORT 201 9 51 trust from stakeholders and ensuring an impeccable reputation in the marketplace. As of 2019, Clariant has a full-time Head of Compliance, fullor part-time Regional Compliance Officers in each region, Country Compliance Officers, and an Ethics and Integrity project manager dedicated specifically to Ethics and Compliance. They are supported by employees from Group Legal Services. Goals and targets Clariant does not have goals and targets currently in place for Ethics and Compliance. Further components The Strategic Integrity Roadmap, with its five-pillar approach, provides guidance to achieve the highest standards for responsible business conduct by combining a leadership program, legal and compliance risk management, training and communication, standards and controls, as well as program measurement, auditing, and monitoring. Code of Conduct and Policies A central instrument to ensure ethical behavior is Clariant’s Code of Conduct, which guides employees in reflecting on decisions and acting responsibly. In 2019, Clariant revised its Code of Conduct, which will be published on its website in 2020. All employees will be trained on the updated Code of Conduct. Besides its globally applicable Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (ABC Policy) and Gift Policy, Clariant developed local policies regarding gifts, entertainment, and community engagement work. The company also regularly updates its comprehensive antitrust guidelines. Training and Communication Clariant offers regular e-learning courses on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Special target groups receive further face-to-face training courses. New employees are familiarized with the Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Regular classroom and e-learning trainings on antitrust matters are mandatory for employees working in procurement, marketing, and sales functions. Clariant also conducts »Leader-led Compliance Sessions,« which provide a forum to discuss ethical dilemmas that emerge in daily business practices. The dilemmas were tailored to the business functions and to Code of Conduct commitments related to Anti-Bribery, Antitrust, Data Privacy, Conflict of Interest, and Discrimination and Harassment. These sessions are mandatory for all managers in senior positions. Data Privacy Program and Governance In response to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European Union, Clariant implemented a Data Privacy Program in 2018. The program consisted of a policy framework that encompasses Data Privacy Policy, a general Directive on how to process personal data, SOPs on the subject of Data Breach and execution of privacy rights, and a basic Data Privacy e-learning course to familiarize all employees with the principles of the data privacy policy. Clariant also established a certified Data Privacy Organization. Employees are trained on the main topics of the International Association of Privacy Professionals (iapp.org). The certified employees are responsible for creating awareness and building up the relevant knowledge throughout the company with a »train the trainer« approach. Grievance mechanism Employees can confidentially report noncompliant behavior to the Ethics & Integrity organization. All violations against the Code of Conduct and any workplace-related compliance issues can be reported through the »Clariant Integrity Line.« G RI RE P ORT 201 9 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome The Ethics and Risk Management Committee (ERMC)—a subcommittee of the Executive Committee—receives regular reporting on the delivery of the Strategic Compliance Roadmap as well as updates on individual measures, cases reported, and remediation taken. These insights help Clariant improve compliance and ethics throughout the organization. Clariant designed its five-pillar strategy based on a detailed three-year plan, including key performance indicators that have been tracked since 2018. These indicators are further evaluated to continuously improve the effectiveness of Clariant’s approach. Both the Executive Committee and Audit Committee were involved in setting the indicators. The Executive Committee receives quarterly updates on the progress and measures that are taken, and the Audit Committee receives biannual updates. Clariant employs a due diligence process to examine distributors and agents. The process ensures that they are not involved in any form of bribery or compliance violation, and that they do not appear on a sanction list. It further verifies that they have an appropriate compliance framework in place and have access to a relevant training program provided by Clariant. Clariant's investigation and remediation process applies to all reported concerns and breaches of the Code of Conduct. Corporate Functions (Group Compliance, Group Human Resources, Corporate Auditing, Environmental Safety and Health Affairs (ESHA), and other functions where appropriate) are responsible for the investigation, and Compliance Committees (regional or Group level) are responsible for remediation. Indicators To evaluate effectiveness, Clariant internally tracks a total of 25 indicators in the categories »Leadership,« »Risk Management,« »Training,« »Communication,« »Standards and Controls,« and »Monitoring, Auditing, and Reporting.« Clariant also tracks the number and type of the process changes made in response to allegations. In 2019, Clariant received 116 reports, including questions, through its Integrity Line System, of which 99 are alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct. Of these, 58 cases were related to business integrity and 21 cases were related to treatment of employees. Among the other cases, 6 were related to Health & Safety or Environmental violations, 17 were »ask a question,« and the remaining cases relate to Information Security, Cyber Risk, Data Privacy and others. GRI 205:2016 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Corruption risks are investigated as part of Clariant’s ongoing internal auditing. Clariant conducts business reviews of high-risk businesses in high-risk environments with high-risk customers. In 2019, the reviews suggested that Clariant should establish a holistic fraud prevention approach and strengthen the risk management process of third parties. In addition, Clariant will explore the option of job rotation for employees in exposed functions. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 53 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of Board members informed about anticorruption policies 50% 50% 100% Percentage of employees informed about anti-corruption policies 60% 40% 90% Percentage of business partners informed about anticorruption policies 50% 40% 60% Percentage of Board members who received anti-corruption training 45% 50% 100% Percentage of relevant employees who received anticorruption training 60% 30% 86% Percentage of relevant employees who received compliance training 60% 45% 86% 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken In 2019, there were 15 allegations regarding bribery, corruption, and kickbacks brought forward. They led to disciplinary actions against 6 employees. In 3 cases, the responsible employee was dismissed, and 6 cases are still under investigation. There were no legal proceedings against Clariant or its employees for alleged corruption. Clariant terminated relationships with 5 business partners (agent, distributor, or consultant). GRI 206:2016 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and antitrust and monopolistic practices In 2019, Clariant was still subject to an ongoing competition law investigation by the European Commission into the ethylene purchasing market, which had started in 2017. The company is assisting the relevant authorities and cannot comment further on the details of the ongoing investigation. For further information, please refer to the Financial Review Full Year 2019. In 2019, there were no further reported legal actions for anti-competitive behavior or antitrust or monopolistic practices. Clariant reports significant legal actions in its Integrated Report. GRI 419:2016 Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Clariant was not aware of any cases in the year under review in which the company was accused of not having acted in compliance with laws, regulations, and voluntary codes of practice. Consequently, no significant fines or nonmonetary penalties for failure to comply with legal regulations were levied. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 54 Human Rights Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant is firmly committed to protecting human rights during all phases of value creation within all Business Units, as this is a prerequisite for sound business governance and license to operate. Contribution to value creation Respecting human rights is key to sound business governance and to promoting socially responsible growth. Boundary Clariant’s commitment to human rights applies not only to Clariant’s own business operations, but also to its entire supply chain and contracted workers. It expects suppliers and business partners to maintain the same high human rights standards. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Corporate Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs (CSRA) and Human Resources, Legal, and Procurement departments have a shared responsibility for managing human rights. Goals and targets Clariant does not have goals and targets currently in place for human rights. Further components Clariant’s commitment to respecting human rights is enshrined in its Human Rights Policy Statement, in which Clariant reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations Human Rights Declaration and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The policy statement applies to all direct operations and activities and articulates a clear expectation of suppliers and contractors to uphold the same standards. In addition, requirements regarding key human rights principles are included in Clariant’s Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and the Employment Standards Guidelines, which protect workers’ rights with regard to nondiscrimination, forced labor, child labor, fair working conditions, freedom of association, privacy, effective remedies, and workplace health and safety. The Code of Conduct is binding for Clariant’s direct operations, including all joint ventures that are controlled by Clariant or in which it holds a majority interest. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers extends to Clariant’s suppliers and their contractors. The rights of community members—particularly regarding environmental health and safety—are a key priority for Clariant. Thus, it protects them with a comprehensive set of binding environmental, health, and safety rules. Clariant is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. It also strongly supports collaborative initiatives that promote sustainability and respect for human rights across the industry as a member of Together for Sustainability (TfS), the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), and the Responsible Mica Initiative. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 55 In 2016, Clariant carried out a human rights due diligence assessment with the support of external human rights experts to evaluate the potential human rights impacts of its operations and activities as well as the effectiveness of the management and monitoring systems in place. The accompanying graph illustrates the key elements of the due diligence process. Through a series of interactive working sessions, several key functions and departments prioritized activities based on their scale and relevance to the business and their probability of having adverse effects on the human rights of workers, communities, and other groups. A human rights assessment was carried out for a number of priority activities, integrating both internal and external risk factors, such as complex subcontracting arrangements and vulnerabilities of specific groups, as well as aggregate human rights risk levels of countries and industries. The evaluation of environmental and social impacts, as well as labor rights in Clariant’s own operations and along its supply chain, played an important role in determining the extent to which Clariant appropriately mitigates adverse human rights impacts. The assessment found that Clariant has a comprehensive set of policies, guidelines, and processes in place to ensure the implementation of its human rights commitments. In addition, it found that specific mitigation actions had been conducted for some of the high-risk areas identified in the human rights impact assessment. The assessment further concluded that Clariant’s potential human rights impacts primarily relate to contract labor and the supply chains for natural raw materials, particularly in geographies with weak national legal frameworks. Building on this assessment, Clariant carries out a review of the legal requirements, conditions, and control measures related to contract labor in India. The review found that the country organization is well aware of the legal requirements and has implemented a clear and comprehensive process, supported by detailed evidence, checklists, and regular exchanges with authorities. Addressing and closing the identified gaps in Clariant’s mitigation framework is a priority in the coming years. Clariant is focused on securing the same requirements for contract labor that are applied by employment agencies and contractors. Regarding the supply chain, Clariant will conG RI RE P ORT 201 9 56 tinue to address supply chain risks based on the geographical origin of particular raw materials to gain a better understanding of potential human rights impacts, especially in high-risk countries. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant relies on well-established management and monitoring systems that enable the company to detect and mitigate potential human rights risks. In the future, Clariant will further align and streamline its activities and review the need for additional internal human rights training. The evaluation of the management approach includes benchmarking against Clariant’s peers, using external benchmarks such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and participating in external networks, discussions, and report reviews. EcoVadis assesses suppliers’ sustainability and monitors their performance across 21 indicators. Clariant received a World Procurement Award in 2019 for implementing a holistic risk management process and integrating procurement into company-wide sustainability efforts. GRI 406:2016 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period 4 3 3 2 GRI 407:2016 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers with which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Clariant supports freedom of association. As part of this, it respects the right of employees to join unions and be represented by representatives of these unions internally and externally in accordance with the applicable national or local laws and practices. The same standard is applicable for suppliers. As laid down in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, they must observe the right of their employees to strike and to be members of trade unions. Clariant knows of no cases in which freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining has been seriously jeopardized or breached. Clariant is assessing its suppliers in relation to freedom of association, among other social, governance, and environmental topics, together with other companies via the Together for Sustainability (TfS) platform. For more information, please see disclosure 308-1. In 2016, Clariant also launched a human rights due diligence assessment that continued in 2019 with mitigation activities. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 57 GRI 408:2016 Child Labor / GRI 409: 2016 Forced or Compulsory Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor / 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Clariant is assessing its suppliers in relation to child and forced labor, among other social, governance, and environmental topics, together with other companies via the Together for Sustainability (TfS) platform. Read more: GRI Report, 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria In 2016, Clariant also launched a human rights due diligence assessment that continued in 2019 with mitigation activities. Clariant condemns all forms of child labor and respects the rights of children. Consequently, Human Resources ensures by appropriate processes and practices that minimum age provisions of national labor laws and regulations are adhered to and that adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification at Clariant workplaces are used by local Human Resources. ILO convention numbers 138 and 182 are expressly acknowledged as the minimum standard. Clariant is not aware of cases of child labor in the company or with its suppliers. Similarly, Clariant rejects any form of forced labor or slavery and is not aware of any cases of forced labor or slavery in the company. GRI 412:2016 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Clariant monitors and manages human rights impacts, both in its own operations and in its supply chains, and works to make sure that there is no contribution, knowing or unknowing, to any adverse human rights impacts. Clariant assessed all of its operations globally in a human-rights due-diligence review. Furthermore, Clariant established the »Clariant Integrity Line« to enable people to bring any concerns they may have to our attention. The Integrity Line is a channel through which all violations against the Code of Conduct can be reported, including discrimination or violations of human rights. Read more: Corporate Website, Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures E-learning modules are mandatory for all employees. Participation in these training courses, which cover different topics or themes of the Code of Conduct, is registered, and defaulters receive a warning. The code is available in all relevant national languages. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 58 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening All investments with a total volume of more than CHF 1 million must be approved by the Investment Subcommittee of the Executive Committee (EC). The subcommittee makes its decision based on financial, strategic, and sustainability criteria, the latter of which also includes human rights aspects. Policy and Stakeholder Relations Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant believes that participating in policy dialogue is an important element of corporate responsibility. Thus, in line with the company’s strategy and business objectives, Clariant contributes to policy development in relevant areas such as chemical management and substitution, climate change, energy, bioeconomy, circular economy, industrial policy and competitiveness, trade, and innovation. Contribution to value creation An open, transparent, and trustworthy dialogue with all stakeholders is essential for Clariant. Building networks and relationships within the chemical industry, as well as with policymakers and other stakeholders such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), helps Clariant anticipate and mitigate risks driven by regulatory or stakeholder pressure, identify business opportunities, and create competitive advantages. Boundary The topic is not only relevant for Clariant’s operations and value chains, but also impacts its public outreach—for example, via trade associations—to position the company and the chemical industry on strategic policy areas. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources The overall responsibility for policy and stakeholder relations is assigned to Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs (CSRA). At the local level and within certain sectors, the Business Units and regional organizations have a responsibility to maintain and engage in the policy dialogue, as they are well positioned to understand and address the local and sector-specific challenges and stakeholder networks. Goals and targets Clariant does not see the need to establish specific goals and targets for policy and stakeholder relations. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 59 Further components Clariant follows several avenues to contribute to public policy development. It periodically publishes position papers and responds to public stakeholder consultations and surveys. Clariant also anticipates and goes beyond regulatory requirements to abide by its ambitious sustainability commitments, and promotes policy development and stakeholder relations accordingly. The engagement of Clariant representatives in trade associations and other platforms supports strategic alignment across the industry, provides an opportunity for exchange on industry perspectives and best practices, and brings forward Clariant’s views and interests. Clariant has implemented clear policies for engaging in public policy development, addressing the increasing attention stakeholders and the public pay to such activities. Clariant’s AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption Policy establishes detailed rules for employees’ interactions with public officials and political advisors, as well as for charitable contributions and political donations, and forbids any donations to political parties and related organizations. Clariant openly discloses information about its fields of interest and the scope of public affairs activities, for example, in the »Transparency Register« of the European Union. Other activities include active participation in associations, such as the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), national chemical associations, sectoral business associations, and ad hoc collaborations with NGOs. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant’s advocacy activities are strongly linked to the company’s growth and sustainability strategy. In the context of its advocacy strategy, which is currently under review, Clariant aims to further strengthen these ties by paying closer attention to topics such as bioeconomy, plastics circular economy, climate change, and sustainable chemistry. Clariant supports the call for increased transparency regarding lobbying activities and political contributions. Through its reporting on the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Clariant discloses the issues it has discussed with policymakers and trade associations that are likely to take a position on sustainability topics such as climate change. Moreover, Clariant performs an annual review of its membership costs and publicly discloses its top membership contributions, as well as the budget allocated to policy memberships. Clariant’s continuous dialogue with policymakers, NGOs, and forward-looking industry associations further supports evaluating the effectiveness of its public policy management approach. Indicators Clariant does not intend to develop specific indicators for policy and stakeholder relations. GRI 415:2016 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions The Clariant Corporate Citizenship Management Policy and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy explicitly exclude donations to political parties. Accordingly, Clariant did not render any donations to parties, politicians, or related organizations in 2019. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 60 Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Reason for materiality Clariant believes that true leadership in sustainability extends beyond the company’s operations and considers sustainability impacts and opportunities across the entire value chain. Customers, employees, community members, the general public, and other stakeholders expect companies to understand their wider impact and foster sustainable change and growth. Contribution to value creation As part of Clariant’s commitment to identifying and reducing potential risks, enhancing the sustainability performance across its end-to-end supply chains, Clariant proactively engages with suppliers to monitor and improve the sustainability performance of the materials and services it sources from them. Boundary In order to be a true sustainability leader, Clariant goes beyond its own operations and drives its sustainability strategy across its entire spend on materials and services. Clariant’s sustainability strategy includes its comprehensive and complex global supply chains, including its suppliers. 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibilities and resources Clariant Procurement has developed and rolled out its sustainability strategy across all regions and spend categories, covering more than CHF 4 billion of yearly spend. Sustainability in the supply chain is coordinated and steered by the Group Procurement Service’s sustainability team, which reports directly to the Head of Clariant’s Center of Expertise. Goals and targets Clariant derives yearly supply chain sustainability targets from its Procurement Sustainability Roadmap. In 2019, four out of eight procurement key performance indicators relate to sustainability. They are: – Increasing spend coverage with sustainability evaluation and decreasing spend with risk suppliers, based on supplier sustainability assessments. This target is to be reached in collaboration with the different Business Units. – Number of new supplier sustainability assessment scorecards generated – Number of new sustainability audit reports generated – Number of Corrective Action Plans completed on highand medium-risk suppliers identified through assessment scorecards in order to improve the suppliers’ score in consecutive reassessments. In 2019, Clariant adopted an overall target on spend coverage and risk spend, which is characterized as spend on suppliers with a »Together for Sustainability« (TfS) assessment score of less than 45. The target includes the 100 suppliers with which Clariant spends the most, as well as risk suppliers previously not covered by TfS assessments. Clariant also set a target on the number of audits conducted via TfS. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 61 Further components Sustainability forms an integral part of Clariant’s procurement practices, irrespective of material, geography, or risk potential. Suppliers, outsourcing partners, and service providers are selected and managed based on a comprehensive set of criteria. These benchmarks include not only economic and product-specific performance, but also nonfinancial and sustainability considerations, such as complaint management, creditworthiness, safety standards, working conditions, and respect for human rights. Supplier Sustainability Management Trainings To build and continuously update skills in supplier sustainability management and ensure sustainability is a critical part of the state-of-the-art procurement expertise, Clariant Procurement develops and deploys a Sustainability Capability-Building Program with yearly waves of training sessions and supporting materials, such as dedicated toolkits for buyers as well as suppliers. Procurement Sustainability Roadmap Clariant annually develops a Procurement Sustainability Roadmap based on insights, learnings, and feedback gathered in previous years. The roadmap defines focus areas, strategies, and indicators and is deployed across the entire organization and spend. The procurement sustainability program is discussed and aligned with Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs (CSRA). Supplier Code of Conduct The policy cornerstone of Clariant’s sustainable procurement approach, the Supplier Code of Conduct, is based on the UN Global Compact and Responsible Care® principles. It was rolled out in 2014 across the entire supply base of more than 22 000 suppliers through written communication and via face-to-face meetings with top suppliers in each region. It is also incorporated into the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase included in every purchase order issued by the procurement organizations. Clariant expects its suppliers to abide by this Supplier Code of Conduct and make every effort to keep the environmental impact and negative social effects arising from business activities at a minimum. If the Code of Conduct is not embraced by business partners, Clariant retains the right to end business relationships. Read more: Corporate Website, Sustainable Supply Chains Supplier Sustainability Assessments and Audits Since 2014, Clariant has been a member of the »Together for Sustainability (TfS)« initiative. The TfS supplier sustainability assessment covers both materials and services and is based on standard state-of-the-art methodologies and an approach jointly developed by the procurement leadership and organizations of large chemical companies. It is managed through leading external global service providers specialized in sustainability: EcoVadis for online assessments; and DSQ Group, ERM, Intertek, and SGS for on-site audits. The approach developed and implemented by TfS leverages synergies among the participants and delivers an independent, standardized, and quantitative evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability performance and risk profiles. The outsourcing to third-party service providers guarantees process robustness, independence, confidentiality, and conformity with antitrust and competition law. Clariant prioritizes the assessment and audit of suppliers according to country and business risks, global category priorities, and purchase volumes. In 2019, Clariant also adopted eTfS audits, an enhanced TfS questionnaire with specific questions relating to the mining industry. Read more: Integrated Report, Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Responsible Mica Initiative In 2019, Clariant became a full member of the Responsible Mica Initiative, which aims to eradicate child labor and unacceptable working conditions in the Indian mica supply chain. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach and measurement Evaluation and outcome Clariant’s yearly Procurement Sustainability Roadmap draws from insights and feedback gathered through external evaluations (such as the DJSI SAM Company Sustainability Benchmark Report and EcoVadis Scorecard), industry benchmarks with TfS and best-in-class companies within and outside the chemical industry, and conference participation. Thus, breadth and depth of the roadmap are continuously enhanced. The KPIs described under «Goals and Targets» above are tracked monthly in the management committee meeting. In 2019, Clariant was honored by two organizations: EcoVadis granted the company the Sustainable Procurement Leadership Award for »Best Internal Stakeholder Engagement«; and riskmethods, a company assessing supplier risks, awarded Clariant with the »TOP Sustainable Supply Chain Program.« The awards recognize excellence in sustainable procurement practices and distinguish Clariant as a best-in-class example, driving internal engagement to roll out a global sustainable procurement program. »Together for Sustainability (TfS)« Through the »Together for Sustainability (TfS)« initiative, Clariant has online access to a large number of assessment scorecards and audit reports generated by external service providers on behalf of all TfS members. In addition to an overall score, the assessment scorecards contain an individual score for the critical categories of environment, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. Furthermore, and most importantly, assessment scorecards and audit reports provide detailed feedback on specific improvement areas and guidance on where and how to address the identified gaps. This comprehensive approach and outcome give Clariant the basis to engage with its suppliers and agree on ad hoc corrective action plans in order to mitigate sustainability risks and improve sustainability performance in its supply chain. This enables Clariant to monitor, measure, and improve supplier sustainability performance, identify improvement opportunities against principles laid out in the Supplier Code of Conduct, and embed sustainability as an integral part of supplier selection and management. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 63 GRI 204:2016 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of the procurement budget that is used for significant locations of operation and spent on suppliers local to that operation 85.7% 87.4% 88.3% 88.0% PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 RM Procurement by region (in CHF m) 2 221 2 674 2 948 2 642 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 1 904 2 337 2 603 2 330 Number of suppliers1 5 222 6 991 6 434 6 300 Asia-Pacific (in CHF m) 510 627 672 597 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 479 591 641 564 Number of suppliers1 1 754 2 800 2 527 2 422 Europe (in CHF m) 1 088 1 237 1 340 1 232 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 959 1 122 1 228 1 117 Number of suppliers1 1 174 1 690 1 514 1 416 Latin America (in CHF m) 276 307 320 262 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 198 209 213 176 Number of suppliers1 802 1 092 1 085 1 088 Middle East & Africa (in CHF m) 91 109 106 99 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 47 56 57 55 Number of suppliers1 247 407 378 395 North America (in CHF m) 255 395 510 453 Of which with local suppliers (in CHF m) 221 359 464 419 Number of suppliers1 445 1 002 930 979 1 Duplicate counts across regions were largely eliminated but can’t be ruled out entirely. Clariant’s procurement preferentially sources goods and services from within the region in which its respective operations and manufacturing plants are located, if qualitatively compatible, technically feasible, and economically viable. This approach supports the economic development of the regions in which Clariant operates. This is particularly relevant for and encouraged in key emerging markets such as Brazil, China, and India. Clariant defines local suppliers as suppliers that are based in the same country or region where the materials and/or services are used. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 64 GRI 308:2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of suppliers assessed via EcoVadis 63% 65% 74% 78% Clariant selects and manages its suppliers, outsourcing partners, and service providers based on a comprehensive set of criteria. In addition to economic and product-specific performance aspects, the selection of suppliers is also explicitly based on nonfinancial and sustainability considerations. Clariant’s sustainability standards are incorporated into its procurement strategies and activities, policies, and general guidelines (such as the Code of Conduct for Suppliers). Through TfS, more than 9 400 (2018: 10 600) supplier assessment scorecards and more than 1 300 (2018: 1 500) supplier audit reports are active and shared among all TfS Members via an online platform. This serves as a basis to drive improvements in sustainability performance across the respective supply chains. In 2019 alone, 309 new TfS supplier audits were conducted, and 1 043 new supplier assessments were generated. By mapping supplier TfS assessment scorecards against Clariant’s supply base, Clariant reached a share of 78% (2018: 74%) of its yearly CHF 2.6 billion (2018: 2.9 billion) direct spend that is covered by TfS assessments. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 6 383 8 692 10 566 9 434 Number of suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative environmental impacts 785 666 955 784 These numbers are based on the mapping of the suppliers from the EcoVadis platform to Clariant's own spend database. PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative environmental impacts and with whom improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment 17% 20% 18% In 2017, Clariant began a program of Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) in order to reduce supplier sustainability risks. In 2019, 18% of the 784 suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative environmental impacts have been taken through the CAP program. Further, Clariant conducted a reassessment campaign via CAP in 2019. The campaign focused on suppliers with a TfS assessment score of less than 45. Of the more than 400 suppliers with such a score, Clariant targeted the 100 largest ones by spend to perform a reassessment via CAP. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 65 GRI 414:2016 Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria For information regarding 414-1, please see disclosure 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken PwC CH 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts 6 383 8 692 10 566 9 434 Number of suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative social impacts 737 598 1 205 1 060 These numbers are based on the mapping of the suppliers from the EcoVadis platform to Clariant's own spend database. PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative social impacts and with whom improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment 19% 26% 16% In 2017, Clariant began a program of Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) in order to reduce supplier sustainability risks. In 2019, 16% of the 1 060 suppliers identified as having actual and potential significant negative social impacts have been taken through the CAP program. For more information regarding 414-2, please see disclosure 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 66 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Clariant AG 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services In addition to the information described in the Financial Report and on the Corporate Website, Clariant also deals with goods that are subject to different trade control regimes, such as chemical weapons conventions or the dual-use goods regulation. All of the respective national and international trade control provisions, as well as embargo regulations, are monitored by a global trade control network within the Clariant organization. With the help of IT systems, along with organizational controls, all deliveries are reviewed to ensure trade compliance. Thus, for example, controlled goods can only be delivered if the necessary permits are obtained from the relevant authorities in addition to end-user statements from the customer. Clariant ensures that all trade control requirements are fulfilled. 102-3 Location of headquarters Rothausstrasse 61 4132 Muttenz Switzerland 102-4 Location of operations Read more: Financial Report, Important subsidiaries Read more: Financial Report, Segment information 102-5 Ownership and legal form Stock company listed at SIX Swiss Exchange 102-6 Markets served Read more: Integrated Report, Multicapital Review, Financial Capital Read more: Integrated Report, Value Creation in the Four Business Areas 102-7 Scale of the organization Read more: Integrated Report, Summary on Performance, People, Planet Read more: Financial Report, Important subsidiaries G RI RE P ORT 201 9 67 Read more: Financial Report, Consolidated balance sheets 102-8 Information on employees and other workers PwC CH 2018 2019 permanent temporary permanent temporary Employees by employment contract and gender (in FTEs) 17 382 519 16 650 572 male 13 613 392 13 084 413 female 3 769 127 3 566 160 2018 2019 full-time part-time full-time part-time Employees by employment type (in FTEs) 17 567 334 16 786 437 male 13 941 64 13 396 100 female 3 626 270 3 390 337 Clariant does not have knowledge of any substantial portion of its work being performed by workers who are not employees. Furthermore, there are no significant seasonal variations in Clariant’s employment numbers. 102-9 Supply chain Read more: Integrated Report, Multicapital Review, Sustainability performance in the supply chain Read more: GRI Management Approach, Sustainability performance in the supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Read more: Financial Report, Important subsidiaries Read more: Financial Report, Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Read more: Financial Report, Disposals Read more: Financial Report, Changes in share capital and treasury shares and changes in noncontrolling interests Read more: Financial Report, Events Subsequent to the Balance Sheet Date 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach Clariant adopted the precautionary principle defined in 1992 at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. According to the precautionary principle, remedial actions may only be postponed if no serious or lasting damages to the environment are looming. More detail can be found on the following website: www.precautionaryprinciple.eu. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 68 Clariant has expanded the environmental considerations of the precautionary principle with social aspects. Further, Clariant continuously invests in safe products and efficient as well as environmentally compatible processes. Clariant also deploys measures to completely live up to its responsibilities toward employees, customers, shareholders, and other stakeholders. 102-12 External initiatives Clariant supports a large number of externally developed initiatives. For example: Clariant expressly supports the UN Global Compact and the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), also known as the UN Human Rights Charter. The charter comprises general human rights principles that serve as a joint ideal for all people and nations to ensure that each individual and all bodies of the company constantly strive to promote respect for corresponding rights and freedoms through education and training. National and international measures must thereby guarantee the formal as well as the actual recognition of, and compliance with, human rights. This applies to Clariant too. Clariant has signed the »Responsible Care® Global Charter« developed by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), which monitors compliance with this charter. The charter is a self-commitment by the chemical industry worldwide to pursue continual improvements in the fields of environmental protection, product responsibility, work safety, transportation safety, and dialogue. Clariant is committed to the Global Product Strategy (GPS), which was developed in 2006 by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) as part of its commitment to the United Nations Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM). This approach promotes the safe use of chemical products through the entire life cycle and enhances product stewardship throughout the value chain. 102-13 Membership in associations Clariant is a member of numerous interest groups and trade associations at international (International Council of Chemical Associations [ICCA]), regional (Cefic), and national levels (business federations or national chemical industry associations, such as ABIQUIM in Brazil, CPCIF in China, Verband der Chemischen Industrie [VCI] in Germany, and the American Chemistry Council [ACC] in the USA). Clariant is also active in sectoral associations at both a regional and national level, as in the bioeconomy sector (Leaders of Sustainable Biofuels, ePure, EuropaBio, Bio-Based Industries Consortium, BioDeutschland, etc.). Clariant is proud to be a member and supporter of scientific and research organizations such as SUSCHEM, the European Technology Platform for Sustainable Chemistry, confirming its strong commitment to develop the next generation of sustainable chemistry solutions. In 2019, Clariant’s top three contributions to policy memberships are: – German Association of the Chemical Industry (Verband der Chemischen Industrie e. V. [VCI]) – Chamber of Commerce Basel (Handelskammer beider Basel) – Scienceindustries, the Swiss business association for the chemical, pharmaceutical, and biotech industries G RI RE P ORT 201 9 69 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Read more: Integrated Report, Interview with Hariolf Kottman Read more: Integrated Report, Letter to shareholders 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Read more: Financial Report, Enterprise Risk Management Identification, Assessment, and Management Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior As a leading specialty chemicals company, Clariant not only ensures adherence to legal regulations, but also commits itself to important global initiatives. All of Clariant’s actions comply with the principles laid down in the Responsible Care® Global Charter, the Global Product Strategy, the UN Global Compact, and the company’s internal Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct for Suppliers. All employees receive the Code of Conduct when they are hired and must agree to it when signing their contract of employment. Relevant e-learning modules are mandatory for all employees. Participation in these training courses, which cover different topics or themes of the Code of Conduct, is registered, and employees not participating receive a warning. The Code is available in all relevant national languages. Read more: Corporate Website, Codes of Conduct Read more: Corporate Website, Sustainable Supply Chains 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics With regard to seeking advice, compliance officers at both regional and local levels as well as at Group Headquarters are available to provide support on issues concerning ethically correct and legally compliant conduct of employees or business processes. In addition, employees as well as suppliers and other stakeholders have the opportunity to raise concerns or questions—anonymously if necessary—about ethical business conduct on the »Clariant Integrity Line« (an online portal introduced in 2014). The responsible compliance officer of the corresponding country then answers or forwards the concerns or questions to the competent colleague in the Compliance or HR Department or ESHA. Complaints pertaining to violations of the Clariant Code of Conduct can be equally made via line managers, through Group Compliance (i.e., reported to the local or regional HR Department or compliance office, or directly to the Group compliance officer), or via the »Clariant Integrity Line.« G RI RE P ORT 201 9 70 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Read more: Corporate Governance Report, Principles of Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Clariant’s Executive Committee provides the guidelines and the corresponding control for sustainable management. The Head of Environmental Safety & Health Affairs, Head of Sustainability Strategy & Advocacy, as well as the Head of Product Stewardship report directly to a Member of the Executive Committee on sustainability matters and are in charge of implementing the sustainability strategy. The Executive Committee reports to the Board of Directors. Read more: Corporate Governance Report, Information and control instruments vis-à-vis the Executive Committee 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Clariant revised its materiality matrix in 2017 in a sophisticated, consultative process between stakeholders and Clariant on economic, environmental, and social topics, among others. Key stakeholders voiced their opinions regarding the topics on which Clariant should focus, and the results of the survey were analyzed and broken down into regionand function-specific perspectives. This allowed Business Unit and Regional Management Committees to follow up with their respective stakeholders. Through the »Clariant Sustainability Dialogue,« Clariant can further engage with important stakeholders from customer industries, politics, NGOs, and the media in order to foster an open dialogue and future cooperation. Additionally, Clariant maintains a constant dialogue with NGOs, and sales representatives regularly meet with customers to discuss sustainability topics. Read more: Integrated Report, Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement Read more: Integrated Report, Materiality Assessment 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio / 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Clariant's compensation philosophy is aimed at promoting and reinforcing the quality and commitment of employees. Clariant is generally committed to paying its employees fair and appropriate compensation in the form of wages and salaries, social components, and other perks. This compensation should meet minimum statutory standards and, in principle, exceeds them in each country in which Clariant is active. The spread of salaries between Clariant employees varies from one country to another. This heavily depends on the relevant local managerial and employment structure and is frequently culturally influenced. For this reason, local salary structures cannot be used to address compensation issues. On a global level, the ratio between the average and the highest base salary is 1:13. In terms of the total compensation, including variable salary components, the spread is 1:21. The ratio tends to be higher in growth regions than, for example, in Europe. Part-time employees have been excluded from the calculation above. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 71 Salary adjustments are negotiated in accordance with a fixed and unambiguous system and implemented through mutual agreement between the line manager and the HR Department. As a basic principle, a consistent »salary philosophy« ensures that adjustments are made in the context of the local markets and the individual performance. Read more: Compensation Report Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Read more: Integrated Report, Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements PwC CH 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 48% 47% 47% Clariant pays wages and salaries that are determined by relevant local competitive markets rather than by legally defined minimum wages. As of the end of December 2019, 47% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with employee representatives. Managerial positions are generally not included in such agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Read more: Integrated Report, Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Read more: Integrated Report, Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Read more: Integrated Report, Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Read more: Financial Report, Important subsidiaries 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries In order to define report content and topic Boundaries, Clariant applied all four Reporting Principles, namely Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality, and Completeness. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 72 Clariant continually assesses the materiality of economic, environmental, and social topics. In 2017, a comprehensive materiality assessment identified and prioritized the issues that were most relevant to Clariant and its stakeholders. In 2018, discussions with stakeholders and management indicated that the topics of circular economy and digitalization were increasing in importance and, consequently, the materiality matrix was updated. The materiality assessment review in 2019, however, did not reveal any change in relevance of any particular topic. As part of the 2017 assessment, external and internal stakeholders were asked to share which topics they deemed most relevant to future value creation. Overall, 131 external stakeholders, 69 employees, and 36 managers gave feedback. Clariant reports on topics that are considered to be of high and very high relevance in the Integrated Report and the GRI Report. The Boundaries are outlined in the respective topic’s Management Approach in the GRI Report Read more: Integrated Report, Materiality Assessment 102-47 List of material topics G RI RE P ORT 201 9 73 102-48 Restatements of information Any restatement of previously reported data is explained in a footnote under the respective disclosure. 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from pervious reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report The last GRI Report was published in March 2018 on Clariant’s website. Read more: GRI Report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Questions about this report should be addressed to: Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs Anders Almtoft, Tel. +41 61 469 69 16 sustainability@clariant.com Investor Relations Maria Ivek, Tel. +41 61 469 62 92 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index Read more: GRI Report 2019: Content Index 102-56 External assurance Read more: PwC Assurance Report G RI RE P ORT 201 9 74 GRI Content Index UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 101:2016 Foundation GRI 102:2016 General Disclosures External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization GRI Report: Name of the organization 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and GRI Report: Activities, brands, products, and services services Financial Report: Accounting policies Corporate Website: Product & Solution Highlights Corporate Website: EcoTain® Products Integrated Report 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI Report: Location of headquarters 102-4 Location of operations GRI Report: Location of operations Financial Report: Important subsidiaries Financial Report: Segment information 102-5 Ownership and legal form GRI Report: Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served GRI Report: Markets served Integrated Report: Financial Capital Integrated Report: Value Creation in the Four Business Areas 102-7 Scale of the organization GRI Report: Scale of the organization PwC CH Integrated Report: Financial Capital Integrated Report: Human Capital Integrated Report: Manufactured Capital Financial Report: Important subsidiaries Financial Report: Consolidated balance sheets 102-8 Information on employees and other GRI Report: Information on employees and other workers PwC CH workers 102-9 Supply chain GRI Report: Supply chain PwC CH Integrated Report: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Integrated Report: Raw material procurement G RI RE P ORT 201 9 75 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC 102-10 Significant changes to the organization GRI Report: Significant changes to the organization and and its supply chain its supply chain Financial Report: Important subsidiaries Financial Report: Acquisitions Financial Report: Disposals Financial Report: Changes in share capital and treasury shares and changes in noncontrolling interests Financial Report: Events Subsequent to the Balance Sheet Date 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI Report: Precautionary Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives GRI Report: External initiatives 102-13 Membership of associations GRI Report: Membership of associations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker GRI Report: Statement from senior decision-maker Integrated Report: Interview with Hariolf Kottman Integrated Report: Letter to shareholders 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities GRI Report: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Financial Report: Enterprise Risk Management Identification, Assessment and Management Integrated Report: Overview of Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Report: Manage Risks Faster and Smarter Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms GRI Report: Values, principles, standards, and norms of of behavior behavior Corporate Website: Codes of Conduct Corporate Website: Sustainable Supply Chains 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns GRI Report: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about about ethics ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure GRI Report: Governance structure Corporate Governance: Principles of Corporate Governance Corporate Website: Sustainability Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for GRI Report: Executive-level responsibility for economic, economic, environmental, and social environmental, and social topics topics Corporate Governance Report: Information and control instruments vis-à-vis the Executive Committee 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, GRI Report: Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics environmental, and social topics Integrated Report: Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio GRI Report: Annual total compensation ratio PwC CH Compensation Report 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total GRI Report: Percentage increase in annual total PwC CH compensation ratio compensation ratio Compensation Report Stakeholder Engagement G RI RE P ORT 201 9 76 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI Report: List of stakeholder groups Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment Integrated Report: Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI Report: Collective bargaining agreements PwC CH 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI Report: Identifying and selecting stakeholders Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment Integrated Report: Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement GRI Report: Approach to stakeholder engagement Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment Integrated Report: Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI Report: Key topics and concerns raised Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment Integrated Report: Internal and External Stakeholder Engagement Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Entities included in the consolidated financial financial statements statements Financial Report: Important subsidiaries 102-46 Defining report content and topic GRI Report: Defining report content and topic Boundaries Boundaries Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment 102-47 List of material topics GRI Report: List of material topics Integrated Report: Materiality Assessment 102-48 Restatements of information GRI Report: Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI Report: Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period GRI Report: Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI Report: Date of most recent report GRI Report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI Report: Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding GRI Report: Contact point for questions regarding the the report report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Report: Claims of reporting in accordance with the the Standards Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Report: GRI content index 102-56 External assurance GRI Report: External assurance PwC Assurance Report G RI RE P ORT 201 9 77 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI 200 Economic Standards External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 201: 2016 Economic Performance GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Growth and Profitability Corporate Governance Report Integrated Report: Becoming a More Focused Specialty Chemicals Company Financial Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated GRI Report: Direct economic value generated and and distributed distributed Financial Report 201-2 Financial implications and other risks GRI Report: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate and opportunities due to climate change change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and GRI Report: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans other retirement plans Financial Report: Retirement benefit obligations GRI 202: 2016 Market Presence GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Employee Engagement Integrated Report: Employee Engagement 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage GRI Report: Ratios of standard entry-level wage by by gender compared to local gender compared to local minimum wage minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management GRI Report: Proportion of senior management hired PwC CH hired from the local community from the local community GRI 204: 2016 Procurement Practices GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Integrated Report: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Corporate Website: Sustainable Supply Chains 204-1 Proportion of spending on local GRI Report: Proportion of spending on local PwC CH suppliers suppliers GRI 205: 2016 Anti-corruption GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Ethics and Compliance Integrated Report: Ethics and Compliance 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related GRI Report: Operations assessed for risks related to to corruption corruption 205-2 Communication and training about GRI Report: Communication and training about antianti-corruption policies and corruption policies and procedures procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption GRI Report: Confirmed incidents of corruption and and actions taken actions taken G RI RE P ORT 201 9 78 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 206: 2016 Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Ethics and Compliance Integrated Report: Ethics and Compliance 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive GRI Report: Legal actions for anti-competitive PwC CH behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly behavior and antitrust and monopolistic practices practices Innovation and Technological Advances GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Innovation and Technological Advances Integrated Report: Innovation and Technological Advances Integrated Report: Core Processes for Value Creation Digitalization GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Digitalization Integrated Report: Digitalization GRI 300 Environmental Standards External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 301: 2016 Materials GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Circular Economy Integrated Report: Circular Economy Integrated Report: Product Stewardship/ Sustainable Chemistry Integrated Report: Progress toward environmental targets 2025 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI Report: Materials used by weight or volume PwC CH 301-2 Recycled input materials used GRI Report: Recycled input materials used 301-3 Reclaimed products and their GRI Report: Reclaimed products and their packaging materials packaging materials GRI 302: 2016 Energy GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Progress toward environmental targets 2025 302-1 Energy consumption within the GRI Report: Energy consumption within the PwC CH organization organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the GRI Report: Energy consumption outside of the PwC CH organization organization GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions G RI RE P ORT 201 9 79 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC 302-3 Energy intensity GRI Report: Energy intensity PwC CH 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements GRI Report: Reductions in energy requirements of of products and services products and services Corporate Website: Portfolio Value Program GRI 303: 2018 Water GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Progress toward environmental targets 2025 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared GRI Report: Interactions with water as a shared PwC CH resource resource 303-2 Management of water dischargeGRI Report: Management of water discharge-related related impacts impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal GRI Report: Water withdrawal PwC CH 303-4 Water discharge GRI Report: Water discharge PwC CH 303-5 Water consumption GRI Report: Water consumption PwC CH GRI 304: 2016 Biodiversity GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Environmental Protection and Resources 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, GRI Report: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and protected areas and areas of high areas of high biodiversity value outside protected biodiversity value outside protected areas areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, GRI Report: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on products, and services on biodiversity biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored GRI Report: Habitats protected or restored 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national GRI Report: IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with conservation list species with habitats in areas habitats in areas affected by affected by operations operations GRI 305: 2016 Emissions GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Climate Change Integrated Report: Climate Change Integrated Report: Progress toward environmental targets 2025 Integrated Report: Core Processes for Value Creation 305-1 Scope 1: Direct energy GHG GRI Report: Scope 1: Direct energy GHG emissions PwC CH emissions 305-2 Scope 2: Indirect energy GHG GRI Report: Scope 2: Indirect energy GHG emissions PwC CH emissions G RI RE P ORT 201 9 80 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG GRI Report: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions PwC CH emissions 305-4 GHG emission intensity GRI Report: GHG emission intensity PwC CH 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI Report: Reduction of GHG emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting GRI Report: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides GRI Report: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides PwC CH (SOX), and other significant air (SOX), and other significant air emissions emissions GRI 306: 2016 Effluents and Waste GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Progress toward environmental targets 2025 306-1 Water discharge by quality and GRI Report: Water discharge by quality and PwC CH destination destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI Report: Waste by type and disposal method PwC CH 306-3 Significant spills GRI Report: Significant spills PwC CH 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste GRI Report: Transport of hazardous waste GRI 307: 2016 Environmental Compliance GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Environmental Protection and Resources Integrated Report: Environmental Protection and Resources 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental GRI Report: Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations laws and regulations GRI 308: 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Integrated Report: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Corporate Website: Sustainable Supply Chains 308-1 New suppliers that were screened GRI Report: New suppliers that were screened using PwC CH using environmental criteria environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in GRI Report: Negative environmental impacts in the PwC CH the supply chain and actions taken supply chain and actions taken G RI RE P ORT 201 9 81 GRI 400 Social Standards External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 401: 2016 Employment GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Employee Engagement Integrated Report: Employee Engagement 401-1 New employee hires and employee GRI Report: New employee hires and employee PwC CH turnover turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time GRI Report: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to employees that are not provided to temporary or temporary or part-time employees part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave GRI Report: Parental leave GRI 402: 2016 Labor/ Management Relations GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Employee Engagement Integrated Report: Employee Engagement 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding GRI Report: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes operational changes GRI 403: 2018 Occupational health and safety management system GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being Integrated Report: Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being 403-1 Occupational health and safety GRI Report: Occupational health and safety management system management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk GRI Report: Hazard identification, risk assessment, assessment, and incident and incident investigation investigation 403-3 Occupational health services GRI Report: Occupational health services 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, GRI Report: Worker participation, consultation, and and communication on occupational communication on occupational health and safety health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational GRI Report: Worker training on occupational health health and safety and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health GRI Report: Promotion of worker health 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of GRI Report: Management Approach: Occupational occupational health and safety Health, Safety, and Well-being impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational GRI Report: Workers covered by an occupational PwC CH health and safety management health and safety management system system 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI Report: Work-related injuries PwC CH 403-10 Work-related illnesses GRI Report: Work-related illnesses PwC CH GRI 404: 2016 Training and Education G RI RE P ORT 201 9 82 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Talent Attraction and Development Integrated Report: Talent Attraction and Development 404-1 Average hours of training per year GRI Report: Average hours of training per year per PwC CH per employee employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee GRI Report: Programs for upgrading employee skills skills and transition assistance and transition assistance programs programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving GRI Report: Percentage of employees receiving PwC CH regular performance and career regular performance and career development development reviews reviews GRI 405: 2016 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Employee Engagement Integrated Report: Employee Engagement 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and GRI Report: Diversity of governance bodies and PwC CH employees employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and GRI Report: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration PwC CH remuneration of women to men of women to men GRI 406: 2016 Nondiscrimination GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Human Rights Integrated Report: Human Rights 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and GRI Report: Incidents of discrimination and PwC CH corrective actions taken corrective actions taken GRI 407: 2016 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Human Rights Integrated Report: Human Rights 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which GRI Report: Operations and suppliers with which the the right to freedom of association right to freedom of association and collective and collective bargaining may be at bargaining may be at risk risk GRI 408: 2016 Child Labor GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Human Rights Integrated Report: Human Rights 408-1 Operations and suppliers at GRI Report: Operations and suppliers at significant significant risk for incidents of child risk for incidents of child labor labor GRI Report: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI 409: 2016 Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Human Rights Integrated Report: Human Rights 409-1 Operations and suppliers at GRI Report: Operations and suppliers at significant significant risk for incidents of risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor forced or compulsory labor GRI Report: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria G RI RE P ORT 201 9 83 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC GRI 412: 2016 Human Rights Assessment GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Human Rights Integrated Report: Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject GRI Report: Operations that have been subject to to human rights reviews or impact human rights reviews or impact assessments assessments Corporate Website: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights GRI Report: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements GRI Report: Significant investment agreements and and contracts that include human contracts that include human rights clauses or that rights clauses or that underwent underwent human rights screening human rights screening GRI 414: 2016 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain Integrated Report: Sustainability Performance in the Supply Chain 414-1 New suppliers that were screened GRI Report: New suppliers that were screened using PwC CH using social criteria social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the GRI Report: Negative social impacts in the supply PwC CH supply chain and actions taken chain and actions taken GRI 415: 2016 Public Policy GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Policy and Stakeholder Relations Integrated Report: Policy and Stakeholder Relations 415-1 Political contributions GRI Report: Political contributions GRI 416: 2016 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry Integrated Report: Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety GRI Report: Assessment of the health and safety PwC CH impacts of product and service impacts of product and service categories categories Integrated Report, Product Stewardship/ Sustainable Chemistry 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance GRI Report: Incidents of noncompliance concerning concerning the health and safety the health and safety impacts of products and impacts of products and services services GRI 417: 2016 Marketing and Labeling GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry Integrated Report: Product Stewardship / Sustainable Chemistry 417-1 Requirements for product and GRI Report: Requirements for product and service service information and labeling information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance GRI Report: Incidents of non-compliance concerning concerning product and service product and service information and labeling information and labeling G RI RE P ORT 201 9 84 External Disclosure Links Assurance UNGC 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance GRI Report: Incidents of noncompliance concerning concerning marketing marketing communications communications GRI 418: 2016 Customer Privacy GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Customer Relationships GRI Report: Management approach: Ethics and Compliance Integrated Report: Customer Relationships Integrated Report: Core Processes for Value Creation 418-1 Substantiated complaints GRI Report: Substantiated complaints concerning concerning breaches of customer breaches of customer privacy and losses of privacy and losses of customer data customer data GRI 419: 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103-1/2/3:2016 Management approach GRI Report: Management approach: Ethics and Compliance Integrated Report: Ethics and Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and GRI Report: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and regulations in the social and economic area economic area G RI RE P ORT 201 9 85 Independent Assurance Report on the Clariant Sustainability Reporting 2019 To the Board of Directors of Clariant Ltd, Muttenz We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide limited assurance on the sustainability reporting of Clariant Ltd and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Clariant”) for the year ended 31 December 2019. SCOPE AND SUBJECT MATTER Our limited assurance engagement focused on the 2019 sustainability indicators as published on Clariant’s website1 http://reports.clariant.com/2019/gri/: – The selected quantitative 2019 sustainability indicators as summarized in the GRI content index section and disclosed the respective text boxes and marked with the label “ PwC CH”; and – The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the data as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation of these data. CRITERIA The reporting criteria used by Clariant are described in the internal reporting guidelines and define those procedures, by which the sustainability indicators are internally gathered, collated and aggregated. The internal guidelines are based on the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). G RI RE P ORT 201 9 86 INHERENT LIMITATIONS The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with Clariant’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on sustainability reporting. Further, the greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. CLARIANT RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors of Clariant Ltd is responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well as for selection, preparation and presentation of the information in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of related internal control relevant to this reporting process that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the sustainability indicators as published on the website1 http://reports.clariant.com/2019/gri and marked with the label “ PwC CH” are not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. We planned and performed our procedures in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information’ and with ISAE 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’. These standards require that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance the identified sustainability indicators. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable assurance engagement is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable assurance. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROLS We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. G RI RE P ORT 201 9 87 SUMMARY OF THE WORK PERFORMED Our limited assurance procedures included, but were not limited to the following work: – Reviewing the application of Clariant’s internal guidelines – Interviewing Clariant representatives at Group level responsible for the data collection and reporting – Interviewing Clariant representatives in Germany, Spain and China responsible for the data collection and reporting – Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting the sustainability indicators as outlined in the scope and subject matter section concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency – Inspecting the relevant documentation on a sample basis – Reviewing and assessing the management reporting processes for sustainability reporting and consolidation and their related controls We have not carried out any work on data other than outlined in the scope and subject matter section as defined above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the procedures we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that – The 2019 sustainability indicators of Clariant as described in the scope and subject matter section and published on the website1 http://reports.clariant.com/2019/gri and marked with the label “ PwC CH” are not prepared and disclosed in all material respects in accordance with Clariant’s internal guidelines and procedures; and – The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the data as well as the control environment in relation to the data aggregation are not functioning as designed. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Paul de Jong Raphael Rutishauser 6 March 2020 1 The maintenance and integrity of Clariant’s website is the responsibility of the Board of Directors; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the sustainability indicators or reporting criteria when presented on Clariant’s website
