United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENTAL principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 2 Content The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact .......................................................................... 2 About Ximedes.......................................................................................................................................... 4 Statement of continued support................................................................................................................ 5 UN Global Compact ................................................................................................................................... 6 HUMAN RIGHTS principles ......................................................................................................................... 8 LABOUR principles .................................................................................................................................... 9 ENVIRONMENTAL principles .................................................................................................................... 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION principles .................................................................................................................. 14 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 3 About X imedes Ximedes exists to allow a group of smart, friendly and ambitious colleagues to work together on relevant and challenging software projects to the satisfaction and delight of ourselves and our clients. Ximedes is a private company (B.V.) with a main office in Haarlem, The Netherlands. In Novi Sad, Serbia we have another software development office and in Hamburg, Germany a sales office for our German market. We are with about 100 colleagues in various roles but most of them focus on ICT. We design and deliver software applications with a focus on transactions and payments for innovative organizations. Our product definition services are aimed to transform ideas and add the technical relevance into operational applications. We also have several ready to use components and solutions for proximity, online payments, and public transport transactions, which we can design in. Market Ximedes supports the FinTech and FareTech industries and especially the bigger brands with a focus on W-Europe. We have an extensive portfolio of successful projects and implementations in the financial services and public transport market. With our facility management payment solutions we are market leader in the Dutch education market and active in Industry plants. Ximedes is active in the Netherlands, Germany, the UK and the Nordics. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 4 Statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Ximedes continues its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe the actions we have made to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Rene Hodde CEO Ximedes B.V. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 5 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic alliance between companies. These companies commit to the fact that they connect their operations and organizational strategies to the ten worldwide accepted principles, on 4 domains: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enable these 10 principles in their entire environment. The goal is that people and nature are better treated and this leads to a pure work and living understanding between humans, nature and use of raw materials. Eventually it is the explicit expression of a joint responsibility to not exhaust the world and its inhabitants. For Ximedes the ten principles seem obvious. Unfortunately this is not so obvious in big parts of the world and even within many companies within Europe and the Netherlands. The chance that you engage in business with other companies that do not adhere these principles is always present and Ximedes wants to be aware and stay aware of that fact. With our support we want to explicitly show our support of the Global Compact. Commitment of companies can be a strong engine, especially when united. That is why Ximedes is member of the United Nations Global Compact. Communication of the ten principles The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact are included in our Handbook (code of conduct) and on our internal information site. We have informed our employees about the UN Global Compact during our formal mandatory two monthly community meeting (Tuning). Candidates for vacant positions within Ximedes are also informed about our commitment. Our corporate social responsibilities in general, and the 10 principles in particular, are standard topics in the annual job control meetings. We wrote about the 10 principles on our website and in our newsletter to make our clients, suppliers, employees and partners understand our position regarding these principles. We have contractual agreements with all our partners and suppliers of temporary workers about supporting the 10 principles with the following text in the contract: Because of corporate Social Responsibilities, the Client is affiliated with The United Nations Global Compact, supports the 10 principles of The Global Compact and is accountable for them in an annual Communication On Progress. See https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ for more information on this. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 6 Although not formally required to also join The United Nations Global Compact, the Contractor declares by signing that it supports these 10 Principles. If deviations are found, the Client has the right to terminate this assignment agreement with immediate effect. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 7 HUMAN RIGHTS principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and goals As a company and on personal behalf of all our employees we state to respect the internationally proclaimed Human Rights and like to go beyond that. We think it is important to stimulate good behavior to others by setting the right example. We aim to cooperate with business partners that think alike. Some of the most relevant rights are: rights to non-discrimination, equal pay for equal work, just and favorable remuneration, a safe and healthy work environment, physical and mental health, rest and leisure, privacy, freedom of association. Implementation In our annually published business plan as well as in our Handbook (employment conditions) we address our culture and HR aspects in separate chapters. The business plan is distributed to our employees, major clients, shareholders and the bank. The Handbook is provided to all employees. Our Work/Employee council cares for the benefits of our employees. They have regular meetings with the management team about decisions made. Our employees are informed in several ways about the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, starting with the job interview, in job control meetings, in joint company meetings and finally on the internal information website. Our HR department oversees the principles in our day-to-day behavior and processes. Measurement of outcomes Ximedes holds an employee satisfaction survey amongst all employees. This is filled out during our job control meetings and is therefore measured throughout the whole year. We also hold a client satisfaction survey amongst several customers once a year. No issues have been reported so far in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was Ximedes involved in any human rights incidents before or during the reporting period. The HR manager reports to the MT in the MT meeting about ongoing HR issues. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 8 LABOUR principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and goals In our working conditions document we address our culture and agreed policies, conditions and rights and assimilate the Global Compact principles. Every employee has a copy of this conditions. Regularly we update these conditions due to law-changes, improvements and changed or new conditions and rights. In Q1 of 2018 a complete new Handbook with several improvements for both the company and the employees is released. There is no discrimination of race, religion or sexual preference at Ximedes. Men and women are equally rewarded within their position. Within Ximedes, the HR manager serves as confidant / counselor. If necessary there is also a neutral confidant at the Arbodienst to treat complaints of sexual intimidation, discrimination, aggression or violence. Our Work/Employee council cares for the benefits of our employees. They have regular meetings with the management team. They safeguard our employees working conditions and equal opportunities. Ximedes works with various function levels in which the roles that an employee can fulfill within Ximedes are described. Every function level has a salary range (minimal/maximal salary), a maximal set expanse payment and devices that are issued by Ximedes. Ximedes has a diverse workforce. Men and women have equal opportunities. We employ employees from 15 different nationalities. In order to prevent that tax legislation in Serbia would ensure that all employees there would earn much less net salary than before, all salaries of our Serbian employees were increased to such an extent that they did not lose out. To limit the risks of the Corona pandemic Ximedes measures were taken and the safety of all employees was monitored daily by the Management Team and the HR Manager. Implementation Ximedes strongly believes that employee satisfaction and shared goals are crucial to achieve the best business result. Therefore additional effort is being made on communication. There are different channels of communication towards all the employees of Ximedes, including our workers in Serbia and Germany: UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 9 o management messages o newsletters o emails o formal letters o the internal information website o informal biweekly community meetings (chats) o formal mandatory bimonthly community meeting (tunings) o presentations during lunchtime (lunch sessions) o team meetings o work / employees council meetings with the management o management meetings with principals o job control meetings Ximedes is a company with a flat organization structure. We have an open door policy throughout the company. Biweekly we organize an informal community meeting where each team informs everybody about the development in their project. We also organize a formal mandatory bimonthly community meeting where a business update is given by one of the MT members regarding the overall state of affairs. During both meetings employees can ask questions about anything they want. During coffee and Friday afternoon drinks employees we have the opportunity to speak informally to each other. Since 2015 we have a new and improved retirement pension insurance for all of the Ximedes employees in the Netherlands. In addition to the pension insurance Ximedes offers a collective WGA / WIA insurance for in case employees become unfit for work and lose their pension rights. Ximedes also decided to a decent healthcare insurance and a pension insurance for our workers in Novi Sad, in addition to the poor social facilities in Serbia. These insurances are implemented in the first half year of 2017. In 2020 the pension insurance as a part of the social facilities will be improved, so the additional pension founded by the employer will not be needed anymore. In 2019, Ximedes decided to focus more on increasing the diversity in the organization. Ximedes has become a recognized sponsor in order to be able to employ employees with a non-European nationality. Ximedes is NEN 4400-1 certified and has an SNA statement. Since the Corona pandemic the office is transferred completely to a safe office with all thinkable measures to limit the risks of contamination. And everyone is provided with the right tools to improve the workplace at home, when needed. Working at home became the standard in the second half of 2020. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 10 Measurement of outcomes In 2014 we started to do the employee satisfaction survey during the yearly job control meeting, so we measure employee satisfaction during the whole year instead of once a year. In 2016 we scored a 7,3 on a scale from 1 to 10, where 10 is the best. In 2018 we scored a 7,8. In 2019 and in 2020 the score is 7,9. Besides this survey yearly job control meetings and a review session are organized for every employee where we give our employees the opportunity to address issues. These are also powerful tools for HR to monitor how an employee is doing. Employees can always make an appointment besides these fixed formal moments of contact. The HR manager reports to the MT about ongoing HR issues. Since 2019 the increased focus on more diversity in the organization resulted in 26 new employees with 8 different nationalities, including 6 women. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. As far as we know nobody was infected by the corona virus at the office. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 11 ENVIRONMENTAL principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and goals Ximedes values the environment and tries to have as little impact as possible on the environment. We try to do this by creating awareness amongst our employees and by providing them with tools. Our policy regarding the environment is written in our Handbook (code of conduct). Ximedes is housed in an environmentally friendly building. Our Work/Employee council has regular meetings with the management team. They can give suggestions about improvements that can be made to improve our behavior regarding the environment. In 2018 a special working group that is engaged in the further sustainability of Ximedes has been established. Implementation Ximedes implements the following actions: o we choose the most sustainable solutions for mobility, we try to reduce the number of lease cars every year and next year all new lease cars should be 100% electrically powered o next to our office four double charging stations for max 6 electrical cars are placed o we install only energy saving laptops and computer screens, 75% of our computer hardware is energy saving o we encourage employees to recycle o we are supplied with green electric power o we have equipped all rooms with sensors that activate the lights when someone is near and turn off when nobody is in the room o we use as many energy saving lamps as possible o we are housed in a building that uses hot and cold storage to save energy for heating and cooling the building. This results in a 40 – 80% save o we recycle old PC’s and printers o we use green datacenters for hosting o our billing process is digitalized to save paper o we use coffee with Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade en biological certificates o all waste is collected separately o we encourage video conferencing instead of traveling to partners and clients o within Europe we prefer to travel by train above the plane o server virtualization is applied UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 12 o we print as little as possible and when we print we do it double sided Regarding activities designed around supporting the local community we firmly believe in employee initiatives that comes up, that we review and then decide to actively support. In 2018 we participated in sponsor cycling events to collect funds for diseases like cancer. We support universities and high schools by offering trainee positions so that young ICT students get acquainted with the profession. We also supported local initiatives with donating a team training for a guide dog. Measurement of outcomes in 2018 we put all employees in possession of a Rocketbook, an erasable and reusable notepad so paper notebooks are hardly needed anymore In 2019, employees in Novi Sad, Serbia, raised money to help a local kindergarten so that old and broken windows could be replaced. Ximedes doubled the amount of money raised, so that the intended goal was achieved. 7 lease cars powered by fossil fuel were replaced by 100% electric cars. That is 40% of our fleet. The number of plastic bottles for water has been reduced to zero with the installation of a tap for cooled and sparkling water. Instead of a Christmas gift for customers and relations, in 2019 money was donated to two charities: https://www.codam.nl/ and https://letsencrypt.org/ We do not offer a company car to new employees who apply for a position which does not require often travel. Plastics and glass are removed separately by the staff themselves. The HR manager reports regularly on progress on mobility, housing and facilities. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Assessment, Policy and goals Currently there are no written guidelines for employees on how to act in case of bribery or extortion. We haven’t yet come across situations that might have corruption risk. We are however very keen on not working together with corrupted parties. Ximedes prohibits the offering, the giving, the solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether cash or other inducement to or from any person or company by any individual employee, in order to gain any commercial, contractual or personal advantage. We have a no cash policy. All payments are done by bank transfers. Our Work/Employee council has regular meetings with the management team. During these meetings issues regarding anti-corruption can be reported or discussed. Our Financial statement and corresponding processes and policies are independently audited by Ernst & Young accountants resulting in a Financial statement report. (see http://www.ey.com/). Implementation Ximedes is very supportive of an anti-corruption policy. We win bids for new assignments because of our knowledge in the market, quality and price. We do not accept bribes. Our actions are completely transparent. There is an active bid/no bid process in which we decide to bring out offers. In that process we also assess the client from an ethic point of view. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, Ximedes will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. Our work / employee council writes a yearly report. The HR manager reports to the MT about ongoing HR issues bi-weekly. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 14 Our yearly company statement report is yearly audited by an external and independent accountant named EY. Their report is in summery published and fully available on request. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 15
