UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Index 5 Message from our Founder and Administrator 7 Who we are 13 Our value chain 15 Human rights 2 19 Environment 3 43 Labour 51 Anti-Corruption 53 Future programmes for sustainability development 56 COP distribution and contacts “ WE MAKE LIFE EASIER FOR THOSE WHO TAKE CARE OF THE Capo d’Orlando, April 1st 2020 I am glad to introduce this Communication on Progress, through which we confirm that Irritec supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. through efficient irrigation solutions, transferring the tools and know-how for the implementation of sustainable agriculture practices. We do believe that by continuing to invest in the PLANTS, FOR WORK AND FOR research and development of innovative solutions Our company was incorporated in 1974 in Capo we can contribute to enhance access to food, wad’Orlando (in Messina, Sicily), my hometown. I got ter and work in line with the Sustainable DevelopPASSION. into plastic technology working with my father ment Goals. and my uncle. They had bought a machine for the manufacturing of window blinds and I came up In this document, we report our actions to continWE WORK TO ENSURE THAT 4 with the idea, or maybe intuition, that my family ually improve the integration of the Global Com5 and I could do something to irrigate our thirsty pact and its principles into our business strategy, land. We started to produce irrigation pipes and to culture and operations. EVERY DROP IS USED AS WELL develop irrigation systems that could convey the water exactly where the plants needed it. We also commit to sharing this information with That is where and how our commitment to susour stakeholders using our primary channels of AS POSSIBLE, AVOIDING tainability began. Today we are an international family business communication because we believe that only working together with our customers, suppliers and the other stakeholders, “drop by drop”, we can THE WASTE OF RESOURCES. group, playing a major role in conveying agriculture water to over 120 countries in the world face the global challenges, improve our life and protect our planet. Sincerely yours, Carmelo Giuffrè Founder and Administrator Irritec S.p.A. WHO WE ARE ‘ Sustainable The Irritec® group, founded in Sicily in 1974, is one of the world’s smart irrigation leaders. We design, produce and dis+700 experts irrigation top player tribute complete irrigation products and systems for open all over the world founded in 1974 fields, greenhouses and landscaping providing assistance and the training to the farmers all over the world, while promotin Sicily Italy ing water saving awareness. With over 700 staff members, 12 +6000 products 6 manufacturing/commercial branches in Italy, Spain, Mexico, Brazil, the USA, Germany, Algeria and Chile, we work every day the widest range Patented production to develop increasingly efficient irrigation solutions and raise for irrigation 7 technology the water saving awareness. solutions The Giuffrè family From left to right: Vincenza, Giulia, Carmelo and Mauro Giuffrè Our manufacturing/commercial branches OUR MISSION IRRITEC designs, develops, manufactures and distributes highly-technological and reliable irrigation systems all over 12 international the world that guarantee the maximum efficiency with the production/ I NEU-ULM ‘ GERMANY I BOLOGNA least environmental impact and at reasonable prices. commercial ‘ ITALY Specialized in drip irrigation systems, the Company branches I FRESNO constantly invests in perfecting the manufacturing ‘ USA I ASSEMINI ‘ ITALY processes of extrusion and injection molding, thus I VALDOSTA ‘‘ ensuring the excellent quality standards that have ‘ USA I CARMONA SPAIN made Irritec an international leading brand. +120 export I ‘ countries CAPO D’ORLANDO ITALY I I ALGERI The constant research of innovative materials and ‘ QUERETARO MEXICO ALGERIA Headquarters 9 solutions allows for the increasing efficiency of agriculture and gardening products. Thanks also to the collaboration with remarkable partners, Irritec offers a comprehensive range of products +15.000 and services for all irrigation requirements and applications, international including construction, water supply, heating and plumbing. expert network Through the direct presence and a diffused international sales network, Irritec closely follows farmers in the whole world to assist them in the selection, design, installation and use of the irrigation systems that best suit their needs. I INDAIATUBA ‘ BRAZIL Constant customer care to provide effective and sustainable I SANTIAGO I Manufacturing branch ‘ CHILE solutions with a punctual and efficient service. I Commercial branch I New 2020 strategic hub OUR VALUES Innovation • Innovation for development: spreading tech• Homeland bond: enhancing local expertise confor development nological progress for the protection of our planet and the improvement of life quality for farmers tributing to development. and those who take care of the plants. Constantly • Work ethics: acting with responsibility, enhancCompetence innovating the product catalogue and implementing the continuous perfecting of the manufacturing human resources and encouraging teamwork, investing in personnel training. ing processes. Responsibility and • Competence: offering the most appropriate and • Integrity: acting honestly and fairly in the pursuit of the objectives and in line with the corporate 10 commitment to effective solutions, guaranteeing reliable products values. the environment over their whole life, providing customized assistance. Homeland bond • Responsibility and commitment to the environment: realizing increasingly efficient irrigation solutions in terms of optimization of the availaWork ethics ble resources (water, electricity and fertilizers), optimizing the manufacturing processes in order to reduce their environmental impact (noise, air Integrity emissions, waste water, waste) OUR VALUE CHAIN ‘ RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT equipped with solar panels supplying the machini.e. assistance to our customers that contributes to We have a dedicated R&D department, who realery by a percentage rate that is going to increase keep the product working effectively. ize innovative irrigation solutions that improve the according to our sustainability programme. We aplife of farmers, so that they can save time, water, ply a “Zero Waste” policy in the production process SOCIAL VALUE fertilizers and energy while experiencing yield imas well as an increasing percentage of recycled raw Our experts work every day to teach our customprovement in terms of both quality and quantity. material each year. ers how to optimize the water resources and max12 imize the benefits while fully respecting the envi13 PROCUREMENT LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION ronment, thus raising environmental awareness. Our suppliers are very important for the whole valOur direct investments have been focused on getThrough training and assistance, we generate ue chain, because they contribute to the realization ting closer to our customers, which also led to a skills and trust in technology, contributing to susof quality products and services. We are committed reduction of CO2 emissions generated by transtainable agriculture and life improvement. to selecting suppliers that share the principles of portation. Irritec is assessing the opportunity for our Ethical Code. further direct investments in the coming years. OPERATIONS MARKETING AND SALES Our manufacturing experts transfer know-how We have a dedicated department identifying the from the mother company to the branches of our market and sales opportunities. We sell our prodgroup, generating skills. Our headquarters are ucts/systems and provide the necessary service, Photo by Eddie Kopp on Unsplash HUMAN RIGHTS ‘ IRRITEC is focused on protecting human rights, well as with a comfortable environment with no direct supervisor makes the first have their say and both within its organization and beyond. discrimination based on race, sex, nationality, lancontributes to the improvement of processes and As specified in our company Ethical Code, Irritec guage or any other status. procedures in the company. In other words, Irritec is committed to comply with all applicable laws established an “open-door policy” where each and respect internationally recognized human In order to pursue the fundamental and constant employee is free to express their opinion and ideas 14 rights (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights), aim of developing and guaranteeing a comby approaching their managers, who are receptive wherever the company operates. Irritec upholds fortable environment in the respect of human to their suggestions, thus enhancing a “family 15 the protection and promotion of human rights, acrights, Irritec has been carrying out several activifeeling” within the organization. cording to the principles of equality, solidarity and ties that are part of everyday business. repudiation of war. Irritec managers work daily to make sure that their Interaction is also fostered between members of employees are provided safe, suitable and sanithe different subsidiaries through visits and reAccording to our Whistleblower policy set out in tary work facilities in the headquarters as well as mote meetings which support multicultural coour Ethical Code, everyone at Irritec is invited to rein each subsidiary. operation and sharing of experience and ideas, as port any violation of the code itself without being well as by a dedicated annual party called “Famdismissed for having made such a report. Everyone at Irritec is invited to write a monthly ily day” of all Irritec employees where everyone We do believe that each and every person has the report to share their achievements and their meets each other’s families outside the company right to an adequate standard of living, which satisfaction level with the corporate managers. facilities, having a meal together, playing and comPhoto by Clarisse Croset on Unsplash comes with the right to education and to work, as This interaction between each employee and their peting for the “cake challenge”. IRRITEC FAMILY DAYs The cultivation of positive relationships within “Frost & Sullivan’s global team of analysts and conIn Developing Countries, through training, Irritec women are of vital importance to rural economies. Irritec staff members is easily reflected in the resultants continuously research a wide range of marexperts contribute to the development of skilled Their labour burden exceeds that of men, considlationship with their stakeholders outside the kets across multiple sectors and geographies. As part local workers, which contributes to achieving a ering that women are not only responsible for agcompany. More specifically, Irritec “family feeling” of this ongoing research, we identify companies that better standard of living, mainly because efficient riculture, but also for household activities, collectis conveyed from its employees to its customers. consistently deepen customer relationships by ofirrigation technology increases production, thus ing water, taking care of children. Irritec teaches Through projects around the world, Irritec experts fering superior products and services that deliver a helping farmers achieving food self-sufficiency women how to make the most from efficient irriget in touch with farmers, who tell their story, exclear, demonstrable ROI. (right to water and food) and switching from aggation, so that their labour burden is reduced. In press their needs and goals, troubles and achieveThis involves extensive primary and secondary rericulture self-sufficiency to agriculture as a source this way, their work in the field is faster, less hard ments. Irritec experts become a reference for search across the entire value chain of specific prodof income (right to work). and more productive and they can spend more the farmers, and the farmers become an essenucts. Against the backdrop of this research, Frost & What is more, mainly in Developing Countries, time with their children. In this regard, Irritec activtial resource for the development of new soluSullivan is pleased to recognize Irritec as the Customity contributes to gender equality. tions. This dialogue and appreciation of human er Value Leader in the Micro Irrigation industry.» Our social commitment also makes us strong sup16 resources is confirmed by customer loyalty. porters of the battle against violence against 17 women, for which we support the Pink Running Sicily marathon, and of foundations for the protection of the life of underprivileged children like Onlus LAD, aimed at improving the quality of hospital life of the children affected by oncological diseases and their families, to whom we donated the irrigation system for the hospital’s educational gardens. Irritec is working to strengthening its mission in the Developing Countries, firmly believing that Irritec efficient agriculture technology can make an imstaff and customers in Oporto portant contribution towards cultural freedom. ENVIRONMENT ‘ As stated in our principles and confirmed by our Irritec circular model mission, policy and value proposition, at Irritec we acknowledge the importance of sustainable development and are committed to protecting the environment and our planet Earth as a whole. 18 By developing and providing increasingly efficient irrigation solutions, we allow each farmer 19 Product the optimization of the available resources. On disposal after use the other hand, we constantly assess the environmental impact of our business and improve our Sustainable practices to reduce it by implementing a series of irrigation actions, measures and initiatives, both locally and globally. While performing our business activity and training, we raise the environmental responsibility of customers and stakeholders. Smart plastic Efficient production use of recycled raw material, no waste of raw material, high quality/reduced plastic reuse of water, product design renewable energy VALUE We know that agriculture is the sector using the highest amount of water, which is why farmers to 95% efficiency. Plants grow quickly when they are watered uniformly. Also, more than one crop TRAINING FOR LIFE PROPOSITION: must adopt sustainable practices to save it. Through our drip irrigation systems we allow the cycle is permitted each year on the same area. The foliage is kept dry, thus reducing the inciIMPROVEMENT BY SUSTAINABLE farmers to efficiently and rationally use the redence of plant diseases that occur in damp conSUSTAINABLE IRRIGATION TECHNOLOGY sources required, which results in saving water, ditions. fertilizers (preserving the quality and quantity of groundwater) and energy while getting higher Also, drip irrigation systems reduce pumping TEE D 110 and better yields. costs, due to lower pressure requirements. Our team works every day to spread environmenWhile assisting and training the farmers, our Drip irrigation can be advantageous in using poor tal awareness by trying to involve the farmers, stuagronomists teach them how to use, mainDrip irrigation benefits Approx. average compared to flood irrigation quality waters high in saline content without afdents and other stakeholders in pursuing the sustain and get most from efficient irrigation fecting the yield. tainable development goals. systems, transferring know-how, trust in VALVE 20 Water saving 50-70 % Our agronomists teach them how to optimize watechnology and environmental awareness. 21 Fertilizer saving 30% DISK FILTER DN100 Last but not least, drip irrigation systems require ter resources and benefits while fully respecting Following a gradual approach, they start Energy saving 80% less human labour than traditional irrigation systhe environment. from the basics until they learn how to manProduction increase 20-25% tems. Once the system is installed, the farmer just This is mainly done through: age automatic remote-control irrigation 100 MC/H needs to open/close the valves in the case of mansystems. The reason for the efficiency of microirrigation is ual operation. In the case of automatic irrigation/ Complete irrigation projects. Training leads to the generation of skilled VALVE that it allows the distribution of water and of the fertigation, everything can be managed remotely. After analysing the particular solution according to irrigation professionals in the countries DN100 nutrient solution in small quantities and more frethe soil, the crops and the available water source, where the system is installed. quently to keep the ideal moisture level of the root All of this contributes to the above mentioned we design the irrigation system that best meets zone to precisely irrigate any type of crop. Water resource savings and yield quality/quantity imthe needs of the farmer. After supplying the goods, (irrigation) and nutrients (fertigation) are conprovements. we provide installation assistance and training by veyed according to the crop’s actual needs with up ourselves or through our partners. SOME OF OUR IRRIGATION 55 HA hazelnuts radio system PROJECT STORIES ITALY 22 23 120 HA almonds SPAIN 40 HA almonds 24 25 ZAMBIA 26 Women in Zambia learn how 27 to use efficient irrigation systems 28 29 30 31 ETHIOPIA 32 33 CAMERUN BRAZIL AMERICA EMPLOY PROJECT 20.000 farmers of 100 villages from the region of Woilata, Ethiopia, will improve their standard of living thanks to the Employ Project, supported by Ministry of the Interior with the help of Institutions and Associations, through the implementation of installations that facilitate agricultural capacity, soil fertility, improving an environmentally friendly production and optimizing food safety and farmers’ income. Irritec, in collaboration with CEFA, designed and provided material and assistance for drip irrigation system to cultivate different kinds of vegetables. Raising awareness initiatives and activities “Orti in condotta”, the project agreed by Irritec and Slow Food in 2015 with the purpose of improving the food habits of Italian children and their families, as well as their relationship with the environment. Irritec contribution included the donation of the irrigation kit to Italian schools to Our programme for the future includes an inshow the children and their teachers how to benecreased focus on developing countries to contribfit from the advantages of drip irrigation. ute firstly to the achievement of food security 34 and to the switch from agriculture as a source of The protection and development of self-sufficiency to agriculture as a source of ingreen urban areas 35 come. After having created the drip irrigation system of the Biodiversity Park at EXPO 2015, in the same Through “Irritec Academy” https://www.irritec. year we sponsored and actively participated in the com/irritec-academy/, our education dedicated “Green City” project promoted by the Municipaliprogramme consisting of a series of free periodty of Milan, carrying out the design and supply of ical seminars and conferences carried out by our the irrigation system of the Lea Garofalo garden, experts in universities, research centers and instinamed after an Italian woman who was murdered tutes aimed at sharing the sustainable irrigation due to her fight against organized crime. practices and experiences at business, education and institutional level. Irritec Academy seminar on tropical fruit in Sicily Moreover, Irritec irrigates the rare Susan Daniel • generate no water waste in our manufacturing Thanks to energy audits, our Energy Manager is able duction of the energy consumption of our producroses blooming in the flowerbeds of Piazza Scala process to better identify the areas where energy consumption machinery, namely -7,795 from 2017 to 2018 in Milan. • use energy and resources sparingly and recycle tion can be reduced or optimized, analysing utility and -9,906% from 2017 to 2019. materials wherever possible usage for the development of conservation projects. MANUFACTURING ENERGY-EFFICENCY INDEX: R&D investments in innovation for • carry out the necessary operations to minimize The energy-saving investments and measures alREDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2017-2018-2019 sustainability the environmental damage ready implemented in our facilities mainly include: FOR THE PROCESSING OF 1 KG OF PLASTIC MATERIAL We have always focused on the innovation of • ensure emergency procedures to prevent and adinstallation of solar panels: supplying 4% of YEAR REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR products aimed at introducing increasingly effidress any accidents affecting the environment and the energy consumption of our manufacturing THE PROCESSING OF 1 KG OF PLASTIC MATERIAL cient irrigation techniques, with particular attenhuman health machinery 2017 tion to the environment and nature, the main ben• minimize the use and ensure safe handling and energy requalification of our buildings by the 2018 -7.795% efit of microirrigation being water saving. storage of chemical and other dangerous substances replacement of window glass and frames to opti2019 -9,906% Our Research and Development activities are fomize the energy balance of the building and the 36 cused on the innovation and upgrade of our Energy management work environment installation of detection lighting, saving ener37 manufacturing processes and products, aiming Energy management is a fundamental topic to energy requalification of our manufacturing gy in spaces that are not permanently in use to increase their efficiency and reduce their enviIrritec. For this reason, in 2018 we appointed a machinery: replacement of our printing devices with more ronmental impact. dedicated Energy Manager, who has the task to over the last three years we replaced 18% of our energy-efficient machinery. monitor the energy efficiency performance of our hydraulic moulding machines with fully electric Manufacturing processes facilities and implement the necessary measures ones, whose energy consumption is one third Moreover, we are currently assessing the following We constantly invest in perfecting our manufacto improve it in line with the sustainability goals. compared to hydraulic moulding machines. Also, opportunity for future projects including, among turing processes in order to improve their perforThe following actions have been carried out for the the new machines generate a reduced consumpothers: mance while reducing the environmental impact. pursuit of the energy efficiency sustainability goal: tion of water and industrial oil • The realization of an energy recovery unit for In pursuing our business goals, we: • performance of energy audits improvement of the energy efficiency of our the recovery of heat energy in production allow• generate no “product waste” in production: any • development and implementation of energy-savmanufacturing machinery in terms of kwh coning 90000 kwh, i.e. 17 TEP saving per year. production waste is appropriately reincluded in ing strategies sumption/produced kg: • The replacement of our lighting fixture with the production cycle • projects for further improvement as shown in the diagram below, we achieved a remore energy-saving devices. Waste management GREEN FIELDS project: The project promotes the correct disposal of irrimaking a resource out of waste gation materials from any brand and it involves As stated in our vision, we are committed to miniOne of the main components of a drip irrigation various stakeholders, raising the environmenmizing the waste of the resources and the ecologisystem is the seasonal dripline, made of recyclable tal awareness among Irritec personnel itself, the cal footprint. This necessarily includes the constant plastic material. companies specialized in waste collection and reimprovement of our waste management processThrough the “Green Fields” project, that we cycling, dealers and farmers, with a membership es as one of our priorities. launched in Italy in 2015 and extended to Mexiincrease by 61% in the 2018-feb 2020 period, comOur waste management strategy incorporates the co, we encourage and promote the disposal of pared to the 2015-2017 period, and an increasing 3 R’s principle: reduce, reuse and recycle. the irrigation plastic materials after use in line project loyalty index in the 2015-2017 period comApart from encouraging our staff to recycle all poswith the environment and applicable regulations. pared to the 2018-present period. sible materials with dedicated recycling bins in The farmers who join the initiative become Green Thanks to the collaboration of the above partners our facilities, we work to implement the waste hiFields ambassadors, receiving the Irritec “Certifiand stakeholders, developing environmental re38 erarchy principles in the whole value chain. cate of Excellence in Sustainable Irrigation“ and sponsibility, the quantity of plastic material col39 Our research & development activities are are awarded a voucher for their future purchase lected from the field has been increasing year by aimed at designing increasingly innovative irriof sustainable irrigation products. At the end of year, in particular: gation products with the lowest environmental Irritec is a circular economy model according to Symbola and Enel the process, Irritec purchases high quality recycled • in 2019 there was a 24% increase compared to impact, with a special focus on the increasing raw material to produce new irrigation products. 2018 in Italy, 23% in Mexico. development of multi-seasonal products, longer product life, lower product weight. This results in re-including the production scraps in the mangress in such trend, thanks to our dedicated Raw increasing product efficiency while reducing the ufacturing process. Material Department, which is committed to idenquantity of plastics required, indirectly contribMoreover, our production process includes an intifying the raw material which best meets the qualuting to reducing CO2 emissions generated by creasing percentage of recycled raw material. ity requirements that are essential for guaranteethe production of raw material. Over the last two years we experienced over 6% ing the performances of our products. In line with the “reuse” principle, we apply a “zero increase in the use of recycled raw material in Last but not least, over 65% of our cardboard waste” policy in our facilities by appropriately production and we are working for further propackaging is made of recycled material. The dealer selles THE PROJECT STAGES 2 the dripline to the farmer Irritec produces 1 the dripline and At the end of the provides season, the farmer asks it to the dealer 3 for the collection of the product 40 41 Green Fields project Green Fields has been awarded the innovative Irritec can trace The customer receives a dedicated website product prize in 2018 in Mexico the recycled discount voucer to be redeemed https://greenfields.irritec.com/ We are working to integrate the recycling activity plastic material 5 on new dripline purchase and within our facilities in Mexico in accordance with suitable for 4 becomes an Irritec-certified And video the applicable local regulations. This investment irrigation products supporter of the environment https://www.youtube.com/ will allow a better control of the recycled materiwatch?v=kCLH5SPlMx0 al. Moreover, we are planning to extend the scope of the programme by including other products to further reduce the plastic carbon footprint. LABOUR ‘ Our team includes over 700 people from different principles and contents of the Ethical Code within ment where our employees are involved and their countries and backgrounds working for a common their functions and responsibilities, in the awareskills, talents and potentials are appreciated and goal: spreading the technology of efficient irriganess that compliance with the Code is an essendeveloped. In order for the Management to better tion in the world. tial part of the quality of the work performance. monitor the personnel’s activity and satisfaction As stated in the first section of our Ethical code, all As declared in our Ethical Code, all Irritec employlevel, each employee is asked to submit a monthsorts of discrimination, corruption, forced labour ees, at all levels, must act respecting the principles ly report. Apart from complying with minimum 42 or child labour are repudiated. Particular considof honesty, fairness, collaboration, loyalty and wage standards, we annually award our employ43 eration is given to safeguarding and recognizing mutual respect. ees according to the achievement of the compadignity, freedom and equality of human beings, ny’s targets. the protection of labour, freedom of trade unions, We are aware that developing an increasingly health and safety. comfortable working environment is not only fair In the last four years we have invested in the deand imperative, but it contributes to the compavelopment of a “welfare award system” which In this regard, Irritec operates within the frameny’s success. Our dedicated HR Management gives each employee who has been awarded such work of the United Nations Universal Declaration department periodically monitor the employee’s “bonus” the opportunity to redeem it by purchasof Human Rights, the fundamental Conventions of satisfaction and assess opportunities for further ing welfare services and thus benefiting from the the ILO International Labour Organization and improvement of the personnel’s well-being in tax relief set by law. The available welfare services the OECD Guidelines. the workplace. In other words, we work daily to include, among others, school refunds, study holAll Irritec people, without distinctions or excepguarantee not just decent working conditions idays, language courses etc. for the employee and tions, conform their actions and behaviours to the but also a comfortable and welcoming environhis/her family. Costa d’Orlando Basket Team SAFETY AND What is more, special attention is reserved to TRAINING The consistency and implementation of our safety Irritec mothers. Irritec women are assigned and responsibility-raising measures has proved to a special parking during pregnancy and afbe successful, with a positive trend in the “numWe are committed to guaranteeing an increasingter childbirth they can ask for adjustment of ber of worked hours vs. total working hours” in ly safe and comfortable work environment for our their working hours according to the baby’s Irritec group, 96.38% in our headquarters in Italy employees. As specified in our Ethical Code, alcorequirements. in 2018. Work is underway to increase the awarehol and drugs are prohibited. Smoking is not All Irritec employees and their families can ness of each employee regarding safety at work allowed in the company. benefit from special rates agreed upon by through meetings and training and information Our dedicated department works daily to preIrritec and a given list of selected product/ sessions on diverse topics based on the informavent and reduce the risks to the workers’ health service providers such as restaurants, shops tion collected with the adoption of a sourcing sysand safety while motivating workers to develop and gyms. tem of accidents and “near-miss”. a sense of responsibility towards their own and 44 This is also a way to encourage sport activities their colleagues’ health and safety, encouraging among our employees, since we believe that the continuous improvement of the individual Skills development 45 exercising can help everyone to relieve from Diversity and inclusion in our team are essential skills of each employee. Each employee is required physical and emotional stress. In order to profor our activity, making a remarkable contribution to undergo periodical medical examination and to mote sport among our stakeholders, we also for the valuable relationship built over years of exattend a series of safety courses. support basketball and cycling initiatives perience with our customers, partners and comin Italy and abroad, like the “Costa d’Orlando munity stakeholders from all over the world. Our between the level of education and the type of In order to foster the communication and inteBasket S.s. D a r.l.” Sicilian Basketball team, IRRITEC SPA INJURY INDEX HR department is committed to make employemployment of our workforce. gration with our stakeholders, we have invested the “Costa Academy” basketball project for ment-related decisions based on relevant, objecWe invest in the development of the skills of our in communication training programmes includchildren, the cycling competition CIRCUITO The average injury severity and frequency index tive and inclusive criteria. Our workforce namely employees because we firmly believe that training ing, among others, foreign language courses as PROVINCIAL SEVILLA CARRETERA as well of average injuries of the last 6 years is below the includes local human resources (in line with our gives our employees the learning opportunities well as public speaking seminars. as the recent European tour experience of a national average (Italy) (data source INAIL ref. home-land bond principle), international as well they need to keep moving forward in their career, Periodic visits by the employees of the subsidiaryoung cyclist called “Tour in bici sulle strade 2008-2010 for the manufacturing industries for as vulnerable staff members. in the interaction with each other and with our ies at the headquarters (and viceversa) encourage d’Europa”. rubber and plastic processing). In terms of relevance, there is 95% consistency stakeholders. teamwork. Irritec Iberia – Carmona de Sevilla The European Tour Cycling Experience of Comin Untrece INTERACTION • creation of a partnership with the local industrial technical education institutes WITH SCHOOLS through school-work alternation projects, aimed at developing in-depth knowledge of AND UNIVERSITIES basic technical skills • creation of events addressed to teachers, to establish a dialogue and comparison on the skills required by the companies and those From the bond with the territory and the desire to developed by the students through current offer a tangible contribution to the enhancement study programs of professionalism and the integration of young people into the labour market comes a series of 46 • meetings and conferences with teachers activities we carry out. To name a few: and students to encourage training aimed at 47 job placement • participation of our Management in variOur Founder Carmelo Giuffrè ous events organized by local schools in ortells Irritec story at the University Residence of Alcantara, Catania (Sicily). der to tell his entrepreneurial experience and the importance of skills and knowledge to access the labour market • activation of curricular internships with university students to facilitate professional choices through direct knowledge of the labour market. OUR EMPLOYEES With over 700 employees worldwide (over 2,5% increase compared to 2017), the number of employees at Irritec S.p.A. increased by 2.43% in 2018 and by 2.53% in 2019. Year N° Variation % 2018 425,57 10,34 2,43% 2019 436,61 11,04 2,53% Over 85% of our employees are hired through a 48 permanent contract and the number of perma49 nent employees is going to increase. Part of our employees have been loyal to our company for over 20 years now. IRRITEC IS A TOP JOB COMPANY Employees by gender Irritec is among the “300 top job companies Irritec S.p.A. is a manufacturing company where in Italy “, according to the independent study a good percentage of employees is hired for the carried out by the German Institute of Quality production department. Women generally apply and Finance, published in «La Repubblica Affor administrative positions, accounting for over fari & Finanza» on 2 December 2019. 10 % of the total employees in our headquarters in 2019 and for a higher percentage in our affiliated companies. Irritec employees receiving the “20 year gift” ANTI-CORRUPTION ‘ Irritec business is inspired by and based on the Without prejudice to compliance with applicable as well as any offer received which could be in conrespect of the company’s values, legal complilegislation, the business objectives, projects, intrast with Irritec anti-corruption commitment. ance, fairness and transparency towards all the vestments and actions must all be aimed at creatstakeholders, without distinction of importance of ing value and well-being for all stakeholders. Irritec is committed to adequately inform third the deal. parties about the commitments and obligations Improper payments, bribes, gratuities, materiimposed by the Ethical Code, requires them to 50 For this reason, our Ethical Code is focused on real benefits and other advantages of any entity comply with the principles that directly concern 51 jecting any form of corruption both internally to third parties, representatives of governments, their business and adopts the appropriate internal and externally, starting from the assumption that public officials and public or private employees as and, if within their competence, external initiatives in no way can the conviction of acting for the bensuch are prohibited. in the event of non-fulfilment by third parties. efit or in the interest of Irritec justify, even in part, the adoption of behaviours that conflict with the Gifts and forms of hospitality are permitted only principles and contents of the Code itself. if they are of modest value and in any case such as not to compromise the integrity or reputation of Corruption practices, illegitimate favours, colluthe parties. In any case, this type of expenses must sive behaviours, direct or indirect actions aimed at always be authorized by internal procedures. obtaining personal and career advantages for oneself or for others are strictly prohibited. All employees are required to report any breach FUTURE PROGRAMMES FOR SUSTAINABILITY ‘ DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING “We’ve become a reference 52 In line with our transparency principle, we are asfor smart irrigation, 53 sessing the possibility to draft a sustainability reporting as opportunity for a deeper analysis of our but will accomplish our sustainability impacts and performance at each sustainability mission level of our organization. when everyone looking at a tomato in a supermarket CARBON NEUTRALITY Recognizing the urgency of the climate challenge, will ask how much water we are working to set the parameters which will was used to irrigate it” Photo by Maarten van den Heuvel on Unsplash help us to calculate the carbon footprint generated by our operations together with our “carbon neuGiulia Giuffrè trality” actions and initiatives in order to improve Irritec Group Marketing Director our contribution to limit temperature increase to and Sustainability Ambassador 1.5°C. PRIZES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS IRRITEC IS AN ELITE COMPANY Sustainability Customer value leadership Élite is the program launched by Borsa Italiana within London Stock Exchange Group for the organizational and managerial development of the Management and Performance best Italian companies. 54 55 Innovation https://it.elite-growth.com/en/companies/irritec COP DISTRIBUTION AND CONTACTS This report will be made available to Irritec employees and stakeholders mainly through the UN Global Compact website and Irritec 56 website www.irritec.com 57 Contact person: Giulia Giuffrè Irritec Group Marketing Director and Sustainability Ambassador +39 0941 922 111 irritec@irritec.com irritec.com irritec.com
