Sustainability Report 2019 Creating a Sustainable Energy Future Content CEO Introduction 5 Developing Sustainable Low Highlights Carbon Solutions 1 Sustainability at Aker Solutions 6 Driving a Responsible and Our View UN Sustainable Development Goals: Our Commitment Sustainable Supplier Base Climate-Related Risk About this Report 7 Respecting and Promoting Human Rights 2 Conducting our Business with 8 Ensuring a Competent, Integrity Engaged, and Diverse Workforce 3 Safeguarding People and Assets 9 Engaging and Supporting Local 4 Our Environmental Impact Communities Appendix MENU CEO Introduction Over the past year, Aker Solutions has taken significant steps to create a company that has a broader portfolio of solutions, better suited to meet demand over the next decade. We also took important steps to position the company for the energy transition as we launched our updated enterprise strategy. However, it is important to note that the oil and gas industry is and will remain our biggest market – this year and also in 2030. We are proud of being among the first oil and gas offshore contractors to set concrete targets for the energy transition. 3 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO INTRODUCTION MENU Market volatility increased sharply in the beginning of 2020 and has The safety of our people is our top priority and Along with our continued focus on safety, been further exacerbated by the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak. in March, we implemented the International business integrity, and anti-corruption, in 2019 Increased production volumes from several major oil producing Association of Oil and Gas Producers’ LifeAker Solutions established an internal human countries have caused a significant decline in global oil and gas prices, Saving Rules. The implementation of the rights committee with representatives from and in mid-March 2020 the Brent oil price fell below $30/bbl for the Life-Saving Rules was the biggest HSSE HSSE, business integrity and compliance, first time since 2016. The sharp decline in oil prices has increased initiative to be rolled out in our organization human resources, data protection, supply chain, uncertainty in an already tough market. The spread of COVID-19 is in recent years; nine important rules that communications, and the employee unions. I causing global disruption with negative consequences both for human align our organization around basic safety have given the committee the mandate to ensure health and economic activity. principles. I am happy to see that our safety that the company has a sound human rights record improved last year, with our global TRIF program and work to continuously improve it. The scale of the economic impact on the major world economies (total recordable injury frequency) coming is unprecedented. Aker Solutions has implemented measures in all down from 2.2 to 1.29 at the end of 2019. The Aker Solutions has continued the engagement locations to minimize the spread of the virus and minimize the risk of launch of the Life-Saving Rules played a part, with Stiftelsen VI, together with 10 other disruptions to its operations. It is too early to say how these events will and helped engage people to focus on the companies in the Aker ASA group. The impact our operations in the long term, however short term it is likely to simple rules that save lives. foundation aims to contribute to a higher quality have an effect on project deliveries. The challenging commodity price of life, improved health, increased self-efficiency, environment and the effects of the coronavirus are likely to impact the Climate change is high on our agenda. and more social interaction for people with global oil and gas industry in 2020, and Aker Solutions will continue to Investors and businesses are focused not disabilities. We see the foundation’s goals as be vigilant and evaluate the need for further measures going forward. only on emissions but also how climatean extension of our efforts to promote equality, related risks—physical and regulatory—will human rights, and local community engagement Long term, the energy demand continues to increase, and the impact their assets and investments. With the and are proud to partner with them. challenge for our industry is to provide sustainable solutions with a risk of increased cost of capital, we believe significantly lower carbon footprint. The industry is changing and we climate-related risk is something that needs Since 2008 we have maintained our signatory are committed to being at the forefront of innovation. To take another to be tackled head-on. Aker Solutions has membership with the UN Global Compact. step in this direction we updated our enterprise strategy. We set some undertaken a comprehensive climate risk We are committed to the goals of the United clear long-term targets for our company, which we call 20/25/30: we review in line with the Task Force on ClimateNations and continue to incorporate the 10 aim to generate 20 percent of our revenue from renewables and 25 related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We principles into the way we do business. percent of our revenue from low carbon solutions by the year 2030. believe that providing this information will help investors and stakeholders better understand Our commitment to sustainability has never Within renewable energy, we see great opportunities in offshore floating how Aker Solutions is positioned to manage the been more visible and I firmly believe that our wind, where we are using our expertise in floating structures, dynamic risks and opportunities associated with climate new 20/25/30 targets are the correct ambition cables and subsea infrastructure to our competitive advantage. We change. We have also integrated climate risk for the future of our company. have worked on carbon capture, utilization and storage solutions into our Enterprise Risk Management system, (CCUS) for many years, and in 2019, we secured our first commercial and we have committed to a comprehensive contract with Twence, a Dutch waste-to-energy company. CCUS is new materiality assessment in 2020 that will Luis Araujo one of our distinct low carbon solutions that has great potential. replace the 2018 assessment. Chief Executive Officer 4 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO INTRODUCTION MENU Highlights 0.3 1.29 744 Serious Incident Total Recordable CO2 Emission Frequency Injury Frequency Intensity 10pt 22% 98.7% Increase in Annual Employee Female Employees Completed Annual Engagement Score Leaders Code of Conduct Training Aker Solutions is committed to operating safely, developing our people, our suppliers, and the communities where we do business. 5 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO INTRODUCTION MENU 1. Sustainability at Aker Solutions Sustainability at Aker Solutions is about making business decisions that add value to the company, its stakeholders, and society. 6 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU Our View Vision A leader in forging a sustainable future for the global energy industry and the world it serves. Building on almost 200 years of technological and engineering excellence, Aker Solutions is at the forefront in forging a sustainable future for the global energy industry and the world it serves. A spirit of collaboration and openness is at the heart of this effort as we set new standards and solve new challenges. 7 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU Values 20/25/30 and thereby respects and adheres to the All Aker Solutions employees share a common set Aker Solutions’ strategy sets the direction for precautionary principle (Principle 7). of values – the compass that guides our policies, where we want to go as a company, combined our operations, and our behavior. with a plan for getting there. A sustainable Aker Solutions reports and communicates on energy future means investing in new technology sustainability according to the Global Reporting and offerings to address the need for lowering Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the carbon footprint of the energy industry as and the Task Force on Climate Related Financial well as developing alternative sources of energy. Disclosures (TCFD). We also follow sustainability Our new 20/25/30 goals provide clear, long-term reporting recommendations from the Oslo Stock targets for our company. Exchange. Aker Solutions’ strategy supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We aim to generate 20 percent of our revenue from renewables and 25 percent of our revenue Sustainability at Aker Solutions is owned by from low carbon solutions by the year 2030. the CEO. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing and safeguarding management We believe oil and gas will remain our largest of the company’s sustainability (environmental, revenue contributor, but in order to remain social, and governance ESG) work. competitive we will have to deliver costeffective solutions to optimize performance and 20/25/30 minimize the cost and environmental footprint in both new and existing segments. means we aim to Governance Aker Solutions works proactively to ensure generate 20 percent of our revenue from sustainability, integrity, and responsibility in its operations. Sustainability at Aker Solutions is about renewables and making sustainable business decisions that add value to the company, its stakeholders, 25 percent of our and society. Sustainability considerations are revenue from low carbon solutions by integrated in internal processes and business operations and tailored to diverse local contexts the year 2030. and stakeholder expectations. The company is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, 8 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU In 2019, the company’s communications team, and as a business has a profound impact on Aker Solutions' Sustainability under the COO, had the responsibility to assess, maintain, and report on these topics while the the company’s ability to create long-term value for society and for our shareholders. More Governance Structure company’s delivery centers are responsible information on risk management can be found for implementing, monitoring, and sharing the company’s sustainability work. Each of the in our Corporate Governance Report. Board of Directors company’s locations is responsible for ensuring The code of conduct is the key governing compliance with local legal requirements in document and the foundation of our drive addition to the corporate requirements. to uphold the highest levels of integrity and CEO avoid becoming complicit in unethical or illegal Aker Solutions’ global sustainability strategy behavior. We strive to minimize harm to the Communications Team defines the vision and goals for ensuring environment by providing environmentally sound responsible conduct toward people, the technology for our own activities and those of ¡ Assess environment, and society. The strategy was our customers’. We recognize our responsibility ¡ Maintain developed through assessment of sustainability, to positively impact societies and strive to ensure climate-related risks, and dialogues with internal that they benefit from our operations. ¡ Report Oversee and Safeguard and external stakeholders. It provides a detailed framework with clear objectives for the direction Aker Solutions’ Governance System is guided and ambition of the company’s sustainability by 12 policies that are anchored at the highest activities. In 2019, the company embedded level in the organization and describe the Delivery Centers sustainability into the enterprise strategy and intention and direction of the organization as Manage will continue to do so instead of developing a formally expressed by top management. They ¡ Implement separate sustainability strategy. are valid for everyone in Aker Solutions and may ¡ Monitor be shared with our customers and prospective ¡ Share Decisions are made every day that have an customers. Our business processes are owned impact across our value chain: they affect by our global mandates with responsibility people, customers and suppliers, as well as the and authority to standardize and optimize our environment and the communities in which we work processes to secure efficient operation. operate. Some of these decisions have a shortThe 12 policies are: Governance, HSSE, Locations term impact, while others have a long-term Quality, People, Finance, Data Protection and ¡ Ensure Compliance effect on stakeholders and the environment. Information Security, Customer Management, Aker Solutions believes that the effects are Front End, Technology and Products Execution, positive overall, but the company is aware Project Execution, Services Execution, and of the difficult trade-offs and dilemmas that Business Integrity. The policies can be found on characterize the oil and gas industry. We know our website. that how we conduct ourselves as an employer 9 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU Stakeholders Aker Solutions is committed to ongoing Employees engagement with stakeholders to listen to their and Potential concerns and understand their expectations. The employees basis and scope of this report has been shaped Unions Owners by the materiality assessment conducted in 2018, and by our stakeholders’ expectations obtained through monitoring and dialogue. We interact with investors, customers, suppliers, governments and national authorities, Financial banks, non-governmental organizations and Media Community industry groups, owners, employees, and Who are our collaborative partners, through a variety of channels. These channels include management meetings, seminars and workshops, dialogue with customers and suppliers, meetings with investors and employees, quarterly stakeholders? presentations, articles and interactive blogs on the company’s intranet, and feedback NGOs Level of Influence Customers from training courses. Moving forward, we will provide an overview of issues raised by our Low different stakeholder groups. Medium High We conducted a materiality assessment in 2018 with representatives from our corporate office, business operations, and global offices. We Competitiors/ also collected input from an employee survey. Industry Suppliers The results formed a materiality matrix, which Groups has been the guiding input for our sustainability objectives. These results also determined the UN Sustainable Development Goals we Collaboration Governments/ focus on, as well as determined the scope and Partners Authorities content of this year’s report. A new materiality assessment will be conducted in 2020. 10 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU Charters and Memberships Aker Solutions is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, and is committed to its 10 principles. This report is our annual Communication on Progress. Aker Solutions has published corporate responsibility/sustainability reports since 2006, with annual releases since 2010. For 2019, we have changed the name of our Corporate Responsibility Report to Sustainability Report to align with the industry and the expectations of our shareholders. The company is also a member of Trace International, an international organization promoting transparency and compliance with anti-corruption rules, and participates in informal compliance forums with other Norwegian companies. 11 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU UN Sustainable Development Goals: Our Commitment Starting with the highest level of Good health Quality Gender the organization, Key Performance and well being education equality Indicators (KPIs) and specific targets hold leadership, managers, Ensure healthy lives and Ensure inclusive and equitable Achieve gender equality promote well-being for quality education and promote and empower all and employees accountable for all at all ages lifelong learning opportunities for all women and girls sustainability at Aker Solutions. Throughout this report we will share many of these KPIs and targets for 2019 to demonstrate the company’s global commitment to responsible business. Affordable and Decent work and Responsible consumption clean energy economic growth and production Aker Solutions supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals Ensure access to affordable, Promote sustained, inclusive and Ensure sustainable reliable, sustainable and sustainable economic growth, consumption and (SDGs), a collection of 17 global modern energy for all full and productive employment production patterns goals set by the United Nations and decent work for all General Assembly in 2015. We have prioritized 9 SDGs where we believe we can have the most impact. These 9 goals are aligned with the KPIs, targets, and focus areas Climate Life below Peace, justice and of our business and we seek to action water strong institutions contribute positively to the goals. Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably Promote peaceful and inclusive combat climate change use the oceans, seas societies for sustainable development, and its impacts and marine resources for provide access to justice for all and sustainable development build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 12 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU Climate-Related Risks Aker Solutions follows the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. The TCFD recommended disclosures and our responses can be found in the independent Climate Risk Review in the appendix of this report. Aker Solutions has identified several climate-related risks and their potential business impacts. Physical Risks Regulatory and Liability Risks Technology Risks ¡ Extreme weather, floods, and drought ¡ Carbon tax, energy regulations, ¡ Breakthroughs or ¡ Changes in natural resources product efficiency regulations incremental improvements (water scarcity) ¡ Lawsuits from parties who suffer Potential impacts damage Existing technologies becoming Potential impacts obsolete Damage to physical assets Potential impacts Required investment in new Disruption to operation, supply chain, market, Compliance cost technologies public infrastructure Restriction on use of carbon intensive assets Write offs for technologies, Degradation or limitation Liability cost stranded assets on resources Market Risks Reputational Risks ¡ Change in consumer ¡ Concerns surrounding the nature and investor behaviour of company’s activities and impacts ¡ New production models Potential impacts Damage to brand value Potential impacts Lost revenue Viability of business models Challenges recruiting talent, and attracting Change in company valuation investors, lenders, and political goodwill and access to capital 13 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU About this Report The report’s content has not been significantly changed from past editions. The initiatives highlighted in this report include those that have an impact on our employees, customers, investors, and societies where we are present. GRI Standards Norwegian Accounting Act Aker Solutions reports and communicates on sustainability based on The report addresses the legal requirements for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. This report has been company reporting as specified in the Norwegian prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. Accounting Act (“Regnskapsloven”) for reporting on corporate social responsibility. Our overview of disclosure according to GRI, including references to sections of the report where GRI indicators are reported upon and the list of material aspects, can be found in the appendix at the end of the report. NCGB While preparing the report, we have also considered the new guideline on Aker Solutions adheres to the Norwegian Code of sustainability reporting issued by the Oslo Stock Exchange. Practice for Corporate Governance issued by the Norwegian Corporate Governance Policy Board (NCGB). The objective of the Code of Practice Report Boundaries is that companies listed on regulated markets in The report boundary is, in general, drawn around companies under the Norway will practice corporate governance that operational control of Aker Solutions ASA. However, we also provide provides division of roles between shareholders, the information on some aspects where we have the potential to influence board of directors and executive management more but do not have direct control. comprehensively than is required by legislation. 14 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER SOLUTIONS MENU 2. Conducting our Business with Integrity Doing business with integrity is imperative at Aker Solutions. We are committed to operate with the highest standards of integrity, everywhere and always. Promote compliance Build a culture that Reduce and manage with legal and corporate prevents unethical business integrity risk requirements within the business practices in all company activities field of business integrity 15 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU Internal Organization Aker Solutions has a group wide business The Business Integrity and Compliance integrity strategy, which is updated annually. In (BIC) function is responsible for continuously addition, each delivery center has established developing Aker Solutions’ business integrity risk-based compliance plans, which include program. BIC is organized in a way that key focus areas and targets. Local compliance enables the company to work proactively plans for Angola, Brazil, India and Malaysia with compliance across our operations. have been created. The centralized corporate team includes compliance officers dedicated to each delivery The plans aim to support the implementation center, supported by a global network of local of the business integrity program, while also compliance officers at several of our locations. increasing awareness and reducing integrity risks in our operations. Progress on the delivery center plans and results are reported to the Business Integrity Program executive vice presidents on a quarterly basis. Aker Solutions’ Code of Conduct is the Progress on the business integrity work is company’s main governing document. It reported monthly to the chief executive officer addresses important principles and sets and the board of directors. The business clear rules and expectations for behavior integrity program is subject to monitoring by and ethical standards for all employees. the board of directors, who has delegated the The Code of Conduct is supported by the monitoring to the audit committee. The audit Business Integrity Policy, which outlines committee receives quarterly reporting from the Aker Solutions’ commitment to key areas such chief compliance officer. as anti-corruption, human rights, integrity risk management, integrity training, and continuous In 2019, neither Aker Solutions nor any Aker Solutions’ Code of improvement. employee faced criminal action related to corruption. No contracts with partners were Conduct is the company’s Implemented at all locations globally, our terminated or allowed to expire due to violations main governing document. business integrity program is our main tool for related to corruption. There are no legal actions ensuring that our business is conducted in a pending for anti-competitive, anti-trust, or It addresses important transparent and ethical manner. All locations monopoly violations where Aker Solutions is principles and sets clear complete business integrity self-assessments identified as a participant, nor were any such annually. The business integrity program includes legal actions completed during 2019. rules and expectations components that aim to reduce the risk of for behavior and ethical becoming involved in unethical or illegal behavior, with particular focus on anti-corruption and standards for all employees. respect and support for human and labor rights. 16 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU Integrity Risk Assessments: Operations and Projects Aker Solutions is present at 51 locations in 22 countries, several of which have scores on internationally 51 22 recognized indexes that indicate high inherent integrity Locations Countries risk. In 2019, 45 of these locations (88%) were assessed for business integrity risks. Local management conducts 88% a self-assessment of the locations’ preventive setup and internal controls using a standardized questionnaire containing ~60 questions related to responsible business conduct including e.g. anti-corruption and human rights. Weaknesses in the preventive setup and / or internal control environment are addressed through 45 locations were assessed local action plans. Self-assessment scores are spotfor business integrity risks checked and verified through reviews led by BIC. In addition to local presence, Aker Solutions tenders for and executes projects globally. This requires a proactive approach and assessment of potential prospects in markets associated with high integrity risks. The assessments are performed before making any commitments in the tender phase. Based on the results of the assessments, the company may decide not to bid for potential prospects if the risks are deemed too high, or implement project-specific activities to mitigate integrity risk if the tender is successful. The process aims to protect Aker Solutions against the risk of becoming complicit in illegal or unethical practices. As part of the process, the company assesses risks of corruption, human or labor rights infringements, environmental damage, and the potential resulting reputational risks. The company performed 107 project risk assessments in 2019 compared with 146 in 2018 and 135 in 2017. A separate corporate risk committee evaluates any project seen as having an extraordinary risk. 17 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU 176 58% of reports in 2019 Reporting Concerns Aker Solutions’ whistleblowing channel allows anyone to report incidents, breaches or suspected breaches of the Code of Conduct, other internal policies, or laws and regulations. The web-based tool is hosted by a third Whistleblower party and designed to secure reports and all related data, as well as protect reports in 2019 concerned employee the identity of the whistleblower. This includes offering the possibility of anonymous dialogue between the whistleblower and the investigator. relations and human resources issues 117 Reports are received and managed by Aker Solutions BIC department. All reports are treated with strict confidentiality. When a case is substantiated, responses can range from internal communication and policy updates to warnings and dismissals. The company maintains a lessons learned database to share key learnings within the organization. Whistleblower In 2019, Aker Solutions experienced an increase in reported cases. reports in 2018 However, the increase is partly due to “clusters” multiple reports relating to the same issue. We view the increase as a healthy sign that the channel 116 is working and that awareness efforts have been effective. The number of cases remains within a healthy range of 1.1 reports per 100 employees per year and largely in line with the global benchmark with a median of 1.4 reports per 100 employees. The global 2019 Ethics & Compliance Hotline Benchmark is provided by Navex Global1. There were 176 reports in 2019, Whistleblower compared to 117 reports in 2018 and 116 reports in 2017. Around 58% of reports in 2019 concerned employee relations and human resources reports in 2017 issues. The remaining cases were related to other business integrity topics. BIC is responsible for deciding when investigation of a whistleblower report and related activities shall be closed. The closing of the whistleblower report is subject to monitoring by the board of directors and the audit committee. In addition to the web-based tool, the company has an ethics helpline for questions or concerns. The helpline is open to all employees at ethics@akersolutions.com. 1) The benchmark by Navex Global represents 12 industries and includes companies of various size and geography. 18 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU Training and Awareness Aker Solutions governing body is the board of E-learning course Continuous focus on and awareness of directors of Aker Solutions ASA. All directors are compliance and business integrity is important in the scope of a mandatory annual e-learning, E-learning course which to ensure that our employees know what to do where they confirm that they have read and introduces business integrity if they find themselves in a difficult situation. understood the Code of Conduct. In 2019, all in Aker Solutions to all new Although our business integrity program, directors completed this e-learning. company personnel policies and procedures are applicable globally, we place importance on interacting In 2019, ~17200 personnel (own employees with employees on the ground to ensure and direct hired-ins) completed a mandatory that the local context is considered in our e-learning where they confirmed to have communication and training material. This is to read and understood Aker Solutions Code ensure that expectations of business conduct of Conduct. This constitutes 98.7% of all are understood in the context where the training personnel identified in the target group. For is conducted. details on number of employees trained, type Classroom course of course, and completion per region, see the Classroom course in business Several awareness activities were targeted appendix. ethics for office-based towards particular employee groups, for company personnel, and all example in management teams and within Aker Solutions’ business ethics training company personnel working specific functions. Some locations held program for company personnel1 consists of in or traveling to high risk compliance weeks, involving local management three main mandatory components: countries and employees in tailor-made activities designed to boost awareness of compliance ¡ E-learning course topics. ¡ Classroom course ¡ Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct E-learning course which all company personnel must complete annually 1) Company personnel is defined as own employees and hired-in consultants / contractors who report hours to and are directly remunerated by Aker Solutions. It does not include personnel employed and remunerated by suppliers / subcontractors. 19 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU Business partners We met our 2019 targets for the integrity Our 2020 targets and initiatives are For Aker Solutions, alliance / joint venture / and compliance work as set out in last outlined below: consortium partners represent the highest risk year’s report: of being involved or associated with corrupt ¡ Further digitalize key business integrity work activities, and are therefore subject to more ü Digitalize key business integrity work processes targeted awareness activity. When entering into processes aided by implementation ¡ Evaluate business integrity training program such a partnership, evaluation of the partner’s of governance, risk, and compliance with a view to provide more risk-based existing business integrity program is part of the software targeted training and enable assessment of integrity due diligence process, and awareness ü Refine risk-based framework for integrity training effectiveness activities are designed to match the level of due diligence with focus on mergers and maturity of the partner as well as the degree of ¡ Provide annual Code of Conduct training to acquisitions processes integration and type of activity performed by the all company personnel partner on Aker Solutions’ behalf. References ü Provide annual Code of Conduct training to the Code of Conduct as well as applicable to all company personnel anti-corruption legislation is always included in the partner agreements. An individual follow-up plan is developed for all mediumand high-risk partners, and activities are monitored by the audit committee through quarterly reporting. At year-end 2019, Aker Solutions had 10 active mediumor high-risk partners. Representatives from three of these partner companies received business integrity classroom training during the course of 2019. The training elaborates on Aker Solutions’ Code of Conduct and the company’s expectations for responsible business conduct. 20 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY MENU 3. Safeguarding People and Assets Safe operations are at the core of our values. We believe all incidents can and should be prevented. Provide a healthy, safe, and Protect our customers’ secure working environment for and our own information, our workforce and customers operations, and facilities 21 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU We work hard to ensure that employees and others working on our behalf can return home safely. The company often engages in work under challenging conditions, requiring the highest level of diligence in order to maintain the safety of employees and customers, subcontractors, consultants, and other parties. Entrenching a Safety Culture Aker Solutions’ updated health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) policy states that the company “shall promote safe, reliable, and sustainable operations to achieve our goal of zero harm to people, assets, and the environment.” The foundation for this continuous diligence is the company’s management system. This ensures that executive management is focused on HSSE performance and that all delivery centers set HSSE initiatives and goals for the coming year. HSSE mindset is one of our core values. We believe this mindset is an important contributor in reducing the number of serious incidents. In 2017, Aker Solutions launched a global HSSE mindset program. The quarterly program was continued in 2018 and 2019 with four new modules each year. The 2020 modules are now in the planning phase and will be aligned with similar programs with our main customers. School safety awareness The goal is to create awareness of the main The Brunei HSSE team joined the school safety HSSE risks and/or opportunities and to ensure awareness event organized at St. Margaret’s School our employees are prepared to handle these in Seria, Brunei Darussalam by the Construction situations correctly in their daily work. Health Safety Environment and Quality Network chaired by Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP) 22 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU Identifying hazards, Managing risks actions to prevent fatal injuries during 9 higherManagement, with focus Risks related to HSSE are defined as a risk risk activities, and were developed by IOGP on defining the roles category in the Enterprise Risk Management based on analyses of serious incidents across and responsibilities for (ERM) procedure. On a company level, these the industry. The roll-out was kicked off globally technology domain areas. risks include physical security threats, the risk of on March 11 with local initiatives including Going forward, an internal Nine Rules major accidents related to malfunctions in our management presentations, top management professional network Developed by IOGP, the nine products and/or insufficient service, and the risk video messages, and hand-outs of printed LSR will be established, and rules are simple and set a new for fatalities, serious injuries or environmental cards. An HSSE mindset module on the rules we will be working on minimum industry standard spills in our own operations. However, as Aker was held at all locations, and local competitions strengthening the focus for protecting workers carrying Solutions is a multifaceted company, most of were held with Life-Saving Rules branded knowledge of, and on, out high risk activities. Gordon the risks are identified and mitigated on lower giveaways as prizes. process safety and barrier Ballard, executive director organizational levels. The global HSSE function is management across the of the IOGP, joined Craig responsible for the development, implementation, The Life-Saving Rules were very well received different engineering Wiggins, head of HSSE at and maintenance of the ERM framework within in the organization, and throughout the year we disciplines. Aker Solutions, as we launched each discipline, and has a global responsibility for sustained the importance of the rules through the new rules in March 2019. operational effectiveness. Within this responsibility employee testimonials on local info screens there also lies an obligation to develop and and video messages from top management on execute global HSSE audit programs and facilitate our intranet. Looking at the positive trend for and coordinate efforts within all units. both our Serious Incidents Frequency and our KPIs for personal injuries, one can see that the Aker Solutions is a member of the International implementation of the Life-Saving Rules has Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). had an impact. Going forward, we aim to refresh The objective of the IOGP process safety the message regularly and maintain focus on management initiative is to implement systems this important topic. for hardware (technical), human (operational), and system elements into company routines. As a provider of integrated solutions from Membership in the IOGP allows Aker Solutions subsea to surface, through the entire life of an to collaborate with clients, peers, and other energy asset, we are aware of our responsibility exploration and production stakeholders to when it comes to the prevention of major standardize and share knowledge in order to accidents that can result in fatalities and/or achieve improvements within HSSE, social serious environmental or social damage. Our responsibility, engineering, and operations. integrated view gives us the insight needed to understand how decisions made about one One of our main initiatives in 2019 was the component affects the other at a total system adoption and implementation of IOGP’s Lifelevel. In 2019, the company established a Saving Rules (LSR). These rules describe key framework for implementation of Major Accident 23 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU HSSE Indicators / Zero Incident Mindset Aker Solutions operates with a zero harm mindset and the belief that all incidents can be showing a favorable trend in this indicator as well. For information on the different types of injuries in 2019, see the appendix. main achievements within the health discipline in 2019 were: ¡ the execution of a welding fume 0.3 prevented. The Zero Days indicator counts days When incidents occur, Aker Solutions initiates project in Egersund measuring Lost Time Injury without a recordable injury or serious incident across the company. In 2019, Aker Solutions an investigation process according to our internal incident investigation standard. exposure to potentially carcinogenic chemicals Frequency (LTIF) delivered 297 Zero Days, compared to 288 in Depending on the risk classification of the ¡ the roll out of a global HSSE 1.29 2018. This represents an increase of 9 days. incident, a team of investigators is tasked with mindset module on Fatigue in However, the Company is committed to return uncovering the details of the incident. The the Workplace to the 2017 level, setting a goal of 314 Zero outcome of this process is a report describing Days for 2020. the underlying causes of the incident and ¡ the continuation of a pilot outlining the changes and measures that need program for the new E-Score Aker Solutions utilizes the lagging indicator to be implemented to prevent the incidents from tool from Norsk Industri. This Total Recordable Serious Incident Frequency (SIF) to focus reoccurring. All red or black incidents require an is an assessment tool that on the trend and occurrence of high-risk incident review panel, where cross-functional evaluates potential health Injuries Frequency incidents. These are incidents where the actual leaders review the investigation, identify all root hazards from noise, chemicals, (TRIF) or potential consequence is deemed to be causes, and agree on clear actions to ensure radiation, biological agents, high or extreme, as defined by the company’s that remediating arrangements are in place. poor work ergonomics, and classification matrix. The year end result psychosocial factors in the indicates a positive performance development Typically, the most serious incidents occur due work environment. The tool on this KPI, with a SIF figure of 0.3 which is well to a lack of or insufficient risk assessments will be implemented globally in below the target of 0.5. With 9 out of 14 Serious before the operation and/or managing change 2020. It will also be included as Incident cases in 2019, dropped objects is still during the operation. This area receives a great a KPI on the HSSE balanced the most significant single event. deal of attention, including through the HSSE scorecard with a global target. mindset program, implementation of lessons For 2019 we had a goal of achieving a Lost learned, and in the day-to-day toolbox talks and Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) of <0.27. This operation planning meetings. target was not met, with a year end result of Commemorating World Day for Safety 0.30. The result is however a considerable In the spring of 2019, the company hired a and Health at Work, employees at our decrease compared to the 2018 result of 0.55. working environment specialist in the global Port Klang and Kuala Lumpur locations The lost work day cases were mainly injured health team with a main responsibility to ensure in Malaysia participated in activities fingers and hands due to squeezing and cuts, systematic recognition, evaluation, control, and such as a defensive driving workshop, and arm injuries caused by falling. At the end of prevention of working environment hazards that health and dental screenings, blood 2019, the Total Recordable Injuries Frequency may result in injury, illness, or affect the welldonations, and a video competition (TRIF) was 1.29, compared to 1.97 in 2018, being of our employees globally. Some of the related to the event theme. 24 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU Monitoring and Learning networking and resource sharing, creating a personnel this is controlled through the A new version of Synergi Life, our HSSE complete learning package that is available individual contract with the security companies. and Quality reporting tool, was successfully throughout the company. Compliance is checked through the Security implemented during the second quarter. A Risk Assessments (SRA), which are conducted network of superusers was established, and regularly at all locations. The SRA checklist training for both basic and extensive users was HSSE Management of Suppliers asks if the security guards are trained in human rolled out during the second half of 2019. All and Subcontractors rights, ethical behavior, and anti-corruption. employees will receive training within Q1 of 2020. Aker Solutions values the partnerships and As a learning organization, we depend on our relationships with its vendors and works to employees to report incidents and hazardous ensure that the highest quality products and Emergency Preparedness and situations, and conditions, so we can prevent services can be supplied to Aker Solutions Response similar circumstances in the future. Following without compromising HSSE. More information The company’s Corporate Emergency the tool upgrade, the company has put a on our monitoring and auditing of key suppliers Response Team (CERT) was involved in two massive focus on reporting of both HSSE and can be found in this report in the chapter Driving incidents in 2019: quality cases, and KPIs on case follow up and a Responsible and Sustainable Supplier Base. ¡ A fire affecting our office in Nigeria closing. The KPIs are monitored through several leadership dashboards, keeping managers ¡ A haze situation in Malaysia accountable for their units’ performance. Security Aker Solutions’ commitment towards Both incidents were handled by the local The introduction of a confidentiality module in the safeguarding employees, assets, and reputation organizations in cooperation with the relevant Synergi reporting tool has enabled the function is demonstrated by the core team of security corporate functions. to register sensitive cases while also ensuring professionals and the operation of a 24/7 privacy aspects. Other improvements of the tool Global Security Operations Centre (GSOC). The The CERT is comprised of the leaders from have enabled cases within physical, personnel, Centre supports all aspects of Aker Solutions’ the global HR, IT, HSSE, Security, Legal, and IT security to be differentiated and managed global operations as well as some of the sister and Communications functions. The team by the correct functions. This has also ensured companies within the Aker portfolio. trains at least once a quarter and all findings improvements within trending and root-cause and learnings are registered in the Synergi analysis. Most of the cases reported in 2019 In 2019, Aker Solutions facilities in Port Klang, tool. The company’s capabilities within crisis were related to failure of technical components, Luanda, and Perth were onboarded to the corporate management were further enhanced in 2019. A personnel not adhering to security procedures, systems for access management and remote dedicated resource was assigned to advise and and generic cyber-attacks. No serious security surveillance. Work has commenced to incorporate assist country management on development of incidents were reported in 2019. Mumbai, Al Khobar, and Hainan in 2020. systems and structure of emergency response and business continuity. In addition, the online HSSE community All Aker Solutions employees are required enables professional discussions, information to perform an annual Code of Conduct and and document sharing, as well as internal business ethics training. For third party security 25 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU Targets and Initiatives for 2019 A wide communication package will As you can see, most of our goals for 2019 Our main targets for 2019 were outlined ensure successful implementation and were achieved, and several initiatives will be in the 2018 report: compliance with the rules. In addition, we safeguarded and continued into 2020. The will work to have applicable supporting implementation of the Control of Work tools ü The most important target is always zero procedures in place. was put on hold because of the priority of fatalities, and we shall promote safe, implementing the IOGP Life-Saving Rules first, ü We will also strive towards improved reliable, and sustainable operations to but is included in our targets and initiatives for HSSE performance through driving the achieve our goal of zero harm to people, 2020. new initiative on Major Accident Hazard assets, and the environment. Management and ensure robust crisis and As seen from the table below, not all KPI targets ü Safeguarding and developing a unified emergency response management through were met, but the company shows a positive global HSSE culture driven by ongoing existing tools and processes. trend within all our KPIs. initiatives such as the HSSE mindset ü During the second half of 2019, we module. will initiate the implementation and ü We will replace our current Just Rules improvement of our Control of Work tools. with the industry standard IOGP LifeStep Change for Safety has developed an Saving Rules. The intention is to go live industry standard which we will implement globally with the new rules in March 2019. in applicable areas globally. Health and Safety: 2019 Values Performance Target values 2019 2018 2017 Trends 2019 Flowers presented by our St. John’s, Canada employees Fatalities 0 0 0 0 at the National Day of Zero days > 314 297 288 313 Mourning event in April. SIF < 0.50 0.3 0.42 0.28 This event recognizes workers who have LTIF < 0.27 0.3 0.55 0.47 been killed, injured, TRIF < 1.17 1.29 1.97 1.35 or suffered illness due to workplace Sick leave (percent) < 2.7 2.5 2.6 2.8 related hazards and For explanations of SIF, LTIF, and TRIF see page 24 and page 73 (Appendix). exposures. 26 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU Our 2020 targets and initiatives are outlined below: ¡ The most important target is always zero ¡ Implement the use of health hazard E-score fatalities, and we shall promote safe, globally, monitor this as a HSSE KPI, and reliable, and sustainable operations to reduce exposure to harmful hazards in the achieve our goal of zero harm to people, working environment Safe Driving assets, and the environment To bring awareness to the ¡ Roll-out the new Chemical Management importance of safe driving, ¡ Implement Major Accident Management system (Chess) for global use employees organized traffic ¡ Implement Control of Work. Step Change for ¡ Develop and execute a global plan for safety events at all 3 of our Safety has developed an industry standard registration of work-related illnesses in Brazil locations in May. called Safe Working Essentials, which we Synergi will implement in applicable areas globally ¡ Transition from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 ¡ Strengthen focus on HSSE mindset; develop standard for Health and Safety a Hearts and Minds initiative on leadership and culture ¡ Reduce health hazard exposure to our people ¡ Continued focus on supply chain HSSE management KPI targets for 2020: Fatalities 0 Zero days > 314 SIF < 0,4 LTIF < 0,25 TRIF < 1,10 Sick leave (percent) < 2,6 For explanations of SIF, LTIF, and TRIF see page 24 and page 73 (Appendix). 27 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFEGUARDING PEOPLE AND ASSETS MENU 4. Our Environmental Impact The oil and gas industry, particularly the deepwater sector, is exposed to significant environmental risks, including oil spills and carbon dioxide emissions. Reduce energy Increase use of Reduce GHG Reduce hazardous and Prevent spills use in our renewable energy emissions from non-hazardous waste from our operations as a source our operations from our operations operations 28 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU Managing environmental and climate-related air, soil, or sea is the most important one. risks is required to ensure a sustainable future Carbon emissions from power generation, fuel for our company, our clients, and the industry combustion, and air travels are also one of our at large. main aspects. We are currently implementing these aspects into the company’s global risk Aker Solutions’ commitment to reducing its register to grant better overview and easier environmental impact is detailed in its health, access. Identifying and managing potential safety, security and environment (HSSE) policy: environmental risks are integral aspects of the company’s project tendering and execution, ¡ We shall secure prevention and control of ensuring that appropriate measures are events that have the potential to release taken for each project and location. These hazardous materials and energy by focusing activities contribute to increased environmental on process safety awareness for Aker Solutions and its customers. ¡ We shall conduct our operations through efficient use of materials and energy ¡ We shall design products and services to have no undue environmental impact, to be safe and to be efficient in consuming energy and natural resources ¡ We shall provide the right level of resources to ensure that this policy is implemented appropriately The HSSE policy is implemented through the management system and various leadership development initiatives. HSSE As a part of our ISO 14001 standardization, all Aker Solutions sites must perform a review of their environmental aspects and the associated impacts and describe how to mitigate these. Policy On an overall level, we see that Aker Solutions’ Aker Solutions’ commitment to largest environmental aspect is related to our reducing its environmental impact is operations, where the potential for uncontrolled detailed in its health, safety, security release of chemicals and hydrocarbons to and environment (HSSE) policy. 29 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU Managing Our Footprint The theme for the 2019 World Environment Day was “Beat Air Pollution” and Aker Solutions’ targets for managing employees from locations across Aker Solutions participated in educational and environmental risk in 2019 were outlined in volunteer activities to mark the importance of this annual event. last year’s report. The main goal was to further implement and safeguard the environmental Brazil Malaysia World Environment Day | Rio das Ostras an management system and initiatives introduced into the organization during 2017 and 2018. In Brazil, employees joined children from a local Employees in Malaysia came together with their On a more detailed level the most important public school to tour a city park and learn about families to commemorate the day by planting over targets were: nature protection, the importance of air quality, 850 trees and plants at the local botanical garden. ü School Tour Carry out an environmental module in the and sustainable practices. global HSSE mindset program ■ School tour with p ü Organize World Environment Day events across the company to raise and the park of the city strengthen environmental awareness among our employees nature protection. ü Reduce energy use, emissions, spills, and employees. waste through operational excellence ü Follow up the implementation of our ■ In collaboration wi aspects and impacts register in the company’s risk register tool Solutioneers Brasil As you can see, most of our initiatives for ■ Agenda: Introduce 2019 were implemented. The HSSE mindset sustainable practice Tree Donation program module on Environmental Compliance India and Sustainable Solutions and World Environment Day were successfully executed in the second and third quarters of 2019. ■ Time & budget: 1 Through organizing a “Green” day of ride sharing and public ■ Event size: 40 part Efforts on implementing environmental aspects transportation, employees and impacts into the company’s risk register in India celebrated World tool were made but were held back while Environment Day and reduced exploring the possibility of including other HSSE risks in the same process. This work will ■ Post-event activiti the office car usage by 15% and motorcycle and scooter continue in 2020. usage by 10%. “Sustainable house Edenilson Wichines 30 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU 2019 © Aker Solutions 05 Janua In 2019, Aker Solutions experienced only minor environmental laws and regulations, and no grievances about spills with very limited impact. Most were small environmental impact were filed through formal channels in spills of hydraulic oil from pumps and other 2019. We continuously monitor governmental guidelines, equipment, and all spills were handled locally. directives, and regulations regarding the environment to ensure There were two incidents involving client-owned that we are informed and prepared for changes. assets at our facilities: The company responded to the CDP reporting framework for At our yard in Egersund, Norway in June, an asset the first time in 2019, using 2018 performance numbers. As owned by one of our clients experienced an oil we were first time responders, we only submitted the minimum spill estimated at 2800 liters. Most of the oil was version questionnaire, and hence no scoring was given, as per released on the yard premises, but due to rough CDP’s scoring framework. In 2020 we will submit the full version weather conditions and strong winds, some oil questionnaire, and will therefore obtain a score on our 2019 spread into the ocean and across some private reporting. properties in close proximity to the yard. Aker Solutions followed procedures and immediately Aker Solutions is also represented in several of the IOGP notified the local emergency response teams and committees where environmental impacts from business are relevant authorities and all preventative actions being discussed, making sure we contribute to a sustainable were taken to contain, minimize, and remove the future for our industry. leakage of oil. The asset owner initiated a rootcause investigation and followed their company procedures for follow-up testing and clean up. The test from the private properties concluded that the oil leak was minor and that there is no risk posed to humans or the environment. In September, an asset owned by one of our clients experienced a chemical leak at our DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION facility in Mobile, Alabama, USA during a routine process carried out by the client’s third party During World contractor. The area was excavated, tested, and CDP Reporting Water Day in restored. Follow-up testing and soil samples March, over 150 have concluded that the area poses no threat to employees from humans or the environment. our Brazil locations The company responded to the CDP learned about Aker Solutions was not subject to any significant reporting framework for the first time in 2019, water conservation fines or sanctions for non-compliance with using 2018 performance numbers. 31 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU Targets and initiatives for 2020 Environmental targets and planned initiatives are governed in the company’s HSSE plan for 2020. The environmental plan outlines the As Aker Solutions is primarily a project-driven company, its energy consumption is closely linked to the amount of work it does. This means that it is difficult to target an overall 744 details. Aker Solutions’ main environmental reduction in energy consumption. Therefore, we Total carbon dioxide emissions intensity, targets for the coming year are: focus on energy intensity, and ultimately carbon dioxide emission intensity. We aim to reduce metric tons CO2 per million worked hours ¡ Reduce energy use, emissions, spills, and this number by two percent per year through waste through operational excellence operational excellence, improved technological mitigate environmental impact for us and our customers. See the appendix Carbon emission intensity from energy solutions, and by selecting renewables over for environmental figures and data from 2016 to 2019. consumption and business travel <750 non-renewables where possible. metric tons CO2 per million worked hours Our total energy consumption showed an increase in 2019 compared to 2018. (12-months rolling average) Over time, Aker Solutions has had a great focus This was an expected increase, as work activities have risen over the past Zero spills on operational excellence to minimize cost and year. All operational sites are reporting, but some very small sites, typically Local reduction targets on total waste. stay ahead of schedule whenever possible. 1-5 people in a shared office area, are not a part of the reporting, as landlords Targets are set in relation with the types Maximizing operational efficiency has led to have difficulties in providing accurate data for multi-tenant buildings. of operations at each site great savings of both energy and materials, ¡ Capture flight emissions for India, Brazil, and as well as time spent in the fabrication phase. Looking at the energy intensity, which is a measure of the amount of Malaysia and include these in our emission This has also a positive environmental effect, as energy consumed per million man hours, it is a little lower than in 2018, accounting lower consumption of energy and material per which means that we are using less energy per hour we work. When it unit reduces the negative impacts on climate comes to the total carbon dioxide emissions intensity, this indicator shows ¡ Include environmental aspects and impact in change and other environmental impacts. a decrease as well, and the value of 744 metric tons CO2 per million risk management tool Operational performance is also vital to meet worked hours is well below the target of 890. The main decrease comes ¡ Grow our de-carbonization agenda and build stringent environmental regulations and the from reduced scope 3 emissions. However, in 2020 we will be including a strategy aligned across all delivery centers associated costs of implementing sustainable travel emissions from more locations, and we therefore expect our CO2 from an internal and external perspective to environmental technology. As a large company intensity to increase a little in the coming year. deliver the 20/25/30 vision and responsible corporate citizen, the management of environmental and economic 2% performance is a high priority. Aker Solutions continuously strives towards environmentally sound management of waste Aker Solutions We aim to reduce and environmental hazards. Our work towards locations in developing and deploying environmental Canada became energy intensity by technologies, such as efficient production and Climate Smart two percent per year. decommissioning technologies, will further certified in 2019. 32 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MENU 5. Developing Sustainable Low Carbon Solutions Aker Solutions’ leadership will forge a sustainable future for our industry and the world we serve. Contribute to Commercialize Commercialize decarbonizing technology for renewable CCUS global oil and energy, especially for gas productions offshore floating wind 33 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU Aker Solutions is involved in developing a the whole CCUS chain, from capture via transport to safe storage. Our broad range of low carbon solutions, including: proprietary post combustion technology efficiently reduces CO2 emissions offshore floating wind, zero emission shipping from industrial flue gases. The pure, captured CO2 can be utilized or concepts, unmanned platforms, as well as transported via ship or pipelines for permanent storage in geological reduced emissions from offshore oil and structures, and further used for increased oil production from mature gas exploration and production through fields. electrification, carbon capture, and energy optimization. In 2019, Aker Solutions increased its investment in Principle Power Inc., a floating wind power technology company, to 25%. The offshore wind The Paris Climate Agreement and the IPPC solutions alliance combines Aker Solutions’ experience in developing 1,5°C special report has accelerated the and managing large and complex offshore projects with the proven drive towards low carbon solutions in all WindFloat® technology from our partner Principle Power. sectors, industries, transport, agriculture, etc. The market landscape is changing and While these products are being further commercialized, our engineers there is a rapid shift towards renewables that are continuously working on smarter and more environmentally friendly can compete with fossil fuels. Oil and gas products, tools, processes, and solutions. An internal project was defined companies are searching for new “green” for 2019 to help us achieve our goal of becoming a leader in developing technologies and solutions. Our updated low carbon offerings and solutions. strategy confirms our focus on developing low carbon offerings and solutions for our clients and creating value through green engineering. 20/25/30 means we are committed to generating 20 percent of our revenue from 20/25/30 renewables and 25 percent of our revenue from low carbon solutions by the year 2030. We are already on our way to meeting these aggressive goals. Within the remaining 55 percent, related to the oil and gas industry, we will continue and enhance our focus on decarbonizing production means we are committed to Internal lunch and learn sessions were held at from new and existing facilities, making low generating 20 percent of our US locations in 2019. The sessions educated carbon design a primary objective. over 125 employees about Aker Solutions revenue from renewables involvement in offshore floating wind and Currently, we are an established partner in and 25 percent of our revenue from low carbon provided an informal setting for dialogue carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS). about Aker Solutions’ capabilities in this Aker Solutions is the only company to offer emerging market and potential future projects. services, products, and solutions throughout solutions by the year 2030. 34 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU Key Environmental Performance Indicators (KEPIs) Solvent amine CO2 from energy supply (kg/BOE) To support the ambition of being the preferred consumption (kg/tonneCO2) Energy demand (MJ/BOE) low carbon solution provider, Aker Solutions has developed a set of Key Environmental Performance Indicators (KEPIs). These Intervention frequency (no./year) indicators are common tools that allow us to measure and compare the environmental impact of products and system solutions. They Dry weight (kg/BOE) have initially been developed to support study work within our Front End delivery center, but Oil in produced water (g/BOE) can as a starting point also be used during Pressure loss over the Chemical discharges (g/BOE) subsea processing execution, operational phases, and for product system (%) design. Specific KEPIs for execution projects Reuse ratio of subsea are being developed in 2020. processing system equipment (% weight) Efficiency of boosting (GJ/ΔBOE) KEPIs help influence engineering design and provide key input to concept evaluation and selection for our clients. Using these indicators will drive the right behavior and support the selection of environmentally friendly solutions. In the longer term, these indicators will enable us to demonstrate continuous improvement for BOE 2020 = Barrel of oil equivalent which is exported © Aker Solutions Low Emission Oil & Gas 30 April 2019 Slide 1 the environmental impact from our solutions. The latter implicitly assists the fulfilment of requirements in ISO 14001. KEPIs are common tools that allow us to measure and compare the environmental impact of products and system solutions. Here are The industry and our clients are increasingly examples of some of the 50+ indicators that have been developed. looking for low carbon solutions and through implementation of this tool, Aker Solutions can develop improved and measurable sustainable solutions for the energy market. 35 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU Culture of Low Carbon Design as Aker Solutions’ global technology centers, At Aker Solutions, low carbon design is a prioritizing innovation in the energy industry primary objective and a natural part of the and working together to accelerate our product engineering process from the planning offering. These locations will serve as innovation stages through to execution, fabrication, and incubators offering space for collaboration, installation. We are using best practices, new innovation, and design thinking. The opening of concepts and technologies, embedding KEPIs these centers and the commitment from within in each study and project, and measuring, Aker Solutions to set aside space for research, understanding, and sharing the environmental design, and innovation further demonstrates the impact both internally and with our clients. strong innovation culture across the company. We are actively working to improve tools and Three low carbon seminars were arranged in procedures so that our engineers are equipped Norway in 2019 bringing together a total of to develop environmentally sound design. 350 employees, client representatives, and Through collaboration tools and knowledge members of academia. The purpose of these sharing events, we are creating, safeguarding, seminars is to increase internal and external and prioritizing a sound and innovative culture attention on key topics related to the energy for low carbon design. transition, and create a meeting place for discussion and information sharing across the In 2019, Aker Solutions launched technology industry. For 2020, we will arrange seminars in centers in Reading, UK and Tranby, Norway. additional locations outside of Norway. The two locations were strategically selected C4IR Norway Aker Solutions is supporting the establishment of a Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution Norway (C4IR Norway) together with the Aker group and the World Economic Forum. As we work to develop new sustainable and low carbon solutions, collaboration and partnerships are essential. 36 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU These events brought together employees from across the company to join in presentations and workshops with internal and external experts to discuss key trends in innovation and technology. Reading, UK The event brought together more than 100 employees and a range of industry experts to discuss the latest advancements in technology. Speakers included representatives from Siemens Smart Fibres, 42 Technology, National Instruments, Rockwell, SensEye and Cisco and the presentations explored a range of industry topics from sustainable design, artificial intelligence, and machine learning to digitalization and all-electric systems. One of the highlights of the week was the opening plenary session with UK Country Manager, Sian Lloyd-Rees, highlighting the importance of developing smarter ways of working to meet Innovation growing project demands. Tranby, Norway This year’s theme was Innovation for weeks Sustainability and speakers included politicians, CEO’s, and senior management from several innovative and technical companies including Nordea, Ocean Data Foundation, Cognite, and DNV GL. Through interactive and engaging presentations they shared views of what the In conjunction with the openings future will bring within sustainability, ocean of the two technology centers, economy, and new technologies. The event also included an Innovation Demo showcasing stateAker Solutions held Innovation of-the-art technology from internal innovation Weeks at each location. projects and external partners. 37 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU Hackathon More than 200 employees from Aker Solutions locations around the On the last day of the Norway Innovation Week, Aker Solutions hosted the “Technology for Equal Opportunities” seminar in partnership with Stiftelsen VI. The event brought awareness to the challenges related to physical activity world participated in the company’s first ever global hackathon in June. for disabled people and focused on the Teams participating in the Innovation Hackathon were challenged opportunities that innovation and technology with developing ideas with potential for real business impact while can provide. The goal of the event was to contributing to a learning culture that drives innovative thinking. establish a lasting meeting place which can initiate collaboration across different interest groups and stakeholders. Target Revenue from Low Carbon and Renewables, % ¡ 2019 status (actuals): 2.1% ¡ 2020 Target: 7% ¡ 2023 Target: 15% 38 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOW CARBON SOLUTIONS MENU 6. Driving a Responsible and Sustainable Supplier Base We seek an open and transparent relationship with our partners and expect them to adhere to our business ethics and standards. Ensure our suppliers Ensure our suppliers’ Reduce material Use less Standardize have a healthy, safe, adherence to our footprint in our materials design to reduce/ and secure working Code of Conduct products in design reuse materials environment 39 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DRIVING A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER BASE MENU A Responsible Global Supply Chain Approved Vendor List (AVL) Aker Solutions engages Our commitment to sustainability includes our external operations, such as those related to our In 2019, Supply Chain concluded the transition from the legacy Supplier Qualification and with the wider industry suppliers and customers, as well as our internal Information System (SQiS) to the new integrated and non-governmental operations. We are committed to engaging only with suppliers who meet our expectations. Approved Vendor List (AVL), thus improving compliance and visualization of our strongly organizations to share Suppliers are expected to adhere to our business consolidated supplier base. experiences and discuss ethics and values, including our standards for health and safety, human and labor rights, Aker Solutions’ supplier base is qualified and dilemmas. One example is environment, quality management, business monitored through our qualified supplier list the presentation we gave integrity, and corporate social responsibility, as well as being competent and trustworthy. AVL. Compliance with our requirements is assessed through process and/or technical earlier this year at a breakfast audits or due diligence analyses. A chosen seminar in cooperation with Aker Solutions’ supply chain management team works with around 10,000 direct and indirect supplier, direct or indirect, is expected to meet certain key requirements and fully embrace our the Norwegian Refugee suppliers across the globe and employs 954 ethical standards. Council, law firm Kluge, and people. Supply Chain Management includes strategic sourcing, category management, AVL’s rigorous qualification, monitoring, and technology provider SAP. supplier quality and surveillance, material performance evaluation process to measure planning, procurement, inventory management and predict supplier performance is supported and logistics, and risk and compliance. Material by a fact and risk-based approach to supplier costs are the bulk of our budgets and play a selection and development. The qualification significant role in the success of the business. requirements can be increased or decreased Many of the products we procure include tubes, depending on the complexity of the product or valves, actuators, forgings, connectors, and service required, and on the country or location instrumentation. Sourcing IT services, travel, of the supplier. and temporary personnel are important parts of our indirect procurement. Through our international presence, we establish mutually beneficial relationships with local suppliers and subcontractors. Their local presence, knowledge, and expertise is key to our business. It enables us to perform well in a complex industrial landscape and remote locations. 40 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DRIVING A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER BASE MENU Supplier HSSE Dashboard Our Supply Chain Information System allows us to continuously monitor the performance of our qualified suppliers through the new dedicated 83 dashboard, this includes HSSE and compliance External Audits of aspects like human and labor rights risks. This information system is integrated with the company’s Suppliers in 2019 internal audit management tool, which tracks 179 audit reports and findings, lost time incidents and near misses, HSSE and operational performance. It also issues alerts when certifications are expiring. Aker Solutions’ supplier audit program is riskbased and determines where the company External Audits of focuses its audits. In 2019, the company Suppliers planned conducted 83 external audits of suppliers and 179 audits are planned for 2020. The for 2020 audit includes a detailed questionnaire and 1261 verification of adherence with business integrity and compliance, e.g. UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. In 2019, we reached 1261 direct suppliers prequalified for the company’s qualified supplier Direct suppliers list (AVL). All the suppliers were screened for quality management, health, safety and prequalified for the environmental management, corporate social company’s qualified responsibility, anti-corruption and compliance supplier list (AVL) management, human and labor rights management, supply chain management, human resources, and process management. The supplier The company did not identify significant actual qualification summary is available to all purchasing or potential negative impacts on society, human departments. This information, combined with rights, labor practices, or the environment in operational performance evaluations, provides the 2019. However, we rejected certain supplier procurement department with a solid risk picture qualifications based on poor environmental of our suppliers, enabling an informed selection. management or compliance risks. 41 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DRIVING A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER BASE MENU Supplier Accreditation The program includes a supplier performance Supply chain management met the targets Accredited suppliers and their manufacturing and review, a supplier process audit and supplier for 2019 as outlined in last year’s report: inspection processes help us minimize quality improvement workshops. At the end of 2019, ü Improve incident monitoring of suppliers surveillance, document review and purchase 50 suppliers in total were accredited, chosen for through a detailed HSSE dashboard application order administration, ultimately reducing costs their relentless efforts to continuously improve and lead times. Supplier accreditation builds both on their quality of delivery and their cost ü Reduce the number of incidents at suppliers on our systematic process of prequalification. base in cooperation with Aker Solutions. As it through focused supplier development Aker Solutions’ supplier quality department progresses, the program will form the basis for ü Integrate business integrity and compliance as a in supply chain management drives detailed increased preapproval of standardized supplier new function within supply chain management reviews of processes with main suppliers to processes and documentation. ensure full quality control and HSSE in the ü Strengthen compliance with supplier product manufacturing processes as well as Our key focus is to ensure that suppliers qualification through introduction of SAP Ariba compliance to business integrity principles and have proven quality management processes, ü Integrate a dedicated section related to business respect to human and labor rights. including change management. integrity and compliance in all supplier audits Our 2020 targets and initiatives are outlined below: ¡ Reduce CO2 transport intensity. The purpose of this objective is to drive reductions in Aker Solutions Scope 3 GHG emissions intensity, by involving our freight forwarders as they are gradually offering low-carbon or zero-carbon transport solutions ¡ Conduct data analysis of suppliers that have the Innovator capacity to measure CO2e emissions, distribute CO2 measurement guide and roll out training of the Year campaigns Our team in Mobile, Alabama U.S.A. ¡ Further reduce the number of incidents at received the Innovator of the Year suppliers through focused supplier development award from the local chamber of commerce. The award recognizes ¡ Implement the risk-based human and labor Aker Solutions for the development rights approach through the roll out of target and investment in a new umbilical communication / training initiatives and on-site technology that improves safety audits and reduces project cost and time. 42 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DRIVING A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER BASE MENU 7. Respecting and Promoting Human Rights At Aker Solutions, we take our responsibility to respect human rights seriously. Respect and comply Build a work place Ensure equal with international culture that promotes opportunities, equal human rights and respects human remuneration, and principles rights non-discrimination 43 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECTING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS MENU Respecting Human and Labor Rights The ILO Governing Body has identified eight “fundamental” Aker Solutions respects and supports internationally accepted human and Conventions, covering subjects that are considered to be labor rights principles. Aker Solutions’ Code of Conduct, business integrity fundamental principles and rights at work. Aker Solutions policy, and UN Global Compact membership underpin the company’s respect supports the following ILO conventions: of and support for international standards such as the International Bill of 1. 2. Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UK Modern Slavery Act. We oppose modern slavery in all its forms and our full statement in Freedom of Association Right to Organise and accordance with the Act can be found on our website.2 and Protection of the Right Collective Bargaining to Organise Convention, Convention, Aker Solutions is also bound by the framework agreement between Aker ASA, 1948 (No. 87) 1949 (No. 98) Fellesforbundet, Tekna, Nito and IndustriALL Global Union for the development of good working relations in companies that are part of the Aker Group. In addition, Aker Solutions supports Building Responsibly. This is a group of leading engineering and construction companies working together to raise the 3. 4. Forced Labour Abolition of Forced bar in promoting the rights and welfare of workers globally across the industry. Convention, Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) (and 1957 (No. 105) 2) T  he 2019 statement in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act will be published in April 2020. its 2014 Protocol) The 2018 statement can be found here. Aker Solutions 5. 6. Minimum Age Worst Forms of Child shared best Convention, Labour Convention, practices 1973 (No. 138) 1999 (No. 182) in business compliance 7. 8. especially related to human rights and fair labor practices. The Equal Remuneration Discrimination event was hosted Convention, (Employment and by the Embassy of 1951 (No. 100) Occupation) Convention, Norway in Malaysia 1958 (No. 111) 44 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECTING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS MENU Human Rights Committee to multiple business processes, and Aker into a new country, including human rights risks, are A human rights committee was established in Solutions therefore strives to integrate human assessed and that mitigating actions are implemented. 2019. To ensure cross-functional discussions rights considerations into its core business ¡ Screening of projects with delivery to countries with and participation, the members of the processes. This approach also facilitates a high risk of human rights infringements are performed committee are from the following functions: company culture where human rights risk is as part of the tender process. HSSE, business integrity and compliance, considered as part of core business, rather human resources, data protection, supply than as a separate exercise. ¡ Integrity due diligence (IDD) is conducted to protect chain, and communications, as well as Aker Solutions against the risk of becoming complicit in representatives from the employee unions. 2. Human rights risk assessment: The UN illegal or unethical practices conducted by a business The committee’s mandate is to ensure that the Guiding Principles Business Reference Guide partner. company has a sound human rights program is applied as a tool to identify Aker Solutions’ ¡ All contracts with Aker Solutions’ clients, business and to continuously improve this program. The human rights risks, and which human rights partners, and suppliers include human rights clauses. committee reports to the CEO and the audit the company is in a position to impact. The committee on a quarterly basis. assessment is updated annually. ¡ The supplier portfolio is monitored through supply chain’s monitoring system. If a supplier is, inter alia, 3. Program activities: Activities that are carried connected to human rights infringements, this triggers Human Rights Program out to prevent, detect, and respond to that mitigating actions are implemented and followed-up. To meet our commitments to respect and human rights risks and potential human ¡ Occupational health services are available for all support human rights, Aker Solutions shall rights violations within the company’s personnel. The services focus on people’s health, maintain a human rights program that is riskbusiness integrity, supply chain, HR, HSSE, safety, and well-being and continuously improve the based and designed to prevent, detect, and and processes. Examples of activities: working environment. respond to human rights risks and learn from incidents of human rights violations. ¡ Business ethics training is one of Aker ¡ HR monitors that employees below minimum age are Solutions’ key initiatives in preventing not hired. The human rights committee is responsible unethical behavior, including human ¡ The company applies objective criteria when making for maintaining Aker Solutions’ human rights rights infringements. The purpose of decisions related to hiring, promotions, compensation, program. The program is designed to minimize the business ethics training is to clarify and benefits. Employees will not be favored or and mitigate risk of human rights violations expected business conduct, personal discriminated for their opinions, expression, thoughts, arising from the company’s own activities and responsibilities, relevant regulations and conscience, religion, or membership in an association/ business relationships. The program consists of internal policies, and consequences of trade union. three main elements: breaches. 1. Governing documents: The Code of Conduct ¡ When Aker Solutions is entering a new The risk of Aker Solutions being directly involved in human and is supported by a global management country, a formal country entry process labor rights infringements is considered to be low. However, system. Human rights concerns are by shall be implemented. The process indirect involvement in such infringements is a risk due to the their very nature multi-faceted and linked ensures that all relevant risks of entering size of our supply chain. 45 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECTING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS MENU Aker Solutions signed a Safety Collaboration Agreement with 2019 Achievements several other companies working closely on the Norwegian In addition to establishing a Human Rights Committee, Aker Solutions continuously works to ensure that Continental Shelf. All companies are using the International human and labor rights violations, including slavery and Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Life-Saving Rules human trafficking, do not take place in the company’s supply chain or in any other part of our business. In and the charter will help us ensure a common safety approach, 2019, Aker Solutions continued to use qualification common priorities, and continuous improvement across all requirements and background screening to check our suppliers, potential customers, and business partners companies involved. The group has set common targets and for human and labor rights infringements. In 2019, will connect on a regular basis to follow up on progress. the company continued to experience focus from customers on compliance with human rights principles. One of our major projects underwent a human and labor rights audit in 2019, which did not surface any issues of concern for the customer. Aker Solutions operates a whistleblower channel, which allows all parties affected by our operations to air grievances and report concerns. No material human rights grievances against the company were reported in 2019. You can read more about our whistleblower channel in the chapter Conducting our Business with Integrity. Our 2020 targets and initiatives are outlined below: ¡ Finalize a human rights policy ¡ Implement an integrity risk-based supplier audit program ¡ Develop a human rights e-learning course ¡ Further strengthen Aker Solutions’ human rights program by implementing mitigating activities where appropriate and ensuring monitoring of processes with an inherent risk of human rights infringements 46 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECTING AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS MENU 8. Ensuring a Competent, Engaged, and Diverse Workforce People are key to our success and we achieve this by attracting, developing, motivating, and retaining highly competent employees globally. Increase employee Build relevant Adjust our working engagement competence models to meet the in organization demands of the business 47 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU The company has a diverse workforce, which it seeks to develop and motivate through competency management, employee engagement, career development, and 17% leadership training. Female Employees Diversity and Equal Opportunity Aker Solutions is strongly committed to the 22% principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunity, regardless of gender, nationality, or other factors. As discussed in the previous chapter on human rights, in 2019, Aker Solutions established a human rights committee with a mandate from the CEO to ensure that the company Female Leaders has a sound human rights program and to work to continuously improve this program. Men have traditionally dominated the oil and gas industry 83 and, particularly, offshore work. This continues to be reflected in our organization, where around 17 percent of our employees are women. Men hold about 78 percent of our management positions and women hold 22 percent. The Nationalities number of women in leadership roles increased from 136 to 144. Aker Solutions seeks to promote diversity in its workforce through clear requirements for diversity in recruitment and development of individuals and programs supporting equal opportunity, in accordance with its people policy and recruitment policy. We have around 83 nationalities in our workforce. Aker Solutions is committed to enabling local staff to move into management positions, in support of rules for local content and job creation 48 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU for nationals enacted in some countries. Local Leadership, Talent, and Performance management. The cloud solution supports management teams actively seek to promote, A total of 523 employees attended our global alignment with the enterprise performance build, and retain local talent, ensuring legal leadership programs during 2019. A review of management process. compliance and securing long-term operations. these programs was done at the end of 2019 and a revised program portfolio will be rolledAker Solutions strives to offer professional Aker Solutions has a procedure for handling out starting in the first quarter of 2020. development, worldwide career opportunities, whistleblower cases and it is followed with competitive pay and benefits, and a healthy respect to investigating discrimination allegations. The common thread and topic across all work-life balance for all its employees. The It ensures all allegations are investigated and program modules are the revised leadership company provides a range of courses and feedback provided to the whistleblowers where capabilities and a desired culture that drives programs in order to develop employee skills in identity is known. For more information on innovation and learning, teamwork and areas like technical & professional, HSSE, Q&CI, the whistleblower channel, see the chapter boldness, and speed in decision making. compliance, leadership, and soft skills. Conducting our Business with Integrity. Implementation of a new software solution Our performance process is built upon frequent In the UK we are required to report publicly contributed to a more streamlined and performance conversations between managers and to the government on the gender pay gap, focused approach to talent and performance and employees to ensure that we all work which is the difference in the average pay management, including succession planning. towards common goals, accelerate performance, and bonuses of all men and women across The objective of these processes is to and help people grow and develop. The the company. The initial 2019 results for Aker drive performance and to ensure that Aker dialogues are mandatory for all employees and Solutions show a continuing small decrease in Solutions has a pool of talent who can move have been simplified over the last few years to the mean and median pay gap. This continues into senior leadership and key professional make them more efficient and impactful. the downward trend from our first Gender Pay roles. In December 2018, we introduced a Gap report in 2017. The final pay gap outcomes digital cloud solution for the majority of our for 2019 are due to be published in April 2020. talent management, including performance We welcome this transparency measure as an opportunity to engage with employees 523 on equality, diversity, and inclusiveness and From Brazil to to discuss these issues in the UK Employee Pune, and the US to Consultative Forum. The company continues Brunei and Norway, to take measures to address the pay gap in Aker Solutions the UK, including setting up a diversity and locations around inclusion group. We are also working with employees attended the world hosted our global leadership schools and universities to promote the energy blood drives sector as an attractive career choice, and to multiple times encourage more women to enter the industry. programs in 2019 throughout 2019. 49 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU Aker Talent was the development of the “Visability” app This event is an effective way to present and For the third consecutive year Aker Solutions that makes sharing of expensive and special promote Aker Solutions to the top students in joined with other Aker companies to host Aker equipment for the disabled easy. This would Norway and around the world, and the students Talent, an event that brings engineering, IT, and make it easier for the disabled population to be get to learn about the company and the realbusiness students together at Engineerium physically active, increase their quality of life, world challenges they might face if they come in Fornebu, Norway. Students came from and in turn increase their employment rate. The work for us. The group of companies aims to universities and colleges across Norway, and case came from Stiftelsen VI (English: the WE offer at least 50 percent of the participants a some from European and American universities. Foundation). More information can be found summer job or permanent position following the on the foundation in the chapter Engaging and event. Out of the 350 applications for this year’s event, Supporting Local Communities. Aker Solutions 40 students were selected to participate and is a founding member of Stiftelsen VI. meet the Aker companies as well as showcase their creativity and skills. This year’s challenge theme was Sustainability. The eight teams were given challenges including: ¡ optimizing energy consumption and reducing emissions from offshore oil & gas installations while saving money ¡ improving the CO2 footprint in concrete foundation products ¡ accelerating the implementation of carbon capture, utilization and storage in the industrial sector to meet the Paris agreement ¡ broadening the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals ¡ using the ocean data platform to gain more insight into the climate change threats threatening marine mammals The winning team solved the challenge related to using technology to enable disabled people to participate in the workforce. Their solution 50 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU Protecting Personal Data framework agreement between our parent As a Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) approved company Aker ASA and Fellesforbundet / corporation, Aker Solutions takes data Tekna / Nito / IndustriALL Global Union ensures protection seriously. We have an organization that all Aker companies are committed to dedicated to protecting personal data, with providing employees the right to a healthy and a team of privacy officers supervising and safe working environment (ILO conventions supporting this effort. In 2018, Aker Solutions 155 and 167). To achieve industry best concluded the General Data Protection practice, the company involves and works with Regulation (GDPR) project. We spent 2019 employees, their representatives, and trade operationalizing the GDPR in our businesses. unions to continually improve the company’s Our focus in 2020 will be on personal data health and safety performance, in compliance protection compliance. with ILO guidelines for occupational health management systems. Employee Turnover Employee representatives provide employees The global voluntary workforce turnover with influence and lines of communication averaged 6.7 percent in 2019 compared with through their participation in working 5.5 percent in 2018. The increase in 2019 is in committees, on the board of directors, and in some of our countries like India and Malaysia operational improvement and organizational due to high pressure in the labor market. For change projects. In 2019, union representatives the other countries we do not see the same in Norway had regular meetings with increase in turnover. We continue to have management on a local and regional level, focus on career development plans to increase in addition to more regulatory discussions in employee retention. accordance with union agreements entered into by the company. Once a year, the unions hold a conference with a formal election process for Employee Representation and union representatives in Norway. Engagement Good industrial relationships are an important Twice a year employee representatives from part of Aker Solutions’ history and culture. Norway, the UK, Brazil, Malaysia, and India We encourage employee representation in meet with management from the Aker ASA our business units worldwide. This is part of companies as part of the Global Works Council Employee representatives met our commitment to human and labor rights. (GWC). Beginning in 2020, GWC will be with management from the Employees worldwide have the right to be expanded to include employee representatives heard and represented, and to form and join from the US and Angola. The council aims Aker ASA companies as part trade unions of their own choice. The global to develop communication and consultation of the Global Works Council 51 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU between management and employees on issues Aker Solutions conducted a global survey in Our long-term ambitions were: such as operations and strategy. The meetings 2019 to gauge employee engagement. The ü Build a culture that delivers on the strategy in 2019 included an update on business engagement score improved significantly by and is recognized by teamwork, learning, integrity, the outlook for the oil & gas industry, 10.1 points. The survey is held annually and the and boldness and “green Aker” initiatives. An update and feedback provides management with specific renewal of the Global Framework Agreement is areas that need focus in the following year. ü High performance through strong leadership planned for 2020. and accountability ü Cost efficient organizational design and Regarding organizational changes that will Key Staff Figures compensation that ensures sustainable affect employees, Aker Solutions follows the In 2019 the number of employees increased by business legal requirements for national legislation on the around 1250 employees due to project awards. minimum requirements of notification period in We have also used more external contractors ü High quality HR function that is a true the countries where there are operations. The in 2019. The increase in number of employees business partner legislation varies, but for most countries this is is mainly in Brazil. While also North America, 12 weeks, though it can be as few as 4 weeks APAC, and Norway have had moderate growth We achieved the expected progress and will in some countries. in number of employees, the UK has reduced further develop these in 2020 and onwards. A the number of employees by almost 700. continued focus of building a sustainable and Any significant variation in the total numbers diverse pipeline for senior leadership roles, a during the year are due to the cyclic nature of robust and cost-effective HR organization are our industry and project work. Depending on among the key drivers to further develop the 10pt the projects we are awarded, we may have to company culture and leadership. A key element increase our permanent and temporary base of this is to build a culture that promotes inclusion of employees and also increase the number of and diversity. In 2019, we started to measure hired ins. Likewise, as projects come to a close, diversity in management teams by international or the industry slows down, we may have to experience and will extend this in 2020 to also increase in annual reduce our total work force. Additional data and measure gender, nationality, and age groups. figures on our employees can be found in the global Employee 1250 appendix at the end of this report. Engagement Score Long-term Ambitions We progressed well on the long-term ambitions set in 2019. The long-term ambitions had the In 2019, the number of employees increased by around 1250 aim to reinforce development of a competent, diverse, and agile people & organization. employees due to project awards 52 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENSURING A COMPETENT, ENGAGED, AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE MENU 9. Engaging and Supporting Local Communities Aker Solutions is committed to helping our communities benefit from our operations. Develop local Support a positive local impact Ensure continued competency by engaging employees positive local impact on and capability in company-endorsed environment, employees community programs and their families 53 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU We recognize the opportunity and responsibility Nigeria scopes and projects in Angola. The next phase to positively impact our surroundings and are Aker Solutions is fulfilling local content of investment will include the establishment determined to ensure that our presence is requirements in Nigeria. A Learning Center of additional facilities, including site offices, a marked by integrity and transparency. facility is currently under construction near workshop, and storage and training facilities. Yenagoa, Bayelsa state. The learning center is Aker Solutions operates in markets that face envisaged as an engine to enhance indigenous We are also working closely with local socio-economic challenges such as poverty, oil and gas engineering competence. Once educational institutions. A group of eight violation of human rights, and corruption. complete, the center will consist of a main Angolan students from local university The company conducts several assessments building for training activities, a 23 room Unversidade Agostinho Neto (UAN) were a year to prepare for potential challenges hostel, security houses, a mini football pitch selected to study at the Norwegian University in such markets and to guard against and a sewage treatment plant. The project is of Science and Technology to graduate with becoming complicit in unethical activity constructed with help from local contractors a Masters degree and PhD. Additionally, that could negatively impact the societies and suppliers, and while the project is investment at the UAN campus through to where we operate. With an expanding global somewhat behind schedule, completion is the first quarter of 2020 will see infrastructure footprint, these assessments become more anticipated in Q1 2020. The project has high improvements in the Central Library and comprehensive, complex, and challenging and focus on HSE performance and has achieved laboratories, as well as the donation of critical the results sometimes require difficult decisions. zero lost time incidents since construction hardware, internet connectivity, and petroleum Nevertheless, the company is determined not to commenced in May 2018. The construction engineering books. To ensure the sustained compromise its integrity and reputation. project is closely monitored and supported by operation of the upgraded laboratories, the local management and central functions in Aker company is providing students with required Solutions, and operation of the center posttraining in order to use, maintain, and safeguard Local Content completion is currently in the planning phase. the facilities. Customers or local authorities often require local content as a prerequisite for executing Angola In addition, Aker Solutions is partnering with projects or maintaining a local presence. These Angola is a significant and growing hub for local David Bernardino Children’s Hospital requirements regularly involve partnering with Aker Solutions and since launching our first to supply electronic devices and fund the local companies, sourcing locally, or enhancing operations in-country in 2003, we have been total refurbishment of a selected room within local competence through training and focused on increasing local content capacity, the facility. knowledge-sharing initiatives. Aker Solutions including service base infrastructure. aims to comply with these requirements and follow up continuously, both from corporate and Following the first of a two-phase investment local offices, to ensure that compliance is in by joint venture AKSEL, the Viana Technology place. We believe that using local staff, products, Center in Luanda is scheduled to open in 2020. and services is important. We depend on local Representing the first sub-Saharan country able knowledge to succeed and strive to contribute to to execute hyperbaric testing in-country, the improving local social and economic conditions. Center brings significant efficiencies to work 54 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU Norway Aker Solutions recognizes the wider benefit of creating and sharing value between the company, the local community, and the country, and maintains its financial support of Engineerium, an interactive science center at Aker Solutions’ headquarters in Norway. The 2,200 m2 facility was opened in 2012 as part of the company’s initiative to support STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects among youth nationally and locally. Participants can explore natural phenomena, learn about different energy sources, technology, the history of the Aker companies, and the development of the oil and gas industry in Norway. Through school programs launched in 2014, Engineerium provides a valuable educational resource to kindergartens, elementary schools, secondary schools and high schools, and specialty groups. Approximately 13,000 people of all ages have experienced the facility and its programming since the launch. Engineerium provides many benefits to the local community as well, including space for meetings and events, and weekend activities for families with children. Engineerium provides a valuable educational resource to kindergartens, elementary schools, and specialty groups 55 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU Donations and Sponsorships Stiftelsen VI As part of building relations with local Aker Solutions, together with 10 other communities and stakeholders, the company companies in the Aker ASA group, continued contributes to a variety of good causes and the engagement with Stiftelsen VI. This projects. Our local offices lead these initiatives, foundation works to create a movement to which are often employee driven, so they can rectify the imbalance between people with and Aker Solutions, together be tailored to local needs. These efforts help without disabilities. VI aims to contribute to a improve relations with local communities and higher quality of life, improved health, increased with 10 other companies organizations. We also aim to contribute to and self-efficiency, and more social interaction in the Aker ASA group support vulnerable groups. for people with disabilities. These goals align with Aker Solutions efforts to promote continued engagement Aker Solutions also uses sponsorships to equality, human rights, and local community with Stiftelsen VI. promote the company and its business. Our engagement. sponsorships are strategic and aligned with the company’s values. As a matter of policy, we do In December, Aker Solutions proudly hosted the not sponsor political or religious groups. The event “Technology for Equal Opportunities”. The company’s sponsorship and donations policy event created awareness around the challenges specifies the rules for background checks and and opportunities related to physical activity assessments for donation and sponsorship for disabled people. Some highlights of the contributions. A sample of sponsorships is event included the panel debate hosted by included below. young para-athletes and a world-class table tennis exhibition. The goal of the event was to establish a lasting meeting place which can initiate collaboration across different interest groups and stakeholders. 56 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU Karanba Employee Engagement in Local Since 2012, Aker Solutions has supported Communities Karanba Project with financial assistance In 2019, employees across our organization and participation on its board. Karanba is a initiated and participated in charitable activities Norwegian social project in Rio de Janeiro, in their local communities. Through volunteer Brazil. Utilizing football as a tool for personal work, fundraising and donations, and education, development, Karanba helps a large number these activities had positive, and often visible, of children and young people from slum areas impacts on the communities where we work, access opportunity and education. The project live, and play. A diverse selection of activities is activities give children a means to express presented below. themselves and offer an alternative to passivity and crime. Karanba is made up of a mix of Brazil locally employed staff and volunteers working Employees in Brazil participated in many within the following areas: administration and activities focused on education and the structure, pedagogy, teaching, vocational advancement of local youth. In partnership training, football, and employment. The project with the Brazilian Petroleum Institute and is educationally oriented with classes at its main Junior Achievement, employees helped base in Rio de Janeiro focusing on English, prepare more than 400 public school math, and Portuguese. Aker Solutions makes students for the job market. In addition, they financial donations and provides employee volunteered to teach STEM classes in local volunteers for various Karanba initiatives. schools and held multiple book drives to support schools in the local communities. American Cancer Society For nearly ten years, Aker Solutions has sponsored the annual American Cancer Society Chili Cookoff in Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A. Employees support the local community while sharing good food and good company. At the 2019 event, the team also took home the award for Best Decorated Tent! The American Cancer Society works to save lives through research, For nearly ten years, Aker Solutions by helping people get and stay well, and by has sponsored the annual fighting back against cancer. American Cancer Society Chili Cookoff in Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A. 57 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU Canada of the facility and special needs children in its At the summer garden party In our St. John’s, Canada location, employees focused on supporting local children through care. A donation drive was held in May and the response was overwhelming. The total for Aker Solutions’ Aberdeen several projects in 2019. In November, donations met the annual need for health and employees, raffle tickets and employees participated in the Good Life Kids hygiene products, ranging from antiseptic liquid sweet treats were sold to Foundation annual Spin4Kids fundraiser. During to gloves, diapers and baby bottles. this fun-filled, indoor fitness event, they cycled support Kayleigh’s Wee Stars. their way to raising money for the important Scotland cause. In December, the team participated Continuing their annual tradition of employees in the annual Sleep Tight project, collecting voting to choose one charity to support pajamas and books for the local children’s throughout the year, Aberdeen employees hospital and rehabilitation center. selected Kayleigh’s Wee Stars and held several activities to raise funds for the organization in India 2019. Kayleigh’s Wee Stars is an AberdeenEmployees in Pune, India visited the Sofosh based nonprofit organization that raises money Tara facility to understand the annual needs to provide financial support for families with a terminally-ill child. 58 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU United States Cleanups Around the World US employees volunteered at the Ronald Many locations organized and participated McDonald house in Mobile, Alabama preparing in local cleanups at beaches, parks, and and serving a meal for families with hospitalized community areas to keep trash and debris from children. The Ronald McDonald House Charities causing more harm to the environment. is a nationwide organization that provides a ¡ Bergen, Fornebu, Moss, Sandnessjoen, supportive home environment offering care, and Trondheim employees and families compassion, and hope to families with seriously participated in local community cleanups in ill and injured children being treated at area May and April hospitals. ¡ Employees in Brazil worked with the NGO Partner of the Sea to remove over 50kg of waste from the beach in September ¡ Mumbai employees joined Norway’s Deputy Foreign Minister Jens Frølich Holte, Norwegian Ambassador Hans Jacob Frydenlund and Consul General of Norway Ann Ollestad for India’s largest beach cleaning initiative in October India Brazil Norway 59 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENGAGING AND SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES MENU Appendix 60 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards ‘core’ level. We have sought to report fully on all possible dimensions of the disclosures, but where this is not possible, we have reported as comprehensively as possible, 102-7 Scale of the Appendix: Key Staff Figures based on the data systems we have. The table refers to where information organization Balance sheet in the 2019 Annual Report Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2019 Annual about each disclosure is presented in our Sustainability Report, Annual Report Report or company website. For a complete description of the individual disclosures, Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2019 Annual Report please see GRI’s website (www.globalreporting.org). Note 16 (Equity) in the 2019 Annual Report Note 17 (Borrowings) in the 2019 Annual Report Note 23 (Capital Management) in the 2019 Annual Report 102-8 Information on Appendix: Key Staff Figures employees and other A significant portion of the organization’s activities workers are not performed by workers who are not employees. GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-9 Supply chain Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Disclosure # Disclosure name Located in the 2019 Report Sustainable Supplier Base Organizational Profile 102-10 Significant changes to The new organizational structure is described in the organization and the board of directors’ report in the 2019 AR. 102-1 Name of the Front page of this report its supply chain organization 102-11 Precautionary Principle Main Chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions 102-2 Activities, brands, Note 3 (Revenue) in the 2019 Annual Report or approach Subchapter: Our View products, and services Note 4 (Operating segments) in the 2019 Annual Report 102-12 External initiatives Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions Subchapter: Our View 102-3 Location of Note 1 (Company information) in the 2019 Annual Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Human headquarters Report Rights 102-4 Location of operations Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2019 AR 102-13 Membership of Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions Other information chapter in the 2019 AR associations Subchapter: Our View Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Human 102-5 Ownership and legal Note 1 (Company information) in the 2019 AR Rights form Note 12 (Shareholders Parent Company Main chapter: Safeguarding People and Assets Accounts) in the 2019 AR Strategy 102-6 Markets served Board of Directors’ report in the 2019 AR Note 4 (Operating segments) in the 2019 Annual 102-14 Statement from senior CEO Introduction Report decision-maker 61 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Ethics and Integrity 102-47 List of material topics Economic performance, Anti-Corruption, Anti-competitive behavior, Energy, Emissions, 102-16 Values, principles, Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions Effluents and Waste, Environmental standards, and norms of Subchapter: Our View Compliance, Supplier Environmental behavior Assessment, Employment, Labor/ Management Relations, Occupational Governance Health and Safety, Training and Education, 102-18 Governance structure Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions Diversity and Equal Opportunity, NonSubchapter: Our View discrimination, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forces Stakeholder Engagement or Compulsory Labor, Security Practices, Human Rights Assessment, Supplier Social 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions Assessment, Public Policy, Socioeconomic Subchapter: Our View Compliance 102-42 Identifying and selecting Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions 102-48 Restatements of No stakeholders Subchapter: Our View information 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions 102-49 Changes in reporting No. A new materiality assessment will be engagement Subchapter: Our View conducted in 2020. 102-44 Key topics and concerns Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year (2019) raised Subchapter: Our View 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019 Reporting Practice 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-45 Entities included in the Note 26 (Subsidiaries) in the 2019 AR consolidated financial 102-53 Contact point for questions sustainability@akersolutions.com statements regarding the report 102-46 Defining report content and Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance topic boundaries Subchapter: Our View accordance with the GRI with the GRI Standards: Core option. Subchapter: About This Report Standards 102-55 GRI content index Appendix, GRI Index table, pages 61-67 102-56 External assurance This report is not externally assured. 62 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 205-2 Communication and Main chapter: Conducting our Business with training about antiIntegrity MAIN CATEGORY: ECONOMIC corruption policies and procedures GRI Standard: 201 Economic Performance 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 103 1-3 Management approach Main Chapter: CEO Introduction corruption and actions Integrity Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, taken Governance Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, GRI Standard: 206 Anti-competitive Behaviour Engaged, and Diverse Workforce Board of Directors’ report in the 2019 AR 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance 201-1 Direct economic value Income Statement in the 2019 AR Main chapter: Conducting our Business with generated and distributed Note 5 (Personnel Expenses) in the 2019 AR Integrity Note 6 (Other Operating Expenses) in the 2019 AR 206-1 Legal actions for antiMain chapter: Conducting our Business with Note 7 (Finance Income and Expenses) in the competitive behavior, Integrity 2019 AR anti-trust, and monopoly Cashflow chapter in the 2019 AR practices Appendix: Country by Country Report MAIN CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL 201-2 Financial implications Main chapter: CEO Introduction and other risks and Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, GRI Standard: 302 Energy opportunities due to climate Climate-Related Risks 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, change Appendix: Climate Risk Review Governance Board of Directors’ report in the 2019 AR Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact 201-3 Defined benefit plan Note 19 (Pension Obligations) in the 2019 AR 302-1 Energy consumption within Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact obligations and other the organization Appendix: Environmental Figures retirement plans 302-3 Energy intensity Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact GRI Standard: 205 Anti-corruption Appendix: Environmental Figures 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, GRI Standard: 305 Emissions Governance Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Integrity Governance Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact 205-1 Operations assessed for Main chapter: Conducting our Business with risks related to corruption Integrity 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Appendix: Environmental Figures emissions 63 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Appendix: Environmental Figures MAIN CATEGORY: SOCIAL GHG emissions GRI Standard: 401 Employment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Appendix: Environmental Figures GHG emissions 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact Main Chapter: Ensuring a Competent, emissions intensity Appendix: Environmental Figures Engaged, and Diverse Workforce 305-5 Reduction of GHG Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact 401-1 New employee hires and Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, emissions Appendix: Environmental Figures employee turnover Engaged, and Diverse Workforce Appendix: Key Staff Figures, Recruitment & GRI Standard: 306 Effluents and Waste Turnover 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, 401-3 Parental leave Appendix: Parental Leave Own Regular Governance Employees Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact All own employees are entitled to parental leave based on local laws, regulations and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Appendix: Environmental Figures practice. method GRI Standard: 402 Labor/Management Relations 306-3 Significant spills Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact Appendix: Environmental Figures 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance GRI Standard: 307 Environmental Compliance Main Chapter: Ensuring a Competent, 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Engaged, and Diverse Workforce Governance 402-1 Minimum notice periods Aker Solutions follows the legal requirements Main Chapter: Our Environmental Impact regarding operational for national legislation on the minimum 307-1 Non-compliance with Aker Solutions was not subject to any significant changes requirements of notification period in the environmental laws and fines or sanctions for non-compliance with countries where there are operations. The regulations environmental laws and regulations. legislation varies, but for most countries, this is 12 weeks, though it can be as few as 4 GRI Standard: 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment weeks in some countries. 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, GRI Standard: 403 Occupational Health and Safety Governance Main Chapter: Driving a Responsible and 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Sustainable Supplier Base Governance Main Chapter: Safeguarding People and 308-1 New suppliers that Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Assets were screened using Sustainable Supplier Base environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and impacts in the supply chain Sustainable Supplier Base and actions taken 64 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 403-2 Types of injury and rates Main chapter: Safeguarding People and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and In the UK we report publicly and to the of injury, occupational Assets remuneration of women to government on the gender pay gap. The diseases, lost days, and Appendix: Injuries by Type and Region. Note men 2019 report will be published in April 2020. absenteeism, and number that we do not include injury information by The 2018 report can be found here: https:// of work-related fatalities gender. www.akersolutions.com/globalassets/cr/ downloads/gender_pay_gap_report_2018.pdf 403-4 Health and safety topics Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, covered in formal agreements Engaged, and Diverse Workforce GRI Standard: 406 Non-discrimination with trade unions 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, GRI Standard: 404 Training and Education Governance Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Integrity Governance Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, Main Chapter: Ensuring a Competent, Engaged, and Diverse Workforce Engaged, and Diverse Workforce 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 404-3 Percentage of employees Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, and corrective actions Integrity receiving regular Engaged, and Diverse Workforce taken Main chapter: Ensuring a Competent, performance and career Engaged, and Diverse Workforce development reviews GRI Standard: 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI Standard: 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance Governance Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Main Chapter: Ensuring a Competent, Human Rights Engaged, and Diverse Workforce 407-1 Operations and suppliers Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 405-1 Diversity of governance Appendix: Key Staff Figures identified in which the right Integrity bodies and employees Board of directors: Male: 62.5% (5), Female: to exercise freedom of Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and 37.5% (3), 30-50: 25% (2), 50+: 75% (6) association and collective Sustainable Supplier Base Aker Solutions does not, unless required bargaining may be violated Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting or necessary for compliance with local or at significant risk Human Rights laws and regulations, gather sensitive data on employees or members of governance bodies, including many indicators of diversity such as ancestry and ethnic origin, creed, disability, or inclusion in vulnerable groups. https://www.akersolutions.com/who-we-are/ board-of-directors/ 65 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 408 Child Labor GRI Standard: 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance Governance Main chapter: Conducting our Business with Main chapter: Conducting our Business with Integrity Integrity Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Human Rights Human Rights Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Sustainable Supplier Base Sustainable Supplier Base 408-1 Operations and suppliers at In addition to the controls performed during 409-1 Operations and suppliers at In addition to the controls performed during significant risk for incidents the pre-qualification and qualification phases significant risk for incidents the pre-qualification and qualification phases of child labor (Supplier Qualification Questionnaire, of forced or compulsory (Supplier Qualification Questionnaire, Compliance Check on Bureau van Dijk, labor Compliance Check on Bureau van Dijk, Audit) an additional analysis on human and Audit) an additional analysis on human and labor rights has been conducted by country, labor rights has been conducted by country, and then by category of suppliers. A panel and then by category of suppliers. A panel of suppliers included in certain specific of suppliers included in certain specific categories considered at risk by nature categories considered at risk by nature (labor intensive categories) will be subject (labor intensive categories) will be subject to a program that will be implemented in to a program that will be implemented in 2020 (communications, awareness sessions, 2020 (communications, awareness sessions, meeting with management, specific audit, meeting with management, specific audit, etc.). Taking into account all the measures etc.). Taking into account all the measures taken and also planned, it is reasonable to taken and also planned, it is reasonable to claim that no suppliers at evident significant claim that no suppliers at evident significant risk are in operation, however Aker Solutions risk are in operation, however Aker Solutions will strengthen its efforts in monitoring and will strengthen its efforts in monitoring and intervene with target actions in risky areas, intervene with target actions in risky areas, in order to prevent any possible failure of in order to prevent any possible failure of this framework, educate suppliers, and this framework, educate suppliers, and demonstrate its seamless commitment. demonstrate its seamless commitment. GRI Standard: 410 Security Practices 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance Main chapter: Safeguarding People and Assets 410-1 Security personnel trained Main chapter: Safeguarding People and in human rights policies or Assets procedures 66 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI Standard: 412 Human Rights Assessment GRI Standard: 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance Governance Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting Human Rights Human Rights Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and Sustainable Supplier Base Sustainable Supplier Base 412-1 Operations that have Main chapter: Conducting our Business with 414-1 New suppliers that were Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and been subject to human Integrity screened using social Sustainable Supplier Base rights reviews or impact We have partially reported for 2019, but this criteria assessments area will receive more focus going forward and we aim for complete reporting in 2020. 414-2 Negative social impacts Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and in the supply chain and Sustainable Supplier Base 412-2 Employee training on Main chapter: Conducting our Business with actions taken human rights policies or Integrity procedures Main chapter: Respecting and Promoting GRI Standard: 415 Public Policy Human Rights 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Appendix: Business Ethics Training Overview Governance We have partially reported for 2019, but this Main chapter: Engaging and Supporting Local area will receive more focus going forward Communities and we aim for complete reporting in 2020. 415-1 Political contributions As a matter of policy, Aker Solutions does not 412-3 Significant investment Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions sponsor political or religious groups. agreements and contracts Main chapter: Driving a Responsible and that include human rights Sustainable Supplier Base GRI Standard: 419 Socioeconomic Compliance clauses or that underwent human rights screening 103 1-3 Management approach Main chapter: Sustainability at Aker Solutions, Governance Main chapter: Conducting our Business with Integrity 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Aker Solutions was not subject to significant and regulations in the social fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonand economic area compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area. 67 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Key Staff Figures* 2019 2018 2017 2016 # % # % # % # % Total Staff 21,056 19,442 16,175 16,177 Own employees office 1 9,198 57.7 8,561 58.2 8,165 59.2 8,726 60.7 Own employees non office 1 6,758 42.4 6,144 41.8 5,631 40.8 5,659 39.3 Contract staff 5,100 24.2 4,737 24.4 2,379 14.7 1,792 11.1 Own employees (percent) 15,956 75.8 14,705 75.6 13,796 85.3 14,385 88.9 Norway of total own employees 6,019 37.7 5,833 39.7 5,574 40.4 5,840 40.6 Age Groups Own Employees*,1 <30 2,245 14.0 1,882 12.8 1,715 12.4 2,230 15.5 30-50 9,815 61.6 9,014 61.3 8,730 63.3 8,818 61.3 >50 3,882 24.4 3,809 25.9 3,351 24.3 3,337 23.2 Part-time Own Employees Part-time own employees Norway1 57 1.0 59 1.0 67 1.2 53 0.9 Part-time own employees UK 41 3.0 42 2.0 41 2.0 41 2.2 *) 2  019 figures do not include 14 employees (6 located in Asia Pacific, 5 located in Norway, 3 located in Africa). These employees are not included in our SAP system so diversity information, including gender, is not available. 1) Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) 68 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Key Staff Figures* 2019 2018 2017 2016 Own Contract Total Own Contract Total Own Contract Total Own Contract Total Employees Total1 15,956 5,100 21,056 14,705 4,737 19,442 13,796 2,379 16,175 14,385 1,792 16,177 North America 555 77 632 471 74 545 511 76 587 534 24 558 Brazil (including CSE) 5,346 0 5,346 3,883 0 3,883 3,345 0 3,345 3,313 0 3,313 Africa 187 1 188 212 0 212 225 10 235 216 0 216 Asia Pacific 2,474 814 3,288 2,246 720 2,966 2,085 303 2,388 2,623 396 3,019 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 10 0 10 3 0 3 3 0 3 2 1 3 UK 1,365 613 1,978 2,056 1,273 3,329 2,049 1,060 3,109 1,858 623 2,481 Norway 6,019 3,595 9,614 5,834 2,670 8,504 5,578 930 6,508 5,839 748 6,587 2019 2018 2017 2016 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male # % # % # % # % # % # % # % # % Gender Distribution* Own employees office1 2,447 26.6 6,739 73.4 2,320 27.1 6,241 72.9 2,172 26.6 5,993 73.4 2,304 26.4 6,422 73.6 Own employees non office1 199 3.0 6,557 97.1 201 3.3 5,943 96.7 141 2.5 5,490 97.5 198 3.5 5,461 96.5 Total own employees1 2,646 16.6 13,296 83.4 2,520 17.1 12,185 82.9 2,312 16.8 11,484 83.2 2,502 17.4 11,882 82.6 Own leaders %1 144 21.9 513 78.1 136 23.9 433 76.1 124 22.5 427 77.5 137 22.4 475 77.7 *) 2019 figures do not include 14 employees (6 located in Asia Pacific, 5 located in Norway, 3 located in Africa). These employees are not included in our SAP system so diversity information, including gender, is not available. 1) Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) 69 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Recruitment and Turnover Figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2019 2018 2017 2016 # % # % # % # % # % # % # % # % Recruited 1 4,129 3,805 2,181 950 Turnover Own employees office 1 1,800 31.7 1,731 45.5 527 24.2 360 37.9 Turnover 1.059 7.00 786 5.53 881 7.00 707 6.20 Own employees non-office 1 2,329 68.3 2,074 54.5 1,654 75.8 590 62.1 Own employees office 2 691 65.3 596 75.8 640 72.6 575 81.3 Own employees non-office 2 368 34.7 190 24.2 241 27.4 132 18.7 Age Groups Recruited1 <30 1,259 30.5 1,081 28.4 480 22.0 261 27.5 Age Groups Turnover2 30-50 2,487 60.2 2,256 59.3 1,278 58.6 469 49.4 <30 193 18.2 83 10.6 98 11.1 142 20.1 >50 383 9.3 472 12.4 421 19.3 220 23.2 30-50 771 72.8 599 76.2 648 73.6 496 70.2 >50 95 9.0 104 13.2 135 15.3 69 9.8 Recruited Region 1 North America 151 3.6 164 4.3 161 7.4 45 4.7 Turnover Region2 Brazil (including CSE) 2,434 60.7 1,601 42.1 830 38.1 85 8.9 North America 40 3.8 62 7.9 55 6.2 47 6.6 Africa 18 0.5 31 0.8 42 1.9 60 6.3 Brazil (including CSE) 295 27.9 103 13.1 107 12.1 47 6.6 Asia Pacific 587 11.3 452 11.9 103 4.7 88 9.3 Africa 4 0.4 3 0.4 14 1.6 0.0 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 11 0.2 1 2 0.1 Asia Pacific 276 26.1 202 25.7 179 20.3 179 25.3 UK 295 11.0 663 17.4 917 42.0 510 53.7 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 1 0.1 Norway 633 13.4 893 23.5 126 5.8 162 17.1 UK 164 15.5 147 18.7 182 20.7 115 16.3 Norway 280 26.4 268 34.1 344 39.0 319 45.1 Recruited Gender1 Female 551 11.3 637 16.7 204 9.4 123 12.9 Turnover Gender2 Male 3,578 88.7 3,168 83.3 1,977 90.6 827 87.1 Female 204 19.3 178 22.6 195 22.1 175 24.8 Male 855 80.7 608 77.4 686 77.9 532 75.2 1) Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) 2) Regular employed 70 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Parental Leave Own Regular Employees1 Employees taking parental leave Employees taking parental Employees taking parental Employees taking parental in 2018 (employed in 2019) leave in 2017 leave in 2016 leave in 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Norway Employees taking parental leave 50 132 182 76 148 224 77 224 301 119 141 260 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months 92.0 95.5 94.5 86.4 82.2 83.6 70.1 72.3 71.8 60.50 76.50 69.20 after parental leave ended (percent) UK Employees taking parental leave 21 22 43 28 31 59 24 63 87 28 34 62 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months 90.5 81.8 86.0 82.4 86.1 84.3 62.5 74.6 71.3 67.90 85.30 77.40 after parental leave ended (percent) Malaysia Employees taking parental leave 16 26 42 12 63 75 21 68 89 48 167 215 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months 81.3 84.6 83.3 85.7 96.9 94.9 81.0 89.7 87.6 83.30 92.20 90.20 after parental leave ended (percent) India Employees taking parental leave 15 31 46 13 41 54 22 73 95 29 87 116 Employed at Aker Solutions 12 months 60.0 87.1 78.3 72.2 70.7 71.1 59.1 71.2 68.4 96.6 93.1 94.0 after parental leave ended (percent) 1) Regular employed 71 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Business Ethics Training Overview The data includes only current employees E-learning: Annual Code of Conduct Training, by region Total number Total number Total number Total number Not Region Completed Total of company of employees of employees of employees completed Course Type Duration personnel trained end trained end trained end 2016 trained end 2018 (incl. 2017 (incl. (incl. hired-in Africa 205 0 205 20191 hired-in staff) 1 hired-in staff) 1 staff) 1 Americas 5,557 0 5,557 E-learning: Introduction to APAC 2,966 0 2,966 15 minutes 5,800 300 N/A N/A business integrity2 Europe 8,431 214 8,645 E-learning: Aker ASA’s zero Middle East 9 0 9 15 minutes N/A N/A 8,100 8,600 tolerance to corruption3 Total 17,168 214 17,382 Classroom course in 2 hours 14,700 11,700 10,600 7,700 Business Ethics4 E-learning: Annual Code of 10 minutes 17,200 12,200 11,000 N/A Conduct training5 1) Numbers have been rounded up to the nearest 100. 2) Replacement course released July 1, 2018. 3) The course has been discontinued and replaced with introduction to business integrity e-learning. 4) Topics: Values and policies, anti-corruption, conflict of interests, confidential information, human and labor rights, gifts and hospitality, country risk and reporting concerns (whistleblowing). 5) Topics: Anti-Harassment and intimidation, diversity and equal opportunities, and human and labor rights. 72 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Injuries by Type and Region Personal Personal 35 injuries, injuries, 30 Count Count 25 Arm/Elbow Foot / Toe 20 Fracture 4 15 Cut/Laceration/Puncture 1 Sprain / Strain / Dislocation 1 10 Fracture 1 5 Unspecifiedother 2 0 Head / Face Brazil Brunei Malaysia Norway UK US Back / Neck / Shoulder Concussion 1 Soft tissue injury 2 Cut/Laceration/Puncture 3 Not LTI LTI Sprain/Strain/Dislocation 6 Unspecifiedother 1 Unspecifiedother 1 Internal organs 1. Aker Solutions uses the following industry standard definition for injury reporting and injury frequency reporting: Ear Lost Time Injury (LTI): A lost time injury is any work-related injury, other than a fatal injury, which results in Acute poisoning 1 a person being unfit for work on any day after the day of occurrence of the occupational injury. ‘Any day’ Cut/Laceration/Puncture 1 includes rest days, weekend days, leave days, public holidays or days after ceasing employment. Unspecifiedother 2 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF): Number of lost time injuries per million worked hours. This indicator Unspecifiedother 2 equals the GRI standard’s Lost Day Rate (LDR) Leg / Hip / Knee / Ankle Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) include Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (Serious and Other Lost Time Injuries), Eye Restricted Work Injuries and Medical Treatment Injuries. TRI does not include First Aid Treatment cases. Cut/Laceration/Puncture 3 Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF): Number of Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (Serious and Other Foreign body 4 Lost Time Injuries), Restricted Work Injuries and Medical Treatment Injuries per million worked hours. This Fracture 2 indicator equals the GRI standard’s Injury Rate (IR) Radiation injury 1 Internal injury 1 2. Aker Solutions does not track the gender of injured persons, as this might come in conflict with GDPR regulaUnspecifiedother 1 tions when in smaller departments Sprain/Strain/Dislocation 2 3. Aker Solutions keeps track of information whether the injured person is an employee, hired in, contractor etc. Unspecifiedother 1 in our reporting system, but in reporting we include all categories in the same LTIF and TRIF. We follow IOGP Finger industry standards for reporting boundaries. Bite/Sting 1 Rib Cut/Laceration/Puncture 13 Soft tissue injury 1 Soft tissue injury 1 Unspecifiedother 1 Wrist / Hand / Finger Cut/Laceration/Puncture 7 Soft tissue injury 1 73 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Environmental Figures Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total energy and carbon dioxide emissions1 Energy consumption MWh 110,930 97,434 90,709 109,122 Energy intensity MWh per million worked hours 2,352 2,554 2,499 3,291 Total carbon dioxide emissions Metric tons 35,255 34,025 18,383 22,133 Total carbon dioxide emission intensity Metric tons per million worked hours 744 790 506 667 Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity Metric tons per million worked hours 472 434 NA NA Scope 3 emission intensity Metric tons per million worked hours 272 356 NA NA Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions Metric tons 5,230 5782 NA NA Scope 2 carbon dioxide emissions Metric tons 17,158 13150 NA NA Scope 3 carbon dioxide emission2 Metric tons 12,867 15094 NA NA Non-renewable fuel consumption Diesel m3 1,327 1,059 639 1,069 Gasoline m3 47 11 13 57 Heavy fuel oil m3 49 111 96 107 Natural gas m3 725,579 448,507 408,341 509,221 Renewable fuel consumption Biofuel m3 61 15 NA NA Electricity consumption3 MWh 87,912 76,261 52,295 NA Heating consumption MWh NA NA NA NA Cooling consumption MWh NA NA NA NA Steam consumption MWh NA NA NA NA 1) We report in accordance with GHG protocol 2) Air travels booked out of Canada, Norway, UK, US 3) Aker Solutions does not sell energy 4) All information from facility providers and waste handling companies 5) Wastewater is not included in any calculations, neither hazardous or non-hazardous waste 6) For 2017 and earlier, hazardous waste was included in the recycled waste fraction 7) Not part of total recycled waste 74 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Environmental Figures cont. Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 Energy data is harvested locally either via meter readings at the sites or via invoicing of Non-hazardous waste and waste handling4 purchased electricity and fuels. Each location submit their environmental data on a monthly Total waste, including hazardous waste5 Metric tons 8,350 9,034 6,410 7,690 basis for the premises and activities controlled Recycled waste, excluding hazardous waste 6 Metric tons 5,105 6,420 5,570 6,618 by Aker Solutions. Reuse Metric tons 70 NA NA NA Incineration with energy recovery Metric tons 746 NA NA NA Conversion factors have been purchased from Composting Metric tons 16 NA NA NA the International Energy Agency and emissions Landfill Metric tons 478 NA NA NA are given in CO2 equivalents (CO2e), as per the 2019 IEA emission factors report. Scope 2 Other/not selected Metric tons 329 NA NA NA emissions are location based. All calculations Waste to energy energy recovery Metric tons 818 641 254 NA are done automatically in our Synergi Life Recycling factor, excluding hazardous waste 6 Percent 69 71 87 86 reporting tool. Hazardous waste and waste handling method All information on waste disposal methods are Total Hazardous waste5 Metric tons 719 673 446 460 derived either from the site itself (some sites Hazardous waste treatment -handled by waste company Metric tons 149 NA NA NA have their own compost facilities and do this inIncineration with energy recovery Metric tons 72 NA NA NA house) or from the waste handling companies. Incineration without energy recovery Metric tons 3 NA NA NA Other/ not specified Metric tons 402 NA NA NA Recycling 7 Metric tons 84 NA NA NA Reuse Metric tons 9 NA NA NA Spills above reportable limit Accidental spills Number 0 0 0 1 1) We report in accordance with GHG protocol 2) Air travels booked out of Canada, Norway, UK, US 3) Aker Solutions does not sell energy 4) All information from facility providers and waste handling companies 5) Wastewater is not included in any calculations, neither hazardous or non-hazardous waste 6) For 2017 and earlier, hazardous waste was included in the recycled waste fraction 7) Not part of total recycled waste 75 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Country by Country Report Country Employees 1 Revenue 2 Investments in assets 3 Paid taxes 4 Transparency is essential in an industry that can NOK million NOK million NOK million have a significant impact on local communities. Aker Solutions operates globally, including Norway 6,019 18,140 259 0 in societies that depend heavily on oil and Brazil 5,346 2,192 160 4 gas revenue, suffer from poverty, struggle UK 1,365 4,977 72 38 with corruption and have low transparency. Openly sharing information and having honest India 1,286 508 13 21 dialogues with our stakeholders is one of Malaysia 829 2,854 107 -19 the company’s core values. It is crucial for Brunei 324 806 1 16 improving transparency where we operate USA 298 1,432 56 0 and building trust with those affected by our Canada 257 585 6 10 operations. This table shows 2019 revenue, employees and investments as reported by Angola 152 1,042 57 92 the various Aker Solutions’ companies in each Australia 29 33 0 0 country. The right column reflects the amount of Congo 24 87 1 15 tax paid to each country. Cyprus 3 138 104 0 Other 24 126 8 6 Sum of countries 15,956 32,920 843 184 Eliminations2 0 -3,657 -16 0 Total Aker Solutions 15,956 29,263 828 184 1) T he locations of employees are based on the location of the company where they are employed. Branches are therefore included in the figures for the legal entity. 2) R evenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on location of the Aker Solutions company that has recognized the revenue. Intercompany sales are subtracted in the line “eliminations” to present external Aker Solutions revenues as in the income statement. 3) Investments in assets includes additions to property, plant and equipment as well as technology development and other intangible assets during the year. 4) P aid taxes include income taxes, witholding taxes and other corporate taxes, but does not include value added taxes (VAT) and other indirect taxes. 76 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Climate Risk Review 77 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Climate Risk Review 1. INTRODUCTION The Governance Group has been requested to conduct a review of climate-related risks and opportunities for Aker Solutions ASA (listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange). The review is based on the general framework developed by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), with recommendations for disclosing clear, comparative and consistent information about the risks and opportunities presented by Contents climate change. This report summarises key findings, gaps and recommendations. The main input to the review has been through interviews with key personnel from the 1. Introduction ........................................................................................... 3 strategy, finance, risk, supply chain, HSSE and 2. Key findings............................................................................................ 3 environment departments at Aker Solutions. 3. Identified risks and opportunities .......................................................... 4 Based on a short introduction to the TCFD 4. Detailed disclosures ............................................................................... 5 5. Recommendations ................................................................................. 6 framework, each interviewee was asked to disclose risks and opportunities related to the 11 disclosure items put forward by the TCFD. The interviews were conducted during the first half of February 2020 and preliminary findings were discussed at an internal workshop on 14th February 2020. The Governance Group has, on this basis, calibrated the findings and prepared a climate risk review as presented here. 2. KEY FINDINGS Governance and strategy: • Management at Aker Solutions recognises strongly the importance of climate-related risks and opportunities and their impact on the future of the industry. • Considerable measures have been taken to reduce the carbon footprint of the business. A new company strategy has been developed1 to balance the portfolio of products and technologies. • Targets set for 2030 are to generate 20% of company revenue from renewables and 25% from distinct low carbon solutions. The remaining 55% is still expected to come from “traditional” Oil and Gas services, whilst seeking to minimise the environmental footprint of new and existing assets. • The strategy is supported by earmarked budgets. • Management incentives and metrics related to climate risk are in place. Balanced scorecards are implemented for executive management positions. Risk management: • Climate risk is effectively assessed and handled as part of the existing risk management framework, procedures and tools. Aker Solutions has a separate team working on enterprise riskand performance management, linking risk and performance to strategy implementation. The Governance Group • Top risks (including climate risk) are communicated on a regular basis to the Executive The Governance Group AS (TGG) is an independent advisory firm specialising in ESG risk analysis Management Team and the Board Audit Committee. and sustainability strategies. TGG has a core team in Oslo and a network of affiliated • Aker Solutions’ operations are exposed to extreme weather (storms, air quality, floods etc.) at experts in Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. Clients include corporations construction sites and during transportation of supplies. Contingency plans are developed per in the energy, shipping, telecom, real estate and finance sectors, as well as project, but Aker Solutions is, generally, dependent on certain key suppliers, often with long lead government agencies in several countries. TGG holds no responsibility for decisions made based on the content of this report. 1 As per 3Q 2019 Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report 3 2 78 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Climate Risk Review time, and extreme weather could still lead to disruptions, project delays and have financial and 4. DETAILED DISCLOSURES reputational impact. • The main transition risks are perceived to be marketand technology-related. The pace of the energy market transition and the demand for products, technologies and services offered by Aker # Disclosure Summary of findings Solutions are key uncertainties. Mitigation strategies are in place and continuously reviewed by top management. Governance • A systematic analysis of climate-related risk for the entire supply chain seems to be missing. Being Describe the board’s oversight of − Climate-related risks are on the Board's agenda and reported quarterly. cost driven and having 60-80% of the production costs coming from suppliers, Aker Solutions could 1 climate-related risks and − The board has approved the new company strategy and supporting business be considerably exposed to transition risk in the supply chain. opportunities. plans. Describe management’s role in − Strong recognition of climate-related risks and impacts with regards to the Overall, Aker Solutions provides impressive coherence and foresight in strategy, risk and performance assessing and managing future of the industry. management and has, in many ways, managed to turn industry transition risks into business opportunities. climate-related risks and − EMT heavily involved in the strategy process, the transition goals, KPIs and Aker Solutions demonstrates a strong ability to navigate and adapt to changing market conditions with 2 opportunities. risk management. Integrated with the business, owned and acted upon. regard to climate change. − Aker Solutions is seeking new markets, new technologies as well as new partners to find sustainable solutions for offshore production (energy/oil/gas). 3. IDENTIFIED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Strategy Describe the climate-related − See table 1 above (Identified risks and opportunities). − Air quality, floods, hurricanes, wave heights etc. can harm both personnel and assets and risks and opportunities the lead to operational downtime and/or extra cost of business continuity. 3 organisation has identified over the short, medium, and long PHYSICAL RISKS − Extreme weather conditions may hit suppliers and/or transportation of equipment. This can term. potentially lead to disruptions and project delays, which, again, can have financial and Describe the impact of climate− Aker Solutions demonstrates strong awareness of the potential impacts from reputational impact. related risks and opportunities climate-related risks and has recently updated the company vision to “take − Carbon tax may postpone or stop planned O&G projects, causing stronger competition and on the organisation’s businesses, the position as industry leader in renewables and low carbon solutions”. reduced order intake. strategy, and financial planning − In line with the revised vision, Aker Solutions: REGULATORY RISKS − Regional regulations may cause uneven playing fields for global companies. Abrupt and 1. Invests in new technology and offerings addressing the need for populistic climate politics may lead to unpredictable regulatory frameworks. lowering industry carbon footprint, e.g. electrification, unmanned facilities, subsea compression and carbon capture. New technology can − Investors divest from O&G, banks are more reluctant to act as intermediaries and insurance 4 also be used to lengthen the life cycle of current production sites. companies are reconsidering their underwriting policies. 2. Seeks other markets and alternative sources of energy, e.g. floating − Competition may increase due to potentially less investment in the O&G industry. wind, offshore power stations and hubs, offshore fish farming, subsea − The energy transition may happen significantly faster or slower than assumed. Aker data storage and ocean economy (fish farming, data storage, power MARKET AND Solutions needs to be flexible and able to adapt to a continuously changing market. More stations etc). TECHNOLOGY RISKS investments may be needed. − There is clear integration of risk management into business units, strategy − Key suppliers may be exposed to climate-related risks. With a decline in the O&G market, and dedicated financial planning/budgeting key suppliers may leave the market, go bankrupt etc. Describe the resilience of the − The strategy is stress-tested against different climate related scenarios. − Products, services and assets may become obsolete or need major technology investments. organisation’s strategy, taking Transition risk is considered high. Key considerations include how fast the into consideration different industry moves, how complex it will be and how the − The industry faces increasing reputational challenges and declining political goodwill. 5 climate-related scenarios, customers/markets/regulations will respond. Is Aker Solutions moving too − There are challenges of recruiting new talents to the industry in general. including a 2°C or lower quickly or too slowly? Over or under investing? REPUTATIONAL RISKS − Talents, investors and potential new customers may associate Aker Solutions solely with the scenario. O&G industry. − Offering products and technologies aimed at generating renewable energy or substantially Risk management reducing CO2 emissions (CCS, offshore wind, electrification, subsea compression etc.) would Describe the organisation’s − Climate-related risks are systematically identified and assessed as part of the give Aker Solutions a more balanced portfolio. processes for identifying and overall ERM framework consisting of risk appetite, risk governance, risk − A higher CO2 tax may spin off the CCS market and low carbon technologies and increase the OPPORTUNITIES assessing climate-related risks. category, tools, processes and metrics. demand for Aker Solutions’ products and services. − Top risks, including climate risk, are aggregated from each risk category − Investing in green technology would give Aker Solutions access to green finance and 6 derived from each delivery centre and reported to the Board Audit potential lower cost of capital. Committee every quarter. − Focusing on green technology could attract (and retain) talents and investors. − Risk review is also part of the regular EMT meetings. − The top risks have a 3-5-year perspective. Table 1 Risks and opportunities identified. Describe the organisation’s − Aker Solutions is well organised for managing risks with individual processes for managing climatedepartments maintaining frameworks, reporting and following up of related risks. enterprise risk management (ERM) and enterprise performance 7 management (EPM). − Combining ERM and EPM supports a consistent and unified implementation of the company strategy and contributes to mitigating climate related risks from an overall perspective. Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report 4 5 79 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Appendix: Climate Risk Review − Top management continuously reviews and updates the mitigating strategies. Management of physical risks: − Contingency plans are in place to manage extreme weather per project. Management of transition risks: − Strategic focus on increasing revenue from low carbon solutions and renewable energy production, including R&D budgets. − “Green teams” established to coordinate Aker Solutions’ efforts in making existing technology greener. − Focus on extending the lifecycle of production facilities to keep the industry relevant for longer. − Participation in various front-end forums to promote low carbon innovations and Aker Solutions’ expertise herein. − Entered into partnership with Principle Power to gain access to proven floating wind technology. Describe how processes for − Climate-related risks are part of the overall ERM approach as described identifying, assessing, and above. managing climate-related risks − Of the 10-12 top risks communicated to the EMT and Board Audit 8 are integrated into the Committee, 2-3 of the risks are climate related. organisation’s overall risk management Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics used by the − Aker Solution applies KPI’s for every delivery centre to assess performance. organisation to assess climate− KPI for energy and emissions in Solutions: “Revenue from low carbon and related risks and opportunities in renewables, %”. The following KPI metrics are set: 7% by 2020, 15% by 2023 line with its strategy and risk and 15% by 2030. 9 management process. − KPI for energy and emissions in Operations: “ESG rating” and “CO2 emission intensity”. − KPI’s are part of EMT’s scorecards as applicable. − Aker Solutions lacks metrics for emission reductions for clients. Disclose Scope 1, Scope2, and, if − Scope 1 and 2 are disclosed. appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse − Aker Solutions is working on disclosing scope 3 (business travel) but has 10 gas (GHG) emissions, and the challenges with receiving the necessary data from travel agencies. related risks. − Started reporting to CDP in 2018 (per manhours). From 2019 will report per revenue. Describe the targets used by the − By 2030: 20% of revenue from renewables and 25% of revenue from low organisation to manage climatecarbon solutions. 11 related risks and opportunities − Status 2019: 2,1% of revenue from renewables and low-carbon solutions and performance against combined. targets. − Targets for own emissions: 2 % annually (scope 1+2+3). To be verified. Table 2 Disclosed items. 5. RECOMMENDATIONS Aker Solutions demonstrates a systematic and high-quality approach to climate risk management. The Governance Group recommends the following actions and priorities moving forward: 1. Communicate and promote the systematic approach to climate risk management, green growth and ESG. This will help attract talent, investors and customers. For low-carbon solutions: identify and communicate metrics to illustrate the reduction of clients’ (e.g. IOCs) carbon footprint. 2. Seek green financing to mitigate rising cost/reduced availability of capital. Align investment plans and portfolio with the new EU taxonomy categories. The Governance Group AS Org.nr. 916 909 403 3. Address supply chain risks: Assess and mitigate climate risks for the entire supply chain. 4. Coordinate the company efforts and reporting on ESG with climate-related risk management Grev Wedels plass 2 thegovgroup.org internally. 0151 Oslo, Norway Tel +47 22 83 43 00 Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report Aker Solutions – Climate Risk Report 6 7 80 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX MENU Contact Information Aker Solutions ASA Telephone: Oksenøyveien 8, 1366 Lysaker +47 67 51 30 00 Postal address: E-mail: P.O. Box 169 sustainability@akersolutions.com NO-1325 Lysaker Web: www.akersolutions.com COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Copyright in all published material including photographs, drawings and images in this publication remains vested in Aker Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as appropriate. Accord­ingly, neither the whole nor any part of this publication can be reproduced in any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do not necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While all steps have been taken to ensure the accuracy of the published contents, Aker Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility to thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from this publication should be directed to Aker Solutions. 81 AKER SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTACT INFORMATION MENU akersolutions.com
