2020 EIZO INTEGRATED REPORT Visualizing a better tomorrow for all Corporate Philosophy Through the pursuit of imaging solutions with advanced technologies, we enrich people in their professional CONTENTS Our Value and personal lives. Corporate Philosophy / EIZO Group Principles of Conduct 01 Contents / Editorial Policy 02 Creating the World’s Best 31 Products and Business Operations that Consistently 39 Reduce Environmental Impacts Our Story Creating an Environment for Employees to 45 History of EIZO Value Creation 03 Demonstrate Their Abilities and Thrive Highlights by Business Market 07 EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Strong Bonds of Trust with Our Stakeholders 51 CEO Commitment 09 Value Creation Process 13 Governance 1. We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers Corporate Governance 57 through creating and offering new value by unique technologies and ideas. Our Strategy 2. We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in consideration 6th Mid-Term Business Plan 15 Corporate Overview of reducing their environmental burdens. Value Creation by Market 17 Corporate Information 64 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and Foundation for Sustainable Growth 27 Financial Information 66 mindset. Performance Data 69 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. 5. We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders (business partners, employees, shareholders, and the local Editorial Policy community). In the interest of providing an insightful report for our shareholders, investors Date of Publication 6. We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the and other stakeholders on the EIZO Group’s midand long-term initiatives to August 2020 (previous report: October 2019, next report: August 2021) law as a good corporate citizen. enhance our corporate value by integrating financial information including Scope of the Report business performance and non-financial information including business strategy • Organizations covered 7. W  e will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate as well as the environment, society, and governance (ESG) issues, we now EIZO Group publish the Integrated Report as a replacement for the CSR Report. culture. (Exceptions to the scope of coverage are explained in the relevant sections.) Reference Guidelines • Reporting period International Integrated Reporting Council “International Integrated Reporting April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises is published in its entirety on our website. Framework” (Dates for content on activities that occurred outside the period covered by the https://www.eizoglobal.com/company/information/conduct/ Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (Japan) “Guidance for Integrated report have been clearly stated.) Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Website Creation” https://www.eizoglobal.com/ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016/2018 Contact Information Ministry of the Environment (Japan) “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018” Investor Relations Phone: +81-76-275-4121 Disclaimer on Forward-Looking Statements Any statement in this report, other than those of historical fact, are forward-looking statements about the future performance of EIZO Corporation and its group companies, which are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available. These statements include apparent or potential risks and uncertainties including forex impact and risks related to supply and demand. Actual results may differ materially from these forecasts. 01 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 02 History of EIZO Value Creation 2002 Healthcare (HC) Since our foundation in 1968, more than 50 years ago, we have been exclusively focused on visual imaging technologies. Creative Work (CW) As exemplified by our Business & Plus (B&P) product line, the backbone of 2003 Our Stor y our products, we have been delivering solid value that contributes to social development by creating solutions that capture the changing times. Vertical & Specific (V&S)* Air Traffic Control (ATC) 2008 *For Mission Critical Environments. As a Visual Technology Company, EIZO will continue to provide imaging solutions that enrich future society. Security & Surveillance (S&S) 2009 Our Str ateg y 2012 Maritime (MRT) 2019 Compliant with MIL standards* *U.S. defense standards and assessment guidelines used to achieve Our Value 1997 standardization objectives by the Department of Defense. Black and White TVs CRT Monitors LCD Monitors 1968 1985 Business & Plus (B&P) Gover nance Tabletop Gaming Home Entertainment 2004 Monitors 1978 LCD TVs Amusement (AMU) Cor por ate Over view ©SANYO BUSSAN CO., LTD. EIZO’s Origins Creating the Brand From CRT to LCD Business Expansion (Specific Markets / Sales Structure) Toward Further Growth • In 1968, Nanao Electric Co., Ltd. (currently EIZO EIZO decided to withdraw from OEM production • EIZO was listed on the Second • In 2013, the company name MS Corporation) in Nanao City, Japan began as and began selling CRT monitors under the EIZO Section of the Tokyo Stock was changed from EIZO Nanao an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) of brand name in Europe. This was followed by Exchange in 2002 and on the First Corporation to EIZO Corporation. black and white televisions. sales of its NANAO brand CRT monitors in North Section in 2003. The new name embodies our • In 1973, Nanao Corporation (formerly Hakui America and Japan. • EIZO entered the Healthcare and continued commitment to “EIZO” Electric Corporation) started, a predecessor of Creative Work markets. (Japanese for “Image”)—Visual • EIZO accelerated business by Imaging Technologies. EIZO Corporation. acquiring organizations overseas • Looking beyond providing only (including manufacturers), which monitors, EIZO is strengthening its • In 1996, EIZO discontinued using demonstrated a high affinity with capabilities to also provide complete the NANAO brand, adopted specific markets. end-to-end visual imaging solutions. “EIZO” as its global brand name • EIZO strengthened worldwide and introduced a new EIZO logo. production and sales structures Amid the transition from black and white to • In 1997, EIZO developed and by establishing a manufacturing color TVs, EIZO began OEM production of other manufactured LCD monitors, facility in China and commencing products related to visual imaging, including bringing one of the first ever LCD direct sales in Europe. tabletop gaming monitors and VTRs. products to market. See pages 5 and 6 for details. 03 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 04 History of EIZO’s Value Creation EIZO’s Expansion—A Stronger Group EIZO have been steadily expanding its business domains and establishing a sales network that responds to user demands and needs Our Stor y by aggressively embracing M&A and other expansion strategies. All EIZO Group companies are collaborating to develop business globally. Our Str ateg y Members of EIZO Rugged Solutions EIZO Limited moved to Ascot in 2019 Members of EIZO AG (2019) Inc. (2019) EIZO Technologies GmbH 2000 2010 EIZO Europe GmbH (with 5 branch offices) EIZO Nordic AB 2018 Carina System Co., Ltd. (Japan) EIZO Limited Acquired the developer and business of system solutions for operating rooms, including technologies EIZO GmbH Expand and Reinforce Business Domains for image capture, recording, and distribution. (with 1 branch office) 2016 Our Value EIZO Corporation EIZO Corporation acquired the operating EIZO Inc. (including 6 other room and endoscope monitor business of companies in Japan) 2007 EIZO GmbH Panasonic Healthcare Co., Ltd. of Japan. Healthcare Market EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. EIZO Display Technologies (Germany) (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Acquired the medical monitor business of Siemens AG. EIZO AG 2015 EIZO Medical Solutions Inc. (Japan) Acquired the medical system integration business from EIZO Saudi Arabia 2009 EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) Imation Corporation through the wholly owned company Acquired the air traffic control and EIZO Medical Solutions Inc. (now EIZO Corporation). Regional Sales Office industrial monitor businesses and ● EIZO Group (R&D, Manufacturing, monitor control board business of and Sales & Marketing) eg-electronic GmbH. Gover nance ● EIZO Group (Sales & Marketing) ● EIZO Authorized Distributors 2007 V&S Market ■ Countries Where EIZO Products Are Sold EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. (U.S.A.) Acquired the company developing and 2010 EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (China) Manufacturing and manufacturing graphics boards for air Established to manufacture and sell products for the sales targeting the traffic control, military and defense, and Chinese market. Chinese domestic command and control markets. market 1990 Cor por ate 1985 Over view Established Nanao USA Corporation (currently EIZO Inc.) Strengthening Sales 1985 Rein Elektronik GmbH Flexible sales Launched CRT monitors for computers in (Distributor, Germany) Signed an exclusive (Business succession by Raab Raab Karcher Elektronik Group (Business Succession by 2012 policy based on a direct sales 1985 under our brands of EIZO in Europe Distribution Agreement. Karcher Elektronik Group) (Distributor) the Avnet Group) Avnet Group (Distributor) Acquired Avnet Group’s European structure and NANAO in North America. EIZO operations establishing a direct Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Austria, Czech sales structure. EIZO Europe GmbH Reinforced sense Hayward Computer GmbH Established a comprehensive network of Rein Netherlands B.V. Republic, United Kingdom of security and (Distributor, Austria) Memec Group Limited (Distributor, United exclusive sales companies and distributors Signed an exclusive Distribution (Distributor, the Netherlands) Kingdom) support for throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Agreement. Signed an exclusive Distribution Raab Karcher Elecktronik Group EIZO Limited customers Agreement. 2005 EIZO NANAO AG (currently EIZO AG) EXCOM AG (Distributor, Acquired EXCOM AG’s EIZO operations Switzerland) to strengthen our sales activities in the Signed an exclusive Distribution 1992 Established EIZO Sweden AB Swiss market. Agreement. (currently EIZO Nordic AB) indicates a distributor. 05 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 06 Highlights by Business Market Net Sales Business Overview (JPY million) ■ Japan ■ Overseas 30,000 Our Stor y Business & Plus (B&P) Overseas, sales fell year-on-year due to the impact of a weak euro. Meanwhile, in the JPY 16,409 million 20,000 17,787 Composition of For Business 16,409 Sales fourth quarter, demand for monitors temporarily increased as people were forced to work from home during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Japan, sales rose year-onFinancial Institutions, Public Authorities, Educational (down 7.7% year-on-year) 10,000 12,664 11,147 21.5% year due to factors such as replacement demand related to Windows 10 upgrades. Facilities, Office Use, High-end Home Use 5,122 5,261 0 FY2018 FY2019 Our Str ateg y ■ Japan ■ Overseas Overseas, sales for diagnostic applications were strong in North America, the (JPY million) Middle East, and Asia. In the fourth quarter, demand for remote diagnosis monitors 30,408 29,390 30,000 increased due to the spread of COVID-19 infections. In Japan, sales remained steady Healthcare (HC) Composition of due to strong demand from capital investment throughout the year. Sales of JPY 29,390 million 20,000 17,839 17,251 endoscopy products fell year-on-year due, in part, to a temporary drop in demand For Medical Environments Sales associated with market inventory adjustments. For operating room applications, Medical Imaging, Diagnostic Applications, Operating (down 3.4% year-on-year) 38.4% sales of video image capture and distribution systems were strong. Rooms 10,000 Total sales for the Healthcare market fell year-on-year due to the strategic 12,568 12,138 discontinuation of unprofitable distribution business in Japan from the third quarter Our Value in FY2018. Excluding the effect of this realignment, total sales rose year-on-year 0 FY2018 FY2019 maintaining positive growth in this market. (JPY million) ■ Japan ■ Overseas 30,000 Creative Work (CW) JPY 5,345 million 20,000 Composition of Overseas, sales in Europe were challenging resulting in an overall year-on-year For Graphic Arts Gover nance Sales decline. In Japan, sales remained steady due to the launch of monitors compatible Publication, Design, Printing, Photography, Video (down 10.5% year-on-year) 7.0% with HDR displays for video production and new entry-level monitors. Production 10,000 5,971 5,345 4,887 4,104 0 1,083 1,241 FY2018 FY2019 (JPY million) ■ Japan ■ Overseas 30,000 Cor por ate Vertical & Specific (V&S) Over view Composition of Overseas, sales grew significantly due to large-scale programs in the North American JPY 10,403 million 20,000 For Mission Critical Environments Sales ATC Market. This resulted in EIZO achieving the most sales in ATC globally; top Air Traffic Control (ATC), Maritime, Security & (up 40.2% year-on-year) 10,403 13.6% market share. (Source: EIZO Corporation, April 2020) 10,000 In Japan, sales of customized products that meet diverse customer needs increased. Surveillance, Other Industrial Markets 7,419 6,186 4,206 0 3,212 4,217 FY2018 FY2019 (JPY million) 30,000 The market size contracted due to a shrinking gaming population and regulatory Composition of Amusement (AMU) JPY 9,607 million 20,000 Sales reform. In the last fiscal year, sales fell by more than 80% from the peak in FY2006, Monitors Mounted into Pachinko and making it the lowest since our public listing. While sales recovered this fiscal year (up 11.9% year-on-year) 12.6% due to the introduction of machines that comply with the new regulations, the Slot Machines 10,000 8,583 9,607 overall sales levels have remained relatively low. 0 ©SANYO BUSSAN CO., LTD. FY2018 FY2019 07 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 08 CEO Commitment Publication of the Integrated Report —This will be EIZO’s first integrated report. EIZO has a unique business model and I have heard people comment on numerous times about the difficulty of Our Stor y understanding how we actually create value. It is certainly true that our originality and strength are not easily covered in financial reports, but this is actually a source of confidence and pride for us. Having said that, we are well aware we are living in a time of volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity (VUCA). Our ability to consistently create value over the longer term is not only imperative to the company, it is also of great importance to all our stakeholders. Therefore, I think there is a need to explain from various perspectives the competitive edge that enables us to provide products and services with high added value as well as solutions that exceed customer expectations. Through this integrated report, we would like to deepen stakeholder understanding of what we do, including shareholders, business partners, and users worldwide who selected and rely on EIZO products Our Str ateg y and services. We hope and trust this integrated report will give you greater trust in and expectations of us. EIZO Value Creation & Growth Strategy —What are the characteristics of EIZO’s business model? While we develop products and services in many fields, they are all related to “Visual Imaging,” and our business Our Value model is one in which all these businesses continue to expand by taking synergy from each other. Our LCD monitors for the B&P market serve as the backbone or foundation for development, procurement, and production, which we enhance with additional value and develop into products for specific markets. We are able to efficiently generate value by sharing resources such as personnel, equipment, procurement, and technologies, thereby greatly strengthening our business model. Our technologies span the entire spectrum, from “Capturing” to “Recording,” “Distributing,” and “Displaying” visual images. By leveraging this “Imaging Chain,” which links these technologies, we can deliver comprehensive solutions encompassing the entire imaging process from input to output. This is the “Imaging Chain Innovation” that drives Gover nance EIZO’s business model. Moreover, the effective application of “Imaging Chain Innovation” is enabling our business to evolve from mono-zukuri (creating products) to koto-zukuri (creating solutions). At this very moment, we are confidently preparing to move beyond the provision of visual environments that meet customer needs to deploying visual imaging solutions that address our customers’ challenges. Another source of our strength is in the powerful bond that exists between organizations within EIZO, which enables us to meet our customers’ needs. For example, while a healthcare institution requires highly specialized products in its operating rooms and laboratories, it also needs products primarily used for administrative processing at reception or at nurses stations, as well as solutions ensuring in-house security. EIZO not only addresses the varying Cor por ate needs of the Healthcare market but is also engaged in developing office products and security and surveillance solutions. Thus, we are uniquely positioned to offer comprehensive, flexible, and consolidated solutions that meet the Over view wide-ranging visual imaging needs of medical institutions. By leveraging the synergies among our technologies, sales, and support, we believe that customers will recognize us as an organization they can rely on to solve all their imaging issues. —In addition to EIZO’s business model, what are our other strengths? 100% In-house Development & Production Creating value that Our greatest feature and strength is our centralized and 100% in-house development and production. While most companies today outsource development and production, EIZO has been firmly committed to “Only EIZO Can!” maintaining operations in-house. We carefully consider what products would be ideal for addressing customers’ specific concerns and needs, the features and functions required by such a product as well as any necessary components. If such components cannot address these requirements, we develop them ourselves in-house. Our comprehensive style of manufacturing is made possible by the fact that we engage in the entire process from August 2020 development right through to production. In addition, we have exclusively been engaged in imaging-related President & CEO, EIZO Corporation Yoshitaka Jitsumori technologies over the past 50 years and have accumulated the comprehensive technology knowhow required for professional development of visual imaging solutions. This has enabled us to deliver next-generation products rapidly with outstanding quality and performance. Furthermore, we provide highly reliable products by consistently performing rigorous quality control across the entire process, from development to production. 09 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 10 CEO Commitment Committed to Quality The RBA is an organization that promotes CSR across the global supply chain and has established a code of Our commitment to quality is reflected in our common aspiration throughout EIZO to produce the world’s best. We are conduct to ensure full compliance with CSR initiatives from a global perspective. In conducting business operations extremely proud of our uncompromising commitment to product performance and quality. This has been a cornerstone globally, we recognize the need to address issues related to labor, safety and health, the environment, ethics, and of EIZO’s DNA, visualized in our ongoing pursuit of visual imaging excellence since our founding in 1968. This was further management systems from the broadest possible perspective, which includes the entire supply chain, and that is refined as we began developing, manufacturing, and selling monitors under our own brand in 1985. We continue to why we joined the RBA. In the future, we will continue to maintain an uncompromising attitude toward our business Our Stor y further refine in response to our customers’ demands in Europe, where products are subject to exceptionally stringent activities globally and strive to improve where inadequacies are found to achieve further compliance with the RBA quality requirements. We have been expanding our business by welcoming numerous companies and businesses to the Code of Conduct. EIZO Group. Our core philosophy is shared by all employees, new and old, which in turn has ensured we have sustained the highest standards of uncompromising quality throughout the range of our products and services. EIZO’s Consolidated Sense of Unity One of our great strengths is that this passion for quality is instilled throughout our operations globally and we are Status of Business Operations pursuing business activities as one unified EIZO. The EIZO Group comprises 17 companies worldwide. We leverage —Fiscal Year 2020 Marks the Final Year of the 6th Mid-Term Business Plan. How Have We Done? Our Str ateg y our comprehensive capabilities and develop businesses that take full advantage of our synergies in respect to these capabilities in development, production, sales, and support. Since January 2020, COVID-19 has spread globally, developing into a pandemic that has dramatically transformed the We cross national borders regularly to ensure customer voices are heard and proposals exceed expectations. Often market environment. Nevertheless, we stayed on course with initiatives in creating future growth engines as per our this is done in cooperation among several Group companies, even sometimes for a single opportunity. 6th Mid-Term Business Plan. As a result, we have achieved favorable results and will continue our approach, despite The strength of “One EIZO” is created by maintaining regular and open communication among Group companies this new global challenge. We have particularly achieved solid growth in our V&S business. In the Air Traffic Control sharing information, objectives, and desires. (ATC) market, through our ongoing efforts in North America, APAC, and Europe, we have successfully achieved strong Group Companies and EIZO Authorized Distributors gather once a year at EIZO Corporation (Japan) to attend the growth, culminating in EIZO gaining the top market share globally. We will continue our efforts to further expand our “EIZO United” conference, where we share our latest technologies, the status of sales in each country, various initiatives, market share in other markets and regions as well. and the overall product and business direction. Not only does this deepen everyone’s understanding of our future In the Healthcare market, we continue to expand our business through close collaboration between Carina Our Value direction, it fosters a strong sense of unity in the group through mutual exchanges. System Co., Ltd. and other EIZO organizations. In addition to the Japanese and European markets, where we hold an overwhelming share, we also succeeded in increasing our share of the North American healthcare market. In the area of capital investment, EIZO GmbH (Germany) began operations at a new facility in June 2019, with the goal of further expanding our healthcare business. At EIZO Corporation (Japan), we began operations of our nextgeneration production line leveraging IoT and AI as well as robotics to boost productivity. Looking ahead, we will Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Perspective continue investing in business expansion, including the relocation of EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany), which develops and produces air traffic control monitors, and an extension of our facility in EIZO MS Corporation (Japan) to —What are your strengths and initiatives with respect to ESG? reinforce our high-mix, low-volume production of electronic circuit boards. These plans are all based on our underlining Gover nance EIZO’s DNA—Environmental Consideration as the Basis of Mono-zukuri strategy of becoming the number one in specific markets such as Healthcare and V&S, which we have been pursuing Environmental considerations have become deeply ingrained as the basis of our mono-zukuri (creating products) ever since even before the 6th Mid-Term Business Plan. since we began developing, producing, and selling CRT monitors in compliance with stringent European requirements, Meanwhile, the COVID-19 impact is certainly creating a growing sense of uncertainty about the future, leading to including regulations governing electromagnetic emissions. This basis has remained unchanged, even as we shifted to postponing product launches, a further contraction in the amusement market, and potential fluctuations in foreign producing LCD monitors, and we have consistently sought to reduce our environmental impact by pursuing initiatives exchange rates. Despite this situation, we will continue to proactively and aggressively invest in growth opportunities such as lowering power consumption, enhancing recyclability and reducing plastic waste. We are also promoting for the “post-COVID-19” era. business initiatives toward our fiscal year 2030 goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% from fiscal year 2017 levels. In addition, EIZO offers a diverse product lineup in multiple markets, so we will leverage this strength by mobilizing Governance Maintaining Transparency the entire EIZO Group as “One EIZO” and promote cross-selling between markets more than ever. The fundamental characteristic of EIZO governance is “openness and transparency.” EIZO’s Board of Directors also Cor por ate —Toward the Next Mid-Term Business Plan includes Executive Officers and Presidents of group companies, which is unique. Our Directors consist of three Over view Since engaging in the OEM production of black and white TV sets, we have consistently transformed ourselves and members who are not part of the Audit & Supervisory Committee and four who are, of which three are external expanded our business by branching out to produce CRT monitors, LCD monitors, and shifting from office and private Directors. In addition to these seven Directors, members also include Operating Officers and Presidents of group use products to creative work and diverse industrial applications. The world around us, however, continues to rapidly companies in Japan to ensure transparency of Board of Director proceedings. change and evolve, so I believe that the future of our company may not simply be an extension of the present. While A corporate culture of open communication is another unique feature and strength of our organization. All the next Mid-Term Business Plan will also be focused on “visual imaging,” we will meet our customers’ expectations by organizations are structured directly under the President, ensuring a smooth reporting line and enabling open embarking on a new challenge that lies along a different path from our current direction, under a key concept of “Digital exchanges of opinion, even within departments, regardless of seniority. This has accelerated our decision-making, Transformation” (DX). For example, we are currently developing new products and solutions that adds the “Edge AI” judgments, and responses. I, myself make a conscious effort to maintain close communication among the teams by concept to our advanced image processing technology. We will seek to help customers solve problems by offering new walking around the company and talking to employees so they will feel closer to me. I also believe that seeing the imaging solutions that use edge computing to supplement a variety of AI-based tasks. At the same time, we will develop “captain” of the EIZO ship with great energy increases everyone’s sense of security and motivation, so I make a point of a more powerful, enhanced business model by achieving an overwhelming advantage through differentiation. staying healthy and physically fit. The key to sustaining business in these times of VUCA is not to get scared or flinch but to respond with versatility A Lively Environment where Employees Can Shine and flexibility in the face of any obstacle or challenge that comes your way. Ensuring the safety and health of our employees is certainly important and is the very foundation of our business. In Since our foundation more than 50 years ago, we have successfully overcome numerous difficulties and changes fiscal year 2019, we focused on addressing the “human element” that sustains our business and obtained the ISO 45001 to develop our current business model. I am convinced that we will overcome difficulties and continue to grow as one certification for occupational health and safety management in December. In January 2020, we began advancing our united group, “One EIZO.” initiatives on a global scale by becoming a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a corporate alliance that promotes CSR in the global supply chain of the electronics industry . 11 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 12 Value Creation Process We aspire to enrich future society and enhance corporate value by investing the resources we have accumulated for over 50 years since our founding to deliver imaging-related products and solutions. Our Stor y Management Resources Business Model Products and Services Providing high-quality, high-performance R&D and Manufacturing pp. 31−38 imaging solutions centered around a diverse Intellectual Capital array of monitors in over 90 countries and Contribution regions to achieving EIZO Owned Patents 543 (as of March 31, 2020) the SDGs Creating Value for Society pp. 17−30 ◦ Global intellectual property Our Str ateg y network focused on Japan, Expand existing ◦ Financial Institutions Europe, and the United States Superior image quality and reliability supporting business domains Manufacturing Capital financial trading operations Create new markets ◦ Office and Educational Facilities In-House Production Production Sites Realizing ergonomics and energy conservation 100% 7worldwide ◦ Home High-definition monitors for greater satisfaction ◦ In-house production of all products in Japan, Germany, China, and the ◦ Hospitals United States Visual environments for sustaining accurate diagnosis Our Value ◦ Stringent quality control in and cutting-edge surgery collaboration with development ◦ Creative Work and quality control departments Comprehensive Precision color reproduction improves solutions that operational efficiency and accuracy. Environment pp. 39−44 encompass capturing, ◦ Railway Natural Capital recording/distributing, Supporting platform monitoring by providing Enriching future and displaying images high visibility 50% reduction in CO 2 emissions ◦ Factory society with visual (FY2030 target comparison Responding to the distinct needs of each facility imaging with FY2017) Gover nance ◦ Commercial and Leisure Facilities ◦ Limiting input of resources and Supporting the security management of operations energy ◦ Marine Vessels Human Resources pp. 45−50 Ensuring safe navigation and onboard security Human Capital Environment pp. 39−44 Growth Engine – 23 sites, 17 companies, “Imaging Chain Acquired the ISO 50001 certification, an 15 countries Innovation” international standard for energy management systems ◦ Active engagement by diverse personnel Cor por ate Mid-Term Business Plan Over view ◦ Tapping local talent for top Society pp. 45−56 management positions in p. 15 overseas group companies Acquired the ISO 45001 certification, an international standard for occupational health Society pp. 5−6, 51−56 and safety Social and Relationship Maintained a sustainable supply chain: compliant Capital with the RBA Code of Conduct; initiatives on responsible procurement of minerals Sales activities in over EIZO Group Principles of 90 countries and regions Conduct – Seven Promises ◦ Global sales network p. 1 Finances pp. 15−16, 66−68 Financial Capital Equity Ratio Operating Margin 76.6% 8.4% Corporate Philosophy p. 1 ◦ Stable financial base ◦ Aggressive investment in highgrowth areas 13 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 14 6th Mid-Term Business Plan (Fiscal Years 2018−2020) Synergy Transformation: Creating a Growth Engine Overview of the 6th Mid-Term Business Plan (Fiscal Years 2018−2020) Review of Fiscal Year 2019 Mid-Term Business Plan Basic Policy Measures for Achieving Mid-Term Business Plan Targets Changing Market Environment We will further expand our Healthcare, Creative Work, and V&S business units and create new opportunities in • E xpanded the Healthcare business domain by realizing synergies with Carina • Ongoing decline of the euro. Our Stor y untapped markets with comprehensive solutions driven by Imaging Chain Innovation that encompasses the System Co., Ltd. • In the Amusement market, replacement demand for models that comply “Capturing,” “Recording/Distributing,” and “Displaying” of images. • Expanded our share of the North American healthcare market. with new regulations fell short of expectations. The wait-and-see attitude • R  ealized V&S market growth. Achieved the number one market share in the continued in the market up to the middle of fiscal year 2019. Key Measures ATC market and increased sales in other business areas. • S pread of the novel coronavirus caused a dramatic change in the business • Invested continuously for business expansion. environment. Business Strategy by Key Markets Investment in Growth Opportunities Significant Growth in Air Traffic Control Investments for Growth ◦ Healthcare ◦ R&D Expand business areas with comprehensive solutions that Increase investment to accelerate “imaging chain innovation.” • E IZO GmbH (Germany): Integrated R&D, manufacturing warehousing and • In fiscal year 2019, we increased sales in the U.S., the largest market encompass the capturing, recording/distributing, and administration into a single location. Aiming to further expand business into ◦ CAPEX worldwide and achieved the number one market share of the global ATC the Healthcare market. displaying of images. market. We will accelerate our expansion to regions outside the U.S. as well. Our Str ateg y Undertake aggressive investment to enhance R&D and • E IZO Corporation (Japan): Commenced operations in the next-generation ◦ Creative Work production capabilities, focusing on Europe and Japan. production line to meet the high-mix, low-quantity production needs of Establish market dominance by leading in the HDR era. ◦ Raising Operational Efficiencies specialized markets and improve operational efficiency through IoT and AI. ◦ V&S Continuous improvement of operational efficiencies driven by • E IZO Limited (UK): Made long-term investments aimed at enabling growth Level up! Advancing technology, supply and support. AI and RPA. primarily in the Healthcare and V&S markets. ◦ Amusement Stay ahead of market changes to maintain the number one position. FY2020 Performance Targets Installed monitors in Belgocontrol’s Installed monitors at the Chongqing Our Value Tower and aviation center in Belgium Branch of China’s Southwest Air Traffic Management Bureau Operating Margin: 10% or higher Net Sales: JPY 97.0 billion Operating Income: JPY 11.0 billion EIZO GmbH (Germany): Operations EIZO Limited (UK): Completed relocation commenced at the new facility in June to the new building in September 2019 2019 Business Performance Focal Points 2020 We have been reinforced our business model in response to the expected contraction in the amusement market from peak sales levels. The profit structure changed following reinforcement of business areas focused on healthcare and V&S. Under the 6th Mid-Term Business Plan, we will seek to expand our businesses while also creating a growth engine to achieve sustainable profit growth. Gover nance In the age of VUCA, the additional complications surrounding the impact of the COVID-19 crisis have increased uncertainty in the marketplace. Under this situation, EIZO will draw on the strength of our strong financial base and Strong Sales in Reinforced our business models amid a Expand profit in HC, CW, and V&S markets continue investing for future growth. We will pursue measures now to realize growth in the “post-COVID-19” future. Amusement contracting amusement market ◦ Accelerate Imaging Chain Innovation. ◦ Continue investing for growth. ◦ Develop solutions by Edge AI using EIZO’s unique imaging ◦ Meet replacement demand for models that comply (JPY billion) B&P HC CW V&S AMU Other Operating Income (JPY billion) technology. with new regulations in the amusement market. 95.6 97.0 15 100 ◦ Bolster business activities in the Middle East, India, and Southeast Asia. 5.1 89.3 3.0 84.0 13.5 5.2 77.5 78.2 80 74.5 74.8 7.2 76.4 12 11.6 73.6 72.5 72.9 13.3 Strengthening Business Development Through the Imaging Maintain Investment Needed for Future Growth Amid COVID-19 7.5 4.5 5.3 11.0 6.4 65.2 59.5 5.9 4.9 2.7 Chain Cor por ate 8.8 15.2 • In response to growing demand for high-value products in the 51.1 38.4 58.2 15.2 18.4 8.5 9.6 8.2 60 9.0 7.9 7.4 7.8 9 7.4 • M  aximize synergies with Carina System Co., Ltd. Acquire an unrivaled, Healthcare and Industrial markets, which demand superior quality, Over view 8.4 6.3 21.9 15.1 8.5 10.4 26.0 35.1 6.8 6.9 5.9 overwhelming share in the Japanese operating room market by we will expand the electronic circuit board manufacturing factory in 5.7 5.3 20.8 20.5 18.0 6.8 6.6 6.3 7.0 6.4 40 5.0 5.4 6 offering total solutions encompassing the entire process of capturing, Hakui City, Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan. 5.1 5.5 40.5 4.3 3.6 5.2 5.0 29.7 5.3 recording/distributing, and displaying images. Promote development 4.4 4.4 23.4 26.0 30.4 29.3 4.1 21.6 20.7 of telemedicine technologies and support solutions. 20 39.3 42.0 16.5 3 45.5 34.8 36.3 31.6 2.0 13.7 15.5 17.9 16.8 18.1 17.7 16.4 18.5 9.5 0 0 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 (Mid-term Plan) Mid-Term Business Plan (Actual Results and Targets) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 (Mid-term Plan) Carina System Co., Ltd. relocated Promote surgical field cameras for Rendering of the new factory, where operations are scheduled to commence in Net Sales (JPY billion) 72.9 76.4 97.0 its head office to Kobe in July operating rooms created within the January 2021 Operating Income (JPY billion) 5.3 6.4 11.0 2020. This ideal location and group through joint development and larger space will enable us production in-house in our own factories. Operating Margin (%) 7.4 8.4 11.3 to demonstrate even greater synergies. CAPEX (JPY billion) 4.1 4.3 2.5−6.0 Driving Evolution in Our Business Model by Proposing New Solutions Exchange Rates (average for period) • W  e will develop new products and solutions that add the Edge AI concept to EIZO’s strengths in image processing technology. We will apply edge EUR/JPY 128.45 120.81 130.00 computing to support various AI-based tasks in Healthcare, Industrial, and other markets. USD/JPY 110.93 108.70 110.00 15 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 16 Value Creation by Market Case Study Treasury Unit, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Business & Plus (B&P) Enabling Dealers to View More Information Instantaneously, which Contributes to Improved For Business Efficiency and Speed of Operations Our Stor y Financial Institutions Public Authorities Educational Facilities Office Use High-end Home Use At Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, 1,000 FlexScan monitors were installed to replace equipment in conjunction with the relocation of the Treasury Unit. See more case studies at: Trading involves responding immediately to market https://www.eizoglobal.com/solutions/casestudies/ fluctuations and often requires dealers to focus completely on their screen. EIZO monitors were chosen for their visual clarity and extremely thin bezel, which makes it easier for users to Our Str ateg y switch views between monitors. Since the introduction of FlexScan monitors, users have Choose EIZO, Work Better reported less stress from extended viewing, leading to a substantial reduction in eye fatigue. In addition to offering excellent image quality and reliability EIZO monitors are widely used within financial trading as basic performance features, EIZO’s standard monitors are institutions, which require multiple monitors as well as in packed with elements following years of dedicated work in offices and educational facilities. environmental performance and ergonomics, for example In addition, the FlexScan series was developed with minimizing eye fatigue. thorough consideration for their environmental impact. Our Value EIZO monitors have been designed so users can work We have adopted environmentally friendly features comfortably for extended periods and offer a virtually including lightweight construction and the use of recycled frameless design for a seamless view across multi-monitor materials. Furthermore, the low-power consumption design Case Study Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. configurations and reduced screen brightness and contributes to curbing power demand and CO2 emissions. reflection. Moreover, our circuit design makes the monitor We also collect and recycle used products to fulfill our Advancing Workstyle Reform with 800 27” White capable of controlling noise and flickering. responsibility at the end of their operating life. Monitors 3 Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. is a major think tank and 1 2 Gover nance consulting company in Japan. Its offices have been equipped with 800 FlexScan EV2750-WT monitors. The company chose white monitors to create an aesthetically pleasing workplace as they felt white projected a more spacious impression than black to meet this essential requirement. Furthermore, low power consumption was another deciding factor behind the choice. In replacing two 24” monitors with a single larger EV2750-WT monitor with higher Cor por ate resolution reduced their overall power consumption by 72%. In addition to office applications, the EV2750-WT is also Over view used in the company’s meeting spaces. Using the Pictureby-Picture mode to display images simultaneously from two computers has stimulated collaborative work such as comparing presentation materials, which has helped to advance the company’s workstyle reform. 4 VOICE What impresses me about EIZO monitors is that they make an active contribution to climate protection. This means that they consume very little energy during operation, and with the many additional functions, even more Roger Ledergerber power can be saved. For me as a Sales Manager, this is a good sales argument. Regional Sales Manager/ 1 Comfortable stress-free trading with frameless multiple monitors 2 Increase office productivity by connecting the monitor with a notebook computer Key Account Manager, 3 Multiple monitor configurations aid CAD operations 4 Streamlined connection with USB Type-C EIZO AG 17 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 18 Value Creation by Market Case Study Kyoto University Hospital tones set to their requirements. Healthcare (HC) Latest Video Management Solutions Enabling In addition, when used with the LMM0801, a large monitor manager for distributing multiple images on a single monitor, Advanced Medical Treatment surgeons are able to integrate up to eight images and videos For Medical Environments in an optimal layout. EIZO’s operating room solutions were Our Stor y Medical Imaging Diagnostic Applications Operating Rooms The Department of Neurosurgery at the Kyoto University selected for these useful functions. Hospital provides advanced surgical treatments to patients with difficult-to-treat cranial nerve diseases. Surgery to remove brain tumors (glioma) while the patient is conscious, using See more case studies at: https://www.eizoglobal.com/solutions/casestudies/ advanced intraoperative monitoring is one of the department https://eizo-or.com/en/global/publications/case-studies/ specialization. EIZO operating room solutions have been adopted in the department’s operating room. Surgery to remove glioma existing in the language or motor-related Our Str ateg y cortexes while patients are conscious is made safer by enabling simultaneously referencing of multiple medical images. EIZO’s Making Each Life Visual RadiForce LX470W operating room monitor enables physicians to review different types of images, such as monochrome X-ray In today’s increasingly advanced and complicated healthcare To address these issues, EIZO provides consulting images and color endoscopic images on a single monitor in field, not only doctors but also other healthcare professionals services to propose comprehensive visual solutions such as nurses and clinical engineers are cooperating in the that encompass image display equipment, image treatment of patients. It is therefore essential to create an control software as well as network layout, enabling the Case Study Kurashiki Central Hospital raises the operational efficiency of quality management staff environment that facilitates smooth information sharing and construction of an optimal visual environment to meet Our Value by automatically controlling the quality of monitors with cooperation. In addition, due to the improved performance operating room needs. We realize innovation in the visual Ensuring Monitor Quality Through Low-Maintenance built-in calibration sensors. Tasks such as measuring brightness of state-of-the-art imaging instruments (modalities) and the environments of hospitals (including operating rooms) Centralized Management and gradation, crucial for maintaining the quality of medical increase of hybrid operating rooms, there is now a much by performing every facet of operations, including image monitors, can be conducted over a network outside of normal greater need to efficiently view massive amounts of various “Capturing,” “Recording/Distributing,” and “Displaying.” Kurashiki Central Hospital has installed several RadiForce operating hours. types of image data. RX850 and RX650 units in its 3D laboratory, which focuses on interpretation, interpretation assistance and analyzing ▶ Meeting Your Visual Needs Surgery video recording and distribution system radiographs. The lab uses the “Hybrid Gamma Function” for Gover nance comparing color RI and PET images with other modalities. This HIS PACS function distinguishes between monochrome and color and IVR Room automatically displays images in the optimal brightness and Hybrid Operating Room gradation. The hospital also installed EIZO’s RadiNET Pro Web Hosting X-ray TV Room service to manage its 200 high-resolution monitors. The service Large-Screen Monitor Multiple images are simultaneously combined and Cor por ate displayed on a single monitor, Operating Room and it is also possible to enlarge Over view only the necessary information. Recording device Control Room Touch panel console Medical Staff Waiting Room Large-Screen Mirroring Monitor The same image on the large-screen Control Station monitor in the examination room is displayed in the operating room to facilitate information sharing. Operating Software Large Monitor Manager Multiple video signals are Streaming Monitor Touch panel enables intuitive operation Large Monitor Manager and Integrated combined and displayed Real-time images from the Anyone can easily view and remotely control Monitor according to the surgeon’s operating room can be Image data from multiple client monitors preferred layout. livestreamed. the system using a touch panel monitor, which displays image sources as simple icons. in the examination room are combined and displayed on one or two screens to Users can then quickly access necessary secure the view of the examination room. information. This provides an uncluttered desktop with Centralized management of all images in a single keyboard and mouse. the operating room In addition to monitors, users can also manage and operate other medical video Large-Screen Monitor equipment such as operative field cameras Critical information is and recording devices from a central location. displayed in the Moreover, the system can be linked to a appropriate location at Surgical Monitors patient by scanning the patient’s ID tag with a the right time. Designed with due barcode reader. consideration for safety and Operative field hygiene, the monitors accurately camera reproduce the surgery video. 19 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 20 Value Creation by Market Case Study Studio Yagüe Creative Work (CW) Ensuring accurate color display environment for each retoucher For Graphic Arts Our Stor y Publication, Design, Printing, Photography Video Production Studio Yagüe is a digital post-production studio located in Spain, which specializes in retouching graphic works for fashion and advertising. Retouching is carried out to perfect an image and requires See more case studies at: stringent levels of quality in terms of brightness, color and https://www.eizoglobal.com/solutions/casestudies/ contrast. The studio is equipped with over 50 ColorEdge monitors and are regarded highly for enabling the studio to deliver the optimal visual image content to its clients. True to Creativity Our Str ateg y We are committed to color reproduction quality and With a color management solution enabling central seek to increase work efficiency and accuracy in creative management of multiple ColorEdge monitors over a Case Study Netflix/Production I.G. settings including photo editing, design, printing and video network, the monitor administrator can save time and production by offering monitor solutions that facilitate effort by remotely and simultaneously setting the color ColorEdge Used for the World’s First 4K HDR Handachieving and maintaining accurate color display. mode for several monitors. This enables users to maintain Drawn Animation Production Our Value Our ColorEdge series of color management monitors uniform color display throughout the entire workflow, from and EIZO's own calibration software enables users to adjust production to referencing, even when finishing a product by Netflix announced a joint project with Production I.G, their displays settings to their individual needs. dividing work, which thereby boosts work efficiency. which has been at the forefront of the Japanese animation production industry. Production I.G used the ColorEdge CG318-4K and its successor the CG319X as the main editing 1 2 3 monitors as well as the ColorEdge PROMINENCE CG3145 for post-production final color checking and referencing. The ColorEdge monitors enabled the production team to Gover nance check shadows and highlights, which are often undetectable on other monitors, while precise resolution and smooth movement provided the backbone for animation production. The team placed great confidence in their EIZO monitors, as they allowed for the checking of colors at the same level throughout the whole process from early production to final processing. Cor por ate Over view 4 5 6 1 Hobby Photography 2 Pro Photography 3 Illustration 4 Design 5 Printing 6 Post Production 21 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 22 Value Creation by Market Case Study HungaroControl Vertical & Specific (V&S) EIZO Chosen for Superior Technology For Mission Critical Environments Our Stor y Air Traffic Control (ATC) Maritime Security & Surveillance Other Industrial Markets HungaroControl has been using EIZO’s high-end ATC monitors to provide air navigation services in Hungary since 2012, when it installed its first EIZO primary control monitor. Its decisive factor in choosing EIZO was our superior technology and See more case studies at: comprehensive ATC specific lineup of solutions, including https://www.eizoglobal.com/solutions/casestudies/ monitors, recording and streaming systems and graphic boards. Monitors used in ATC towers require ultra-low ambient Our Str ateg y light reflection, high brightness ranges and outstanding image clarity. After extensively testing monitors from various Durability × Quality × Everywhere manufacturers, EIZO’s Raptor monitor series was selected. EIZO provides visual environment solutions for specialized every requirement by harnessing the visual technology and applications and environments in areas such as security and know-how we have accumulated over the years. surveillance, maritime, railway, air traffic control and factory automation. We serve diverse needs ranging from improving • Small quantity production • Stable long-term supply visibility to ensuring high reliability and excellent display Our Value • Flexible customization • Reliable long-term maintenance performance under harsh environments. We meet each and Case Study Edmonton Transit Service 1 2 3 Easily Managed EIZO IP Monitors Adopted for Monitoring Public Transportation Edmonton Transit Service (ETS) operates multiple modes of Gover nance public transportation, including buses and light-rail transit in the city of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. ETS adopted EIZO’s IP monitors at its underground stations for crime prevention. These monitors enabled ETS to simultaneously display video feeds from 16 cameras* via a single network cable. ETS opted to construct a simple system not using computers or other devices for easier maintenance while also reducing vulnerabilities from the standpoint of cyber security. *Capable of simultaneously displaying up to 32 units as of May 2020. Cor por ate Over view 4 5 1 Air Traffic Control 2 Maritime 3 Security & Surveillance 4 Railway 5 Factory Automation 23 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 24 Value Creation by Market Case Study Tokyu Corporation EIZO Chosen to Ensure Clear View of Passengers Amusement Entering and Exiting Trains Monitors Mounted into Pachinko and Slot Machines Our Stor y Tokyu Corporation uses DuraVision FDF2123W monitors to enable its crew to confirm safety during the opening and closing of carriage doors by displaying video feeds from cameras installed on railway platforms. The monitors are used under harsh outdoor environments so must be highly durable, have a large screen size and outstanding image clarity. As they are located on the platform, they must not suffer image washout should strong sunlight be reflected on the screen. The Our Str ateg y FDF2123W monitor meets all these conditions, and train crews Providing Comprehensive Capabilities by Combining EIZO Hardware with Irem Software appreciate it for being a dependable monitor, which provides a clear view under strong sunlight as well as in the dark. We entered the market at the dawn of the pachinko era and machine manufacturer as an integrated unit. have since sought to create amusement products that amaze Our in-house capabilities encompass production planning, users, enticing them to continue playing. We have been a video production and key longtime partner of the market’s leading amusement software insertion in addition machine manufacturer, producing extremely popular products to hardware development including the “Sea Story” and “Hammerin' Harry” series. and production. This Our Value Our track record has been supported by the comprehensive capability comprehensive capabilities of the EIZO Group. We develop and gives us a major advantage manufacture the hardware and software for monitors installed over other manufacturers and Case Study Rostock Fire and Rescue Department in pachinko machines and supply them to the amusement video production companies. ©SANYO BUSSAN CO., LTD. Offering Durability and Visibility at Sea EIZO’s In-house Development and Manufacturing System The Albert Wegener Fireboat engages in life-saving and fireGover nance fighting activities in the City of Rostock in northeast Germany. EIZO Group The ship’s bridge is equipped with five DuraVision FDS1904T Hardware Development Hardware Manufacturing Production Planning, Software, and Design 19-inch touch panel monitors to display electronic nautical EIZO Corporation EIZO MS Corporation Irem Software Engineering Inc. charts, navigation-related information, the operating status of various onboard equipment and camera feeds from inside and outside the ship. The FDS1904T monitor is certified for maritime Electronic ◦Irem’s Content Production Technology ◦EIZO’s Hardware Development Technology Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS) and radar We have established a unique presence in the digital We have continually met the rapidly changing requirements Cor por ate applications (IEC61174, IEC62288, and IEC62388). It is also entertainment industry by developing arcade and console of amusement machines by producing monitors and ASIC Over view certified for resistance against heat, vibration, and noise games as well as video software for pachinko and slot image processors featuring high quality and reliability through required for navigation equipment (IEC60945) so can be machines. in-house development. Moreover, we offer the full capabilities used with confidence on onboard ships. This track record We are extremely familiar with amusement machines of our 3D real-time image processing technologies cultivated in maritime monitor technology was the deciding factor for and therefore able to produce a diverse array of high-quality in our amusement business. selecting EIZO. products in any genre, including videos for 3D real-time rendering and 2D movies. The possibilities are endless. I am extremely excited to be a part of the EIZO V&S team VOICE during this initial stage of breaking into the UK market. We have had many positive ◦EIZO’s Flexible Production System conversations and are uncovering numerous interesting opportunities within all verticals. We produce monitors for both B&P and amusement in the The market thus far has been extremely receptive and impressed with the EIZO solutions, Claire Labuschagne especially the quality and reliability, which makes us stand out from the crowd. Account Manager, same factory and have a production system that can respond V&S Products, flexibly to changes in orders thanks to our multi-skilled staff EIZO Limited and efficient facilities. 25 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 26 Foundation for Sustainable Growth Participation in the UN Global Compact We have been participating in the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Visualizing a better tomorrow for all a global framework for achieving sustainable growth, since September 2012. Participants contribute to the development Our Stor y of this framework by exercising responsible and creative leadership as good members of society. As a UNGC participant, The EIZO Group contributes to the development of a EIZO is committed to the realization of the global framework prosperous society using our unique technologies and by consistently implementing the ten core CSR principles on inherent principles resulting in sustainable growth protecting human rights, eliminating wrongful labor practices, together with society. respecting the environment and preventing corruption. We will continue our efforts in realizing these principles. EIZO’s Approach to CSR Our Str ateg y Membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) EIZO upholds our corporate philosophy of pursuing imaging rights and participating in the sustainable development of solutions to enrich society. We contribute to society’s local communities. In January 2020, EIZO Corporation became a member of the EIZO supports the vision and mission of the RBA, and we sustainable development by providing products, services Based on this concept, at the heart of our CSR policy Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), which seeks to promote are aligning our business activities to be in compliance with and solutions using our unique technologies and inherent lies the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct, which serves as a CSR throughout the global supply chain in the electronics RBA standards. We also encourage all our suppliers to uphold principles. We address social issues while also ensuring guideline for every individual member of the EIZO Group to industry. the RBA Code of Conduct. Our Value compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. We follow in order to realize our corporate philosophy and serves The goal of the RBA is to ensure that both companies contribute to the sustainable development of society by as a commitment to our stakeholders. and their global supply chains fulfill their social, ethical and conducting business in good faith, such as respect for human Please see page 1 for the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct. environmental responsibilities. It establishes standards to ensure that working conditions are safe, workers are treated with respect and dignity, and business operations are CSR Management System environmentally responsible and conducted ethically. CSR activities are supervised by the General Affairs Department President at EIZO Corporation, Japan. Activities are embodied and Gover nance carried out by all members from all EIZO Group Companies in Management Committee accordance with the EIZO Group CSR Policy. Participation in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) As part of our CSR management system we have CSR Promotion Council ▶ Comprised of Operating Officers established a CSR Committee that reports directly to the Confirm and approve CSR goals, activities and results EIZO participates in the RMI, a responsible minerals The mineral resources in question include tantalum, tin, CSR Promotion Council. The CSR Committee consists of procurement initiative. To ensure that we source and use tungsten and gold, defined as “conflict minerals” under the U.S. representatives from each division of EIZO Corporation and CSR Committee ▶ Selected from managers of practical operations minerals in our products not associated with any conflict or Dodd-Frank Act, as well as cobalt. is tasked with formulating and promoting our activities and in each function criminal activities (conflict-free) we carefully scrutinize our also evaluating results. These evaluation results are presented Formulate goals for CSR activities and evaluate results global supply chain. to the CSR Promotion Council, comprising Operating Officers, Cor por ate Over view and after approval, reported to the Management Committee. Divisions Under this system we manage a PDCA cycle to promote our CSR activities. For Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We aspire to play our part in achieving the SDGs adopted by the United Nations in 2015 through such efforts as identifying the fields in which we can contribute and setting our own targets. VOICE An excellent display with state-of-the-art technology as well as the industry recognition that EIZO has are not only important for medical work but also critical to the lives of Maggie Lai Sales Manager, patients. In addition to selling monitors, I have in my job a sense of mission to help people. Hong Kong and South China, EIZO Corporation 27 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 28 Foundation for Sustainable Growth EIZO’s CSR goals and activities are organized under the Seven Promises, the principles of conduct. Seven Promises Major Activities Mid-Term Goals FY2019 Activities for Achieving the Goal SDG Mapping ◦ Released a real-time monitoring solution capable of receiving Our Stor y video signals directly from video management systems (VMS) (without the use of a computer) to be used for security and Contribute to society based on new value created surveillance (DuraVision DX0211-IP: IP Decoding Box) Creating New Value ◦ Provide high-quality, high-performance visual imaging solutions that address social needs through Imaging Chain Innovation ◦ Created a camera system for capturing surgical proceedings in 4K resolution, featuring a versatile mount that enables the user to control the camera intuitively (CuratOR MEC-7000-UHD/ SC430-PTR: 4K Surgical Field Camera System) Our Str ateg y ◦O  btained ENERGY STAR Ver. 8.0 certification ◦ I ncreased the usage ratio of recycled plastics Accelerate the pace of reducing environmental impacts ◦ Reduce the environmental impact of products through the use of recycled plastics, reduction of packaging materials and ◦ I ncreased the usage ratio of recycled materials in packaging Environmental Consideration ◦P roducts: Industry-leading environmentally other activities ◦C  onducted a life cycle assessment of the FlexScan EV series for Our Products and Business responsible development ◦ Reduce the environmental impact of operations by cutting greenhouse gas emissions and promoting energy ◦O  btained ISO 50001 environmental management system Operations ◦O perations: Reduce CO2 emissions by 50% compared conservation certification to FY2017 levels by FY2030 ◦ I ntroduced renewable energy for part of the electricity needs Our Value of EIZO’s Hakui Factory Operating as an International ◦ Conduct initiatives to ensure responsible procurement of minerals, including prohibiting the use of specific minerals Corporation associated with illegal acts ◦ J oined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) ◦C  onducted a survey on conflict minerals Gover nance ◦ Established the “EIZO Supplier Principles of Conduct” to engage in sound business activities around the world and asked Open and Fair Trade suppliers to implement the directives outlined in the code Promote CSR in a concerted effort throughout the supply chain ◦ Provide fair, accurate information on management policy, business strategy and financial activity Strong Bond of Trust with ◦ Provide fast, reliable after-sales service ◦H  eld a briefing for institutional investors Stakeholders ◦ Promptly share and incorporate queries and requests from customers ◦C  ontributed to local communities through various activities Cor por ate Over view ◦ Contribute to local communities through various activities Strict Respect and Compliance ◦ Enhance corporate governance with both the Letter and Spirit ◦ I mplemented compliance training at all EIZO companies ◦ Raise employee awareness through compliance training of the Law ◦R  educed total work hours by improving operational efficiency ◦P  repared an action plan (FY2019−FY2021) to promote the active participation of women ◦P  repared a plan (FY2020−FY2022) for nurturing the next Broadminded Corporate ◦ Conduct initiatives for sustaining a motivating workplace Create a working environment that enables everyone to generation of workers Culture ◦ Promote initiatives on occupational health and safety work with vigor ◦A  chieved the target rate for employment of persons with disabilities ◦O  btained ISO 45001 occupational health and safety management system certification 29 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 30 Creating the World’s Best Devices Creating Products Committed to Exceeding Expectations Development Novel devices and image processing technologies are vital our very own ASIC and FPGA image processors that are for creating innovative products. We therefore pay close indispensable components for the system. Development Capabilities Ensuring the World’s Best attention to the performance of all components as they When the need for customization or ultra-reliability Our Stor y To create the world’s best products, EIZO maintains a are indispensable in creating high quality images. In order cannot be achieved even in collaboration with component fully integrated in-house system for product planning, to ensure such uncompromising performance we build manufacturers, we realize them in-house, drawing from our development, production and quality assurance. This and maintain sound partnerships with each and every key proprietary technologies, including touch technologies, optical ensures we continuously accumulate and advance visual component manufacturer. In addition, our proprietary control bonding, IP standards, environmental and customization technologies and expertise within our organization. systems maximize the ability of all components to even capabilities, etc. surpass necessary performance levels. We have also developed Our Str ateg y The Spirit of Global Development Accumulating Unrivaled Visual Technologies EIZO maintains research and development (R&D) and We also hold separate global meetings for sharing manufacturing facilities in multiple locations globally. detailed information on specific markets, trends and Realizing the high performance, features and functions for these specific environments are realized in both hardware Each year EIZO companies responsible for R&D gather at related technologies. For example: In fiscal year 2019, those demanded by specific environments such as healthcare, and software technologies. Our hardware design technology the headquarters to introduce their technologies at the responsible for the ATC market from EIZO (Germany, U.S., U.K., creative work and other vertical markets has been achieved is capable of creating images with excellent quality while our EIZO Technology Showcase in order to ensure smooth Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Nordics, Czech, the Netherlands, through the cultivation of our visual technologies and software technology maintains and controls display quality, collaboration and creation of the world’s best. This event is and Japan) gathered in Germany to exchange information developments incorporated in monitors for the Business & Plus allowing for widely recognized solutions in professional an important opportunity not only for engineers to exchange on market trends, new products and sales strategies and also Our Value market. Through this evolution we have accumulated a strong applications that require a consistently high degree of accuracy information but also for sharing EIZO’s future vision with sales, undertook technical training including assembling an actual base of core visual processing technologies and competencies. over long periods of use. planning and manufacturing staff from around the globe. 2K2K primary control monitor. In particular, the unrivaled quality and reliability essential New Technologies Evolving Capabilities By incorporating not only our hardware and software complete systems covering the entire visual process; from Gover nance capabilities but also GPU and AI technologies we have the initial input of visual data, image capturing, recording undergone a significant transformation. We are now and distribution right through to, and including, actual visual developing a range of visual information processing display output. The evolution of this complete imaging system technologies such as analytics, analysis, recognition, and (Imaging Chain Innovation) significantly expands our ability to decision making capabilities based on such information. propose solutions for an even wider range of markets. These technologies expand our capabilities beyond conventional hardware monitors to the development of Cor por ate Over view VOICE Development at EIZO is characterized by the close collaboration between hardware and software developers to produce technologically advanced products. Functions difficult to develop by hardware alone are enhanced through software technology to create products and services with greater appeal for customers. Since we provide products and services for highly specialized fields, our developers interact with customers to come up with detailed specifications and propose new functions by integrating their needs with our accumulated technologies. We will continue developing products that satisfy customers by drawing on the strengths of our ever-evolving technologies and unique concepts. Airi Kurokawa Group Leader, Healthcare Products, R&D, Healthcare Products Department 31 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 32 Creating the World’s Best Advanced Production Facilities Using AI, Robotics, and IoT Manufacturing Approximately 80% of the EIZO monitors worldwide are produced at the headquarters factory in Japan. Here, EIZO-Style Manufacturing Creates the World’s Best monitors designed for business or office applications where Our Stor y “Stop looking for the reasons why you cannot do it. large volumes are demanded are mass produced using line Think seriously how you can do it!!” production processes on conveyor belts. Monitors for diverse This statement originates from an EIZO production site applications such as healthcare, creative work and other and is now widely shared as the philosophy of EIZO’s vertical markets that require a lot of specialized adjustments manufacturing. Each and every employee embodies this and inspection are produced in smaller quantities using cell philosophy ensuring EIZO maintains our high quality. production processes. In addition, when we expanded our factory in 2016, we designed and created a hybrid production facility for more efficiently and simultaneously producing Our Str ateg y multiple models by selecting the optimal production method according to specific quality, grade, cost, and delivery Manufacturing Unity with Group Production requirements. Electronic circuit boards in EIZO monitors are manufactured our Information Systems Department joins to analyze the Hybrid production is a state-of-the-art production process by EIZO MS Corporation, located in Hakui City, Ishikawa massive volume of quality data accumulated daily in the that promotes automation, easing effects of the labor shortage Prefecture. The circuit boards are supplied to EIZO factories in production process. This is to ensure the data is fully used to by taking full advantage of AI, IoT and robotics. Assembled Japan, China, and Germany and are used in more than 90% of constantly improve the development of new products and monitors are automatically transferred to an adjustment rack EIZO monitors sold worldwide. Final products are assembled adjustment and design production systems and processes. where an automated camera system automatically adjusts the Our Value in Japan, Germany, and China. The entire production process One significant achievement has been AI-based quality brightness and color settings. This system supports the flexible is undertaken within the Group, from the manufacturing of adjustment on the production line, which has boosted and simultaneous manufacturing of products with varying electronic circuit boards to the assembly and inspection of final production efficiency by 15%. sizes and applications. products. EIZO’s proven strength is not only in realizing high quality Furthermore, our R&D and manufacturing departments and reliability but also creating a strong sense of unity in work together from the development stage, freely exchanging manufacturing that transcends barriers between departments Inspection System for Catching the Smallest Abnormality ideas for improving manufacturing operations. In addition, and countries. For every single unit we perform a thorough inspection, both Gover nance visually and mechanically. In addition to automated inspection processes, such as screen uniformity, the final inspection The Spirit of Manufacturing and Technologies is conducted visually. Monitors are products that people constantly use and see so we believe in the importance of We have consistently incorporated state-of-the-art nurturing human resources to be capable of handling these inspection using the human eye, regardless of advances in technologies into EIZO products, which requires the continual cutting-edge manufacturing technologies. We also organize automation. This requires a high level of competence that can refining of our manufacturing technologies. At our factories, annual factory tours for employees of Group companies to only be performed by experienced staff. we focus on protecting the quality of EIZO products and share EIZO’s manufacturing spirit and technologies globally. Cor por ate Over view Manufacturing Circuit Boards Meeting High Quality Standards To maintain high quality standards in the mounting of electronic components, the latest equipment is used to adjust the mounting position at micron levels. X-ray inspection VOICE prevents defective components from leaving the line by checking areas that cannot be inspected visually, and I work on the assembly line for B&P monitors. Since there are many different types, each with its own automated optical inspection confirms the mounting status of manufacturing process, I strive every day to maintain high quality while paying close attention to detail. I take all components. The EIZO logo is firmly engraved on all circuit on the challenges that new models present, with a sense of achievement and satisfaction when my efforts to boards made to prove the high reliability of EIZO monitors. acquire more knowledge and skills lead to greater efficiency. Looking ahead, I hope to apply my experience in the production of monitors for a wider range of areas, such as V&S, Healthcare, and Creative Work. Arisa Yokota Manufacturing Section I, Manufacturing Department 33 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 34 Creating the World’s Best • Anechoic Chamber We obtained EMC testing facility certification in 2002 Quality from the U.S. National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program of the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Premier Quality Assurance Creating the World’s Best Technology, based on ISO/IEC 17025 requirements. We also Our Stor y The following Quality Management Policy was established to obtained certification from TUV in 2003. provide quality products and solutions that are comfortable to use in various environments and ensure we continue to provide products to the market with an uncompromising commitment to quality. Ensuring Quality in Procurement Our Str ateg y EIZO procures more than 10,000 parts from around the world. To guarantee the highest quality of products and services it is essential to source only quality components. In addition to establishing procurement policies and EIZO Group Quality Basic Policy guidelines and providing them to suppliers, we achieve our goals by collaborating with suppliers to ensure quality The EIZO Group is committed to continually fulfilling customers’ expectations by proposing and offering high quality through the evaluation and verification of samples during the products, services, and solutions. We therefore: development stage. We also develop and share our know1 Aim to develop high quality products by pursuing the world’s highest level of technology. how and market feedback with suppliers as part of building a Our Value collaborative and mutually beneficial partnership enabling us 2 Carry out our responsibility for environmental preservation by actively reducing the effects on the environment in every business activity from product development to manufacturing to sales and service. to grow together. 3 Set the quality target which are carried out and reviewed by all the employees in every business activity. 4 Establish a quality management system, review it periodically, and continually improve it to sustain its validity and suitability. 5 Meet the expectations of both healthcare professionals and those who receive medical treatment by providing medical devices Ensuring Quality in Production with assured quality, effectiveness, and safety. At each stage of production, important key parameters such improve production efficiency and provide feedback for new 6 Comply with legal and social requirements. Gover nance as brightness and contrast are automatically recorded and product development. saved for real-time quality monitoring. We use this big data to Quality Management System and Certifications (in Japanese) https://www.eizo.co.jp/company/csr/1/process/management/ After-Sales Quality Management We conduct sales and after-sales activities through a dedicated Ensuring Quality in Planning and Development global network. Within this network of EIZO Group Companies and Authorized Distributors we are constantly sharing the Related Authorities Countermeasure, President At the planning and development stages, in addition to complying with the laws, regulations and industrial standards of each country, Cor por ate latest information. Customers Response, Instruction we are rigorously assessing risks for each market and application. Moreover, we have achieved superior standards of quality through Information Over view We collect data that is used to predict issues that could application of the Group’s fully integrated in-house development system. Disclosure Report potentially impact product quality and the actual occurrence Task Force We also have our own in-house testing equipment for EMI, EMS and other safety standards, including reliability tests such as high of these issues during daily business operations. In the unlikely Report and low temperature tests as well as vibration and drop tests. These tests were typically conducted at dedicated facilities externally, event of an issue related to safety or quality occurs, we will take Quality Assurance Inquiry Department but in EIZO prompt and careful evaluations as well as efficiently delivered feedback to the R&D and manufacturing teams play major prompt and appropriate measures (e.g., cause investigation, roles in continuously maintaining and improving quality. Therefore, EIZO now has proprietary testing equipment in-house with the countermeasure implementation, product repairing, idea of fulfilling the above-mentioned requirements. information disclosure, etc.). ◦Main Testing Equipment • MIL-STD-810 Environmental Testing and Assessment VOICE EIZO in-house testing equipment and facilities are capable of conducting tests under harsh conditions such as Providing our medical customers with high-quality EIZO monitors gives me great satisfaction. The excellent extreme temperature/humidity, vibration, shock, etc. in image quality for precise diagnostics, high-quality performance combined with a long life-cycle, plus many accordance with the standards and assessment guidelines useful features and functions, guarantee that we can meet the expectations of our long-standing customers. for materials procured by the U.S. Department of Defense. Passing the evaluation proves products are highly reliable. Imke Kurtsiefer Team Leader Inside Sales Healthcare, EIZO Europe GmbH 35 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 36 Creating the World’s Best Centralized Management of EIZO Intellectual Respect Third-party Intellectual Property Rights Property Intellectual Property During the initial stages of product development we identify We have centralized the management of all EIZO intellectual new technologies incorporating them into the product plan. Intellectual Property Initiatives Vital to Business Growth property (including patents, design rights, and trademarks) and We then investigate to confirm if there are any third-party Our Stor y We believe technology and design created in the process of product development to be one of the most important assets for other intellectual property regardless of whether rights have intellectual property rights attached to any component EIZO and actively seek to obtain patents and design rights to protect them. Our recent focus has been on attaining patents been secured. We have established a system to facilitate the technology (including technologies developed by EIZO). and design rights in countries and regions where we expect product sales to grow such as China and India, in addition to use of intellectual property and sharing of related information Should such a right be confirmed to exist we exercise the Japan, Europe, and the U.S., currently our main markets. We aim to construct a global network of intellectual property. within the EIZO Group. To effectively manage our intellectual utmost care to ensure that we do not infringe upon any We also believe that trademarks, including the names of our company and products, are key to protecting and enhancing property, we periodically evaluate the value of patents and third-party intellectual property rights by taking action such EIZO brand value. We therefore strive to obtain and maintain trademark rights in all countries where we sell our products. design rights based on technology trends and implementation as excluding the use of the technologies or by obtaining status. permission to use a technology from the third party. In determining a new product name our top priority is to Our Str ateg y ensure that there is no possible infringement of any third-party Number of Patents Held by the EIZO Group and Territories Where the EIZO Brand is Widespread Securing Patents and Designs and Obtaining Rights trademarks in any countries where the product is to be sold. Our focus has been on attaining patents and design rights in countries and regions where we expect product sales to grow such as We have introduced a survey and application procedure for China, India and Russia, in addition to Japan, Europe and the United States, currently our main markets. Our overall goal is to construct patents and designs into our product development process Protecting EIZO’s Intellectual Property Rights a global network of intellectual property. to prevent missed opportunities for identifying new core and peripheral technologies as well as designs created during the In the event that a third party is found to have infringed upon ▶ Number of Patents Held by the EIZO Group (as of March 31 of Each Fiscal Year) process. EIZO’s intellectual property rights, we will seek appropriate Our Value We secure patents or rights for all technology or design measures from the third party to be taken to protect these 600 that can be a powerful and beneficial asset for EIZO. To achieve Japan 543 rights. 488 this, we strategically select appropriate countries for the U.S.A. 57 63 35 applications in accordance with the area and characteristics of Europe 400 371 29 the technology or design. We then develop a network of core China 332 patents and design rights. 309 21 51 227 296 5 39 23 Other 280 2 185 1 4 11 17 232 7 93 100 1 90 91 86 200 183 6 Gover nance 56 24 58 68 125 139 6 45 1 21 23 31 40 45 Encouraging Creation of Patents and Designs 6 37 17 37 14 14 147 164 170 155 150 152 153 156 68 82 114 We have established and manage an incentive program for 0 employee inventions to encourage staff to secure patents and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) designs. We also have an internal awards program for inventors and others who have secured patents or rights to designs that have contributed to our business. ▶ Territories Where the EIZO Brand is Widespread (as of March 2020) ■ Countries with trademark protection Cor por ate Over view VOICE Raising employee awareness is a key for efficiently implementing every intellectual property initiative. Accordingly, the Intellectual Property Department has been periodically organizing workshops on intellectual property and actively communicating with other departments. The purpose of our study groups is to instill participant awareness of patent and design creation and respect for the intellectual property of third parties. We also provide timely information on the ongoing evolution of intellectual property regulations in each country. With regard to communication, we provide patent information containing legal elements in an easy-to-understand manner for engineers exploring possible patent applications for newly developed technology. Meanwhile, we obtain in-depth technological information from engineers to support Michihiko Aono renewed considerations based on mutual understanding. Section Leader, Intellectual Property Management, Intellectual Property Management Department 37 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 38 Products and Business Operations that Consistently Reduce Environmental Impacts EIZO Initiatives for Reducing Environmental Impact The Environment Compliance with the Latest Environmental Standards Enhancing Power Saving Features Products and Business Operations that Consistently Reduce Environmental Impacts Our Stor y We proactively develop environmentally sound Along with designing for low power consumption, EIZO has been working to reduce the environmental impact products that comply with the latest environmental we equip our monitors with numerous features that standards, including but not limited to TCO Certified reduce power consumption and CO2 emissions. of our products and businesses since we launched our own Generation 8, EPEAT and ENERGY STAR 8.0. brand of CRT monitors in Europe in 1985. We will continue to address environmental issues in our business operations in order to play our part in enriching future society. Our Str ateg y Recycled Plastic for Monitor Housing Designs that Are Kind to Both the Environment and Humans Our FlexScan EV series* uses recycled plastic for We make limited use of plastic and paints EIZO’s Environmental Approach and Initiatives more than 15% of its parts. containing flame retardant in the external housing In addition to making environmentally sound products, EIZO believes that we must also strive to reduce the environmental impact of our monitors to reduce the impact on the *More than 85% of the product’s external housing, such as environment and on humans and to enhance the of our business operations. We are guided in our efforts by the following Energy and Environmental Basic Policy, on which we have cabinets and stands, are made of recycled plastic. recyclability of our products. established management systems. Our Value Environmentally Sound Packaging Collection and Recycling of Products Energy and Environmental Basic Policy We use cardboard made of recycled paper as We also collect used monitors for recycling in Japan, EIZO is aware that one of our key responsibilities is to conduct business taking the environment into consideration. packaging for EIZO products to reduce their Europe, and the U.S. to realize our responsibility We strive to contribute to the sustainable development of our society by being conscious of the impact our business environmental impact. In addition, the FlexScan even beyond the usage lifetime of our products. has on the environment. We will continue our concerted effort in the effective use of resources, climate change EV series cushioning is made up of 100% recycled mitigation, environmental protection (including the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems), prevention of materials. We are also working with our suppliers on Gover nance pollution and reduction of other environmental risks. We therefore: the reduction of the packaging materials for some of the parts we purchase. 1 Comply with legal, moral and other requirements regarding environmental protection and the effective use of energy. 2 Provide eco-friendly products and services, implement activities to reduce our environmental footprint and take active measures to prevent pollution. 3 Constantly improve our environmental impact performance when conducting business such as: use of sustainable resources, pollution prevention, green procurement, enhancement of efficient energy use and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction of Supply Chain Environmental Impacts 4 Establish an energy and environmental management system that is in accord with business activities, energy and environmental management goals, implement, review and continually improve our performance. Cor por ate EIZO recognizes that most of our greenhouse We have established our own EIZO Green 5 Conduct awareness-raising activities targeting our members to improve understanding of environmental protection as well as Over view gas emissions are derived from our electricity Procurement Standards and preferentially procure the use of clean and sustainable energy. consumption and we therefore intend to reduce environmentally friendly products, components and these emissions by 50% of fiscal year 2017 levels by materials (including packaging) that adhere to our no later than 2030. quality, function, and cost requirements. VOICE As a manufacturer of quality products we must always add value to each and every interaction with our Independent Monitoring of Chemical Substances customers. This includes emails, phone calls and meetings in the sales phase as well as future daily product interaction or later customer services if needed. Conclusively one way of adding value for us as a sales team is to educate customers on the impact monitors have on the environment and how EIZO’s unique quality and For all components used, we prohibit or control the know-how in monitor manufacturing actually can transform the customer into an environmental benefactor use of prohibited chemical substances in accordance while helping them apply their constantly increasing environmental demands. to the rule of all applicable laws and environmental standards. Dick Bender Sales Manager, EIZO Nordic AB 39 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 40 Products and Business Operations that Consistently Reduce Environmental Impacts Higher Energy Efficiency, Use of Recycled Plastics, and Other Initiatives for Reducing the Environmental COLUMN Impact of EIZO Products Environmental Impact of the Product Life Cycle Our commitment to developing environmentally friendly products has been part of EIZO’s core DNA since entering the computer monitor market in 1985. While we naturally comply with all relevant environmental standards, it is important to us to ensure we We conducted a product life cycle assessment for the FlexScan EV2457 ▶ CO2 Emissions in the Life Cycle of the FlexScan EV2457 reduce our environmental impact even further, so created our own internal environmental certification system in 2002. Through Our Stor y color LCD monitor on its environmental impact at each stage from 0 50 100 (%) this activity we have been continuously reducing energy consumption and proactively adopting recycled plastic and paper. manufacturing to usage and disposal. Based on the assessment, we formulated an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) following the guidelines of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. (UL), an international certification institution, and obtained certification as a Type III declaration Compliance with Environmental Standards and Legal Requirements under ISO 14025. As a result, we discovered that ■ Component ■ Transportation ■ Manufacturing ■ Usage ■ Disposal greenhouse gas emissions are particularly high during procurement 128.0 kg-CO₂ 1.0 kg-CO₂ In our effort to proactively develop environmentally friendly achieve compliance with TCO Certified Generation 8, as soon component manufacturing and product usage stages, 1.6 kg-CO₂ 3.6kg-CO₂ 38.6 % 0.3 % 197.4 kg-CO₂ 0.5 % 1.1 % products, we abide by all governing laws and regulations. We as the standard came into effect. highlighting the importance of improving the product’s 59.5 % also comply with major voluntary environmental standards in EIZO also complies with other regulations including the Our Str ateg y energy efficiency in reducing emissions. Our EPD has been each market we conduct business. WEEE Directive (collection and recycling of discarded electrical certified by a third-party certification body. In particular, Sweden’s TCO, which has established itself and electronic equipment), the RoHS Directive (use of certain as a de facto global environmental standard for monitors, has hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment), become the starting point for our response to environmental the REACH Regulation (registration, evaluation, authorization issues. The TCO is a comprehensive standard that requires and restriction of chemicals) and the ErP Directive (ecoRecycled Plastic and Flame-Retardant-Free Plastic for Monitor Housing compliance in safety, electromagnetic waves, and ergonomic designing for energy-related products) as well requirements for design in addition to environmental requirements. Its environmental labeling initiatives such as EPEAT (international One of our core product lines, the FlexScan EV series, uses process, reducing chemical substances that hamper recycling requirements have recently expanded to include corporate environmental standard for computers and monitors), ENERGY recycled plastic for more than 15% of its external housing*, and contributes to improving Our Value initiatives, addressing broader issues such as CSR and corporate STAR 7.1 (energy efficiency standard established in the U.S.) such as cabinets and stands, and we will continue work to recyclability. governance. and PC Green Label (Japanese environmental standard for increase this further. In addition, we are avoiding the use of *More than 85% of the product’s external EIZO has always participated in formulating the TCO computers and monitors). paint on monitor housing by using flame-retardant-free plastic housing, such as cabinets and stands, are standard and playing our part in scrutinizing its content to EIZO will continue to pay close attention to environmental made of recycled plastic. in consideration for environment preservation. achieve advanced and effective standardization. As a result requirements and aim to develop products with a lower This prevents environmental pollution caused by of our ongoing efforts we became the first in the world to environmental impact. emissions and discharges during the component production Gover nance Reducing the Environmental Impact of Packaging Materials We use cardboard made of recycled paper as packaging Moreover, we are seeking to reduce packaging materials materials for our products and minimize the information from the parts procurement stage by working with our December 2018 printed on packages to reduce their environmental impact. suppliers to reduce the packaging for some of the parts we TCO Certified Generation 8 First in the world to comply The FlexScan EV series cushioning is also made up of 100% purchase. Furthermore, when transporting items to certain April 2009 recycled materials. In addition, we strive to reduce resources customers, or between factories in Japan and overseas, we TCO Display 5.0 and energy used during transport by packing multiple units reduce packaging materials by adopting reusable containers or Cor por ate First in the world August 2006 to comply in one box for customers who order larger quantities and by reusing packaging boxes and materials. Over view TCO 06 Media Display shipping products without unnecessary cables where possible. January 2003 TCO 99 TCO 03 First in the world TCO 92 TCO 95 First in the world to comply Addition of environmental perspective to comply Starting point of EIZO’s environmental initiatives Collection and Recycling of Products EIZO complies with environmental laws and regulations in each of the countries we operate by collecting and recycling used products. We also fulfill our responsibilities in the recycling of the products, including individual components. Multiple Power Saving Features Japan Europe United States Products in the FlexScan series for the Business & Plus (B&P) power management software to simultaneously adjust the market are equipped with multiple power saving features, brightness and power of multiple monitors centrally. EIZO collects and recycles used monitors The European WEEE Directive came into effect The EPEAT standard requires the provision including automatic brightness control that reduces backlight, The FlexScan EV series offers even greater power saving from homes and offices in compliance in August 2005 to reduce the environmental of a collection service for used electric and low power consumption during standby mode and a capabilities with its higher efficiency backlight, zero-watt with the Waste Disposal Act, the Law impact through promotion of the 3R’s of electronic equipment. EIZO has met this for Promotion of Effective Utilization of reduce, reuse, and recycle for discarded requirement by establishing a collection and power save mode. Users can substantially reduce electricity electricity consumption in standby and a function that Resources, and the PC Recycling Mark electrical and electronic equipment. EIZO has recycling system for products sold in the U.S. consumption for an entire office by using our freely available confirms the amount of power saved. program. complied with the directive by establishing a collection and recycling system for applicable products sold in Europe. 41 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 42 Products and Business Operations that Consistently Reduce Environmental Impacts Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Business Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact EIZO proactively work to reduce the environmental impact, not only of our products, but also of our business operations and entire INPUT EIZO OUTPUT supply chain. Our Stor y Energy usage: CO2 Emissions R&D 108,700 GJ 4,910 t-CO2 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Electricity: 1 0.115 million kWh The reduction of greenhouse gas is a pressing global concern. EIZO recognizes that most of our greenhouse gas emissions are Kerosene: 4.4 kl Material Procurement LPG: 107.2 t Waste derived from electricity consumption and therefore we set the following targets for reduction: Compressed air: 7,000 m3 Industrial waste: 410.4 t District heating: 879,000 kWh Manufacturing General waste: 15.5 t Wastepaper: 545.9 t Our Str ateg y Target Copier paper: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% from fiscal year 2017 levels 6,984 kg Distribution ▶ CO2 Emissions and Energy Use (Japan, China and Germany) by no later than 2030. To achieve this we will: (t-CO2) CO2 Emissions Energy Use (GJ) Water usage: Sales • Review power consumption 8,000 108,700 120,000 27,511 m3 • Use renewable energy 101,896 105,145 101,533 • Obtain ISO 50001 certification and strengthen operation of our energy management 89,847 system 6,000 90,000 Scope of calculation: the following six areas ▶ Environmental Impact by Area 4,000 60,000 Initiatives for 2019 Our Value EIZO Corporation EIZO MS Corporation (Japan) EIZO Display 5,800 6,304 6,505 5,654 4,910 EIZO GmbH EIZO Technologies Area Headquarters Technologies (Suzhou) Total We switched part of the power consumed by EIZO MS Corporation (Hakui (Japan) Hakui Nanao Co., Ltd. (China) (Germany) GmbH (Germany) 2,000 30,000 factory) to renewable energy. Development Development and Development and Development and Production of Assembly of Operations and Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing of Circuit Boards Monitors Initiatives for Fiscal Year 2020 0 0 of Monitors of Monitors of Monitors Monitors 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Energy usage (GJ) 57,276 31,334 7,908 1,790 7,642 2,750 108,700 We will increase the use of renewable energy sources at EIZO Corporation Note: Calculations of CO₂ emissions associated with power consumption Electricity (10,000 kWh) 527.6 314.3 79.3 17.9 44.8 27.6 1,011.5 and EIZO MS Corporation by 10% of power consumption. are based on the conversion factor of Hokuriku Electric Power Energy Resources Company for Japan and the calculation methods of each country. Kerosene (kl) 4.4 — — — — — 4.4 LPG (t) 107.2 — — — — — 107.2 Gover nance Compressed air (10,000 m3) — — — — 0.7 — 0.7 District heating (10,000 kwh) — — — — 87.9 — 87.9 Initiatives for Environmentally Friendly Procurement Copier paper (kg) 3,937 956 120 351 1,620 — 6,984 ◦Green Procurement ◦Management of Chemical Content Information Water usage (m3) 19,046 3,056 3,284 836 1,289 — 27,511 CO2 emissions (t-CO2) 2,708 1,325 357 112 293 115 4,910 In order to maintain and strengthening our environmental To promote green procurement, we prohibit or control the Industrial waste (t) 208.6 41.4 102.8 — 35.4 22.2 410.4 protection initiatives and fulfill our social responsibility, we use of regulated substances* in accordance to the rule of established our own EIZO Green Procurement Standards all applicable laws and environmental standards in all the Waste General waste (t) 10.8 2.2 1.5 — 1.0 — 15.5 Cor por ate components used in our products. We have established a Wastepaper (t) 265.9 67.7 168.2 — 27.5 16.6 545.9 to guide material procurement activities. The standards database for collecting and managing the results of surveys Over view are also intended to enable us to respond to the evolving environmental rules and regulations in each country. we undertake to determine which suppliers and materials Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Scope (FY2019) In selecting products, we prioritize the procurement of best align with our values. In doing so we are also able to environmentally friendly products, components and materials use the information collected to evaluate the environmental Scope and Category Emissions (t-CO2) Composition (%) Scope of Calculation (including packaging) that comply with quality, function and compliance of our own products. Scope 1 333 6.8 Consolidated cost requirements. *Examples of regulated substances: mercury and lead (including their Scope 2 4,577 93.2 Consolidated compounds), ozone depleting substances, halogen substances and beryllium Total (Scope 1 + 2) 4,910 100.0 Consolidated Scope 3 376,365 100.0 — ▶ Flow of Chemical Content Survey 1. Purchased products and services 113,730 30.2 EIZO Corporation headquarters Request 2. Capital goods 9,865 2.6 Consolidated 3. Fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 690 0.2 Consolidated CRS Initiatives Survey Report Environmental Information 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 530 0.1 Shipment volume of products as cargo owner Suppliers Database Environmental Information 5. Waste generated in operations 232 0.1 Consolidated Survey (EIZO MIS file) 6. Business travel 531 0.1 EIZO Corporation headquarters Chemical Substance Survey 7. Employee commuting 782 0.2 Group companies in Japan (chemSHERPA File) 11. Use of sold products 250,001 66.4 Consolidated Response 4 0.0 Consolidated 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products 43 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 44 Creating an Environment for Employees to Demonstrate Their Abilities and Thrive Supporting the Careers of Persons with Disabilities Human Resources We strive to ensure fair employment and develop worker▶P  ercentage of Employees with Disabilities (Japan) and Number of Employees with Disabilities friendly environments at EIZO by fully observing the laws of Creating an Environment for Employees to each country and having people with disabilities active in a Percentage of employees with disabilities Number of employees with Our Stor y Demonstrate Their Abilities and Thrive variety of workplaces. In Japan, we are actively engaging in (Japan) (as of the end of each fiscal year) disabilities recruitment efforts such as participating in joint company FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 March 31, 2020 People are the key to supporting the EIZO brand. information sessions for people with disabilities and accepting Upholding our free and open corporate culture, we internships. We are always seeking to improve our workplace 2.18% 2.13% 1.91% Japan: 37 Overseas: 11 constantly work to create an environment in which each environment while creating work opportunities for people employee can demonstrate their abilities and thrive. with disabilities as we expand our business. Supporting Diverse Work Styles Our Str ateg y Laying the Foundation for a Motivating Workplace To enable employees to maintain a balance between life while complying with the laws of each country. These include We are creating a comfortable working environment so that employees are highly motivated in their jobs. events such as childcare and nursing care and their work, programs such as paid leave for childbirth, childcare and we provide various programs to support diverse work styles nursing care as well as shortened work hours. Success of a Diverse Workforce Our Value EIZO comprises 17 companies globally (as of August 2020) ▶ Number of Employees by Region (as of March 31, 2020, this includes the average and we harness the talents of our diverse workforce. While number of temporary staff ) Fair Evaluation and Diversity respecting the human rights of each employee and promoting Japan Germany United States China United Kingdom Switzerland We ensure that all employees are fairly and equitably evaluated level employees, active participation of female employees in a mutual understanding of different cultures, the entire with respect to hiring and promotion, regardless of gender. recruitment activities and consideration of a personnel system group strives to develop our business with a sense of unity. 1,876 302 73 66 33 14 To improve the percentage of female managers in Group that takes into account diverse work styles. Overseas group companies are led by local managers, and we Sweden Czech Republic The Netherlands Austria Italy Belgium pay careful consideration to the circumstances, cultures and companies in Japan, EIZO has formulated and released an ▶N  umber and Percentage of Female Managers (as of March 31, 2020) customs of each country creating the most suitable working “Action Plan for Promoting the Role of Women” and we are Gover nance 16 8 10 9 7 4 Group total 19 (12.5%) environment. working to improve the working environment so that female United Arab Saudi Arabia Emirates India employees can play leading roles in their workplaces. Our Overseas (10 companies) 16 (23.8%) Employment data can be found on page 70 Total plan incorporates measures such as dispatching female 2 1 1 2,422 employees employees to management training seminars conducted by Japan (7 companies) 3 (3.6%) outside institutions and providing training for selected midVOICE When I joined EIZO in 2007, I was very excited to see what it would be like working for EIZO. Since then, I Cor por ate have had very positive experiences working as part of the large EIZO family, made of many nationalities, Broadminded Corporate Culture races and genders. Selling EIZO makes me proud because quality and reliability are so important, and our customers Over view We have been cultivating a free and open corporate culture take on challenges. Our broadminded corporate culture is one know that too. that encourages flexible and active communication between of our strengths, which enables individual employees to fully departments. Open exchanges take place between EIZO demonstrate their abilities and in turn allows us to provide members regardless of position. Employees are encouraged excellent products and services in addition to reforming our to freely voice their opinions and are given opportunities to internal environment quickly. Marion Kammerer Account Manager, Sales, EIZO GmbH Developing Trust-Based Labor-Management Relations Respect For Human Rights Mutual understanding is the cornerstone of laborcommittee in each group company under the laws and To maintain our stance on unacceptable behavior such as (ILO) “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at management relations. In keeping with this fundamental specific circumstances of each respective country. We take forced or child labor, discriminatory remarks or actions and Work.” We are committed to protecting and respecting human point, we encourage dialog between labor and management. advantage of these opportunities to develop good laborsexual or power harassment we all strictly adhere to our rights within EIZO and our partners. We have established a consultation conference and a labor management relationships. “Principles of Conduct.” We also participate in the United For the United Nations Global Compact and the RBA, please see page 28 Nations Global Compact and RBA, which are guided by labor principles laid out by the “International Labor Organization” 45 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 46 Creating an Environment for Employees to Demonstrate Their Abilities and Thrive Cultivating the EIZO Mindset Human Resource Development We are working to nurture and sharing the “EIZO mindset” of creating the “world’s best” to unite EIZO in creating and delivering stateWe are developing personnel who share the “EIZO mindset” and thrive by upholding the EIZO commitment to creating the world’s best. of-the-art products and services to customers globally. Enhancing Education and Training ◦EIZO United Our Stor y Around 100 participants from Group Companies and EIZO EIZO in Japan strive to identify internal educational and In fiscal year 2020, we planned and implemented the Authorized Distributors gather once a year at EIZO Corporation training needs to organize diverse training and educational “Career Advanced Plan” as an educational program for (Japan) to attend the “EIZO United” conference, where we programs. These include position and function specific training employees who have been with the company for at least five share our latest technologies, the status of sales in each as well as programs for acquiring knowledge in specialized years. We also place an emphasis on educating Managers to country, various initiatives and the overall product and fields and human resource development. In fiscal year 2019, we bolster their capabilities. business direction. Not only does this deepen everyone’s Our Str ateg y developed the “Career Development Plan,” which is designed We organize training opportunities for the entire group, understanding of our future direction, it fosters a strong sense to cultivate operation execution capabilities, market sensitivity including overseas group companies as well as for individuals of unity in the group through mutual exchanges. This also and a global mindset, targeting employees in their first five for developing the respective skills required by product provides opportunities for employees in various departments years. We sought to enhance employee skills through this development and sales operations. Moreover, we seek to to present their department’s initiatives to cultivate a sense of comprehensive program, which includes on-the-job training at raise skills by making use of on-the-job training and external belonging to “One EIZO.” departments, group-based training and sales training as well as seminars. off-the-job training such as overseas internships. Our Value Personnel Exchange within the Group We are encouraging personnel exchanges within the group the number of employees who can work effectively in different in which young engineers are dispatched for several years or cultures and manage technology from a global perspective as short-term training. These programs are intended to increase well as to cultivate new technological expertise. VOICE I participated in the overseas trainee program for three months in the United States and Europe. Gover nance Accompanying sales colleagues provided a valuable opportunity to engage directly with customers to see how they actually used EIZO products and listen to their expectations. In addition, I was able to see with my own eyes how colleagues typically did business with customers and how they felt about EIZO products. The experience was invaluable in helping me better understand differences in the various markets, workstyles ◦Global Meetings ◦Joint Participation in Trade Shows and cultures. We carry out a variety of meetings across EIZO every year. EIZO participation in international trade shows includes These include global meetings for raising the level of quality staff from the exhibiting company as well as from other Cor por ate control throughout EIZO, a EURO Meeting for discussing sales group companies to share market information and conduct Over view Toru Ogura strategies within EIZO (in Europe), and other business unit coordinated global sales and development activities. Product & Technology Manager, EIZO Inc. meetings. (Seconded from EIZO Corporation) VOICE I spent two weeks training in the development division at EIZO Corporation, Japan. The mutual exchange of experiences with our Japanese colleagues improved my engineering expertise. Getting to know each other personally encourages cooperation and simplifies working together, especially in labor intense times. In order to face global challenges in product development, we should generate more synergy in our company. In fiscal year 2020, we refrained from holding international meetings, including EIZO United and canceled our participation in trade shows to help prevent the spread of Michael Schultz COVID-19 and protect our employees. International meetings were held via teleconferencing and other means. Engineer, Mechanical Design & Infrastructure, EIZO GmbH 47 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 48 Creating an Environment for Employees to Demonstrate Their Abilities and Thrive Activities for Safeguarding Employee Health Providing a Safe Working Environment To enable employees to work with energy and demonstrate their abilities clearly, it is important to create a workplace environment We actively pursue measures for safeguarding employee health and improving workplace environments. These include conducting in which they feel comfortable and can maintain sound physical and mental health. EIZO has established an “Occupational Health regular health checkups, follow-up guidance, mental stress checks and holding events for maintaining good employee health. For and Safety Policy” under which we implement various initiatives. staff who frequently work overtime, we provide one-on-one consultation and guidance to improve work processes and reduce mental Our Stor y stress. In Japan, we also work to maintain employee mental health by assigning in-house staff as contact points for responding to employee concerns and issues. ◦Health Day (EIZO Europe GmbH, Germany) ◦Health Mobile (EIZO GmbH, Germany) Occupational Health and Safety Basic Policy We held a health event for employees with assistance of We conducted a health event in cooperation with a major experts from external companies and medical institutions. health insurance company in Germany. Employees checked The EIZO Group will create workplaces where all members are able to work safely and in good health. We established Employees became even more health-conscious through their stress levels, levels of nutrition, sleep using equipment the following policies, endeavor to eradicate occupational incidents, and establish and implement activities Our Str ateg y activities such as exercising, massage, self-examinations and by inside a camping car and received personal advice on daily concerning occupational health and safety. interacting with experts. routines to improve their health. We therefore: 1 Conduct periodic assessments to identify occupational health and safety risks and implement appropriate countermeasures. 2 Raise awareness of maintaining and improving physical, mental, and emotional health and continually improve the health and safety of our members through on-going collaboration between the companies and its employees. 3 Establish an occupational health and safety management system and occupational health and safety goals, implement, review and continually improve performance. 4 Create opportunities for participation and consultation on occupational health and safety issues between members and the Our Value companies and ensure open communication between them. 5 Regularly educate members about occupational health and safety. 6 Comply with legal, moral and all other requirements regarding occupational health and safety. 7 Investigate and analyze the cause of any occupational accidents that may occurs and ensure corrective action is taken. 8 Prepare and provide training so that prompt measures are taken should an accident occur. ◦Anti-Smoking Activities (Globally) Gover nance All Group companies prohibit smoking inside company facilities to prevent exposure to passive smoking. In addition, Promoting the Occupational Health and Safety Management System EIZO (Japan) in April 2020 introduced a total ban on smoking To consistently maintain and develop activities for account for approximately 80% of total EIZO production. during working hours and on company premises. occupational health and safety, we have introduced an We promote health and safety activities that cover all occupational health and safety management system at EIZO onsite staff based on this system, and have obtained the Corporation (Japan) and EIZO MS Corporation (Japan), which ISO 45001 certification in 2019. Cor por ate Over view Risk Assessment and Prevention of Industrial Accidents EIZO (Japan) seeks to educate employees and increase safety check targeted substances using safety data sheets and awareness through periodic workplace patrols and hazard enforce the use of appropriate protective gear for onsite work. prediction training. In addition, we strive to mitigate risks by Furthermore, we seek to prevent industrial accidents applying a risk assessment method to investigate potential at EIZO (Overseas) through initiatives such as organizing hazards and toxicity as well as implement countermeasures, employee training and distributing handbooks on industrial assess the risks involved in handling chemical substances, accidents. 49 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 50 Strong Bonds of Trust with Our Stakeholders Powerful Partnerships with Suppliers Society With respect to our suppliers, we are committed to forging relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity to build successful, long-term partnerships. Strong Bonds of Trust with Our Stakeholders We sincerely seek to engage with stakeholders to forge Our Stor y and maintain strong bonds of trust. Partners in safeguarding quality To create excellent products that satisfy our customers, we place high priority on controlling quality, delivery schedules and the cost of components and materials procured from suppliers as well as confirming that supplier operations are environmentally responsible. We work fairly with all suppliers, setting selection standards based on such aspects as technological excellence, quality, supply capacity, environmental preservation activities and legal compliance, selecting only suppliers who meet our standards. In addition, to safeguard Our Str ateg y product and service quality, we share our management policies, technical strategies and current issues with suppliers during such meetings including “EIZO Supplier Day.” We take time to provide, and highly value regular information exchange opportunities. Exceeding Customer Expectations ◦EIZO Supplier Day (Japan) ◦Supplier Audits To ensure that customers are completely confident in their purchase and use of EIZO products, we cater to their diverse needs to We deal with a diverse array of suppliers in Japan, where 80% EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany), which develops and forge solid, long-lasting relationships. of our production takes place. Materials procurement policy produces automobile and air traffic control monitors, annually briefings are held once a year with suppliers to explain and assesses our suppliers and conduct factory audits as needed. seek their cooperation with EIZO procurement policies as Our Value Workshops and Seminars for Gaining the Full Benefit of Our Products well as our strategies and future initiatives amid the prevailing market environment. We offer workshops and seminars to help customers use our products more effectively. For example, in the healthcare market we hold seminars for hospital staff, during which we Partners in CSR explain how they use images in the medical field and the importance of monitors and quality control. In this way we are EIZO intends to fulfill our CSR across our entire supply chain by asking all business partners involved in procurement to actively also contributing to the advancement of medical diagnosis. promote CSR activities, including compliance, respect for human rights, environmental preservation and safety and health. We Gover nance In the Creative Work market, we host color management established the “EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct” in accordance with the “EIZO Group Principles of Conduct” and obtain “Supplier seminars to support our customers who undertake highDeclarations” to ensure compliance from all our suppliers. Suppliers report on their level of compliance based on a self-assessment quality work creation with greater efficiency and quality. and we undertake onsite audits as necessary. ◦Participation in the Responsible Minerals Initiative We are aware that we have a social responsibility to procure the use of specified minerals associated with illegal activity. minerals responsibly and publish our Responsible Minerals We also conduct annual onsite investigations to confirm all Product Warranty for Peace of Mind Policy online. Accordingly, we require all suppliers across our specified minerals have been responsibly procured. Cor por ate entire supply chain to also pursue initiatives for eliminating Please also see page 28 for information on the “Responsible Minerals Initiative.” In addition to delivering highly reliable products, EIZO offers such as send back or on-site repairs. monitors with long-term assurance through a five-year *Excluding some products. Some repairs within the warranty period are subject Over view warranty*. Customers can also choose from different repair to additional charges in accordance with the specific terms of the applicable services depending on the product and user environment, warranty. Fair and Equitable Transactions For more information, please visit the EIZO website. The “EIZO Group Principles of Conduct” unequivocally prohibit offering or accepting entertainment, gifts or other benefits that violate the law or deviate from generally accepted business practices. In addition to complying with the Principles of Conduct ourselves, we ensure our suppliers share a common understanding with us. Customer Feedback Customer inquiries and feedback received through a variety ▶ Feedback System for all Types of Customer Input of channels are quickly disseminated within EIZO to improve product specifications and functions as well as our services by Customer Liaison leveraging our integrated product development, production, EIZO Contact Center Customer liaison dedicated to ordering sales and customer support capabilities. Development staff Customer liaison for technical support accompany sales representatives on visits to corporate Showroom customers to listen directly to them so their requirements can Direct sales website Website be promptly reflected in product development. Distributors Customers Sales companies/Retail stores 51 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 52 Strong Bonds of Trust with Our Stakeholders Promotion of Shareholder and Investor Awareness Community Engagement We conduct SR and IR relations activities to promote a greater understanding among our shareholders and investors by providing EIZO Group companies aspire to help develop and invigorate local communities in their respective countries and contribute to fair and accurate information on our management policies, business strategies, and financial performance. creating better environments as members of their communities through efforts that leverage the strengths of EIZO technologies and products. Our Stor y Information Disclosure Policy Examples of EIZO Efforts We disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner in or valuable instruments” of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE). EIZO Corporation (Japan) EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) compliance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act We strive to ensure any other material information that may and related regulations as well as the “Timely disclosure rules affect investment decisions are also delivered to all market We participated in the Kanazawa Marathon We donated money to the Christina and other regulations for issuers of listed negotiable securities participants in an equitable manner. as water supply volunteers to help invigorate Bergmann Foundation, which supports Our Str ateg y the event. childhood cancer patients. Other activities Other activities •C  onducted free inspections of EIZO products • S ponsorship of a local children soccer team and an Shareholder and Investor Engagement affected by natural disasters ice hockey team • E mployees voluntarily participate every year in local beach cleanups ◦General Shareholders Meeting strategies and initiatives in each market and directly responds We schedule our annual general shareholders meeting to shareholder comments and questions. while taking the convenience of shareholders into careful EIZO Europe GmbH (Germany) EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) consideration by avoiding days on which many shareholders’ ◦Company Presentation for Institutional Investors Our Value We conduct briefings for institutional investors to report on We donated money to Aktion Lichtblicke, an We continue to support the Sebastian’s meetings are held by other companies. Invitations are sent organization which provides care to children Action Trust, a charity that supports sick far in advance to provide sufficient time for shareholders our earnings twice a year in Tokyo as well as actively organizing with serious illnesses and children in need of children and their families and participate as individual meetings. In addition, investors are invited to join financial support. volunteers in the trust’s activities to examine the proposed resolutions and the state of our operations, posting it on our website. factory tours to become more familiar with our operations and Other activities Other activities •D  onated to organizations promoting the Pink see our strengths first-hand. •D  onated monitors for speech therapists at Magic Ribbon Campaign Words Therapy • Shareholder Round-Table Conference / Product Display Informal round-table meetings are conducted with ◦Company Presentation for Individual Investors shareholders following every general shareholder meeting We also hold briefings for individual investors when Gover nance EIZO AG (Switzerland) EIZO Nordic AB (Sweden) to deepen their understanding of EIZO’s operations. The appropriate to explain our business environment, strategies President explains the company’s business environment, and initiatives in each market. We donated money to Soup Day, an event Finance a book that is handed out at schools where soup is served at no cost to people to educate how to be respectful when facing financial difficulties. making comments online to avoid bullying/ hatred online and in various social medias. Other activities • Support of a child in a sports association for disabled children Cor por ate EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. (United States) EIZO Inc. (United States) Over view We regularly invite blood donation We co-sponsored activities of Boys & Girls vehicles to park inside the company Clubs of America, a non-profit organization grounds for employees to donate that provides after-school programs for child. blood. ▶ Meetings and Events for Institutional Investors EIZO Agency Corporation (Japan) Earnings Result Briefings One-on-One Meetings Company Tours and Exchange of Views We continue to donate money to activities for supporting children and their families fighting incurable diseases such as childhood cancer, as well FY2017 Twice (total: 73 participants) 103 organizations 7 times (total: 35 participants) as children who have either lost a parent to cancer or who have been diagnosed with cancer. FY2018 Twice (total: 91 participants) 111 organizations 6 times (total: 23 participants) FY2019 Twice (total: 64 participants) 85 organizations Once (total: 12 participants) 53 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 54 Strong Bonds of Trust with Our Stakeholders EIZO Pink Ribbon Day Support for Medical Institutions Fighting the COVID-19 Pandemic As a company providing solutions for breast cancer diagnosis, we feel it important to raise awareness of breast cancer, encourage As COVID-19 developed into a global pandemic, EIZO took decisive action to meet the respective needs of our local communities people to learn more about the disease and schedule screenings. We therefore organize an EIZO Pink Ribbon Day, when all from the standpoint providing healthcare solutions and being committed to serving the local community. employees globally wear pink. We also sponsor academic conferences, other promotional activities for screening and provide Our Stor y assistance to patients. EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) ◦Supported NHS Scrubs Production Services ◦Supported Manufacturing PPE Gowns We supported a project by Ms. Lynda Yong, the founder of We partnered with Ms. Lynda Yong and the Frimley Health NHS fashion brand Lynda Yong Couture, helping manufacture 2,000 Foundation Trust (FHFT, a foundation that operates hospitals) Our Str ateg y scrubs for National Health Service (NHS) staff. to assist in the production of more than 8,000 medical grade PPE gowns for National Health Service (NHS) staff. We also lent unused office floor in our building for use as gown production lines. Our Value EIZO Europe GmbH (Ger EIZO In many) c. (Unit ed State s) ) witzerland EIZO AG (S Gover nance EIZO GmbH (Germany) EIZO Europe GmbH (Germany) ◦Contributed to the Stable Supply of Monitors in the ◦Donation of Emergency Supplies to the German Red Cross Healthcare Market We supported the activities of the In response to rising demand for monitors used for lung Deutsches Rotes Kreuz (DRK, the German ultrasound, we have managed to procure parts under difficult Red Cross) by donating EUR5,000 to fund circumstances and increase our factory capacity. Cor por ate the procurement of emergency supplies ◦Donated Monitors for COVID-19 Diagnosis for combating the COVID-19 pandemic. Over view Eizo Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (China) We donated medical-grade monitors to a diagnosis center for #füreinander COVID-19 that had been set up in our community. Spende Fürsorge mit deinem Beitrag zum Corona Nothilfefonds. www.drk.de EIZO Corporation (Japan) ◦Donation of EIZO Designed Face Shields We designed face shields that provide airtight defense against airborne infections based on the advice of medical EIZO Corporation (Japan) professionals in the field and donated them to several e Netherla nds) medical institutions in the ffice in th (Branch O EIZO Lim region. e GmbH ited (Un EI ZO Europ ited Kin gdom) 55 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 56 Corporate Governance Board Members EIZO’s Approach to Corporate Governance Our Stor y 7 6 We strive to be a company that builds and maintains relationships of trust with stakeholders who support us and that continuously enhances its corporate value. To this end, ensuring sound, transparent, and efficient management is essential. Therefore, we position the ongoing enhancement of corporate governance as a vital management concern. 5 4 2 1 3 Our Str ateg y Overview of the Corporate Governance System In June 2016, we adopted the organizational design of a Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee. With this structure, we have worked to accelerate decision-making, strengthen the execution of operations and, with the active participation of independent external directors, improved transparency of the audit and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors and corporate management. ▶C  orporate Governance System 1 Yoshitaka Jitsumori 2 Yuichi Murai 3 Tsutomu Tanabe 4 Masaaki Suzuki Shareholders’ Meeting 5 Kazuhiko Deminami 6 Atsushi Inoue Our Value Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal 7 Hiroji Takino Audit and Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Auditing/ Cooperation Supervision Board Members Attendance at Board of Audit and Remuneration Directors Meeting Independent Name Career Summary Supervisory Advisory (Audit and Supervisory Director Committee Committee Committee Meetings) Recommendation Consultation Appointment/Dismissal Worked at Murata Europe Management GmbH (currently Murata Electronics Report Instruction/Supervision Yoshitaka Jitsumori Europe B.V.) as a Geschäftsführer before joining EIZO as an Executive Director 100% ● Remuneration Advisory Committee in May 1994. Served as Senior Executive Director and Executive Vice President Gover nance President & CEO before being appointed President & CEO (current position). President & CEO Management Committee Joined EIZO in March 1979. Served as Senior Manager of the General Affairs Report Instruction Report Yuichi Murai Report Instruction/Supervision and Human Resources Departments, Director and Operating Officer, and Director, Senior Executive 100% Executive Operating Officer before being appointed Director and Senior Instruction Operating Officers Operating Officer Executive Operating Officer in June 2016 (current position). Inspection of Internal Director Accounts Report Instruction/Supervision Accounting Auditor Internal Auditing Independent Served as the head of Accounting & Finance at Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Departments/ Group Companies External Director Tsutomu Tanabe before joining EIZO in December 1997 as Senior Executive Director. Served as (Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) Cooperation Dept. Internal Auditing 100% ● Chairperson Director, Senior Advisor Executive Vice President & CFO before being appointed Director and Senior Advisor in June 2016 (current position). ◦Board of Directors ◦Management Committee Cor por ate Over view Served as Managing Executive Officer at Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Senior Managing The Board of Directors deliberates on key management The Management Committee is mainly composed of internal Masaaki Suzuki Executive Officer at NIPPON TOCHI-TATEMONO Co., Ltd. and Managing ● External Director 100% ● ● decisions and periodically reports on the status of operational directors and operating officers and is convened to accelerate (Member of the Audit and Director at Hokuetsu Pulp Co., Ltd., before joining EIZO as External Director in (100%) Chairperson Chairperson June 2012. Appointed External Director serving as an Audit and Supervisory execution. Members engage in lively discussions for decisionstrategic decision-making, respond to important issues, and Supervisory Committee) Committee Member in June 2016 (current position). making and reinforce the supervisory function for management. deliberate or report on the status of operations and other matters. In addition to reporting on monthly consolidated Kazuhiko Deminami Joined EIZO in March 1982. Served as Senior Manager of the Accounting & ● ◦Audit and Supervisory Committee business performance, it meets in a timely manner to ensure Director Finance and General Affairs Departments, Operating Officer and Director of 100% (Member of the Audit and a group company before being appointed Director serving as an Audit and (100%) Full-time The Audit and Supervisory Committee, in accordance with its agile management. Supervisory Committee) Supervisory Committee Member in June 2016 (current position). audit policy and plans, audits and supervises the conduct of the Directors by attending the Board of Directors and other ◦Operating Officer Atsushi Inoue Served as Director, Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Counsellor External Director at Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. before being appointed External Corporate 100% important meetings, and examines corporate operations and We have appointed Operating Officers to separate ● ● ● (Member of the Audit and Auditor at EIZO. Appointed External Director serving as an Audit and (100%) assets. management supervision from operational execution and Supervisory Committee) Supervisory Committee Member in June 2016 (current position). expedite implementation. ◦Remuneration Advisory Committee Note: As of July 1, 2020, there are ten Operating Officers in addition to one Hiroji Takino Served as Managing Executive Officer of Hokuriku Bank Ltd. before being External Director 100% A Remuneration Advisory Committee (an optional committee) Director who concurrently serves as an Operating Officer. appointed External Director serving as an Audit and Supervisory Committee ● ● ● (Member of the Audit and (100%) Member in June 2018 (current position). was established as an advisory body to the Board of Directors Supervisory Committee) in order to ensure transparency and objectivity of Executive ◦Internal Auditing System Our Internal Auditing Department carries out internal audits *External Director Hiroji Takino also serves as President & CEO of Hokutate Co., Ltd., with which EIZO has no special interests. remuneration. It deliberates and makes recommendations on the system and the amounts of remuneration for Executives based on the “Basic Annual Audit Plan,” established in (excluding Directors serving as Audit and Supervisory accordance with our audit policies and reports the results to Committee Members). our President & CEO. 57 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 58 Corporate Governance Evaluation of Board of Directors Effectiveness Policy and Procedures for Director Remuneration The Board of Directors annually evaluates its entire effectiveness We will continue to address changes in society and the ◦Basic Policy executing operations and is calculated based on Consolidated in order to continuously improve key management approval business environment while optimizing our governance With regard to Director remuneration, EIZO follows its basic Operating Income. processes and operational execution supervision. system based on decisions made through active discussions. policy of designing a well-balanced system for paying Our Stor y In fiscal year 2019, we examined the following matters and remuneration within the amount approved at the General ◦Procedures confirmed that adequate effectiveness was achieved. Meeting of Shareholders by considering the following points. EIZO established its Remuneration Advisory Committee 1 Motivation for enhancing the corporate value and growth of (January 31, 2020) to ensure transparency and objectivity in • Diversity of personnel composition, knowledge and experience of each Director EIZO on a sustainable basis over the medium to long-term making decisions on the remuneration system and amount for • Frequency of meetings and time allocated for deliberation 2 Role in fulfilling our corporate social responsibility Directors. • Legislative process 3 Our management environment, business performance, and state The remuneration system, method of calculation, and • Advanced distribution of materials and information to determine of progress in the execution of operations content appropriateness amount for Directors (excluding Audit and Supervisory • Content of discussions 4 Retention of human resources with excellent management skills Our Str ateg y Committee Members) are decided by the Board of Directors • External Director understanding of corporate activities and 5 Nature and scope of our business communication with management based on deliberations with and recommendations of the Director remuneration is composed of two components: Remuneration Advisory Committee. a fixed amount and a performance-based remuneration. The Audit and Supervisory Committee holds discussions VOICE The fixed portion for each Director is determined with due on the remuneration system, method of calculation, and consideration of their duties and performance. Performanceamount for its members. “Open” Board of Directors based remuneration is paid to Directors responsible for Meetings are attended by the seven Directors as well as all Operating Officers and Presidents of group companies in Japan. EIZO’s board provides a key forum for open and lively discussions, during which ▶O  verview of Director Remuneration Our Value important management concerns are deliberated on and decisions are made in a timely manner that facilitates the agile execution of operations. Directors Directors Serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee Members (Excluding Audit and Supervisory Committee Members) Upper limit of remuneration JPY350 million p.a., including performance-based (Approved at the 49th Ordinary remuneration calculated as 2% of Consolidated Operating JPY50 million p.a. General Meeting of Shareholders, Income for each fiscal year up to JPY200 million Masaaki Suzuki June 23, 2016) External Director, Chairperson of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Decision-making body on Audit and Supervisory Gover nance Pending deliberation and recommendations by the remuneration Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee External Directors Policy and Procedures for Appointing Directors Individuals with proven ability and experience in corporate Number of eligible Directors 3 4 3 management, along with excellent character and insight, are Total amount of remuneration appointed as candidates for EIZO Directors. In addition to these (FY2019) JPY154 million JPY32 million JPY17 million qualities, each candidate for External Director must also fulfill EIZO’s “Independence Standards for External Directors” and be Fixed remuneration JPY83 million JPY32 million JPY17 million capable of auditing and supervising company management and execution of operations from diverse perspectives. Cor por ate Performance-based JPY71 million – – remuneration Note: Reasons for appointing individual Directors are disclosed within the Over view Reference Documents for the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, where they will be presented for approval. ◦Performance-Based Remuneration Notice of Convocation of General Meeting of Shareholders EIZO pays a performance-based remuneration as a short-term incentive to two Directors responsible for executing operations. The https://www.eizoglobal.com/ir/meeting/ amount is calculated as follows. Performance-based Consolidated Operating Income for Rank-based points given to each Director ▶ Independence of External Directors remuneration for each Director = the fiscal year under review × 2% × in accordance with internal regulations Name Additional Information Regarding Independence While Mr. Masaaki Suzuki has been employed by Mizuho Bank, Ltd. in the past, we do not believe it will adversely affect his independence in view of the Note that performance-based remuneration is not paid under the following conditions. Masaaki Suzuki fact that our borrowing from Mizuho Bank, Ltd. as of March 31, 2020 accounted for less than 0.5% of our total assets on a consolidated basis and does not 1. When the Consolidated Operating Income Margin is less than 2%. significantly impact our financing. 2. When the Consolidated Net Income amount is less than JPY1 billion. While Mr. Atsushi Inoue has been employed by Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd., one of our parts suppliers, we do not believe it will adversely affect his Atsushi independence in view of the fact that the volume of business transactions between Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. and EIZO Corporation for FY2019 Inoue accounted for less than 0.1% of each of the two companies’ total sales on a consolidated basis. ◦Other In addition to the above-mentioned remuneration system, internal Directors pay a certain amount from their fixed remuneration While Mr. Hiroji Takino has been employed by Hokuriku Bank, Ltd., we do not believe it will adversely affect his independence in view of the fact that our Hiroji borrowing from Hokuriku Bank, Ltd. as of March 31, 2020 accounted for less than 1.0% of our total assets on a consolidated basis and does not significantly each month to purchase EIZO Corporation stock, which they continue to own during their term in office, with the aim of providing Takino impact our financing. motivation for enhancing corporate value from a longer-term perspective. 59 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 60 Corporate Governance Cross-Shareholding Risk Management ◦Corporate Policy Going forward, we will continue to verify rationality and ◦Corporate Policy ▶R  isk Management Committee Organizational Chart EIZO will hold shares of a business partner only when beneficial appropriately manage strategically held shares. As a group pursuing global operations in the VUCA age, risks to maintaining favorable business relations, encouraging ▶ Status of Stock Ownership (as of March 31, 2020) are managed by the headquarters through an integrated, Chief Risk Management Officer (President & CEO) Our Stor y long-standing trust and enhancing corporate value over the centralized system to enhance corporate value by medium to long-term. Number Balance Sheet appropriately addressing risks that are growing in diversity, Management Committee In accordance with this policy, the Board of Directors Unlisted Stock 4 Companies JPY43 million scope, and speed. conducts an annual review to verify the rationality of Listed Stock 22 Companies JPY11,926 million Risk Management Committee ownership with respect to each company stock and decide whether we should continue to hold or sell. ◦Risk Management System Chairperson Director of General Affairs We determine the rationality of owning stock from a ◦Criteria for Exercising Voting Rights We established the “Risk Management Committee” in comprehensive standpoint and by examining qualitative We properly exercise our voting rights on strategically held accordance with the “Basic Regulations on Risk Management.” Our Str ateg y General Affairs aspects, such as the purpose of ownership and calculating the shares after closely examining the management policy, The committee discusses risks compiled and analyzed by Secretariat Dept. & Others quantitative benefits, such as transaction volume, stock price, business performance, agenda and other aspects of each each department to consider countermeasures and report on and dividends in order to verify whether they justify capital company to determine whether or not they contribute to progress. Any risk that may have a particularly severe impact on Committee All Operating Officers Presidents of Group Companies in Japan investment. increasing shareholder value over the medium to long-term. our business is identified as a material risk by the Management Committee, and appropriate countermeasures are discussed and implemented. Each Department Internal Control ◦Business Continuity Plan (BCP) ◦Information Security Our Value We have the “Basic Policy on Internal Control System”* in order *“Basic Policy on Internal Control System” is disclosed in the Corporate In proactive preparation of material incidents such as natural To ensure proper handling of confidential and personal Governance Report and other reports (Japanese only). to ensure that Directors execute their tasks in compliance disaster we have formulated and thoroughly disseminated information, we established and have implemented regulations with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, a BCP throughout the company. In particular, our Disaster on information security. In addition to organizational, physical, and ensure the appropriateness of other business operations. Response BCP stipulates procedures for confirming employee and technological countermeasures, we have set up a dedicated We manage an internal control system under the Policy. safety and facilitating necessary rescue operations in the contact point to deal with information leaks and other incidents In addition, we have built and are operating an internal immediate aftermath of a natural disaster and, within one to further reinforce our information security system. control system for financial reporting based on the Financial month, restoring critical operations and resuming the supply of Aggressive regulations to protect personal information Instruments and Exchange Act. Gover nance our products. are in effect, and we take proactive measures to adhere to Natural disasters such as typhoons, heavy rain, and them, including employee training in response to the General unexpected situations such as infectious diseases may Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (Europe) and the California COLUMN complicate material procurement. To address these risks, we Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) (United States). In Japan, we are strategically secure inventory of parts and select alternative strengthening our efforts to protect personal information and Discussion Between Group Companies parts at the design stage. have obtained JIS Q 15001 (Privacy Mark) certification. EIZO Group Companies communicate with each other regularly by functions such as development and sales. In addition, we share management strategies at an annual budget meeting, during which top managements from each company gather at the Cor por ate headquarters to engage in frank and enthusiastic discussions. At the meeting, they also present fiscal plans for their particular company and engage in discussions with top management of EIZO Corporation and other group companies on various topics from market development and COLUMN Over view product strategy to investment in human resources. In this way, we are strengthening the EIZO business worldwide as “One EIZO.” Response to COVID-19 Measures to Prevent Infections in the Workplace Impact on Business Activities We have implemented the following measures globally. We have provided a stable supply of products and services • Restrictions on business travel and visitors since mid-February 2020 throughout the spread of the pandemic. • Implemented teleworking and shift work • Maintained operations at all EIZO production sites (7 in total globally) • Thorough changes in flow lines, hygiene measures, and social As of July 31, 2020 distancing in all buildings such as warehouses, canteens, and • Realized stable material procurement despite the impact on global offices supply chains Budget Meeting Separate meetings on specific topics are also held frequently. 61 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 62 Corporate Governance Corporate Information Compliance Corporate Profile and Stock Information (as of March 31, 2020) ◦Corporate Policy ◦Compliance Training Trade Name EIZO Corporation We established the “EIZO Group Principles of Conduct”* to As a group engaged in global operations, we must pay Established March 1968 guide our business decisions and actions toward achieving the utmost attention to Japanese and overseas laws and Our Stor y our corporate philosophy of “enriching future society through regulations, which are becoming increasingly borderless and Capital JPY 4,425 million imaging solutions” as we promised stakeholders. We seek complex year by year. We monitor local trends by regularly Head Office 153 Shimokashiwano, Hakusan, Ishikawa to instill a thorough awareness of the Principles of Conduct exchanging opinions with all group companies and provide 924-8566, Japan among all our executives and employees globally. appropriate training. Phone: +81-76-275-4121 *Please refer to our website for the full text of the “EIZO Group Principles of In Japan, we encourage executives and employees to https://www.eizoglobal.com/ Conduct.” update their knowledge of relevant laws and regulations on Business Locations Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Ishikawa, Osaka, EIZO Group Principles of Conduct compliance by offering information through intranet articles in Japan Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Fukuoka and educational materials posted by the relevant departments. Our Str ateg y https://www.eizoglobal.com/company/information/conduct/ Number of Consolidated: 2,422* We organize regular study groups for each department and Employees Non-consolidated: 1,031* ◦Compliance Management System workshops for each job position, such as for executives, *Including average number of temporary staff We established the “Compliance Committee” in accordance managers, and new employees, so they can develop the with our “Regulations on Compliance” to continuously improve knowledge they need, and we provide online educational tools Business Activities Development, design, manufacture, and sales of visual display systems, amusement monitors, activities by following PDCA cycles in order to formulate to confirm their progress. ▶ Distribution of Shares by Shareholder Type and related services our annual plan, promote our activities, and assess our own We will continue to ensure that all group members are National and local governments Securities companies performance. fully aware of the necessity and importance of compliance Fiscal Term April 1–March 31 (Ordinary General Meeting of 0.5% 2.5% Shareholders : June) while also cultivating an ethical mindset. Treasury stock ▶ Compliance Committee Organizational Chart Our Value Number of Shares 65,000,000 shares 6.2% ▶ Online Education Participants (FY2019) Authorized Compliance Committee Financial institutions Foreign investors EIZO Group Companies (Japan) 1,184 Number of Shares 22,731,160 shares 34.0% Issued (including 1,410,769 shares of treasury stock) 18.1% Chairperson Chief Compliance Officer (Director of General Affairs) EIZO Group Companies (Overseas) 281 Number of 5,543 Individuals and others Secretariat General Affairs Shareholders 18.2% Other companies Dept. ◦Internal Whistle-Blowing System 20.5% Stock Listing First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange In accordance with “Regulations on Internal Whistle-Blowing,” Gover nance Members Heads of Functional Departments (Securities Code: 6737) Responsible Directors at Group Companies in Japan we have established internal whistle-blowing systems in all our group companies. Also, we strive to ensure the early detection Shareholder Registrar Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited and prevention of serious incidents that could damage Accounting Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Each Department corporate value, such as illegal activity or misconduct. Contact points have been set up inside the company and at independent law firms to provide consultation regarding laws and ethical business matters. All EIZO members are expected to report any questions or activities that are Major Shareholders Cor por ate in violation of laws immediately, regardless of their own Over view involvement. We ensure that the privacy of the whistle-blower Name Number of Shares Held Shareholding (thousand shares) Percentage* (%) is protected and that the individual will not be placed at any Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 2,102 9.86 disadvantage for reporting the violation. The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 1,784 8.37 The Hokuriku Bank, Ltd. 836 3.93 The Hokkoku Bank, Ltd. 794 3.73 Hiroshi Murata 670 3.15 Hiroaki Corporation, Ltd. 567 2.66 Hazuki Corporation, Ltd. 567 2.66 Kanto Local Finance Bureau 559 2.62 EIZO Employee Shareholding Association 438 2.06 BBH (LUX) FOR FIDELITY FUNDS-JAPAN AGGRESSIVE 437 2.05 *Treasury stock (1,410,769 shares) was excluded for the calculation of shareholding percentages. 63 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 64 Corporate Information Group Companies Financial Information Drawing on Our Stable Financial Base to Achieve Sustainable Growth by Aggressively Investing in Promising Areas Name and Location Main Business Activities Certifications Representatives We intend to improve profitability by aggressively investing in highly profitable growth areas to expand businesses in specific markets. This will in turn, lead to higher ROE. We are making necessary investments to consistently achieve our target of more than 10% in operating profit Our Stor y Overseas Manufacturing, R&D, Sales and Marketing Companies margin on a sustainable basis. In addition, we will draw on our stable financial base, which is one of our strengths to secure the necessary Development, manufacture and sales of funds for business operations and growth investment. ◦EIZO GmbH ISO 9001, ISO 13485, Peter Ziegler visual products and related products for (Rülzheim, Germany) ISO 14001 President & CEO the Healthcare market Approach to Financial Capital Allocation Development, manufacture and sales of ◦EIZO Technologies GmbH Andy Kürz visual products for the V&S market and ISO 9001, ISO 14001 (Geretsried, Germany) President & CEO control boards Financial Capital Pursue agile management and address business risks by drawing on our stable financial base, one of our strengths. Our Str ateg y Development, manufacture and sales of ◦EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. Selwyn Henriques Aggressively invest in growth areas. graphics board and other components ISO 9001 (Altamonte Springs, FL, U.S.A.) President & CEO for the V&S market Deepen existing business areas, expand business regions outside Japan and Europe, and create new markets. Capital investment: Invested JPY4 billion annually focusing on the Healthcare and ◦EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Development, manufacture and sales of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, Rujun Zhang Growth Investment V&S markets for the past two consecutive years. Continue investing in growth areas in Co., Ltd. (Suzhou, China) visual products and related products ISO 14001 President & COO fiscal year 2020. R&D investment: Development of new products, development of elemental technologies and enhancing technologies and skills. M&A investment: Implement M&A necessary for business expansion. Overseas Sales and Marketing Companies Our Value ◦EIZO Inc. Sales of visual products and related Thomas Waletzki Inventory funds: ISO 9001, ISO 13485 (Cypress, CA, U.S.A.) products President & CEO In EIZO’s highly competitive business domain, stable long-term supply constitutes a source of competitive advantage. Maintain strategic inventory to ensure a supply capacity to meet demand, particularly from the Healthcare and V&S markets. Per Hertz Business Funds Implement an integrated sales strategy based on a direct sales system in which over ◦EIZO Nordic AB Sales of visual products and related Managing Director 90% of overseas sales are covered by EIZO Group companies. Maintain local inventory (Väsby, Sweden) products & CEO to flexibly supply products to customers. This will contribute to expanding overseas business. ◦EIZO AG Sales of visual products and related Walter Briccos Gover nance (Wädenswil, Switzerland) products President & CEO Shareholder Return Aim to achieve a total return ratio of 40−50%. Colin Woodley ◦EIZO Limited Sales of visual products and related Managing Director (Ascot, U.K.) products & CEO Retained Earnings and Shareholder Returns ◦EIZO Europe GmbH Sales of visual products and related Minoru Kontani ■ Shareholder Return Policy Executive Vice President (Mönchengladbach, Germany) products & COO Our policy is to continuously pay stable dividends in accordance with the company’s growth. We return profit to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks on the basis of an overall consideration of securing retained profit for capital investments and Cor por ate R&D expenditures required for business expansion. Our target shareholder return ratio (total return ratio) is 40−50% of consolidated ◦EIZO Saudi Arabia Regional Sales Office Sales of visual products and related Sami M. Alshehri net income. Over view (Riyadh, Saudi Arabia) products Country Manager (JPY) Domestic Group Companies 120 ■ Interim dividend ■ Year-end dividend 110 100 90 ◦EIZO MS Corporation Manufacture of visual products and ISO 9001, ISO 14001, Yoshitaka Jitsumori 55 80 80 80 50 (Hakui, Ishikawa) electronic circuit boards ISO 45001, ISO 50001 President & CEO 70 70 70 45 55 40 60 40 30 55 35 40 50 50 50 50 40 30 ◦Irem Software Engineering Inc. Development and sales of amusement Masaki Ono 40 30 25 25 25 25 30 30 (Chiyoda, Tokyo) software President & CEO 25 50 55 15 20 40 40 40 45 30 30 35 7.5 25 25 25 25 25 25 7.5 10 15 0 ◦EIZO Support Network Corporation Yoshitaka Jitsumori 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 After-sales service for visual products ISO 13485 (FY) (Hakusan, Ishikawa) President & CEO Dividend Development and sales of hardware and payout ratio 11.3 9.5 14.4 17.5 20.6 41.0 229.7 22.6 31.5 67.5 66.7 21.6 38.5 35.5 30.1 26.9 49.5 50.2 ◦Carina System Co., Ltd. software, including optical equipment Mutsuo Kotoh (%) (Kobe, Hyogo) and visual recording and distribution President & CEO Shareholder systems for the Healthcare market return ratio 11.3 9.5 14.4 17.5 20.6 41.0 375.2 22.6 31.5 168.0 66.7 21.6 38.5 35.5 30.1 26.9 49.5 50.2 (%) ◦Two other companies *The shareholder return ratio reflects the share buybacks totaling JPY996 million in fiscal year 2008 and JPY1,661 million in fiscal year 2011. 65 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 66 Corporate Information Consolidated Financial Data (JPY million) (USD thousand) Fiscal Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019*3 Financial Results Our Stor y Net sales 77,525 65,204 59,559 58,270 73,641 72,576 74,878 78,284 84,057 72,944 76,480 708,154 Operating income 9,026 5,150 4,404 2,056 6,833 4,472 5,081 7,033 8,554 5,370 6,441 59,643 Profit attributable to owners of parent 4,928 3,547 1,636 1,598 5,437 3,321 4,202 5,661 7,138 4,308 4,671 43,257 Research and development expenses 4,726 5,208 5,311 5,323 5,797 6,049 5,387 5,625 5,908 5,932 5,993 55,498 CAPEX 1,019 1,236 1,510 2,115 1,383 1,414 4,814 2,512 2,163 4,125 4,346 40,249 Depreciation 1,915 1,514 1,422 1,353 1,687 2,017 2,052 2,367 2,604 2,751 2,986 27,657 Our Str ateg y Financial Status Total assets 75,369 77,432 77,032 79,367 92,931 106,519 104,792 115,160 119,497 121,423 125,284 1,160,043 Shareholders’ equity 56,484 59,210 57,678 61,431 69,201 79,293 78,011 85,280 91,521 94,924 95,979 888,700 Cash Flows Operating activities 11,046 5,100 (2,736) 2,137 4,685 1,445 6,772 10,533 4,829 5,348 8,157 75,537 Investing activities (950) (1,122) 679 (2,191) (1,208) (3,426) (3,033) (4,157) (6,567) (8,713) (3,717) (34,419) Our Value Financing activities (1,227) (1,116) (2,776) (1,067) (1,066) 923 (1,386) (1,598) (2,772) (796) (2,433) (22,531) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 8,871 2,832 (4,877) (576) 2,942 (1,057) 2,198 4,573 (4,399) (4,295) 1,842 17,063 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 18,759 21,591 16,714 16,138 19,080 18,022 20,221 24,794 20,394 16,099 17,942 166,131 Per Share Information Earnings per share (EPS) (JPY) 220.79 158.93 74.08 74.96 255.05 155.80 197.10 265.54 334.82 202.09 219.13 2.02 USD Book value per share (BPS) (JPY) 2,530.52 2,652.64 2,705.24 2,881.26 3,245.70 3,719.08 3,658.95 3,999.89 4,292.63 4,452.27 4,501.78 41.68 USD Gover nance Cash dividends per share (JPY) 50 50 50 50 55 60 70 80 90 100 110 1.01 USD Total payout ratio (%)* 1 22.6 31.5 168.0 66.7 21.6 38.5 35.5 30.1 26.9 49.5 50.2 Financial Indicators Operating margin (%) 11.6 7.9 7.4 3.5 9.3 6.2 6.8 9.0 10.2 7.4 8.4 ROE (%) 9.2 6.1 2.8 2.7 8.3 4.5 5.3 6.9 8.1 4.6 4.9 ROA (%) 12.9 6.9 5.8 4.0 9.3 4.7 5.4 6.5 8.1 4.7 5.3 EBITDA 10,575 7,787 5,119 4,247 9,702 6,723 7,753 9,474 12,113 8,465 9,442 Cor por ate Equity ratio (%) 74.9 76.5 74.9 77.4 74.5 74.4 74.4 74.1 76.6 78.2 76.6 Over view Exchange Rate (Average for Period) USD/JPY 92.90 85.75 79.08 82.92 100.17 109.76 120.16 108.34 110.85 110.93 108.70 EUR/JPY 131.19 113.15 109.04 106.78 134.22 138.69 132.60 118.74 129.66 128.45 120.81 Net Sales Information by Market*2 Business & Plus (B&P) 9,504 13,777 15,585 17,991 16,822 18,111 17,787 16,409 151,939 Healthcare 16,554 21,632 20,793 23,408 26,097 29,780 30,408 29,390 272,130 Creative Work 4,171 5,212 5,548 6,355 5,470 5,749 5,971 5,345 49,496 Vertical & Specific (V&S) 3,659 5,083 6,649 6,870 6,956 7,885 7,419 10,403 96,326 Amusement 18,074 21,966 15,127 15,279 18,408 15,233 8,583 9,607 88,961 Other 6,305 5,969 8,872 4,973 4,527 7,297 2,772 5,324 49,299 Total 58,270 73,641 72,576 74,878 78,284 84,057 72,944 76,480 708,154 *1 Total payout ratio for fiscal year 2011 includes JPY 1,661 million in share buybacks. *2 No figures on net sales by market exist prior to fiscal year 2011. Figures for fiscal year 2012 to fiscal year 2016 are net sales previously categorized by product that have been reorganized according to the current market category. *3 The translations of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan and have been made at the rate of ¥108 to $1, the approximate rate of exchange at March 31, 2020. 67 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 68 Corporate Information Performance Data Environmental Data Social Data ◦Overview of the Environmental Impact ◦Customer Relations ◦Human Resources Our Stor y ▶E  nvironmental Impact by Area ▶ I nquiries Received by the Contact Center in Japan ▶E  mployees Data (as of March 31, 2020, Not Including Temporary (from July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020) Employees) EIZO MS Corporation (Japan) EIZO Display EIZO Corporation Technologies (Suzhou) EIZO GmbH EIZO Technologies Overseas Japan Total Area Headquarters (Japan) (Germany) GmbH (Germany) Total Hakui Nanao Co., Ltd. (China) Company and stock Number of employees 542 1,720 2,262 Development Development and Development and Development and 0.1 % Other Production of Assembly of Operations and Manufacturing of Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing of Male 356 (51) 915 (81) 1,271 (132) Monitors Circuit Boards Monitors of Monitors of Monitors Monitors Support/Warranty/Recycling 1.2 % Female 186 (16) 805 (3) 991 (19) Energy usage (GJ) 57,276 31,334 7,908 1,790 7,642 2,750 108,700 5.7 % Electricity (10,000 kWh) 527.6 314.3 79.3 17.9 44.8 27.6 1,011.5 Troubleshooting Functions/ Average age 44.4 40.0 41.1 Our Str ateg y Energy Resources Operational procedures Kerosene (kl) 4.4 — — — — — 4.4 6.4 % Average length of service 12.0 13.9 13.4 LPG (t) 107.2 — — — — — 107.2 41.0 % Note: Figures in parentheses indicate numbers of management-level employees. Orders/Sales Compressed air service-related (10,000 m3) — — — — 0.7 — 0.7 10.7 % ▶N  umber of Full-Time Employment (EIZO Group Companies in Japan) District heating (10,000 kwh) — — — — 87.9 — 87.9 Consulting/ FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Copier paper (kg) 3,937 956 120 351 1,620 — 6,984 Product compatibility Product overview New graduates 34 39 43 Water usage (m3) 19,046 3,056 3,284 836 1,289 — 27,511 13.8 % 21.1 % Mid-career 37 (52.1%) 83 (68.0%) 54 (55.7%) CO2 emissions (tCO2) 2,708 1,325 357 112 293 115 4,910 Total 71 122 97 Our Value Industrial waste (t) 208.6 41.4 102.8 — 35.4 22.2 410.4 Waste General waste (t) 10.8 2.2 1.5 — 1.0 — 15.5 New hire turnover rate 2.94 2.56 2.12 (within the first year) Wastepaper (t) 265.9 67.7 168.2 — 27.5 16.6 545.9 Note: Figures in parentheses indicate mid-career employment rates. ◦Greenhouse Gas Emissions ▶G  reenhouse Gas Emissions by Scopes (FY2019) ▶C  O2 Emissions and Energy Use (Japan, China and Germany) ▶W  orking Hours and Employee Support Programs FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (EIZO Group Companies in Japan) Emissions Percentage of Category (t-CO2) Total Emissions Scope of Calculations (t-CO2) CO2 emissions Energy use (GJ) Average working hours 1,964 1,957 1,925 Scope 1 333 6.8 Consolidated 8,000 120,000 Gover nance 105,145 108,700 Percentage of paid leave taken 71 76 84 101,896 101,533 Scope 2 4,577 93.2 Consolidated 89,847 Number of employees used childcare/nursing care leave 52 50 56 Total of Scope 1 and 2 4,910 100.0 Consolidated 6,000 90,000 Number of employees used reduced working hours for 67 63 56 Scope 3 376,365 100.0 — childcare or nursing care 1. Purchased products and services 113,730 30.2 EIZO Corporation headquarters 4,000 60,000 2. Capital goods 9,865 2.6 Consolidated 5,800 6,304 6,505 5,654 4,910 3. Fuel and energy-related activities not 690 0.2 Consolidated 2,000 30,000 Independent Assurance Statement included in Scope 1 or 2 4. Upstream transportation and Shipment volume of products 530 0.1 0 0 distribution as cargo owner 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) EIZO Corporation received the Cor por ate 5. Waste generated in operations 232 0.1 Consolidated Note: Calculations of CO2 emissions associated with electricity use are independent assurance statement Over view 6. Business travel 531 0.1 EIZO Corporation headquarters based on the conversion factor of Hokuriku Electric Power Company 7. Employee commuting 782 0.2 Group companies in Japan for Japan and the calculation methods of each country. from Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. 11. Use of sold products 250,001 66.4 Consolidated on the energy usage, greenhouse gas 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products 4 0.0 Consolidated emissions by scope, and water usage for fiscal year 2019. ◦Resources Recycling ▶D  ischarge of Industrial Waste and Recycling Rate ▶ End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Home Use) ▶ End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Business Use) Collected in FY2019 Collected in FY2019 Industrial waste discharged Recycling rate (t) (%) 98.3 95.6 95.3 94.9 96.5 500 100 CRT CRT LCD Monitors LCD Monitors Monitors Monitors 400 80 Volume in weight (kg) 8,641.50 15,316.00 Volume in weight (kg) 395.04 1,281.00 300 60 Quantity (units) 350 2,188 Quantity (units) 16 183 200 338.2 435.8 416.3 439.0 410.4 40 Recycled volume (kg) 5,995.80 13,373.34 Recycled volume (kg) 265.89 1,038.47 100 20 Recycling ratio (%) 69.38 87.32 Recycling ratio (%) 67.31 81.07 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 69 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 EIZO Integrated Report 2020 70
