Recognized for Excellence. EFQM Management Document 2019 Key Information FACTS & DATA OUR ORGANIZATION SERTECPET is an Ecuadorian multinational originally founded by the Lopez Robayo brothers who, in 1990, decided to serve the hydrocarbon and energy market by creating an organization based on knowledge, innovation, and proprietary technology. That company is known today as SERTECPET S.A. Now, with more than 29 years of experience, we design customized energy solutions in Ecuador and around the world by forming long-term, win-win relationships with private, public, and mixed-economy companies. The organization employs around 1,100 people in all areas, as shown in Annex 1: Corporate Organigram, who work in Quito at Av. Eloy Alfaro N37-25 and Jose Correa, and at the company´s Operations Base located in Coca at Km 6½ via Lago Agrio. SERTECPET® is an Ecuadorian company specialized in generating Integral Energy Solutions with the latest technology for the renewable and non-renewable energy sector with the mission of generating solutions for the energy sector using cutting-edge technology. SERTECPET AROUND THE WORLD Our strategic direction, based on developing energy and industrial solutions by leveraging our ability to innovate, our proprietary and patented technology, and our robust integrated management system consisting of international certifications and standards, such as API 18 LCM (Life Cycle Management), which we are currently the world´s first and only holder of, among others, coupled with our steadfast commitment to excellence and ethics, led SERTECPET to becoming internationally recognized as one of the world´s most ethical companies in 2020 by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and promoting corporate ethics standards. Today, we have direct operations in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru, and we have begun the incorporation process to enter the US market. We currently work with more than 25 public, private and mixed-economy companies worldwide, and are present in countries located in North and South America, Africa, and the Middle East; as it´s expressed in the Annex 2 Sertecpet Global Presence. The gene of innovation was embraced in our organizational DNA from the beginning, allowing us to generate knowledge and proprietary technology, resulting in several patents, which have empowered our clients to be successful. We have become responsible global citizens, leading economic and social development in all of the locations where we have carried out operations. In this sense, we have shaped our creativity and inventiveness through our Research, Development and Innovation (IDI) Department, developing unique products, such as the Jet Claw Smart® Pump, whose versatility means it can be employed for a variety of purposes, including: well testing, production testing, water injection, acid and solvent recovery, sand formation and solvent residues, and instantaneous temperature and pressure restoration. The pump uses SYAL software, a tool developed by our engineers for simulation, petroleum engineering, and hydraulic engineering. We also have proprietary software called Jet, designed for hydraulic pumping that allows wells to be monitored in real time from anywhere in the world. Thanks to our infrastructure, capacity and experience, we have undertaken different types of complex Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Maintenance (EPCM) projects for civil, mechanical, electrical, and instrumentation and control infrastructure in the oil, energy and industrial sectors. We also provide customer support through EPCM Construction Management for civil, mechanical, and electrical infrastructure, and instrumentation and control, as well as electromechanical assembly of Industrial Plants. We have two production plants that employ latest generation technology: the Pressure Vessel and Production Facilities Construction Plant (ASME), specializing in Engineering, Design, and Production of processing equipment and pressure vessels, and the Mechanized Plant that specializes in designing and manufacturing parts, pieces and tools for the energy and industrial sector. 1 From the very beginning, we envisioned technology as fundamental to generating value for our clients. The significant investments made in Computer Numerical Control (CNC) equipment for our Mechanized Plant and ASME Plant, as well as the generous investments made in systems that allow us to integrate engineering with manufacturing, have allowed us to provide comprehensive solutions to our clients that are quick, flexible, and technologically advanced and unique in the national and international market. We see the 4th Industrial Revolution as an opportunity that allows us to not only continue developing our ability to innovate, but also as a tool to better listen to our clients and provide them with greater added value at a competitive market price. We have taken action by implementing some the macro technologies of this revolution: Cloud Computing, cybersecurity, simulation, and Big Data. Our next steps will be taken in the Internet of Things (IoT) and system integration. However, technology, while complex, requires another challenge that is no less critical: creating a digital culture in our employees. This means developing a series of competencies, such as rapid adaptability to change, thought, and virtual collaboration, creativity, interdisciplinary management, and teamwork, among others. KEY HISTORIC LANDMARKS AND ACHIEVEMENTS The organizational culture has significant influence on conducts, determination and values throughout its structure for the continuous improvement of productivity and competitiveness within the market. Successful management and performance from planning with different interrelated work teams have led SERTECPET to receiving important awards throughout its history, as shown in Annex 3: Recognitions. ORGANIZATIONAL CHALLENGES AND STRATEGIES STYLE OF MANAGEMENT The future is both challenging and promising, inasmuch as private and public business leaders assume those challenges that allow us to maintain a competitive advantage for our companies and institutions. Based on the values that our organization was founded upon: ethics, respect, commitment and excellence, over the years we have decided to incorporate a general structure of Compliance that reinforces our management style of excellence, showing our responsibility as a profitable and reputable company that generates sustainability over time, summarized in the following formula: E^2=R^2+S^2. Annex 4: Formula for Company of Excellence. The Vision is Excellence in Energy Solutions around the world; using the Strategic Map, the following priorities were defined: “The Client is First,” “Innovate to Win,” and “Corporate Excellence” (Annex 5: Strategic Map), aligning the objectives determined under the management model with the 2025 and 2040 expectation, divided into Financial perspectives, Client perspectives, Internal Processes, and Learning and Growth. These represent the basis on which corporate objectives are implemented (Annex 6: Corporate Objectives), and indicators are developed to facilitate follow-up, measurement, analysis and evaluation. QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE IN SERTECPET As shown in Annex 7: Integrated Management System (IMS), the Company has a Solid IMS that positions it well within the demanding international market. The IMS is certified under the highest quality and security standards, and is subject to annual internal and external audits as set forth in the auditing program defined in the document called “CR.GI.RD.RE.004: AUDITING PROGRAM FOR INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, under ISO 9001. Constant evolution and continuous improvement are seen in our achievements over the course of our history. The IMS of SERTECPET is certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001 standards, and cover the pillars of quality, occupational health, safety, and the environment. In terms of quality, our API Q1 certification guarantees product delivery and compliance, and API Q2 guarantees service delivery and compliance. This latter standard is based on risk management following the fatal events on the Deep-Water Offshore Platform – BP, in the Golf of Mexico. There are no more than 80 companies worldwide (no more than 3 in the Americas) that have this certification. SERTECPET is one of them. Additionally, we also have an ASME certification with “U” and “R” stamps, as well as API 14L, 5CT, 5L and 7-1 certifications, which are specific to the oil industry. Our organization is firmly committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), a philosophy that covers our 2 entire corporate strategy. For this purpose, we have the S2M certification (Sustainability, Mediation, and Measurement) that validates our alignment with the seven CSR pillars. SERTECPET® is a company in the energy sector that has a solid Integrated Management System of Quality, Occupational Health, Safety and the Environment which accredits it under the following standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001; OHSAS 18001; 18LCM, 19AC and 37001 (Anti-Bribery Management). The API Q1 and Q2 standards of the American Petroleum Institute and the ASME stamp. We follow best Corporate Social Responsibility practices – Annex 8: Management Model (Atom and Kaizen Philosophy). The organization uses a KAIZEN methodology in managing processes as a quality system focusing on continuous improvement by making progressive efforts in order to change the status quo. Internally, applying this methodology means measuring and evaluating indicators that generate value on an organizational level. Improvement proposals are made to focus on strategic planning and more frequently in terms of key process indicators. This means that, on an organizational level, the current status of the organization is understood, and improvements in times shown are promoted. Identifying failures is subject to the methodology, which has the objectives determined in Annex 9: Changes in the Kaizen Methodology. MARKETS, SERVICES OFFERED AND CLIENTS BUSINESS MODEL Gas and Oil Production With a highly skilled team of professionals and the latest technology, SERTECPET ensures quality in all of its activities, operating under the strictest international standards and norms. Our integration capacity allows us to participate in all hydrocarbon exploration and production phases: Upstream, Midstream, Downstream. Services: • Optimized Solutions. • Integrated well testing. • Early production facilities. • Jet Claw® hydraulic pumping systems. • Well Services. • Production Optimization. • Pressure and Temperature Memory Sensors. • Real Time Monitoring System. • Tubing Seal Tool. • Tool Repair. • Hydraulic Pumping Workshop. EPC / EPCM Projects We undertake projects in an orderly fashion, with a clear outlook on the schedules, budgets, resources and restrictions. We implement project management systems from all areas, which allow for effective management of all phases, reducing errors and, most importantly, achieving project goals. Services: • Integral EPC / EPCM projects and industrial plant setup. • Civil infrastructure projects. • Ducts, pipelines and flowlines. • Construction and repair of API 650 and API 653 tanks. • Conceptual, basic and detailed engineering projects, and specialized studies. Industrial Area We have two plants to manufacture downhole and surface equipment with the latest technology for the oil industry. The Pressure Vessels Construction Plant and Production Facilities (ASME), specializing in engineering, design and supply of process equipment and pressure vessels, and the CNC Machining Technology Plant, specializing in the design and manufacture of parts and tools for the energy and industrial sectors. 3 Manufacturing and Technological Design Center • Manufacturing of equipment for the oil industry. • Threading for the oil industry. • Manufacturing and technological development center. • Quality Assurance Facilities Plant • Design and construction of welded tanks for fluid processing. • Design and construction of ASME pressure vessels. • Design and construction of skids and packaged equipment. • Design and construction of metallic structures and ducts. Energy Our subsidiary: SERTECPET BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Corporation in Houston – Texas, is focused on promoting investments and providing specialized services in the Hydrocarbons and Energy sectors, in addition to technology development and fostering innovation in the energy sector in North America, the Middle East, Asia and Africa, and technological and investment partnerships in the Hydrocarbons and Energy sectors. OPERATIONS, ALLIES, AND PROVIDERS Innovation in SERTECPET We are certain that innovation is the motor of economic growth. We know that generating and implementing good ideas increase the performance of any productive activity. We did exactly that 28 years about by developing the Jet Claw® pump, which introduced significant improvements to hydraulic oil production. Since then, we have continuously invested in innovation as a long-term growth strategy. Our Research, Development and Innovation Department was created in 2014. This business unit is responsible for implementing an applied research program, and has the objective of developing new tools and value-added services for the oil industry. SERTECPET® seeks to position itself as the regional technological legal. We design, build, and test our tools to industry-required standards. We implement rapid development processes by running an optimal number of learning cycles, including: analyses, experimental tests, and computer simulations. Our development and innovation activities are not limited to the search for new products; we also work on continuously improving existing tools to perfect their performance. Tailored solutions. The permanent availability of a team of development engineers and the strategic location of our production plant allow us to undertake projects that require rapid response times. We can adjust the design of our tools to satisfy the unprecedented, functional needs requested by our clients. Alliances with the best technological centers – Memberships SERTECPET® signed a memorandum of understanding with one of the world’s most prestigious universities, the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom. Annex 10: Edinburgh University Alliance. This kind of precontractual agreement facilitates the transfer of knowledge in the proper management of non-renewable resources, the sustainable development of the energy sector, and the perfecting of clean energy projects. Additionally, the company signed a confidentiality agreement with the University of Bologna; Annex 11 Bolognia University Agreement. Currently, SERTECPET is an associate member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology – Energy Initiative (MITei), and the Baker Institute for Public Policy of Rice University. The company is also a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the Petroleum Equipment & Services Association (PESA). 4 In 2019, SERTECPET® joined the Business Ethics Leadership Alliance BELA, which brings together worldwide business leaders in promoting best ethical and compliance practices, and helps to improve business performance through evaluations, best practices, and guidelines that foster transparency and a culture of ethics. We have multiple cooperation agreements with local universities. Our professionals are continuously present at university events that promote the transfer of knowledge. Our internship program has received local and international undergraduate and postgraduate students, and hundreds of young professionals have received training and have been certified in using our oil well production simulation software. Our R&D team has been certified by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in managing, designing and controlling modern manufacturing processes. MIT is renowned as a leader in mechanical engineering development and training. Annex 12: Strategic Alliances. Rapid development and continuous improvement We design, build and test our tools to industry-required standards. We implement rapid development processes by running an optimal number of learning cycles, including: analyses, experimental tests, and computer simulations. Our development and innovation activities are not limited to the search for new products; we also work on continuously improving existing tools to perfect their performance, such as: failure analysis, quality sessions, SQM with the client, stand down, internal audits; Annex 13: Continuous Improvement Activities. Tailored solutions The permanent availability of a team of development engineers and the strategic location of our production plant allow us to undertake projects that require rapid response times. We can adjust the design of our tools to satisfy the unprecedented, functional needs requested by our clients. Annex 14 Machining Plant. The knowledge and experience of our team of professionals regarding well characteristics and behaviors allow us to evaluate and propose better alternatives in terms of equipment and tools used in Well Production and Evaluation services, and Early Production Facilities. Annex 15 Portfolio of Products and Services Alliances with world-class technological centers We enter into alliances to undertake research projects with some of the world’s top universities. Working together with Edinburgh Innovations has boosted our technological innovation ability through the consulting done by University of Edinburgh researchers. Our R&D team has been certified by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in managing, designing and controlling modern manufacturing processes. MIT is renowned as a leader in mechanical engineering development and training. We have multiple cooperation agreements with local universities. Our professionals are continuously present at university events that promote the transfer of knowledge. Our internship program has received local and international undergraduate and postgraduate students, and hundreds of young professionals have received training and have been certified in using our oil well production simulation software. Annex 16: Alliances and Agreements with Academia. MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES The organization maintains the following organizational values at the core of its management: 1. EXCELLENCE: We are moved by passion, and we continually challenge and exceed the expectations of our clients, always striving to exceed targets and improve outcomes, with complete professionalism, determination and timeliness. 2. ETHICS: We act with morality, integrity and honesty, seeking to satisfy the legitimate interests of the company. We maintain a true and fair attitude, and adhere to morals and the law. We always act truthfully, and are reliable, 5 honest, consistent and respectful of the rights of society and the environment. We fight against corruption at all levels. 3. COMMITMENT: Our actions fully comply with the principles and policies of the company. We assume our duties with conviction and adherence to the strategic objectives and the consequences of our actions, words and commitments. We contribute to society by generating added value from the industry and turn innovation into an organizational competence, seeking to substantially improve industry performance. Our efficiency and organizational effectiveness are the result of our commitment to order and cleanliness. 4. RESPECT: We follow the rules and policies of environmental, professional and corporate coexistence inside and outside the Organization. We understand, listen to, and appreciate other parties, without violating their rights. Having an Integrated Management System (IMS) allows Upper Management to provide organizational efficacy and efficiency by establishing indicators and goals that lead to the organization reaching the objectives set. The challenge of Upper Management for 2020 is to focus efforts of all personnel and, through the Corporate Management Department, implement the EFQM Model as a complementary and permanent Management tool. Additionally, we adopted a process-based focus as a basic principle for efficiently obtaining results that satisfy all of our groups of interest. 6 CRITERIA 1 LEADERSHIP CRITERIA 1: LEADERSHIP – INTRODUCTION Since being founded in 1990, SERTECPET has had remarkable achievements thanks to an administration based on a Core Policy issued by a committee consisting of the CEO, the General Manager and employee representatives in 2001. To date, the Core Policy is in Review No. 13, and contains values and a quality-centered culture focused on excellence in providing products and services. The participative leadership style and the commitment of Upper Management have allowed the company to create and develop strategies focused on fulfilling its mission and vision. Defining the company’s strategy has evolved significantly. The first Strategic Planning meeting was held in December 2007, and was attended by Tecnologico de Monterrey. In that session, which included the participation of key personnel and process leaders, the corporate mission, vision and values were established. In February of 2010, a second meeting for Strategic Planning 2010-2015 was held, attended by Corporacion Ekos of Ecuador, with the following scope: Review of the Organizational Philosophy (Mission, Vision, Values), SWOT validation, Blue Ocean Strategy Analysis, and Definition of Business Lines. In 2014 the current organizational philosophy was established. The corporate leadership defined and structured a strategic map that summarizes the company’s initiatives in points of view to reach their objective for 2025 and develop projections toward 2040. From its strategic direction, SERTECPET established a Code of Ethics prepared by Corporate Governance, in effect since 2012, as well as an Anti-Bribery policy as part of transparency in management. These documents detail the principles that the organization and each employee must apply in their daily activities. Leaders create an environment of empowerment, innovation, and efficiency through Quality Committees where decisions are made and applied within their areas of influence. On a weekly basis, the managers and area leaders have meetings where topics of interest for the organization are presented, registered, and monitored through Office 365. The organization uses different methodologies to evaluate management performance and results by defining key indicators based on the Strategic Map and measuring results-based compliance. These indicators provide feedback to the organization, and are monitored monthly in Executive Committee meetings. Through the Commercial Management Process, we seek to establish, maintain and improve our relationships with our clients. Part of this process is the implementation of SQM (Square Quality Meeting). With regard to provider relationships, the organization has a selection, evaluation and re-evaluation process to ensure efficacy and efficiency in procurement, quality and fulfilment of delivery times, which is critical. Meetings are held every six months to present performance results and identify areas of improvement. Organizational changes are managed at all levels of the organization through the Management of Change process (MOC). This tool ensures that every change is properly managed, coordinated and monitored from the moment it is recorded in Document No. CR.GI.RD.RE.026 Management of Change (MOC) Record. Description Evidence Connected Results 1a1. The leaders develop and establish the Mission, Vision, and Values of the Organization Owner: General Management The mission, vision, values and strategy of the organization were set by the General Management, and are implemented and shared via the Strategic Map, which is reviewed and analyzed annually by the Strategic Group. Sharing this information is done during the quality sessions, personnel inductions, and through the ISOTOOLS document management platform. It is also uploaded onto the Annex 4 7a1 company’s website, and is found on identification cards and signs SERTECP Knowledge of in the company’s buildings. In the last revision, the mission, vision ET the MVV by and values were modified to make them easier to understand, and Strategic the personnel were then sent to our offices in Mexico, Colombia and Peru. It has Map been recognized as a model of excellence in management, and the company received the 2017 Ibero-American Award for Quality and Excellence in Management. Annual evaluation results are used to determine priorities, make improvements, and innovate. 13 CRITERIA 1: LEADERSHIP – FACILITATING AGENTS Description Evidence Connected Results 1a.2 The leaders define and distribute the Code of Ethics and Conduct in the organization Owner: Corporate Governance We have a Code of Ethics in effect since 2012 that was prepared by Corporate Governance. It was updated on June 4, 2019, and is currently being adopted by all offices. A document was prepared and distributed among all employees. It is shared by the Corporate Auditing and Compliance area. There is also a policy on mitigating 7b1 Code of risks of bribery and corruption between employees, business Annex 16 partners and/or stakeholders, established in Document No. Ethics Code of SG.GN.GG.PO.01 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, updated Distribution on December 16, 2019. Internal and external auditing has been Ethics percentage done to evaluate system efficacy and implementation, leading to opportunities for improvement and, in turn, claims and feedback received through official channels to create action plans that reinforce the system. 1a.3 Leadership and commitment from management to abide by the Anti-Bribery Management System Owner: Corporate Auditing and Compliance The Management Team expresses and demonstrates its 8a1 People’s leadership and support regarding the Anti-Bribery and Annex 17 perception of Anti-Corruption Management System by promoting an anti-bribery ISO and anti-corruption culture in and outside of the organization, in line the 37001:2016 with ISO 37001:2016 Anti-Bribery Management System. Compliance Certification SERTECPET®, as the first company in Ecuador and one of the System pioneers in Latin America in being ISO 37001:2016 certified, has a mature Compliance program, which is the company’s cover letter for stakeholders in Ecuador and around the world. For each process there is a bribery risks matrix that is shared with management teams, and continuously monitored and evaluated. From 2014 to 2019, reporting was done annually according to the four pillars of the United Nations Global Compact. Areas of improvement have been determined by the Anti-Bribery Committee. This model was evaluated and recognized internationally by Ethisphere in 2020. 1a.4 Evaluation of Leadership Owner: Human Resources Annex 18 7a2 Personal Leadership perception of The evaluation of leadership is done using a 360° evaluation by leadership peers, and by senior managers evaluating other managers. evaluation evaluation Evaluating the leadership is done annually, and is both confidential survey 7b2 Personal and anonymous. This evaluation has improved by moving from a participation in 180° to a 360° evaluation, which has given very good results. The leadership company was named as a Great Place To Work in 2016. evaluation 12 Description Evidence Connected Results 1b1. Indicator Management System Owner: Corporate Management An Integrated Management System (IMS) has been implemented with the Senior Management, the General Management, and the support of all employees in line with the Strategic Map of the company. All IMS indicators measure the efficacy and efficiency of each area using the methodology known as the Balanced Scorecard. Strategic objectives are evaluated quarterly, and the general manager meets with the general board of shareholders to Annex 4 9a1 Key report on the results and the implementation of the strategic plan. Strategic Process The management system has 140 indicators spread across the Map Indicator different areas. The last revision and update of the IMS was done (Dashboard) in December of 2019. The results have allowed the company to take action on opportunities, eliminate or mitigate risks, streamline processes by analyzing information using tools such as Power BI, SharePoint, and Predator, and replicating the results in the other offices. Results of the primary indicators are compared to the standards of the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. 1c.1 Client Relationships Owner: Corporate Management The Corporate Management area, in its effort to better integrate the organization and its clients, has built a relationship through quality meetings (SQM) to provide technical operational information held 6a1 External quarterly, and second-party audits carried out according to client planning done for each one of our clients (every quarter or every six satisfaction months) that help identify opportunities of improvement and define Annex 19 indicator actions plans to increase productivity for both parties. Satisfaction SQM 6b1 Hours of levels are measured monthly in the Operations business lines, and Presentation operation with quarterly in Projects. The results allow the company to identify and MTU implement opportunities of improvement to keep our clients satisfied. 1c.2 Provider Relationships Owner: Supply Chain and Logistics The Supply Chain and Logistics area keeps a strong relationship 9a2 Providers’ with its providers to maintain trust and security for the business. This is done through provider management that involves perception of qualification, compliance audits, SQMs on management Annex 20 the guidelines, and process compliance through performance SGS Organization indicators. Provider performance is evaluated using indicators, and Certifications results are presented in biannual meetings held with critical 9b1 Delivery providers where improvements in quality, safety, environmental Time indicator management, practices and Anti-bribery compliance are analyzed and proposed. 1c.3 Leaders encourage and work with groups in need Owner: Human Resource Management The organization promotes the wellbeing of all of the communities 9a1 Key that could be directly and indirectly affected by its operations, and Annex 4 Process therefore implements participation and consultation processes that Strategic Indicator involve all of the people who live in the surrounding areas to identify Map (Dashboard) their needs and our capacity to satisfy them, and provide job opportunities and support environmental development. 11 Description Evidence Connected Results 1c.4 Transparency in Management Owner: Finance and Administration Management A structure that describes the organization as transparent in terms of information and data generated, which is shared with its groups 8a3 Level of of interest, has been maintained. This is done by submitting reports Confidence of on financial results to different public entities. The company has an Companies open-door communication policy. By having bonds issued by the Annex 22 Quito Stock Exchange in 2016, our financial information is fully 9a3 Debt transparent and available to anyone who requires it. Measuring is Anticorruption indicator done using international indicators, and results are evaluated Policy 9a4 Indicator through external financial audits, client audits (second-party of capital audits), and internal accountability processes, which are used by structure the Financial Committee to take timely actions necessary to meet the objectives set. 1d.1 How leaders push people toward excellence Owner: Strategic Management For the organization, inclusion and capacity-building of our employees to help them follow the strategy is very important. We form leaders through monthly management alignment workshops Annex 23 and coaching to ensure professional objectives are reached, thus Management meeting the objectives set at a company level. Within these and 7a3 Indicator programs, the company seeks to include middle and upper Coaching of coaching management who represent the core of the organization, and on satisfaction average there is one leader for every 7.4 people in the Alignment organization. The results allowed for an action plan focusing on Program reinforcing the leadership of management and fulfilling the strategy implemented by the organization to be prepared. 1d.2 Leaders encourage innovation in others Owner: R+D+i Within the energy industry, the organization acts by encouraging the creation and participation of those who generate added value for the products and services that we provide. Therefore, the R+D+I 6a2 Client Management holds monthly meetings with the different business Annex 24 Satisfaction areas to focus their activities on initiatives that translate into with Patents innovations that allow us to offer attractive proposals of value to our Patents clients, and to develop patents for new businesses and new belonging to alternatives to remain competitive. Measuring is done through the 6b2 Indicator client satisfaction surveys that used patented products whose Organization of Patents results contributed to understanding and learning about our clients’ belonging to needs and expectations; and make improvements to future the products. Organization 1e.1 Leaders make the organization flexible and foster change Owner: Corporate Management The organization remains flexible to manage change, but is also based on processes and procedures that support the grounds for change; therefore, organizational changes are managed at all 7a4 levels of the organization through an MOC process that has been circulated and applied with the support of the Corporate Annex 25 Employee’s Management area. Managing change is a continuous process MOC Process perception of adopted by the organization as part of its statutory compliance with (Table 15 PIC) management its Integrated Management System, which has been evaluated of change through external audits by our international certification organizations: Lloyd´s Register (LRQA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API), the results of which have reinforced it. 10 CRITERIA 2 STRATEGY CRITERIA 2: STRATEGY – INTRODUCTION SBased on the Strategic Map, the organization defines its objectives, indicators, and Corporate goals that are used by each one of the areas to structure their respective POAs. This is done using Document No. EC.GC.GE.IN.01 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING AND EVALUATING ANNUAL OPERATING PLANS (POAs). The POAs are presented at the beginning of the year. Compliance is reviewed and monitored monthly using Management Indicators in ISOTools. “The client is first” is one of our strategic pillars that reflects our constant concern for identifying and attending to the needs of our clients. Permanent contact through visits allows us to detect potential business opportunities that are registered and monitored through an app in the AX system; confidence in our services and satisfaction levels are measured through surveys. The performance of all processes is monitored, measured, and evaluated through key indicators that are reported periodically through ISOTools. The mission, vision, and strategy of the organization are implemented and reported on using the Strategic Map, which is revised and analyzed annually by the Strategic Group. Sharing it is done in quality sessions, personnel inductions, Stand Downs and through the Document Manager app in ISOTools. Operational excellence, the organization’s safety standards, its ability to tailor solutions to each client by leveraging our inventiveness, our technology, and our corporate strength are the primary competitive advantages of our organization. Our strategic direction, as well as our Integrated Management System have transformed our search for excellence into the organization’s core philosophy. This has led to a team that constantly, at all levels, has the vocation of improving on all activities performed. Our certifications oblige us to constantly perfect our processes and procedures. Description Evidence Connected Results 2a.1 Market Studies Owner: Commercial Management Through the Commercial Management Process, market research is done annually to define the segments that the organization is going to focus on. Three strategic lines where the energy of the organization will be focused have been defined: “The Client is first”, “Innovate to Annex 26 6a3 Client Win,” and “Excellent SERTECPET.” Commercial Management STP perception of prepares annual and multiyear action plans to implement each Commercial the strategy to determine the level of implementation reached in the proposed areas. One of the strategies seeks to follow up on, measure Strategy organization and analyze commercial management through perception indicators and a CRM-AX tool, where business opportunities for current and 6b3 Market potential products and services are recorded and monitored. Share 2a.2 Client surveys to detect needs and expectations Owner: Commercial Management On a management level, developments are monitored biannually to Annex 27 6a4 anticipate competitive situations, market situations, regulatory Survey of Percentage of developments and others that could impact the competitive position of needs and needs and the company, to make strategic decisions that lead to an action plan. expectations expectations They are client-facing for each business line, given that interest varies fulfilled from one to another. Sertecpet S.A. identifies and evaluates the influence and impact of stakeholders, and their needs and 6b4 expectations are identified and converted into requirements for the Percentage of integrated management system. The results contribute to either responses mitigating risks or taking advantage of opportunities that impact our from clients company. 9 CRITERIA 2: STRATEGY – FACILITATING AGENTS Description Evidence Connected Results 2b.1 Use of Indicator Management System to make decisions on an area level and at a Senior Management level Owner: Strategic Management Results are measured based on a system of indicators that has previously been set up by the different areas in the organization. The organization uses Annex 4 7a1 the Balanced Scorecard methodology to document its key indicators based on the Strategic Map and measuring results. These indicators provide Strategic Map Knowledge of feedback to the organization and are monitored monthly in Executive SERTECPET personnel of Committee meetings. Likewise, every six months the organization reviews the MVV market share data and income share information published by companies operating in the sector in the Superintendence of Companies and in 6b5 BSC corporate magazines, such as Ekos and Vistazo, and makes comparisons with their financial results. Follow up and measuring is done using key Results process indicators that are previously reviewed by management and monitored through the ISOTools platform. Results are periodically evaluated in shareholders meetings. 2c.1 Design of Strategic Plan Owner: Strategic Management 7a1 The current strategy of the organization is detailed in the Strategic Map Knowledge of that is reviewed annually with the participation of middle and upper Annex 4 personnel of management prior to implementation. It represents the starting point for SERTECPE the MVV aligning objectives, operational plans and key process indicators. Results T Strategic are presented in a BSC (Balanced Scorecard) table, based on which Map 6b5 BSC each unit takes actions to meet their objectives. Results 2d.1 Implementation of Strategic Plan through Annual Operations Owner: Strategic Management Planning appears from the beginning, and once it has been defined a series of activities are undertaken to ensure compliance with the corporate strategy. To do this, the organization defines corporate Annex 28 9b2 Indicator objectives, indicators and goals that are used by each one of the areas to Annual showing structure their respective POAs. This is done using Document No. Operations Annual EC.GC.GE.IN.01 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING AND Plan Operating EVALUATING ANNUAL OPERATING PLANS (POAs). POAs are Plan presented at the beginning of the year by each one of the areas. Compliance Compliance is reviewed and monitored monthly using the “Indicator Management” app in ISOTOOLS in our management system. Results are then summarized in a BSC (Balanced Scorecard) table that is reviewed by the Executive Committee and based on which actions are taken to ensure compliance. 2d.2 Implementation of Strategic Plan through Stand Downs and Posters Owner: Corporate Management The company has sought to include all employees in fulfilling the strategy and the objectives set. To do so, quarterly presentations are given or Stand Downs held to discuss our organizational philosophy and the Annex 29 results of the period where the opportunity is given to participate by using 7a5 Photos of stand up software to present proposals, raise questions, and promote Perception of Stand Down actions to improve working conditions, physical safety, communication, Stand Down and Posters direct dialogue with Senior Management to ensure compliance, with the purpose of incorporating new ideas into the current annual operating plan. 8 Description Evidence Connected Results 2d.3 Implementation of Strategic Plan through Annex 30 9b2 Indicator Workshops Owner: Corporate Management Corporate showing Our company has an organizational structure with defined roles Organigram Annual and functions for each area that align with our philosophy and Operating strategic objectives. Our initiatives are detailed in the Annual Plan Operating Plan, which is implemented, analyzed and evaluated through workshops with the leaders of each process to validate Compliance performance and take action when deviations are identified. Results are reported monthly using indicators that summarize work done and feed into the review of results of Balanced Scorecard objectives. 14 CRITERIA 3 PEOPLE CRITERIA 3: PEOPLE – INTRODUCTION Employees are the company’s primary ally in undertaking its activities and ensuring compliance with objectives and goals, which is why processes have been defined and implemented for the selection, hiring, training, development, payroll management, and the disciplinary system specifically oriented toward Human Resource management that is complemented with organic structural processes, organizational culture, and working environments, thus providing comprehensive management. The Internal Work Regulation approved on September 5, 2018, establishes guidelines that regulate work processes, complemented by employees’ work contracts. All Human Resource management is done under the current law. Payment salaries and corporate benefits to our employees on time is one of the company’s most important commitments, and the satisfactory results of audits performed by entities of control are evidence of it. We are committed to the fight against child labor and discrimination of any kind, which is why the Labor Responsibility Policy was created. Due to these efforts, we were given a 2019 Good Business Practices award that ratifies the value we put on the service of our people and their wellbeing. Based on our commitment to improve the working environment, annual evaluations are done of the environment and performance evaluations, which are used to develop action plans. Training is another critical element that begins with identifying needs, consolidating them, reviewing them, and then approving the annual training plan that prioritizes training regarding legal and statutory compliance, and client satisfaction. Management assigns resources through a general budget. The company has a training school that including 14 days of training for those who are brought into the Well Testing and Early Production Facilities business lines (oil for people without an oil background, basic hydraulics, hydraulic pumping, bottom-hole and surface components, general aspects and specifications of MTU, early production facility components and operation, characterization of fluids through lab analyses), petroleum engineers, completion tools, well productivity, nodal analysis, Syal and Claw software, setup of temperature sensors to interpret pressure and well characterization tests, workplace risk prevention certification. From 2015 to 2019, 60,714 hours of training were given. In order to increase the scope of our training and knowledge development in our people, we have implemented an E-learning Platform (Annex: E-learning Platform) in which each employee accesses a virtual campus to complete courses assigned based on their needs. Each individual can see their progress, and many courses have evaluations. All of this is done to manage our human resources through good digital practices that benefit employees and the organization through improving its management and making it more efficient. Communication to and from employees is constant through different channels such as meetings, shift handovers, stand downs, quality sessions, claims and transparency box, posters, emails, online groups and group chats. Description Evidence Connected Results 3a.1 Management of people through the Human Resources Department (Selection, hiring, onboarding, profiles, induction, career planning) Annex 31 7a6 Career Owner: Human Resources Management Selection Plan We have a Career and Succession Plan in the organization that Process Satisfaction allows us to identify high potentials to cover key positions based on established career paths that are designed to assist in the professional development of our employees and boost the Annex 32 7b3 development of our human resources. This program includes the Administrative possibility of international transfers to countries where we have Succession Head Count permanent operations (Mexico, Peru, Colombia), which gives our Programs employees the opportunity to get to know new cultures and acquire more experience. Evaluation results reflect a satisfactory level with 7b4 Voluntary the career plan, and low rotation due to personnel resigning from Rotation their positions is the result of actions taken to retain the best employees. Complementarily, the relationship between administrative employees and operational employees is monitored to ensure that selection and hiring processes are effective, and to take timely actions if deviations are detected. 15 CRITERIA 2: STRATEGY – FACILITATING AGENTS Description Evidence Connected Results 3a.2 Personnel surveys to identify needs and expectations 7a8 On an annual basis, SERTECPET works to evaluate the working Satisfaction environment throughout the organization. This is a process that with evaluates 5 aspects: Company, Equality and Recognition, Annex 34 Performance Interpersonal Relationships, Leadership and Communication. Working Evaluation The results obtained from the evaluation are used to create action plans for each area with the objective of permanently improving the environment evaluation 7b6 working environment of the organization, and for SERTECPET to Performance be the best place to work. Evaluation 3b.1 Performance evaluation Owner: Human Resources Management Annex 31 7a8 We use a system for the competency development evaluation Selection Satisfaction process of all employees. In this process, meetings are held to share the results of the evaluations made by managers of their Process with subordinates in order to inform them of the perception regarding Performance their performance, the degree of compliance with expected Annex 32 Evaluation individual objectives, their performance in response to the interests of the organization, and to identify opportunities for improvement Succession 7b6 that are included in an Individual Development Plan (IDP) that is monitored until it is complete. Programs Performance Evaluation 3b.2 Training Owner: Human Resources Management We provide different internal and external training programs. We have a virtual training platform (E-Learning), which has training programs that help to close gaps in knowledge and develop abilities, which in turn will provide opportunities for growth within Annex 35 7a9 the organization. Satisfaction Training needs are determined annually based on performance Training with Training evaluations (competencies, results, and technical knowledge), the Planning level of employability of the employees, and statutory aspects 7b7 Training suggested by the Integral Management System or to mitigate work Hours risks, and priority is placed on training programs by the heads of the different areas. Evaluation focuses on fulfilling the Training Plan, the level of satisfaction of the participant in terms of the training received and the hours of training given. This information is then used to take timely actions for improvement. 3c.1 Alignment of personnel with the organization (IMS Control and Assurance Sessions, Quality Circles). Owner: Corporate ManagementIMS Control and Assurance Sessions. – These sessions are focused on the amount of Growth and Learning of the BSC of the area, which allows us to fulfill objectives set. Quality Circles. – The purpose of this activity is to generate awareness about the concepts of quality and productivity among the members of an organization, emphasizing the importance of teamwork and the benefits resulting 7a10 from exchanging experiences and knowledge, which comes from Satisfaction studying and solving problems that affect performance and the quality with Quality of a service. To do this, there is a procedure to be followed: Annex 36 Sessions EC.GC.WT.PR.002. By implementing Quality Circles in the Field, the Quality company seeks to mitigate or eliminate operational failures and Circle and improve the service provided to our Clients. Quality Circles are part of Session 7b8 a process of continuous improvement and quality reinforcement. The Planning Participation purpose of evaluations is to identify the level of acceptance and how in quality involved the employees are in implementing these methodologies sessions designed to identify common causes and propose solutions to problems arising during operations 16 Description Evidence Connected Results 3d.1 Internal channels of communication toward personnel Annex 37 7a11 (Transparency Box) Owner: Corporate Auditing and Compliance Satisfaction We have a channel for receiving external complaints managed by a Information with channels of third-part company so that employees and/or stakeholders can on communication report acts of bribery, corruption and/or fraud or any other Transparen irregularity through the webpage www.resguarda.com/sertecpet, cy Box 7b9 Handling of using the email address transparencia.sertecpet@resguarda.com, complaints or calling 1800-000-031 from 8:00 to 22:00. This system received guarantees that complaints can be filed anonymously and confidentially, and ensures that information is handled with integrity and securely. Additionally, we have an internal transparency box on our website http://www.sertecpet.net/buzontransparencia or using the following email addresses: compliance@sertecpet.com ,transparencia@sertecpet.net. Information is handled confidentially from the area of Corporate Auditing and Compliance, which has the primary responsibility of analyzing the complaints received. The facility of reporting them, as well as the actions taken to resolve them are monitored through indicators. This process has resulted in improvements being made. 3e.1 Personnel Compensation Plans Owner: Human Resources Management We have a commitment system that allows us to provide a family-centered working environment because to us, each employee is a member of the SERTECPET family; and with that we seek to improve productivity and have a positive impact on the workplace to truly be able to consider ourselves a great place to work. The COMPENSATIONS POLICY EC.GI.TH.PO.01 establishes mechanisms for recognizing 7a12 personnel, such as bonuses and rewards that are given to each Annex 38 Satisfaction employee for meeting organizational goals, seeking to establish with greater external competitiveness and internal equality as well as a Compensati on Policy compensation system that recognizes individual and collective efforts made to reach organizational objectives. In its remuneration policy, SERTECPET maintains bonus payments as variable remuneration, which are made as compensation for work done on time, as well as for following quality, safety and environmental care policies. The acceptance of this good practice is measured using a satisfaction indicator that contributes to identifying opportunities for continuous improvement. 3e.2 Internal Education for Personnel Owner: Human Resources Management To guarantee the proper workplace induction, the Operations School was created in 2015, the purpose of which is to form, train, 7b10 and add to the knowledge of the personnel working in Operations. Percentage of Its programs are based on the schedule of events found in the Annex 39 Personnel Annual Training Plan (ATP). School instructors have been selected Operations Trained at from among the company’s experienced technical personnel, School Operations offering them training and education not only in technical areas, but School also in academic methodologies to benefit employees. Evaluation focuses on the number of employees trained in relation to the number of training programs given. 17 CRITERIA 4 ALLIANCE AND RESOURCES CRITERIA 4: ALLIANCE AND RESOURCES – INTRODUCTION In Sertecpet S.A. we seek to optimize how we use resources and strategically manage our external alliances to ensure that our processes work effectively and efficiently, leading to positive impacts on society and on the environment. Part of the responsibilities of the R+D+I area (Research, Development & Innovation) and Supply Chain & Logistics is to ensure that there is a positive relationship and open channels of communication with strategic providers that provide quality raw materials used to manufacture products of excellence to meet the needs and expectations of our clients. Through positive collaboration between the different business lines and the financial area, we expect not only an improvement in financial indicators, but also the ability to maximize the useful life of assets and appropriately manage the organization’s sources of financing, thus contributing to maintaining sustainability over time with an excellent reputation in the financial community. To ensure that our assets are traceable, we use technological tools such as: “Dynamics AX,” which allows us to record all relevant equipment information, and “SISMAC” for preventive and corrective maintenance. Technological innovation gives us the opportunity to develop our engineering through design and simulation software, ensuring that our products and services meet the highest quality standards. The digital strategy of SERTECPET has a wide scope, but starting with the implementation of a SDWAN network used to administrate the network and manage network traffic easier in real time from a centralized location. We created a “highway” based on a robust and intelligent network that allows us to not only manage IT resources and infrastructure, but to optimize them; with the network, we don’t only maximize use of redundant links, but communication was boosted and new, unified services and apps were created. Aligned with Environmental Management, and moving toward cleaner production with a focus on reducing the use of resources, specifically fuel and technological innovation, we received the Punto Verde certification from the Ministry of the Environment, thus showing our commitment to the environment. Description Evidence Connected Results 4a.1 Provider and alliance management Owner: R+D+I R+D+I processes require strategic alliances that provide new knowledge, technologies, practices and inputs to improve and develop new products and services of excellence to the local and Annex 40 international market. We maintain very close relationships with 6a2 Level of multiple Universities and Institute that we exchange specific Client technical requirements with that are tailored to the needs of our University clients, or to improve products and services. Measuring the Alliances: Satisfaction satisfaction of our clients with our patents gives us insight into Edinburgh and with Patents whether or not we are on the right track in implementing our MIT processes, and if our alliances are truly contributing to our work. 18 CRITERIA 4: ALLIANCES AND RESOURCES – FACILITATING AGENTS Description Evidence Connected Results 4a2. Mutually beneficial negotiations for the organization Owner: Supply Chain & Logistics Our Supply Chain & Logistics department is in constant Annex 41 9a2 Provider communication with our providers to negotiate beneficial conditions Perception of for both parties. In this sense, we have agreed to preferential pries to reduce our Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and priority delivery Total Cost the times for products or services acquired in exchange for attractive Ownership Organization procurement volumes. Measuring respect for our provider Methodology relationships is done using an indicator of the perception of the 9b1 Delivery organization, while performance is evaluated based on delivery Time Indicator times, which provide information that helps us make improvements to strengthen our relationships. n 4a3. Provider evaluation and qualification process Owner: Supply Chain & Logistics To efficiently follow internal and external processes of the organization, the Supply Chain & Logistics department has a PROCEDURE FOR PROCUREMENT OF LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL GOODS AND SERVICES, Annex 42 9a2 Provider CODE EC.GI.CO.PR.01, designed according to ISO 9001:2015, Provider Perception of which details how the process is managed. We also have a Qualification the PROCEDURE FOR QUALIFYING, EVALUATING AND Organization RE-EVALUATING PROVIDERS, CODE GC.CO.PR.02 under principles of ethics and equality. The evaluation (provider 9b3 Providers qualification) is done by an external company, and the results of Qualified by progress and fulfilling the criteria set by Sertecpet are presented SGS periodically in reports. To complement this, the perception that our providers have of our company is also evaluated and then reviewed by the Supply Chain & Logistics area to make any decisions necessary. 4b.1 Economic Financial Plan (asset management, installed capacity, cashflow) Owner: Finance & Administration Management SERTECPET has the philosophy of constantly optimizing our resource management to increase efficiency and ensure that financial indicators, compared to previous years, continuously improve. Generating value for the company is done through constant interaction between operational business lines and the Annex 43 9a5 Annual financial area, and the company seeks to implement the best Income possible strategies and launch the best possible initiatives to generate and protect cashflow, maximize use of assets (fixed and Asset current), thus ensuring the sustainability of the company. This is Management 9b4 Annual done by applying the respective Accounting and Financial policies, Process Asset Provider Credit Policies, Financing Policies, and any new Valuation procedures such as procurement committees, treasury committees, new project evaluation committees, and the investment committee. Financial management is evaluated through key process indicators reported monthly and reviewing in Executive Committee meetings and/or Monthly Kaizen Meetings, in which actions are taken in case of deviations. 24 Description Evidence Connected Results 4b.2 Financial Management Planning Owner: Finance & Administration Management 9a3 Borrowing The financial planning done by SERTECPET consists of optimizing capacity cash flow or minimum cash required for the working capital needed indicator for operations. To do this, annual, quarterly and weekly cash flow projections are prepared to guarantee that cash flow requirements 9a6 Current are met for at least the following quarter, particularly faced with liquidity Annex 44 recent market behavior in which collecting on outstanding invoices has been more complicated than normal. Likewise, the Cashflow 9a7 Annual management team constantly sets challenging objectives for Process net profit financial liquidity indicators that are reviewed in Executive Committee meetings and/or Monthly Kaizen Meetings, in which 9b5 Average actions are taken in case of deviations. Additionally, profit and loss time to projections are prepared every six months so that actions can be collection taken based on the results. 4b.3 Management of Sources of Financing Owner: Finance & Administration Management The proper management of the organization’s sources of financing means that shortand long-term financing relationships have been handled adequately. This has allowed us to have an appropriate Annex 45 financing structure that is focused on satisfying our needs for 9a8 Credit resources for the operation, and to guarantee financial rating sustainability, maintaining optimal Debt / Equity levels. Financial Main Sources performance is constantly evaluation using key process indicators of Financing and risk ratings published by CLASS INTERNATIONAL RATING, Calificadora de Riesgos S.A., obtaining a credit rating of AAAsince the 2016 fiscal year. 4b.3 Asset safety and control issues Owner: Fixed Asset Control The fixed asset management and control of the company is detailed in the MANUAL FOR CONTROLLING FIXED ASSETS, EC.GC.FI.MA.01, which details the steps to be taken depending on Annex 46 how the assets will be used in the operation, the respective 9b5 Annual Manual of custodians, where the equipment is located, and others. All assets Asset have a QR code that is registered in the Dynamics AX ERP, which Fixed Valuation holds all of the information about the asset, such as the brand, Assets model number, serial number, provider, the purchase invoice and the business line that is using the asset. For each asset, dispatch and reception documents are generated at the different locations where they will be used. 4c.1 Preventive, corrective, and predictive maintenance plan (Production and ASME plants, API 18LCMA special subsection)Owner: MaintenanceOur company has a detailed maintenance process for machinery, equipment and vehicles located in our industrial complex in the city of El Coca. Its purpose is to identify activities required to properly maintain the equipment, machinery, and tools that are used by the company to provide services, and to keep them in optimal conditions according to preventive planning and optimizing time. The criteria is documented containing preventive, correcting and predictive Annex 47 7a13 Internal maintenance programs that are made available to all employees Maintenance maintenance through ISOTools. Efforts are measured through key process Plan customer indicators, one of which is fulfilling the integral management plan. This plan is monitored and reported on monthly using ISOTools, and results are reviewed in Executive Committee meetings and/or Monthly Kaizen Meetings, in which actions are taken in case of deviations. 23 Description Evidence Connected Results 4c.2 Environmental policies (at introduction, develop a hook 7a14 Health, for anything related to benchmarking) Annex 49 Safety and Owner: Environmental Management Environment Our company has a License, an Environmental Management Plan Environmental knowledge and an ISO 14001:2015 certification. As part of this process, certain Policies level aspects are identified and impacts associated with normal operations and emergencies are evaluated. This information is Annex 36 8b2 Special then complemented with controls to eliminate or reduce risk. The waste index methodology is defined in Internal Procedure EC.GS.MA.PR.06, Punto Verde PROCEDURE FOR IDENTIFYING AND EVALUATING Certification 8b3 Waste ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND IMPACTS, which has been generation used to identify 12 matrixes that are periodically updated through ISO14001:201 index (Limalla) continuous improvement processes, such as: Internal Audits, 5 Lloyd´s External Audits, Environmental Accidents, and Inspections, among Certification 8b4 Volume of others. Results are evaluated using indicators that are reported spill impact monthly, and are presented through reports submitted periodically ISO14001:201 to Senior Management, Stand Downs, and reports submitted 5 API 8b5 periodically to Control Agencies. To demonstrate our commitment Certification Environmental to environmental protection and care, the company obtained the Accident Index Punto Verde certification in November 2019 with a 97% audit compliance rate. 22 CRITERIA 5 PROCESSES, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CRITERIA 5: PROCESSES, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES – INTRODUCTION Our IMS is based on managing strategic, operational, and support processes for undertaking company activities, detailed in process maps. Defining, reviewing and documenting processes is done based on an ISO 9001 procedure. Once characterizations and flowcharts are reviewed and approved, a master list of documents that are incorporated into the IMS and a technological tool (ISOTools) is prepared for processing, which allows for indicators to be implemented to evaluate processes through the Balanced Scorecard methodology. Our flexibility in adapting ourselves to the needs of our clients and demanding markets encourages us to implement integrated processes geared toward the development of both our products and our services in terms of technological innovation, and based on the real needs and expectations of our clients. These needs and expectations are identified in a meeting using a planned marketing strategy in order to generate value and end up with a win-win scenario. Finally, we are in a digital transformation process that will become a means to having more efficient, more effective, and centralized processes, so that all of the information generated in our activities can be consolidated, processed and managed securely and reliably. CRITERIA 5: PROCESSES, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES – INTRODUCTION Description Evidence Connected Results 5a.1 Management through processes Owner: Corporate Management Our IMS is process-based for all activities of the company. For this 7a16 Results purpose, we have created a Process Map (See Annex: Process and Map), which is classified into Strategic, Operational and Support Identification Processes. of Annex 58 Changes-Kaiz Once characterizations and flowcharts are reviewed and approved, en in a master list of documents to be incorporated into the IMS and Processes ISOTOOLS is prepared for processing, allowing for them to be Process Map continuously improved. This results in a constantly updated 9b6 Percentage of modifications sheet. The evaluation of improvements made is done Processes through a report on Results and Changes Identified – Kaizen in updated and Processes, Internal Audits, and External Audits under quality revised standards. 5a.2 Characterization and Analysis of Added Value of Processes Owner: Corporate Management The form used for characterizing Process CR.GI.GE.RE.020 PROCESS ANALYSIS has a section where indicators that all for the process to be measured by the party responsible are identified. Annex 59 7a17 Results ISOTOOLS has an app, Indicators, that allows for results of and process management to be monitored based on the Balanced Identification Scorecard methodology. Parties responsible for the process have Tools for of until the 10th of each month to enter the respective information. Planning and Changes-Kaiz Once it is processed, monthly reports are issued and then improving en in evaluated in Executive Committee meetings and/or Monthly Kaizen Processes Processes Meetings, in which actions are taken in case of deviations oriented toward simplifying processes. 21 CRITERIA 5: PROCESSES, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES – INTRODUCTION Description Evidence Connected Results 5b.1 Improvement processes for product characteristics Owner: Commercial Management All new products or services or incremental improvements made to Annex 15 6a3 the portfolio of existing products or services responds to a clear Percentage of need of our clients and directly contributes to improved Portfolio of needs met performance and generating greater trust in them. Our constant and work and joint efforts with our Clients have led to opportunities of Products and expectations working on Public-Private Partnerships, such as an agreement Services fulfilled signed with the Secretariat of Science and Technology of the National Government, through which we participated in the INGENIATEC competition. As a result, we were awarding with 16 9a12 products being catalogued in the Public Procurement Service – Effectiveness SERCOP. This helped our Client and contributed to the National of Bid Industry. Submittals 5b.2 Meetings held to identify client needs and expectations Annually and through direct meetings held with our clients, based on secondary information available from different sources of public Annex 60 6a3 information and based on our client satisfaction surveys, we Percentage of established the market potential for each one of the needs met aforementioned segments and projected the needs of each client Sertecpet and for our products and services, which are then translated into our Marketing Plan expectations budgeting exercises. Identifying and following up on meetings with fulfilled clients is done using CRM-AX, where business opportunities are registered and monitored for current and potential products and services. 5c.1 Marketing, Sales, and Promotion Plan SERTECPET is characterized by its constant innovation and flexibility to adapt to market demands using an E-Business system Annex 61 8a4 that has the following technological tools: Fairs.SERTECPET has Satisfaction of been present at different local and international fairs to present its Public with important portfolio of products and services. In this sense, in Workshop Workshops Ecuador we have regularly participated in the Oil & Power fair, which is held by HJ Becdach Ferias. Our local participation has led us to and Fairs 8a5 Level of participate in industry fairs in Brazil, the US, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia, Satisfaction Peru, Bahrein (Middle East), and Russia, and in technological with Outtakes conferences in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Egypt, Angola and Japan. Consortiums.To boost its growth strategy, SERTECPET considers 8b9 consortiums to be a tool for widening its scope of operations. Therefore, Positioning of we are part of Consorcio Pardaliservices, which consists of the Brand in Schlumberger, Tecpetrol and Canacol in addition to SERTECPET, the Media objective of which is to provide enhanced oil recovery services by making investments in the Libertador field in the Ecuadorian Amazon Region, one 8b10 of the country’s mature fields. Likewise, we have formed a consortium Participation with Techint to provide facilities construction services for the Shaya in Fairs and consortium, which in turn is a Schlumberger consortium. Shay operates Workshops one of the most important fields in the Ecuadorian Amazon: the Auca field. Measurement is done using Fair Participation and Positioning Indicators, the results of which allow us to take actions to improve results. 20 CRITERIA 5: PROCESSES, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES – INTRODUCTION Description Evidence Connected Results 5.d1 Production and Execution Plans Owner: Production PlantThe organization prepares its production plans based on Annex 62 9b7 Product orders made by clients, which are scheduled and executed through Non-Conformi a systematized design, production and quality control system for ty Index the products that the company manufactures, ensuring that technical Flowchart of Production Installed specifications for the job requested are delivered. The plans allow for Capacity production machinery use, facilities, equipment, and supplies to be Plant planned. Production efficiency is measured using key process indicators Use of that are reported and reviewed weekly in Kaizen meetings. The results Machinery allow us to take timely actions to ensure that objectives are met. 5e.1 Management of Client Complaints and Non-Conformities Owner: Corporate Management The organization has established a procedure for managing Non-Conformities, Corrective Actions, and Preventive Actions, in which all deviation identified, including client complaints, are Annex 62 9b7 Product analyzed and answered. This is based on a root-cause analysis, Non-Conformi based on which an action plan including deadlines and parties Flowchart of ty Index responsible for definitive closure is prepared. Then an evaluation of Production the effectiveness of the actions taken is done to prevent such Installed Plant Capacity issues from reoccurring. Managing non-conformities is done through the Findings app found on the ISOTools platform. Results are reported monthly to managerial levels and process leaders. Quality, Use of safety and environmental events are reported on weekly in Kaizen Machinery meetings to define actions to be taken. This information allows us to analyze failures in Quality and repetitive Health, Safety and Environment events to prepare comprehensive improvement plans. 5e.2 Communication with Clients Owner: Commercial Management Sertecpet communicates with its clients using several media channels that form part of the infrastructure of the company and the facilities that the organization provides to its employees involved in the commercial process. This allows us to establish active channels of communication, providing our products and services with more value for each segment of current and potential clients. Additionally, external media is used for communication purposes. Meetings with Clients: periodic visits made by those Annex 65 8a5 Level of responsible for accounts or projects, SQM (Square Quality Brand Diffusion Satisfaction Meetings) with clients to answer questions or identify potential with Outtakes business opportunities, evaluate performance and take actions to Mechanisms improve. Website: The new SERTECPET website facilitates 8b7 navigation through our different business lines. Likewise, a protected site Positioning of is being designed where the commercial team of the company will be able the Brand in to access content such as catalogues, multimedia content, technical data Media sheets, and other material that they need to facilitate commercial efforts. The website is evaluated using Google Analytics as well as internal reports to analyze and adjust its effectiveness. Social Networks: SERTECPET has a presence on leading social media networks, including Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, which are managed by the Corporate Communication department. Through these mechanisms, we interact with the community, sharing our history and capacity developed over our 26-year history. We recently launched our campaign called “Proud of Our History,” which summarizes the entire lifespan of the organization, from its beginnings up until the present. Impact is periodically measured using external evaluations (website and social media), and assertiveness of potential business. Actions for improvement are taken based on the results. 19 CRITERIA 6B RESULTS IN CLIENTS – PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 27 CRITERIA 6A – RESULTS IN CLIENTS PERCEPTION 26 CRITERIA 6 – INTRODUCTION Environment and Relevance The results presented below are aligned to the Mission, Vision, and Values of the organization to establish how the planning done is measured and evaluated. Integrity of Results The results are based on sustainable information related to client feedback and contact; submitting responses anonymously allows us to guarantee that the results reflect reality. Client satisfaction is based on different aspects that both the organization and its clients consider to be relevant in providing services and the direct contact that we have with them. Objectives The organization has the objective of continuously improving based on client feedback. The highest score, which is 5, is the primary objective for perfection in rendering services and ensuring client fidelity over the long term. Segmentation of Results Results are segmented into the different business lines due to the differentiation of the service as such, and at the same time, our clients present different needs for each activity and group so that leaders can take actions regarding opportunities for improvement that could arise. Despite that, the same fields that are in our service satisfaction surveys are included. Comparisons Due to the fact that the market is focused on the same segment of clients, results based on the same evaluations and measurements have been gathered to identify how successful we are, and whether or not our actions are effective in terms of those who compete for the same results. Cause-Effect Relationship The indicators that the organization uses to establish results have the purposes of finding new mechanisms to offer to clients, but based on the same fields of measurement; therefore, they remain on course for the next few years given the good results seen. CRITERIA 6 – INTRODUCTION Name Focus Strategic Objective 6a2 Client Satisfaction with Patents 1d2, 4d1 Obj. N.3 6a3 Client perception of the organization 2a1, 5b1, 5b2 Obj. N.3 6a4 Percentage of needs met and expectations fulfilled 2a2 Obj. N.13 6a5 Client Perception of Operations 4a1 Obj. N.6 6a6 Satisfaction with IT Improvements 4d2 Obj. N.-13 6a7 Perception of the Data Protection Policy 4e1 Obj. N.-13 6b1 Hours of Operation with MTU 1c1 Obj. N.-7 6b2 Indicator of Organization’s Patents 1d2, 4d1 Obj. N.-7 6b3 Market Share 2a1 Obj. N.-4 6b4 Percentage of Responses from Clients 2a2 Obj. N.-3 6b5 BSC Results 2b1, 2c1 Obj. N.-7 6b6 Percentage of Improvements to IT Systems 4d2 Obj. N.13 6b7 Percentage of Policy delivery 4e1 Obj. N.6 6b8 Percentage of Complaints Resolved 5e1 Obj. N.7 6b9 Average Time Required to Resolve Complaints 5e1 Obj. N.7 25 CRITERIA 6 INTRODUCTION 26 CRITERIA 7 INTRODUCTION 26 28 Key Results CRITERIA 7– INTRODUCTION Scope and Relevance With regards to people, the results show that it is important to promote personal and professional development of our employees who employ all of their abilities within a system of trust toward the organization and the commitment that they show in meeting their objectives. Integrity of Results The indicators reflect the status of our people, as is seen in the guidelines of the company. The information is totally confidential to ensure the best answers possible, and to guarantee that they will be heard regardless of the response submitted. Objectives The objective is to establish an optimal working environment for those who carry out their activities with the efficiency expected by senior management. They also remain committed to reaching the objectives set, and make them personal when the objectives of the company are met. Segmentation of Results The results focus on each hierarchical level, and also on a level on which each area can present their own results and can then differentiate them from those set on an organizational level. Comparisons On a level of a set of working environment indicators of the company, we make comparisons with the situation that other companies have. Cause-Effect Relationship The value offered by the organization has always been the improvement and adaptation of our employees to the organizational working environment to reach our objectives. Improvements in results are planned progressively over a 5-year period, as established by strategic planning. CRITERIA 7: INTRODUCTION Name Focus Strategic Objective 7a1 Knowledge of Mission, Vision and Values of personnel 1a1, 2b1 and 2c1 Obj. N.6 7a2 Perception of personnel of Leadership assessment 1a4 Obj. N.7 7a3 Satisfaction with Coaching Indicator 1d1 Obj. N.11 7a4 Perception of employees regarding Management of Change 1e1 Obj. N.10 7a5 Perception of Stand Downs 2d2 Obj. N.10 7a6 Level of satisfaction with work position v2d3 Obj. N.10 7a7 Satisfaction of Career Plan 3a1 Obj. N.10 7a8 Sertecpet Work Environment 3a2 Obj. N.10 7a9 Satisfaction of Performance Assessment 3b1 Obj. N.7 7a10 Satisfaction of Training 3b2 Obj. N.11 7a11 Satisfaction of Personnel of Quality Work Days 3c1 Obj. N.6 7a12 Satisfaction of Communication Channels 3d1 Obj. N.6 7a13 Satisfaction of Compensations 3e1 Obj. N.10 7a14 Satisfaction of Internal Maintenance Client 4c1 Obj. N.7 7a15 Level of Knowledge of Environmental Policy 4c2 Obj. N.9 28 CRITERIA 7: INTRODUCTION Name Focus Strategic Objective 7a16 Internal Client Satisfaction with HSE 4c3 Obj. N.8 7a17 Identification Results of Changes-Kaizen in Processes 5a1 and 5a2 Obj. N.7 7b1 Percentage of Disclosure of the Ethics Code 1a2 Obj. N.6 7b2 Participation of personnel assessed in Leadership 1a4 Obj. N.10 7b3 Administrative Head Count 3a1 Obj. N.7 7b4 Voluntary Rotation 3a1 Obj. N.8 7b5 Personnel assessed in Work Environment 3a2 Obj. N.10 7b6 Performance Assessment 3b1 Obj. N.11 7b7 Training Hours 3b2 Obj. N.11 7b8 Participation of Personnel in Quality Work Days 3c1 Obj. N.6 7b9 Management of complaints received 3d1 Obj. N.7 7b10 Percentage of Personnel Trained in Operations School 3e2 Obj. N.11 7b11 Performance of the Maintenance Plan 4c1 Obj. N.7 7b12 Information Security Indicator 4e2 Obj. N.-13 CRITERIA 7A – RESULTS IN PEOPLE – PERCEPTION 29 28 CRITERIA 7A – RESULTS IN PEOPLE – PERCEPTION 30 CRITERIA 7A – RESULTS IN PEOPLE – PERCEPTION CRITERIA 7B RESULTS IN PEOPLE– PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 31 CRITERIA 7B RESULTS IN PEOPLE– PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 32 CRITERIA 7B RESULTS IN PEOPLE– PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 33 CRITERIA 8 INTRODUCTION 26 28 26 CRITERIA 8 – INTRODUCTION Scope and Relevance The results focus on the capacity that we have to respond to the needs and expectations of society. Those who are in our environment coexist without operations, and it is therefore our obligation to maintain a cordial, mutually beneficial relationship with them, and therefore expect positive results that do not give rise to unrest or damage to such environment. Integrity of Results The communities and stakeholder groups respond confidentially. This helps to build trust in order for them to feel comfortable making positive or negative statements without affecting the relationship between the parties. Objectives The objective of the organization is to established a good relationship with society, with the community, and with different stakeholder groups in such a way that we can meet the needs that they currently have, and can fulfill their long-term expectations based on direct and personal contact. Segmentation of Results Stakeholder groups have been divided according to our CR.GI.RD.XA.05 Identification Matrix of Stakeholder Needs and Expectations, which include: The Community, Entities of Control, Government 33 | P a g eAuthorities, etc., all of which have different requirements based on the relationship that they have with the organization. Comparisons Each organization responds differently and confidentially to the different needs of stakeholder groups, so certain data that reflects our work with them compared to other companies in our environment is maintained. Cause-Effect Relationship The indicators remain the same, but based on the results that are presented by external agents directly affected by the organization, improvements are evaluated and implemented in the projections of the following year. CRITERIA 6 – INTRODUCTION Name Focus Strategic Objective 8a1 Perception of People of the Compliance System 1a3 Obj. N.7 8a2 Perception of the Community 1c3 Obj. N.9 8a3 Level of Trust of Companies 1c4 Obj. N.3 8a4 Satisfaction of Society regarding Workshops and Fairs 5c1 Obj. N.5 8a5 Level of Satisfaction Outtakes 5c1 Obj. N.3 8b1 Personnel Contracted of the Zone Indicator 1c3 Obj. N.7 8b2 Special Waste Index 4c2 Obj. N.8 8b3 Waste Generation Index (Limalla) 4c2 Obj. N.8 8b4 Number of Environmental Accidents 4c2 Obj. N.8 8b5 Safe Claw Reports Closed 4c3 Obj. N.8 8b6 Frequency Index (HSE) 4c3 Obj. N.8 8b7 Severity Index (HSE) 4c3 Obj. N.8 8b8 Media Brand Positioning 5c1 Obj.N.-4&5 8b9 Participation in Fairs and Workshops 5c1 Obj.N.-4&5 34 CRITERIA 8A – RESULTS IN SOCIETY – PERCEPTION 35 CRITERIA 8B – RESULTS IN SOCIETY – PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 36 CRITERIA 8B – RESULTS IN SOCIETY – PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 CRITERIA 9 INTRODUCTION CRITERIA 9 – INTRODUCTION Scope and Relevance The organization is focused on process performance, and the results presented summarize the capacities and functions of each key process in order for each process to contribute to the strategic objectives that are set on an organizational level. Integrity of Results All processes have a subsystem for managing indicators that are reported on individually at each level of management. The basis of all information is trust that such information is realistic and contributes to the planning done by the area. Objectives The results have the purpose of quantifying process performance, and based on this evaluation the organization can take corrective or preventive actions. Monitoring is focused on continuous improvement and the integration of all processes when there are deviations. Our actions can then be redirected toward the desired effect. Segmentation of Results Results are grouped for each one of the processes, and a system of indicators corresponds to each one so that the performance of each process can be evaluated and action plans developed. They are also focused on the results that the organizations considers important in terms of negotiations with both clients in financial aspects or benefits for the company and in provider relationships that fulfill the parameters defined once negotiations have begun. Comparisons The companies show high performance in process management. Therefore, for all controllable processes we have established comparisons that allow us to determine how competitive we are, which 36 | P a g e put us on the same level as the most competent and largest companies in the market, given that they represent a direct threat. Cause-Effect Relationship Process performance has been compromised based on the current circumstances of a contracting market; therefore, we have proposed to counter this situation with new objects focused on digital transformation; however, most indicators are key to any work done, so should remain the same to allow us to evaluate any increase or decrease that is relevant to the company. CRITERIA 6 – INTRODUCTION Name Focus Strategic Objective 9a1 Key Processing Indicators (Dashboard) 1b1 Obj. N.7 9a2 Perception of Suppliers regarding the Organization 1c2, 4a2 and 4a3 Obj. N.7 9a3 Debt Indicator 1c4 Obj. N.2 9a4 Capital Structure Indicator 1c4 Obj. N.2 9a5 Annual Revenue 4b1 Obj. N.1 9a6 Current Liquidity 4b2 Obj. N.2 9a7 Annual Net Profit 4b1 Obj. N.2 9a8 Credit Rating 4b3 Obj. N.2 9a9 Investment in R+D+i Projects 4d1 Obj. N.7 9a10 Process Automation Indicator 4d1 Obj. N.13 9a11 Information Security Expenses 4e2 Obj. N.13 9a12 Bid Presentation Effectiveness 5b1 Obj. N.1 9b1 Delivery Term Indicator 1c1 Obj. N.7 9b2 Annual Operations Plan Compliance Indicator 2d1 Obj. N.6 9b3 Annual Strategic Alliances 4a1 Obj. N.5 9b4 Suppliers qualified by SGS 4a3 Obj. N.7 9b5 Annual Assets Assessment 4b1 and 4b3 Obj. N.7 9b6 Average Collection Term 4b2 Obj. N.2 9b7 Percentage of Processes Updated and Revised 5a1 Obj. N.7 9b8 Non-Conforming Product 5d1 Obj. N.7 38 CRITERIA 9A – KEY RESULTS – BUSINESS RESULTS 39 CRITERIA 9A – KEY RESULTS – BUSINESS RESULTS CRITERIA 9A – KEY RESULTS – BUSINESS RESULTS 40 CRITERIA 9A – KEY RESULTS – BUSINESS RESULTS The Annexes indicated throughout the report are documentation of the organization's own use, and have not been translated but are available in the report in Spanish. 41
