Optional sector Headline goes here Responsible second line Business here Report Document Subtitle Subtitle 2/ Date Contents 02. 07. 16. 24. Community Pro bono Environment Inclusion matters Matters matters 30. 36. Our business Annual report 1 A message from our Senior Partner Having taken over the role of Senior Partner at Clyde & Co in 2019 I am delighted to be able to introduce our latest Responsible Business Report. As a large, global law firm that employs over 4000 people across 23 countries serving clients across the world, we are committed to being a responsible business. To us that means taking responsibility for the impact we have on the environment and seeking to reduce it as much as possible, and as soon as possible. It also means taking responsibility for giving back and being a positive contributor to the communities in which we operate. Finally, we have a responsibility to foster a truly diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace so that all our people can flourish and fulfil their highest potential, for the benefit of them, the firm and our clients. While there is more we can and must do, this report outlines the measures we’re currently taking and the progress we’ve made so far in our core areas of focus community, pro bono, environment, inclusion, and wellbeing and serves as a communication on progress on integrating the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact into our organisation. We continue to be committed to integrating these principles into our operations and business practices. Thank you for taking the time to read this document. Peter Hirst, Senior Partner Community matters 3 We encourage our people around the world to support the communities in which we operate, and beyond. We seek to develop relationships with charities and community organisations where, alongside financial contributions, we can help through volunteering opportunities, giving our time and skills. Not only does this benefit our community partners but also supports our people’s development and helps to bring new perspectives and insight to the firm. The global theme of our programme is ‘Inspiring Young Lives’ and our local offices are encouraged to tailor this theme and focus on the issues most relevant to them. Many of our initiatives focus on helping young people to improve their aspirations, develop their skills and learn about the world of work. For our people wishing to fundraise for the causes they personally support we have a matched fundraising policy. I got to learn a lot about the day to day life of lawyers. Clyde & Co employees were smart, funny and incredibly helpful. The best thing about the placement wasn’t the lunches or the treats or the snacks but the Clyde & Co employees. A 2019 participant in the Bridge to the City work experience programme 5 Social mobility in the UK EdUKaid volunteer trip February 2019 saw the launch of our Bridge to the City work In August 2019 three of our people from across our MEA experience programme in London, a one week programme region took part in a volunteering trip to Mkwajuni village that aims to help young people from less advantaged in Southern Tanzania. The trip was organised in partnership backgrounds improve their understanding of professional with the charity EdUKaid, which aims to improve access careers and enhance their employability skills. to education in the rural Mtwara region of Southern Tanzania. Their activities include primary school We welcomed 20, Year 12 students from three local schools development and renovation, pre-primary education, to our office for a packed timetable of workshops, activities, inclusive education and child sponsorship. skills sessions and a group project. Students were placed across the firm in both legal departments and business services The team helped to put the finishing touches to the functions. Some of the sessions they completed included: complete refurbishment of the of Mkwajuni village primary school and volunteers worked hard to paint, build hygienic – CV workshops handwashing facilities, contruct a shelter and make – Mock interviews educational resources. After a hard few days’ construction work – one of the highlights of the trip was participating – Speed networking in the community meeting where EdUKaid handed the – Personal brand workshop renovated school back to the village. One of our volunteers, Clyde & Co partner Michael Strain, has a particular Over 100 of our London people volunteered to support the connection to the charity having sat on the board of trustees students. Feedback from students was overwhelmingly for more than 8 years. positive with 100% of students reporting the experience increased their understanding of careers in the legal profession, other careers available in law firms and their understanding of the workplace more generally. Bridge to the City complements our mentoring and reading programmes that also aim to improve social mobility of the students we support. UK data In 2018/19 over 140 of our people around the UK gave more than 1500 hours of volunteering time to our charity and community partners. Charity partners In the UK in 2019 we were excited to launch a three year charity partnership with Place2Be. Place2Be is a charity focussed on supporting young people’s mental health, This was certainly a trip providing in-school support and expert training across the UK to improve the emotional wellbeing of pupils, families, to remember! It was a teachers and staff. They work with over 600 schools, helping children to cope with wide-ranging and often complex social rollercoaster of emotions, issues including bullying, bereavement, family breakdown and neglect. Place2Be provides children with the vital challenges, humbling support they need so that they can build lifelong coping skills and thrive. experiences and fun and The charity aligns well with our wider focus on mental laughter too. We had a health and their UK wide presence allows our offices across England and Scotland to engage. great bunch of volunteers from three locations (Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Dar-esWe are beyond thrilled here at Place2Be to Salaam), and we could not launch our new three year partnership with Clyde & Co. Through your support we will be have made the memories able to improve children’s mental health across without them. Every drop our partner schools, having a lasting impact of the volunteers sweat on children as they progress into adulthood. will go towards building a Catherine Roche Chief Executive, Place2Be firm foundation of a young child’s educational journey. Rani Bangar, volunteer on our 2019 EdUKaid trip 7 The Art Award Progress and plans The Clyde & Co Art Award launched in London in 2011 We have made progress with collecting more data on our and has expanded to our offices in Dubai, San Francisco, UK activities. A future aim is to gather more information from Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. In London we work with local our global contacts across our offices to help provide insights art schools, colleges and universities to help young artists on more of our community activities around the world. manage the transition from school to the commercial Having reviewed our London Art Award, we have introduced world by selecting artworks to be displayed within our a number of changes that will help us to align the programme offices. During this time, we offer the artists professional better with objectives in other areas of our corporate development workshops and pro bono support. responsibility and inclusion programme. We are working to integrate the Art Award with our wider This year we were pleased to increase the amount of corporate responsibility and inclusion programme and matched funding our people are able to apply for in themes. Initially we have done this by aligning the ‘Blank recognition of their amazing efforts to support the causes Canvas’ wall in London to our focus on mental health close to them. and wellbeing by partnering with Outside In, a national charity that aims to provide a platform for artists who face Our next ambition is to introduce a global volunteering significant barriers to the art world due to health, disability, policy soon to engage our people around the world and social circumstance or isolation. The display features works increase our volunteering footprint. by Yorkshire-based Greg Bromley and Laila Kassab, an artist based in Gaza. Pro bono matters 9 We know that as a law firm one of the most effective ways we can make a positive contribution to our communities is by using our legal skills and expertise. We encourage our lawyers to take part in pro bono work through our policy that allows them to receive credit for up to 50 hours of time spent on pro bono or other corporate responsibility initiatives that count towards their billable hours targets. We partner with charities, legal advice clinics and pro bono brokers around our network. The skills and experience that working on pro bono cases allows our people to develop is invaluable. 11 Partnering with legal advice centres Many of our offices around the world partner with Legal I have been working with LawWorks’ Welfare Advice Centres and services. For example in Hong Kong we Benefits Advocacy Project since February partner with The Duty Lawyer Service, helping to provide 2018. In that time, I have taken on and won one-off advice to members of the public in need of support. In the US we have numerous partners across our offices one five appeals before the First Tier Tribunal of which is The Alliance for Children’s Rights which protects (Social Entitlement Chamber). Having cut my the rights of impoverished, abused and neglected young teeth in the First Trier Tribunal, I am now people. By providing free legal services, advocacy, and programmes that create pathways to jobs and education, working on a secondary appeal to the Upper the Alliance levels the playing field and ensures that children Tribunal (Administrative Appeals Chamber). who experience foster care are able to fulfill their potential. My experience with the Welfare Benefits In London we partner with LawWorks, a charity working to connect volunteer lawyers with people who are not eligible Advocacy Project has been immensely for legal aid and cannot afford to pay, and with the not-forgratifying. I have had the opportunity to profit organisations that support them. One of our London make a tangible difference to vulnerable volunteers has been particularly involved in a number of cases through LawWorks’ Welfare Benefits Advocacy Project which people’s lives, develop a secondary helps those who are appealing their disability benefits. specialism, and gain practical experience of written and oral advocacy at a very early stage in my career. Working with individuals In some cases our lawyers are able to support individuals. James Newton A recent successful case in the US saw one lawyer, Associate Michael Russ, return to his hometown of Hagerstown, Maryland to defend Antoine Malone who was charged with attempted murder after witnessing an argument at a bar which quickly escalated into a fight, resulting in gunshots being fired. Malone faced a number of charges many of which were based on an ‘accomplice theory’, which Michael Russ was able to successfully argue was implausible, resulting in Malone having all felony charges dropped and agreeing to a ‘pleas’ of affray, which meant he was immediately released with time served. Supporting charities In our Australian offices we have been partnering with domestic violence women’s charity “Broken to Brilliant” to facilitate the publication of its new book ‘Shattered to Shining’. Broken to Brilliant aims to assist and empower As a global firm we take our domestic violence survivors to mentor fellow survivors responsibility to be good corporate in their recovery following instances of domestic violence. In addition to providing this charity with pro bono advice, citizens seriously. Clyde & Co’s pro we raised funds for the Give A Book campaign for bono program provides our staff distribution to women’s shelters in Melbourne, Sydney, with a meaningful and practical way Brisbane and Perth, to assist survivors of domestic abuse in rebuilding their lives. to give back to the community and causes which they are passionate about. As part of our International Women’s Day activities, it was great In 2018/19 our lawyers gave to raise funds for Broken to Brilliant and provide pro bono legal support. 8,600 hours Any funds raised through book sales can be invested back into the of time to pro bono advice and projects. important work undertaken by the charity. It has also been very fulfilling to partner with Broken to Brilliant on its journey to publishing the next book in its series, which seeks to support survivors of domestic violence journey. Marcus O’Brien Partner 13 Progress and plans Many of our offices have built strong partnerships with legal advice centres and charities; we would like to extend this Broken to Brilliant’s goal is to reduce work further, identifying more charity partners who we can the long-term impact of domestic support through pro bono and more general volunteering or fund-raising activities. violence by increasing financial independence, decreasing distress We have pro bono policies and coordinators in some regions. Over the coming year we hope to develop more overarching and increasing opportunities for global policies to help local offices develop their programmes. survivors through education, lifeWe also want to encourage more of our people to participate skills training, and social support and increase the overall number of pro bono hours we networks. A key activity of our provide. We plan to relaunch the 50 hours policy to ensure our fee earners are aware of the support available to them to charity is releasing books which allow them to engage with pro bono opportunities. share survivor’s stories, together with messages of hope and resilience. We are incredibly grateful for the pro bono and financial support provided by Clyde & Co and look forward to continuing our important work with victims of domestic violence. Kate Smith Founding Director of Broken to Brilliant Environment matters 15 Our business has an impact on the environment through the use of energy in our buildings, our business travel, the use of paper and other goods and services as well as the disposal of our waste. 17 Our approach Governance We have a global environmental policy in place which In 2019 we set up a Global Environment Committee. Partners outlines our approach to minimising our impact. It states from each of our regions sit on this committee which aims that we will: to address our environmental impact globally. We also have environmental working groups in the UK and in Hong Kong – Monitor and reduce our energy consumption, including which aim to manage the environmental impact of our day energy derived from fossil fuels, and promote efficient to day business activities. energy use within our business premises; – Monitor and reduce our travel where possible, encouraging more sustainable alternatives; Legal renewable initiative – Seek to reduce our use of resources such as paper and water; In 2019 we joined the Legal Sustainability Alliance, – Reduce our overall waste, minimise the amount of waste an inclusive movement of law firms and associated sent to landfill, and maximise our reuse and recycling rates; networks, working together to take action to improve the – Use, store and dispose of hazardous waste in line with best environmental sustainability of their organisation. We environmental practices; have signed up to the Legal Renewable Initiative, making a commitment to source 100% renewable energy from – Seek to source sustainable products, assess the certifiable sources, across all of our UK premises. For some environmental impact of our supply chain and of our offices this will involve influencing our landlords encourage key suppliers to evaluate and improve their to procure their energy differently. environmental practices; – Share the policy with all employees and promote environmental awareness and responsibility; Travelwise – Report on our environmental performance regularly both As a law firm we do a lot of business travel. As such we internally and externally and comply with all applicable have launched Travelwise, a UK wide programmed aimed regulations and legislative requirements at smarter travelling. This encourages early booking, alternative modes of travel, and aims to reduce our overall travel. Our long term plans include implementing IT resources in order to make travelling less of a necessity as we continue to build a virtually enabled work environment. Paper use Using our legal expertise to tackle the effects All of our paper in the UK is FSC certified. We aim to ensure of climate change that this standard is maintained globally in the next year. Our Climate Risk team helps clients understand their current Practice areas are starting to further embrace electronic risks in regards to climate change, prepare their business working reducing the need for printing in their department for future risks, and evolve in a way to capitalise on the and creating filing efficiencies. Our business plans to opportunities created by the transition to a low-carbon gradually learn from this best practice and encourage other economy. Key areas where we can assist include: providing departments to follow. In the meantime we will focus on legal privilege on climate risk mapping exercises; assessment setting default duplex black and white printing and increasing of liability exposures, regulatory regimes and a changing our use of follow-me printing where practical. landscape of laws across jurisdictions; and legal input into developing due diligence frameworks for assessing climate change risks to workforce, assets, operations and transactions. Procurement We also prioritise the use of our legal expertise to help address the effects of climate change on communities around the Our procurement function has been working closely with our world. One representative example is advising NGOs on a key suppliers to help reduce our environmental impact through pro bono basis to develop innovative climate risk insurance supply chain management. For example, we have introduced policies to protect up to 1.3 million people in West Africa a new UK-wide cleaning contract which guarantees the use of from catastrophic drought. Asa member of the Insurance environmentally friendly (non-toxic) cleaning products. Development Forum – a public/private partnership, we We have also taken action to remove single-use plastics across seek to optimise and extend the use of insurance and the the business and will continue to do so over the next year. industry’s risk management capabilities to protect those most vulnerable to disasters. Clyde & Co is also a founding member of the Coalition for Climate Resilient Investment, launched at the September 2019 UN Climate Action Summit in New Engagement York, which aims to transform infrastructure investment We have over 100 environmental champions across our UK by integrating climate risks into decision-making. Our offices working to implement best practice at a local level. We climate change thought leadership includes extensive reports marked the UN Global Summit by asking our UK employees exploring the role of innovative risk transfer in closing the to make a pledge to take action. Examples included: reducing global protection gap, as well as on the rising tide of climate consumption of meat, giving up printing for a month, and change liability and duties of care. Find out more in our reducing single-use plastics. Resilience Hub https://resilience.clydeco.com/. In Dubai we took part in the Dubai Chamber Sustainability Week, which aligned with Dubai’s National Agenda plans to divert 75% of waste away from landfills. The office sourced additional waste collection boxes and encouraged employees to collect and recycle more items. 19 Progress and plans We are pleased that our offices around the world are taking action including: I got involved in our Resilience initiative because I wanted to use my skills to make a meaningful difference – Reduction of 17,000 plastic bottles across our in the face of climate change. From my background Australian offices in insurance litigation dealing with claims arising – Over 100 champions across our UK offices from flooding, drought, and fires, with significant environmental factors, the need to adapt to and mitigate – 200,000 plastic cups removed from our London office the effects of climate change was evident. I am now – Replaced plastic packaging with compostable in London working on our Climate Risk Consultancy service, in which we advise on wide-reaching climate issues – Our Dubai office took part in the Dubai Chamber affecting our clients that can make a real difference to Sustainability week, boosting recycling and waste the environment, businesses and people’s lives. collections and they are now working to implement these collections as standard Engaging with clients on these pressing issues encouraged me to get involved in the firm’s own This year we have made a number of commitments across environmental initiatives. As a member of the firm’s our UK offices. We have signed up to the Legal Renewables Environmental Working Group and an Environmental Initiative to source 100% certifiable renewable energy. We Champion, I am proud to see our firm strengthening its have also committed to ensuring none of our waste goes to commitments in reducing our environmental impact, landfill and to reducing paper use by ensuring all printers including our pledge to source 100% renewable energy are set to the most efficient settings. across all our UK offices. Our Environmental Champions network fosters a collegiate and collaborative culture to addressing climate at the firm, with participants from all areas of the business. I hope to see the Champions network continue grow and our green initiatives continue to be more ambitious. Jane O’Reilly Associate Inclusion matters 21 REDUCED INEQUALITIES We recognise that creating an inclusive culture is vital to the success of our business. It is important for our people to feel happy, respected and able to be themselves at work. Having a workforce that brings a variety of backgrounds and experiences will help us look at things in different ways, to innovate and problem solve and to be an interesting and dynamic firm where talented people want to be. Of course we acknowledge that we have much work to do across our focus areas of gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability but we are pleased to be making progress. The firm’s senior leadership have a approved a high level vision and a set of global objectives, which we are working to translate into local priorities for our regions. Our employee network groups provide a platform for people around the firm to share their opinions and thoughts, to raise awareness and to identify the areas where they can drive change and help to advance the diversity agenda. GECCO focusses on gender equality, Pryde & Co is our LGBT+ network and we recently relaunched our ACED (Achieving Cultural and Ethnic Diversity) network. Throughout the year we organise events, particularly around key dates, to engage our people in diversity and inclusion issues and increase their understanding and awareness of particular topics. 23 Inclusive leadership Growing Pryde & Co In the UK we have rolled out inclusive leadership training Our Pryde & Co LGBT+ employee network has continued to all our partners. The aim of the interactive workshops to grow over the year and a positive demonstration of this is to help partners be aware of their unconscious biases was the celebrations of Pride Month that took place across and preferences and to understand how this can impact many of our offices. In London we hosted the annual LINK their decision making. It also seeks to highlight how they (the LGBT+ Insurance network) charity quiz night, a hugely can lead their teams in a way that values difference successful and fun evening. In Scotland a charity wine highlights the benefits of diversity and encourages tasting event took place, raising funds for LGBT Youth respect amongst colleagues. Scotland and we held a transgender awareness workshop. In August our Australian offices chose to support Wear it Purple Day, an annual day dedicated to showing LGBT+ Balanced brand young people that they have the right to be proud of who they are. Wear It Purple was founded in 2010 in response to The start of 2019 saw us launch our global Balanced Brand global stories of real teenagers, real heartache and their very initiative, aimed at helping to ensure that female lawyers real responses. In 2010, several young people took their own and senior staff at the firm are well-equipped with the lives following bullying and harassment resulting from the skills and tools needed to successfully build their profiles in lack of acceptance of their sexuality or gender identity. Pryde today’s fast moving, 24/7, digitally-enabled world. Initially & Co teams across the Australian offices hosted morning the programme ran from January to March and included teas and brunches. Associate Alex Best summed it up best training in social media, on camera interview technique, in his speech at the Sydney office morning tea: “If you ever presentation skills, writing for offline and online audiences, need support, look at all the people in this room they are creating a personal brand, and effective networking. The here for you, and they want you to bring your whole self to training was available to men but was particularly promoted work”. Attendees were encouraged to bring a donation, with to women at the firm to encourage greater gender balance the firm committing to matching the donations raised. in the firm’s approach to marketing, business development and communications. While women make up nearly half (46%) of the lawyer population and nearly one quarter of partners at Clyde & Co, before the launch of this initiative on average across the firm globally less than 20% of external spokespeople quoted in the media were female. We were delighted that come March we had nearly doubled this figure. The success has encouraged us to continue to maintain our efforts and has led us to finding some fantastic new spokespeople across the firm. Partnerships We partner with a number of external organisations For the third year we are participating in the 30% Club cross who help us with our work in this area by providing their sector mentoring scheme, with the aim of building the future expertise and in some cases helping us to collaborative with pipeline of female leaders. In the UK we have also been other business. supporting the First 100 years project, celebrating 100 years of women being able to practice law in England and Wales. Our Early Careers team partner with organisations to support us in recruiting diverse talent. They include: We are also Stonewall Diversity Champions and for the Aspiring Solicitors, RARE, The Bright Network and myGwork. first year we completed a submission for the UK Stonewall We are also working with the Law Faculty at Durham Workplace Equality Index. This was a useful exercise in University and are the sole sponsors of their First Generation assessing how we support our LGBT+ colleagues, what we Scholars Network and we recently hosted the Target Jobs – are doing well and where we might look to improve. City in Law Event which was aimed at BAME students. The team have seen real progress through these partnerships and were particularly delighted to have been Progress and plans named as winners of the Aspiring Solicitors’ ”All Star We have made good progress on raising awareness Improvement in Diversity and Inclusion Award” in 2019. of particular issues and highlighting key dates, and we will Our award win was largely due to the success we have had continue to do this – aligning these with the priorities in in this year’s trainee recruitment round, where 25 out of our our strategy. 48 hires from our 2018/19 recruitment year were Aspiring Solicitors members, our highest number to date. Aspiring There is more we can do to embed diversity and inclusion Solicitors aim to provide access to the legal profession for across the firm, so we plan to work closely with key students from underrepresented groups. departments to ensure D&I is considered in our processes and procedures. In December 2019 we re-launched the Bright Futures programme. This is specifically aimed at students from We will also continue to enhance our data collection and to lower socioeconomic status groups to provide work assess what insights this information can give us and how it experience and mentoring opportunities across a nine can help us target our efforts. month programme. The Early Careers team are also responsible for overseeing our legal apprenticeship schemes, which provide a number Gender statistics 2018/19 of alternative career pathways outside of the traditional graduate programmes– including our first solicitor apprentice. These pathways are another way for us to Female % Male % attract and recruit a more diverse pool of candidates. Total workforce 59% 41% In 2018 we launched a partnership with My Family Care to better support our working families, providing all UK employees with access to an online portal, funded All Partners 22% 78% emergency backup care sessions for elder and childcare and parental leave toolkits. Senior Equilty Partners 17% 83% 25 Wellbeing matters 27 The issue of workplace wellbeing has become increasingly prominent over recent years. It is important we build an environment where our people feel supported to flourish, to find a balance between their personal and professional lives and to manage everyday challenges. A crucial part of this is fostering a culture where mental and physical health can be openly discussed and where colleagues are provided with the tools and support to manage their wellbeing. On a global level we have been working on providing more information, resources and guidance through our internal communication channels and there are some great examples of activity from around the network on this issue. Support and awareness in the UK Progress and plans We introduced a pilot group of Mental Health First Aiders This is an emerging area of focus for us so we will be in London at the start of 2019 and are looking to roll tracking and monitoring the effectiveness of the initiatives this out across our other UK offices over the coming year. we have started to put in place to help us with developing These volunteers have been trained to spot the signs of our strategy and offering further. mental health and to be a point of contact for colleagues We will work to improve communications to our people what who may need someone to talk to. We have also been we currently offer and what support may be available to working to train our Human Resources team to aid them them, for example through our benefits package. in supporting individuals. In the UK we will be looking at further training and Although mental health and wellbeing are important issues development around wellbeing and mental health, every day of the year we have used national and global particularly for our people managers. awareness days to start conversations and discussion, including: holding awareness raising events; delivering webinars on proactively managing wellbeing; and running mindfulness sessions in some of our offices. Sydney’s ‘Culture club’ The Sydney office recently launched their ‘Culture Club’, an initiative aimed at encouraging our people to take a break during the working day to boost their physical and mental health, improve productivity, mood, motivation and concentration. They have put together a programme of activities designed to help everyone find a way to connect with art, nature, music, language, history, culture, their city and each other in a mindful way. The suggested activities in the programme are between 30-60 minutes, low cost, held over lunchtime and within walking distance of the Sydney office. They include: architecture walks, visits to the botanic garden, meditation session, music recitals and indigenous Australian cultural tours of the city. 29 Our business 31 Although we consider our business to be relatively low risk, Clyde & Co has a zerotolerance approach towards any form of slavery, servitude, forced or bonded labour, or human trafficking. We will not support any arrangement or relationship that is knowingly involved in modern slavery. The firm has an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and statement; both are located on the firm intranet. The policy and statement prohibit modern slavery, and apply to all partners and employees. 33 Human rights and labour standards Training We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern In the past year, we delivered training courses to raise slavery in our business or in our supply chains, and to acting awareness and understanding around issues such as ethically and with integrity in all our relationships. As such, modern slavery, diversity and equality. Modern slavery we expect third party contractors and suppliers to comply training is completed by key individuals globally that we with all applicable laws, statutes, regulations and codes have identified as dealing with any aspect of procurement relating to labour, anti-slavery and human trafficking laws, on behalf of Clyde & Co. including the Modern Slavery Act. We also require third Additionally, we have implemented mandatory training on parties to provide details of modern-slavery related policies diversity and equality for all UK employees. This course and codes of conduct. addresses issues such as discrimination, unconscious bias and harassment. We are in the process of developing our training programme to include comprehensive compulsory Employment training on ethics and integrity for all employees throughout our global network. We apply the highest possible standards in the recruitment and employment of our people. We conduct due diligence on our prospective employees prior to them joining Clyde & Co. When recruiting, we comply with all local employment legislation and any applicable regulations. All of our people are expected to comply with relevant laws and professional codes of conduct, as well as Clyde & Co’s internal Modern Slavery policy and other policies and procedures. We are an Accredited Living Wage Employer, meaning we have committed to pay all our employees a fair living wage. This commitment is also extended to contractors of the firm. We collect report and publish data about the diversity make-up of our workforce in the UK, this information is publically available through our website. Our suppliers Anti-bribery and corruption Clyde & Co has long-term relationships with many of the Clyde & Co LLP is committed to conducting business fairly, businesses it engages to run its premises, such as catering honestly and openly. We take a zero-tolerance approach and cleaning providers. We work closely with these suppliers towards bribery and corruption, and we act professionally to make sure that we do not make demands of them that and with integrity in all our business activities and may lead them to violating laws. We have also have a Code of relationships worldwide. In compliance with our anti-bribery Ethics, to ensure that our supplier relationships are based on and corruption (“ABC”) policy, we must ensure professional, ethical and transparent behaviour. that people acting on our, or on our clients’, behalf are also in compliance with anti-bribery and corruption legislation, The majority of our suppliers are based in the UK and and that they have effective policies and procedures in supply standard goods or services. We have a database place that are at least of the same standard as our own. of our first-tier suppliers which we are in the process of Accordingly, where we engage third parties such as agents, consolidating to maximise co-ordination and control. We are distributors or counsel, we conduct adequate due diligence moving suppliers onto a form of contract that requires them on these persons before entering into such arrangements, to comply with all local, national and (where applicable) to ensure that they are not acting corruptly. We expect third international laws and regulations. As such, we hold parties and agents that we consider to fall into a high risk monthly supplier relationship management meetings, category, to provide details of their approach towards ABC and regular service reviews with tier 1 suppliers. and anti-money laundering compliance, including relevant We perform vetting and due diligence on any new suppliers, policies and procedures. We periodically monitor third particularly our larger suppliers by spend, and those that we parties’ performance throughout the contract to ensure consider to be higher risk. In addition, some of our suppliers ongoing compliance. have been screened using a supplier due diligence portal, ABC training is mandatory for all employees, as well which includes specific questions on modern slavery. We are as attendance at periodic refresher training sessions. committed to adding more of our suppliers to this system as We provide comprehensive information on the ABC policy, soon as practicable. the Bribery Act, and how it should be applied on our With regard to existing suppliers to our London office, Intranet. Our Risk team is always on hand to help with we have performed a risk assessment exercise and have employee questions. In the past year, we have delivered not identified any occurrence of modern slavery in our training on financial crime, anti-money laundering and supply chain. We require our suppliers to conduct a similar sanctions to employees in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, South exercise with regard to their own suppliers. We are in Africa and the Middle East, and provided supplementary the process of extending the risk assessment exercise video recordings to employees. We are in the process of to international offices. designing a structured approach to delivering additional periodic training across our global network. Our whistleblowing policy ensures that no-one suffers any detriment as a result of reporting any breaches or suspected breaches of our anti-bribery policy. We aim to encourage openness and we will support anyone who raises concerns. 35 UN Global compact reference table Principle Report section Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Our business proclaimed human rights Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our business Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Our business recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our business Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Our business Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Our business of employment and occupation Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment matters Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment matters responsibility Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Environment matters friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Our business extortion and bribery Annual results Year end three0 April 2019 Our performance Fees billed Profit Ten year growth £611 £186 million net income, +9% annual growth million £690,000 Profit per equity partner, threethree6 +11% +13% 21st +4.5% annual growth 192 212 287 three66 three95 447 508 551 611 Annual ten year successive £M growth compound year of 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 annual revenue growth rate growth Our global reach UK/Europe 52 23 3 53% (-1) 50% (+1) Americas of revenue from offices † countries new offices ‡ 23% (+3) outside of the UK † including five associated offices ‡ Bristol, Hamburg and Dublin (as at 1 May 2019) Revenue MEA by region 12.5% (-1.5) 23% of revenue from the Americas the firm’s fastest growing region APAC 11.5% (-0.5) Our people and culture Headcount 4,000 Total staff 440 Partners 41 New partners 2,500 Legal professionals 17 Lateral hires 24 Partner promotions Record number 37 440 Partners 1,800 Lawyers 4,000 Total staff 50+ Offices worldwide* www.clydeco.com *includes associated offices Clyde & Co LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. © Clyde & Co LLP 2020 1130260 02 2020
