MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 Fiscal year ended March 2020 Environmental Consideration in Printing Corporate Philosophy Printed on paper made with wood from To contribute to society by “Producing better products, forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association) – Supporting sound forest management. The MinebeaMitsumi Group supports efforts by Japan’s Forestry Agency to reduce CO₂ emissions with faster speed, through the use of domestic forestry products. This report was produced using paper made from in larger numbers, Japanese wood products. Active use of such at lower cost and A-(2)-0 6 0 0 02 products helps promote the maintenance of Japan’s forests and contributes to raising the amount of CO₂ by smarter means.” that these forests can absorb. MINEBEA MITSUMI Inc. Copyright 2020 MINEBEA MITSUMI Inc. Printed in Japan September 2020 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Introduction MinebeaMitsumi’s resilience has overcome numerous adversities Resilience stands for flexible strength that enables us to recover despite external challenges outside our control. MinebeaMitsumi has achieved further growth by drawing on its experience of addressing adversity. MinebeaMitsumi engages in business practices extending across product development, human resources development, and production based on its spirit of sustainability in terms of perpetuating the enterprise. We have been achieving growth while overcoming numerous adversities in order to bring about sustainable management. These efforts have been underpinned by our corporate philosophy, “To contribute to society by ‘Producing better products, with Fiscal year ending March 2029 faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower cost and by smarter means’” and “The Five Principles” basic management policy for ensuring achievement of the corporate philosophy (refer to page 4). Aiming at net sales of ¥ 2.5 trillion and Up to this point MinebeaMitsumi has been taking advantage of opportunities to tap strengths that give rise to growth, without having succumbed to adversities such as the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, Thailand floods, or the Great East Japan Earthquake. As for the Thailand floods, we managed to overcome the crisis through efforts that enlisted our top management in spearheading on-site efforts as flood waters approached our core factories and rallied a miraculous level of teamwork that operating income of ¥ 250 billion involved building a “miracle embankment” put in place by local employees who worked day and night piling up sandbags to protect the factories. We have been taking thorough action to achieve We have been taking an approach whereby top management and local employees join forces in painstakingly taking action to address crises, rather than fleeing impending threats. That approach has taken hold among our 100,000 employees worldwide. ¥79.2 billion 2020 COVID-19 consistent operations with the aim of fulfilling our responsibilities as a parts manufacturer. We have also been engaging in production and sales of masks. Growth image ¥ 60.1 billion after pandemic President Kainuma exercised leadership amid the confusion, As the flood waters approached, local employees protected the factories by ¥ 58.6 billion consistently spearheading action on-site, day after day. setting up a “miracle embankment” which involved working day and night We set up a headquarters to take action early stacking up sandbags. on to address the threat of novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) as it spread internationally Instrumental Human Intellectual 2008 2011 in 2020, and have otherwise been thoroughly capital capital capital Global Thailand Floods implementing shared measures globally, with 30.8 billion Overseas Global human Organizational Financial 2011 the first of such efforts having taken place in ¥ China. Our diverse portfolio, encompassing expansion ahead resources of strengths Crisis Great East Japan businesses involving smartphones, games and of competitors 100,000 employees enabling instant Enlisting Leaders who play deployment of Earthquake a range of other products, compensated for a knowhow not active roles at best practices World GDP downturn in business involving automobiles otherwise on-site operations company-wide Transition of and aircraft. The Company’s risk diversification achievable solely irrespective of Wide range of operating system exhibited its strengths amid income by means of gender or age empirical headwinds, given the successful results capital investment knowledge, achieved by our effective mix of products and including 50 M&As production sites extending across 22 countries over 49 years worldwide. The Company has kept its targets for net sales and operating income within the Pages 37 to 38 Pages 39 to 42 Pages 43 to 44 range of 1 trillion yen and 100 billion yen ¥12.1 billion ¥ 8.6 billion respectively. We will continue, furthermore, to confront the challenges toward achieving net Leadership of President sales and operating income of 2.5 trillion yen and top priority onsite approach and 250 billion yen respectively, going forward. 2006/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 2021/3 2029/3 CONTENTS President’s Sustainability is the essence of management. 3 Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi 9 Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation 25 Message Our approach to management essentially involves leveraging our diverse (Strategies by Business/Strengthening of Non-financial Capital (Instrumental, Human and Intellectual capital)) range of businesses, people and business locations with respect to building Chapter II Financial Strategy and Capital Policy 19 Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation 45 a company that achieves ongoing growth regardless of risks. (Message from Chief of Tokyo Head Office, CFO/ Financial and Non-financial Highlights) 1 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 2 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Sustainability is the essence of management. Our approach to management essentially involves leveraging our diverse range of businesses, people and business locations with respect to building a company that achieves ongoing growth regardless of risks. Taking action against COVID-19 We fulfill our supply responsibilities as a parts manufacturer, while protecting our employees, drawing on lessons learned in the past. We encountered numerous challenges during the fiscal year ended Thailand in 2011 is deeply etched in our memories. March 2020. This included U.S.-China trade friction, typhoons Whereas I led efforts on-site each and every day during the striking various localities, volcanic eruptions in the Philippines, and flooding, it got to the point where we finally had no choice the spread of COVID-19. Worldwide proliferation of COVID-19 but to retreat from the Nava Nakorn Plant. Nevertheless, local has had a particularly severe impact on various industries, and employees insisted on staying behind to defend the factory. I MinebeaMitsumi has been no exception. Looking back, we set will never forget what I witnessed during my daily stints of up a response headquarters on January 29, merely a week after monitoring the scene from a helicopter above. Employees who the city of Wuhan in China went into lockdown on January 23. had voluntarily remained in the flooded Nava Nakorn Plant to Upon establishment of the headquarters, I have continued to give remove water from the facility would stop what they were doing, detailed guidance serving as leader of the headquarters through lean out of the windows on the second floor and wave at me meetings lasting about two hours, held three times a week. As from below. Moreover, despite having to contend with flooding many as 650 people were able to attend the meetings, particularly at their homes and other such crises, some 3,000 employees because they were accessible online. The experience we are would come to work every day and stack sandbags to safeguard gaining will help us address future adversities, given the fact that our main factory. Whereas the flooding struck two of our plants we have established a framework for directly communicating in Thailand, several of our main factories were protected thanks management’s thoughts and instructions, in a manner not to that dedication of our employees. encumbered by physical restrictions. The Company states that it strives to “be a company where our As such, the Company has attracted positive attention for its employees are proud to work” as the first of “The Five Principles” efforts that involve taking thorough action to prevent the spread of the company credo which serves as the basic management of infection, having taken the initiative even before the scourge policy. In fact, up until the flooding incident, I had wondered why of COVID-19 surfaced. For instance, the media has portrayed the it was that employees should be given top priority, and not the Company as operating model factories in the cities of Shanghai shareholders. Having witnessed the employees on-site during the and Zhuhai. As a company that supplies bearings, various motors, flooding, however, I came to truly realize that employees are the sensors, power supplies, semiconductors, connectors and other ones who sustain the company. Whereas employees give their such components for various medical devices such as ventilators utmost, management must also act accordingly. The Company and cardiopulmonary bypass devices, we have been fulfilling our ultimately gains protection from efforts that involve building supply responsibilities as a parts manufacturer by maintaining a relationships of trust and safeguarding employees. The lessons we comprehensive supply system in addressing growing medical learned and our beliefs that took shape during the floods, as well as needs amid this crisis. our track record and confidence we have gained in our continuous We have been able to make quick decisions in this regard largely growth while overcoming numerous adversities, are being because our experience in dealing with major floods that struck thoroughly put to good use in our measures against COVID-19. Corporate philosophy Corporate Philosophy To contribute to society by “Producing better products, with faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower cost and by smarter means.” Basic management policy Representative Director, CEO & COO Transparent management based on our company credo “The Five Principles” Yoshihisa Kainuma  e a company where (i) B (ii) Earn and preserve the (iii) Respond to our  ork in harmony with (iv)W  (v)Promote and contribute our employees are trust of our valued shareholders’ the local community to global society proud to work customers expectations Corporate strategy Create new value through “difference” that transcends conventional wisdom 3 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 4 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation We are enhancing our corporate Effects of business integration character by returning to and instilling We hope to leverage synergies with the analog semiconductor our corporate philosophy geared to business undertaken by newly acquired company ABLIC. further honing our strengths. With ABLIC having become part of the MinebeaMitsumi Group enabled us to increase net sales to our target of 100 billion yen, on April 30, 2020, I would like to draw attention to the mediumfrom around 20 billion yen previously, by leveraging MITSUMI to long-term growth potential of the analog semiconductor ELECTRIC’s development capabilities in conjunction with business in which ABLIC engages. ABLIC boasts a domestic Minebea’s manufacturing technologies. Meanwhile, we have market share of approximately 70% with respect to analog positioned OIS as a “sub-core business” (refer to page 16) given semiconductors, which are used for digital data processing of the prospect of relentless changes in technologies and demand, analog data such as sound waves and pressure measurements, and despite the potential for generating profits. However, we particularly in the field of applications requiring data retention for deem that our business integration with ABLIC has enabled us automotive devices. Analog semiconductors have advantages to further strengthen our management foundations—given that when it comes to medical applications and magnetic sensors, the integration has fortified our analog semiconductor operations Operating results for the fiscal year ended March 2020 as well as applications that require fine-tuning in design and and has culminated in there being a new “core business” in the manufacturing processes compared to digital semiconductors. As MITSUMI business segment. We view this unprecedented crisis as an opportunity for growth, such, the business of analog semiconductors is one that draws The U-Shin business has been encountering very challenging underpinned by the Company’s corporate philosophy. on strengths prevalent among the Japanese population. As with bearings, the Company’s mainstay business, semiconductors circumstances given that it mainly involves automotive products. As such, for the fiscal year ending March 2021, we anticipate net Since having been appointed to the position of CEO, I have transform itself through this ordeal. The pandemic serves as a constitute an industry staple. The business of semiconductors sales in the first six months amounting to half those of the same remained firmly aware of the premise that we should build a tribulation shared by all of humanity. I mean that in the sense furthermore aligns with the Company’s core business strategy period in the previous fiscal year, and net sales in the second six diversified business portfolio and take steps to strengthen our that conventional value systems do not apply amid the ongoing of targeting the top of the niche, given that semiconductors months on par with those of the same period in the previous risk diversification system, rather than enlisting an approach that fight against the risk of infectious transmission prevailing until an will definitely remain in use, yet are difficult to counterfeit. The fiscal year. However, we are able to make sufficient adjustments involves “selection and concentration.” This is in order to make our effective vaccine is finally developed. From the perspective of a Company’s business integration with ABLIC has enabled us to and implement controls in terms of profits given that the belief that “sustainability is the essence of management” a reality. corporate manager, however, I must ask myself “what should we generate 59 billion yen in net sales of analog semiconductors, and company is not subject to a substantial depreciation burden. As Having built a framework whereby we “manufacture a diverse learn from this crisis and how should MinebeaMitsumi consequently has made us the third-ranking player domestically in the analog such, we will improve productivity and cut fixed costs on the one range of products in various locations (product mix/manufacturing evolve?” As such, I aim to strengthen the Company without halting semiconductor market—excluding specialty semiconductors for hand, while robustly forging ahead with INTEGRATION initiatives site mix)” based on this premise, I am proud to declare that our its growth in a manner whereby four to five years from now I will power systems. We anticipate growth culminating in business that will involve infusing MinebeaMitsumi’s technologies such as financial results for the fiscal year ended March 2020 reflect the be able to look back and say that our present success derives from operations that generate net sales of more than 100 billion yen motors and wireless devices for lock mechanisms, which are a Company’s strengths in that regard. The Company’s market for our experience in contending with the COVID-19 crisis. within ten years, as a result of efforts to enhance the quality of strength of the U-Shin business. In so doing, we aim to become finished products is widely distributed across areas that include The COVID-19 pandemic has presented opportunities in terms our INTEGRATION initiatives while deepening and expanding our a dominant player in the realm of keyless entry (accessories that automobiles, aircraft, video games, smartphones, medicine, and of giving rise to remote work arrangements and other work-style range of sales activities. make it possible to lock and unlock doors using a smartphone or smart cities. Although we have been encountering a slowdown transformations. Meanwhile, the basis for all of the Company’s One outcome of the business integration with MITSUMI remote control), combining electrification and a shift to wireless with respect to products for the automotive and aircraft markets, growth lies in its on-site operations leveraging the approach to ELECTRIC is that of optical image stabilization (OIS) components technology not only with respect to automobiles, but also when we are building complementary relationships among elements of business whereby our roughly 100,000 employees, located in 27 for smartphone cameras. Carrying out the business integration it comes to housing equipment. our portfolio by addressing mounting demand for smartphones, countries worldwide, diligently engage in efforts to accumulate video games and other products for general consumers. As profits through manufacturing—rather than an approach that COVID-19 took hold in China, we were able to shift production would otherwise entail achieving substantial earnings generated to Thailand, Cambodia and the Philippines. That enabled us to by a select few individuals. We will continue to place focus on Mediumto long-term vision continue manufacturing without shutting down production lines, on-site manufacturing and face-to-face communications, while thereby avoiding situations that would otherwise have caused effectively separating in-person and remote work. We will reinforce our Eight Spears and promote INTEGRATION initiatives, inconvenience to our customers. As of early May, our production is gradually recovering now that all of our plants in Japan, elsewhere The driving force underpinning the Company’s growth thus far is reflected in our corporate philosophy. The Company’s corporate while also striving to achieve net sales of 2.5 trillion yen and operating in Asia, North America and Europe are in operation. philosophy is “to contribute to society by ‘Producing better products, income of 250 billion yen through M&As. We generated net sales of 978.4 billion yen, which was a new with faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower cost and by smarter record high—albeit slightly short of the 1 trillion yen mark—and means,’” relative to our competitors from the perspective of Prevailing uncertainties aside, the notion of achieving net sales Our basic strategy for achieving our long-term targets is operating income of 58.6 billion yen. We have achieved a greater sustainability. Premised on principles of capitalism, our philosophy of 1 trillion yen and operating income of 100 billion yen no longer threefold: (i) strengthening and extending the Eight Spears presence by building a unique position as an “INTEGRATION* embodies the notion that we operate amid an ecosystem whereby seems out of reach. Moreover, our long-term targets for the fiscal which encompass bearings (refer to page 16), (ii) driving manufacturer of precision components” wielding a wide range of we ought to fully and effectively leverage limited resources in a year ending March 2029 remain unchanged in terms of achieving INTEGRATION initiatives, and (iii) promoting M&As. Through the product lines and technological capabilities unlike any other company manner that culminates in greater well-being of industry and society. net sales of 2.5 trillion yen and operating income of 250 billion business integration with ABLIC, we will reinforce our analog in the world. Moreover, whereas the Company had previously been Moreover, our philosophy is one which involves providing the yen. With respect to our profitability target, we aim to achieve an semiconductor business, which constitutes the fourth spear of plagued by the perception that it was subject to volatility, I believe Company’s products to the world in a manner that entails contributing operating margin of 10%, which we have set at that level so as to the Company’s strategy. we have shown our ability to take a resilient and robust approach to to an improved quality of life for the international community and readily communicate the objective to our employees. Moreover, our INTEGRATION initiatives entail both horizontal addressing risks, cultivated over the past decade. helping to bring about development of a civilized society: a philosophy The Company has continued to grow by both organic growth synergies and vertical synergies, of which the former will entail Institutional investors and other outsiders have been wondering that is truly important as the source from which corporate value is and M&As. Over the past decade we also increased monthly increasing our industry coverage by diversifying businesses, and whether or not we are enduring challenges posed by the COVID-19 generated. We will instill the corporate philosophy with the aim of production of bearings, our founding business, from 200 million of which the latter will entail developing products. For instance, pandemic, and furthermore ask how MinebeaMitsumi might enhancing our corporate character and achieving sustainable growth. units to 300 million units. the Company’s manufacturing of its direct-current brushless *INTEGRATION means “combining” rather than “simple gathering” of the Company’s proprietary technologies to evolve the “Eight Spears” and to create new products in various fields through the INTEGRATION of our advanced technology. 5 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 6 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation motors calls for high-quality bearings plus motor drivers that as Bed Sensor System (combining strain sensors and data Having declared its support of the Task Force on ClimateAs for the MinebeaMitsumi Group’s corporate governance, enable precise rotation. Whereas MITSUMI ELECTRIC deals with loggers) and smart LED lighting SALIOT (combining optical related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in August 2020, the I have repeatedly explained my belief that it is important to the motor drivers, ABLIC handles the Hall effect components technology, motors, sensors, and power supplies). In the realm Company will establish a framework for exercising even greater strengthen the decision-making performance and supervising required for improving precision of motor driver positioning of infrastructure and smartphones, timelines for producing commitment. This will be done by taking steps that involve both function of the Board of Directors through examination and control. We are able to provide greater added value with respect results vary depending on the industry, particularly when it alleviating and adapting to climate change, and helping to prevent discussion from diverse perspectives, in order to prevent to our products by heightening quality as a result of leveraging comes to changes and vast differences in the sense of urgency global warming by disclosing information and other such means. corporate governance from becoming a formality. During the vertical synergies—particularly involving motors, bearings, motor leading up to order acceptance. Meanwhile, there are different In terms of our involvement with society, we offered medical fiscal year ending March 2021, we will further strengthen drivers and Hall effect components—streamlining production, and ways to go about the objective of achieving the best possible institutions around the world donations of approximately 220,000 functions of the Board of Directors by appointing corporate offering combinations unavailable from our competitors. business results during my tenure. That said, as a result of medical-grade masks (N95) which we had been storing at sites strategy specialist Yuko Haga to serve as an independent Moreover, our CLEAN-Boost® products make it possible for ongoing diligent efforts, we have been nurturing technologies worldwide as a countermeasure to address risks with respect Outside Director. We have also decided to introduce a sensors to operate in the absence of a battery by generating and businesses that will blossom in the next generation; while to natural disasters and epidemics. On April 1, we embarked new performance-linked stock compensation system that boosts of electricity in battery-less environments. For instance, in marketing we are managing to develop sales channels on in-house production of masks to ensure the safety of our encourages our Directors to fulfill their responsibilities for when working with its Smart City Solutions, the Company and accumulate knowhow in relation to a greater number of employees and prevent the spread of infection to those outside executing business by providing them with greater motivation acquires data that is useful in terms of people’s lifestyles industries. I believe this will culminate in steady growth and the Company. On June 26, we launched external sales of the and stronger incentive with respect to achieving the long-term by enlisting the combination of various sensors such as sustainability with respect to the corporation. masks in the hope that we might provide a measure of help in targets. temperature-humidity sensors, rain gauges, and flood gauges When it comes to new M&As, our focus on leveraging addressing the shortage of masks available to the public. Spurring the evolution of corporate governance is a on streetlights. Amid mounting interest in recent years in Japan synergies with the Eight Spears remains unchanged. In addition, Considering the significance of the Company, our employees never-ending task for corporate management. I hope to further with respect to gaining access to information on floods and we are actively considering new fields of business such as have been actively involved in donating and manufacturing such reinforce our “proactive” approach to corporate governance other disasters, CLEAN-Boost gives rise to future possibilities those involving medical & healthcare, infrastructure, and housing masks, underpinned by the company credo encouraging them to through positive dialogue with institutional investors and other to transmit small amounts of data captured by such sensors, equipment. Going forward, COVID-19 may result in increasing “work in harmony with the local community,” as cited in “The stakeholders, particularly given the rapidly changing nature of in the absence of a battery, using electricity generated by numbers of companies encountering financial difficulties, yet Five Principles” of the Company. the business environment. CLEAN-Boost technology. Such data can then be sent in real possessing outstanding technologies. We would certainly time to administrative departments of local authorities from onwelcome opportunities involving such entities should there site operations. As such, we will be able to spur the evolution be potential for mutual growth by integrating the entity with of CLEAN-Boost into products that furthermore contribute to MinebeaMitsumi. When it comes to M&As, nothing is more Towards the future addressing social issues. important than achieving relationships of trust between both When it comes to M&As, our objective is not that of business parties. We will actively continue to visit factories and on-site Overcoming this crisis and furthermore becoming a company that integration. As conveyed by our “Passion to Create Value through Difference” corporate slogan, we will focus our efforts on operations of M&A candidates, as we seek to develop more robust core businesses—while placing value on our intuition at remains essential to society INTEGRATION initiatives that give rise to new products and value such sites, real-life communication, and trusting relationships. It is very difficult to predict what sorts of changes are likely approach extending from planning to manufacturing and sales. in a manner organically linked to the Company’s technologies Although the COVID-19 pandemic has certainly stifled our to transpire across many industries from this point forward. In other words, we are more of a “components SPA.” Whereas and products. In so doing, I will spearhead such initiatives while growth, I believe we have sufficient capacity to achieve recovery Nevertheless, we have solidified the pillars underpinning the notion of “diversity” attracts attention with respect to employees will work together in discussing and taking action through efforts that include M&A opportunities. In so doing, the Company as a result of having continually engaged in enterprise growth, our strength lies in the way we fortify the geared to passionately achieving challenging targets. we will need to overcome the scourge of the pandemic and various initiatives centered on the notions of strengthening corporate physique by drawing on the Company’s diversity We are steadily amassing knowhow and accomplishments approach it as an opportunity for growth. The Company’s longour core businesses, promoting INTEGRATION initiatives, and across the board, with respect to its products, its factories and that embody the Company’s INTEGRATION approach and also term target of achieving net sales of 2.5 trillion yen is by no implementing M&A strategy. We will keep working to develop its people. The Company draws support from its employees typify the Company’s entry into new key markets. This includes means unrealistic. We have hit even more challenging targets a more robust and sustainable enterprise, one that does not who have various technological and cultural backgrounds our smart product trio as well, which enlist combinations of over the past decade, and I am confident that we will be able to easily waver no matter what risks it encounters. internationally. Having overcome various crises thus far, I sense our existing businesses, namely Smart City Solutions as well do so again looking out over the decade to come. As a company offering a varied portfolio encompassing that all 100,000 of our employees have been gradually instilled everything from bearings, motors and sensors to with an approach whereby they seize on a passion for growth semiconductors, like no other, it may seem that we are a sort of and unwaveringly join forces in taking on threats across the “components emporium.” That said, given that we manufacture organization—from its top executives to the factory floor. With Initiatives for ESG complementary and related items, in retail terms we are such employees driving INTEGRATION initiatives on a global more akin to an SPA (specialty store retailer of private label scale, I hope to see MinebeaMitsumi serve as a company that Reinforcing our “proactive” approach apparel), such that employs a business model which entails remains an essential entity: one to which people turn, knowing to governance through positive dialogue selling related items of apparel using a vertically-integrated they trust it to act on their behalf. I assume that the details I have provided up to this point have prevent global warming and otherwise save energy. As an We have achieved diversity across the board with enabled everyone to gain an understanding of factors that example, we performed trial runs of IoT streetlights under our bring about sustainability of the Company’s management and Smart City Solutions, described previously, in Tokyo’s Suginami respect to our products, our factories, and our people. business operations. That said, in order for our business to Ward beginning in the autumn of 2019, subsequent to such achieve sustainability over the long term going forward, we will testing in Cambodia previously. The Company furnished the Our INTEGRATION approach creates new value and actively engage in efforts that address environmental, social, and sensors and wireless technology for such IoT streetlights, corporate governance (ESG) concerns. which helped to significantly reduce power consumption. makes a difference, and accordingly helps strengthen In terms of the environment, when it comes to the The Group Environment Management Department has been Company’s ultra-precision components, we have been spearheading efforts with respect to increasing the proportion the company. developing smaller, thinner and lighter products that waste of Green Products by establishing a framework in the previous less energy, and also creating many Green Products that help fiscal year for releasing such information (refer to page 47). 7 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 8 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation 1. History of MinebeaMitsumi 2020 New building is completed at the Akita Organic growth 2010 Business Division Suzhou Plant is established to expand Automotive devices business 1988 Lop Buri Plant is established in Thailand production of LED backlights development is reinforced (Ultra-precision machining technology) × Production in the electronic devices and components area is expanded Growth through M&A Backlights Suzhou Plant (China) Akita Business Division of MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. The corporate profile can be viewed from here. 2010 Lop Buri Plant (Thailand) Our plant is established in Cambodia, and commences production the next year 1984 Founded Bang Pa-in Plant is established as 1994 Minebea Electronics & For risk diversification, expansion of production and in July 1951 1972 the second facility in Thailand Hi-Tech Components reduction of costs Resonant devices 50 (Shanghai) Ltd. (our ▼ Our first own overseas plant 1986 first plant in China) is Nippon Miniature Bearing Co., is constructed in Singapore Hamamatsu Plant is established established, which produces Ltd., Japan’s first specialized 2018 manufacturer of miniature ball Development in the bearings and fan motors from parts 1980 Kosice Plant in Slovakia commences production electronic devices and in a vertically-integrated manner bearings, is incorporated in Ayutthaya Plant is established Supply to Europe market is expanded As of August 2020 40 50 M&As! Azusawa, Itabashi-ku, The Company advances components area is Tokyo. for the first time into expanded ▼ Total of Thailand, the Group’s AGA (Active Grill largest facility Shutter) Actuators We aim to keep Chai Chee Plant (Singapore) achieving growth by actively pursuing M&A ▶ Organic growth opportunities 30 Shanghai Plant (China) FDDs and MODs ▼ 2019 1963 German precision molded parts Plant is relocated from Kawaguchi, Saitama, and operations begin at the Karuizawa Plant, to become the Ayutthaya Plant (Thailand) 25▼ 2017 manufacturer is acquired The Company conducts a business integration with Capacity for swift production in mother plant of all the MinebeaMitsumi Group’s MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. through share exchange Europe and Asia is expanded plants worldwide, in Miyota-machi, Nagano 20 2009 Accelerated growth of each business as an “Electro ▼ Production of micro actuator is Mechanics SolutionsTM” Provider that commenced integrates control technology with machine Number of production and electronic technology Miniature ball bearings 1988 facilities of motors is The U.K. rod-end bearing manufacturer increased is acquired Micro actuators Mast Kunststoffe GmbH & Co.KG Karuizawa Plant (Japan) Supply to Europe market is 1-cell Lithium-ion Battery Protection IC expanded 2020 1980 Head office of MITSUMI The Company conducts a business 5 2010 The Company commences ELECTRIC CO., LTD. integration with ABLIC Inc. through Production of brushless ▼ the production of acquisition of its shares motors is commenced ▶ M&As small-sized ball bearings 2019 The Company’s presence in Product lineup of The Company conducts a business integration with U-Shin DC motors the analog semiconductor motors is expanded Ltd. through tender offer 1974 market is strengthened 1985 Generated synergy in the automotive, housing The Company embarks on The U.S. ball bearing manufacturer is acquired Business Strategy Pages 35 to 36 the electronic devices and equipment and industrial equipment areas Small-sized ball bearings Supply to the U.S. market is expanded through the strength of new INTEGRATION components area (measuring 2015 components: the present Major manufacturer of measuring components Sensing Device BU) in Germany is acquired 1971 Production Production and supply in Door handles overseas is Europe and India commenced for the Aircraft components are expanded Takatsuka Unit of ABLIC Inc. Sensing first time in the U.S. devices Hiroshima Plant of U-Shin Ltd. Climate control panel Strain gauges Number of M&As 3211971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 9 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 10 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation 2. MinebeaMitsumi Current Creating high-quality products in the global market We created a global system for production and sales, responded to local production and local consumption, and reduced exchange, Toward becoming a one-of-a-kind disaster and geopolitical risks. Others 12 % INTEGRATION manufacturer of precision Thailand 6 % components by maintaining a diverse portfolio The United States 10 % Sales territory mix Japan 34 % 27 Net sales by region MinebeaMitsumi pursues synergies through INTEGRATION while maintaining an outstanding (Fiscal year ended March 2020) risk diversification structure drawing on both an effective product mix encompassing everything countries from automobiles and aircraft to smartphones, medical devices and infrastructure; and also on a complementary framework brought about by expanding global production sites extending throughout Europe 15 % China 23 % 93 Japan, Americas, Europe and Asia. production and We will continue to achieve further growth, while consistently securing profits even as we encounter development sites adverse circumstances. 91 Net sales by business The Company set a new record high in net sales for the fiscal year ended March 2020 Machined Components sales offices 88 due to its mix of products and manufacturing sites. Business Percentage of overseas 180.9 (As of August 1, 2020) Net sales ¥ billion production % U-Shin Business (Fiscal year ended March 2020) Net sales ¥ 125.1 billion Net sales composition 18 % Net sales composition 13 % [Major products] Net sales composition ■ Ball bearings 12% [Major products] ■ Rod-end and fasteners 4% Automotive components, ■ Pivot assemblies 3% components for industrial equipment, components for home Net sales security units (house and general The World’s No. 1 share 978.4 building’s locks and others) Electronic Devices and Components Business 379.4 ¥ billion Miniature & small-sized Pivot assemblies for 1-cell Lithium-ion Net sales ¥ billion ball bearings hard disk drive (HDD) Battery Protection IC MITSUMI Business Operating income Net sales ¥ 292.2 billion ¥ 58.6 billion Net sales composition 39 % 30 (Fiscal year ended [Major products] 60% 60% 50 50% 80 80 65% 65% Net sales composition % March 2020) Net sales composition [Major products] Motors 18% ■ Camera actuators, high-frequency Electronic devices 17% ■ 60% 50% 80% 65% components, semiconductors, Sensing devices 3% ■ mechanical components, connectors, switches, etc. *Net sales of 0.8 billion yen for Other business is omitted here. The World’s Mix of products and manufacturing sites Percentage of The World’s smallest thinnest net sales* of The Company achieves sustainability by drawing from complementary Green Products Miniature The world’s smallest class The world’s smallest class Light guide plates for 85.8 relationships among elements of its portfolio. ball bearings stepping motors tactile switches LED backlights for LCDs Singapore 1% Others 2% External External Diameter Area Thickness Cambodia 2% Thailand % diameter Diameter diameter Area Thickness 1.5mm 3.3 1.5mm 4.0 3.3mm 0.3 4.0 0.3 North America 5% 33% Others 25% Office Europe 8% (Fiscal year ended automation & March 2020) External mm mm 22 mm mm 2 mm communications Diameter Area or smaller Thickness or smaller Manufacturing diameter 0.3 28% 1.5mm 3.3mm 4.0mm Motors 2% Product mix Philippines site mix Home electronics (Fiscal year ended March 2020) 12% (Fiscal year ended * Excluding products that cannot be 2 mm 5% March 2020) Aircraft & aerospace designed in-house. or smaller 6% Japan 12% Personal computers & Automobiles 25% Green Products Page 47 communication devices 9% China 25% 11 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 12 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation 3. Value Creation Model of MinebeaMitsumi Sustainable growth based on three strengths MinebeaMitsumi’s three strengths are “Reinforcing Core Businesses,” “Diversified Niches,” and “Generating Synergies through the INTEGRATION*.” and non-financial capital By refining these three strengths and generating synergies, we have created environmental and social value at the same time as economic value, thereby accumulating both financial and non-financial capital. Using all such capital, we will further hone our three strengths to realize sustainable growth. * I NTEGRATION means “combining” rather than “simple gathering” of the Company’s proprietary technologies to evolve the “Eight Spears” and to create new products in various fields through the INTEGRATION of our advanced technology. Strength I Strength II Strength III Reinforcing Core Generating Sustainable growth of Diversified Niches Synergies through Businesses the INTEGRATION MinebeaMitsumi Group Research and Quality development Procurement Manufacturing assurance Logistics Sales Economic value created ● Environmentally friendly products made possible by MinebeaMitsumi’s high-quality components ● Efficient use of social infrastructure as a result of relatively low prices and high product reliability ● Numerous No.1 products ● High operating margin Non-financial capital to build up strength ● Ability to generate cash backed by high earning power ● Return on equity (ROE) Instrumental capital Human capital Intellectual capital ● Return on invested capital (ROIC) ● Vertically-integrated ● Global human resources ● Ultra-precision machining manufacturing ● Women’s empowerment technology Environmental and social value created ● Global operation ● Skilled ● Comprehensive manufacturing, workers/engineers ● Accumulated manufacturing engineering, development, and ● Mass production with minimum environmental knowhow sales capability footprint ● M&A capability/PMI ● Creating environmentally friendly products Instrumental capital Pages 37 to 38 Human capital Pages 39 to 42 Intellectual capital Pages 43 to 44 ● Using IoT to help build smart industry ● Encouraging agricultural workers in emerging countries to participate in the latest technology fields Fundamental philosophy ● Empowering women worldwide ● Corporate Philosophy To contribute to society by “Producing better products, with faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower cost and by smarter means.” We create environmental value, for example through the supply of environmentally considerate products such as ball ● Basic management policy bearings that reduce friction and increase energy efficiency. We also create social value through means such as raising Transparent management based on our company credo “The Five Principles” awareness of agricultural workers in emerging countries and encouraging their participation in the latest technology fields. In this way, we achieve business activities that harmonize the resolution of social issues with the creation of economic value. ● Corporate strategy Through these activities, we aim to realize the SDGs promoted by the United Nations. Create new value through “difference” that transcends conventional wisdom 13 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 14 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Ten core technologies 4. MinebeaMitsumi’s Strengths Ultraprecision Mass Sensor technology Optical MEMS HighElectronic Semiconductor Mechanism System production frequency circuits design design design machining (load, technology technology technology technology technology technology technology technology Centered on our ten core technologies, technology pressure, etc.) we will continue to pursue organic growth Core businesses (Eight Spears) Sub-core businesses through the generation of synergies through Definition of core business ⑴ Serve niche fields in massive markets ⑵ Capable of drawing on our ultra-high quality and ultra-precision Definition of sub-core business ⑴ Serve niche fields in massive markets (same as the core business) ⑵ Capable of drawing on our ultra-high quality and ultra-precision INTEGRATION and our core/sub-core strategy. machining technologies machining technologies (same as the core business) ⑶ Not readily displaced even as a result of technological innovation ⑶ Potentially displaced due to technological innovation The foundation of growth for analog semiconductors is complete due In the sub-core businesses, we are minimizing risk through initiatives to integration with ABLIC. that include keeping fixed costs to a minimum and taking accelerated Ranking rose from 8th to 4th in the Eight Spears. depreciation method on investment, given potential for future We will combine and utilize ten core technologies refined by MinebeaMitsumi, displacement of such business. such as ultra-precision machining technology and mass production technology, to evolve each of the Eight Spear products and create new business opportunities through the INTEGRATION and recombination of the evolved products. Furthermore, in addition to the Eight Spears core businesses, we are also developing “sub-core businesses” using our core technologies. ⑴ Bearings ⑵ Motors ⑶ Access ⑷ Analog We will maximize earnings from our sub-core businesses functioning as cash cows, products semiconductors as well as further enhance technologies. Minebea Minebea, MITSUMI U-Shin MITSUMI, ABLIC We plan to invest the created earnings to further enhance and grow our core businesses. Mechanical components ⑹ Connectors/ Synergies with core businesses such as MITSUMI switches power supply components MITSUMI ⑻ Wireless/ ⑸ Sensors communications/ Backlights for LCDs ⑺ Power supply Expansion of applications Minebea software Minebea, components to automotive, etc. MITSUMI MITSUMI MITSUMI Three strengths which create difference expanding the realm of possibility Camera actuators Permanence and substantial MITSUMI growth potential ■ Products of core businesses ■ Products of sub-core businesses Strength I VerticallyGateway ■ Origin of the business We aim to capture an overwhelming Ultra-precision majority of the market share with integrated Global (The diagram above conceptually portrays the Company’s business operations as an SPA* floor plan. Reinforcing Core machining * A specialty store retailer of private label apparel, or SPA, employs a business model that entails selling related items of apparel using a vertically-integrated approach extending from planning to our core products using our original manufacturing operation manufacturing and sales.) Businesses technology and production system technology system Ultra-high quality, highly competitive pricing capability, and swift and unrivalled supply capability Generating synergies through the INTEGRATION Strength II Diversified management Example of generating synergies through the INTEGRATION centered on niche fields, Business Concentration Diversified underpinned by strong Niche fields diversification and selection Small-sized precision Bearing-sensor High sensitivity strain gauge Automobile electronics and Niches technologies motors using ultra-highcombination that can detect film MINEGETM and mobile devices using efficiency ball bearings, replacement periods ADC (analog-to-digital converter) connectors/switches and High market share and profitability controlling ICs, and sensors for precision robotics power supply components in niche fields Creating value in various businesses Strength III Core Generating Further strengthening business through synergies derived from technologies New Eight the INTEGRATION of Minebea business × MITSUMI business Synergies through × U-Shin business refined by Spears the INTEGRATION MinebeaMitsumi Evolution through the INTEGRATION and recombination Automobiles Aircraft Robotics Medicine and Industry Information and Infrastructure Housing Advanced product groups that will be vital to society nursing care communications equipment 15 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 16 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter I Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Underpinned by the instrumental, human, and intellectual capital it has amassed, the Company has been 5. Toward Sustainable Growth taking steps to establish robust management foundations that are not susceptible to risk, by accordingly strengthening its core businesses, diversifying operations, and promoting global production. We will persist with business operations The Company has also been creating new value through INTEGRATION of such elements. under any and all circumstances firmly Meanwhile, going forward, we will seek solutions to social issues centered on material issues from the perspective of environmental, social, and governance aspects of business on the basis of our corporate underpinned by our management foundation philosophy. We will furthermore aim to achieve sustainable growth by providing beneficial value to our customers around the world, having set long-term quantitative targets seeking net sales of 2.5 trillion and risk management. yen and operating income of 250 billion yen. Vision for MinebeaMitsumi through the fiscal year ending March 2029 Quantitative targets Net sales Value Creation Model ¥ 2.5 trillion and/or Material issues (Materiality) Operating income Mega trends Creating environments where all employees can demonstrate their maximum capabilities Strength I Strength II Strength III ¥ 250 billion Environmental and Generating social issues Reinforcing Core Diversified (Business opportunities) 1 Ensuring employee safety and health S Businesses Niches Synergies through the INTEGRATION EPS growth rate E: Environment 2 Creating positive and rewarding work S +15％ or more 15 ROE ％ or more environments CAGR for next ● Global warming 10 years ● Biodiversity 3 Human resources development worldwide S ● Energy crisis Research and Quality Procurement Manufacturing Logistics Sales ● Resource ● Natural depletion 4 Diversity promotion worldwide S development assurance Non-financial targets disasters Creating new value that contributes to the Percentage of net sales Workplace Injuries development of society of Green Products S: Social ● Enhancement of 5 Creating environmentally friendly products E 90 % 0 incidents information security Non-financial capital to build up strength ● Development of AI and 6 Contributing to dialogue with and the development of local communities S IoT society Instrumental capital Human capital Intellectual capital 7 Business portfolio ● Growth of the global Creating solutions to social issues S ● Vertically-integrated ● Global human resources ● Ultra-precision machining population manufacturing ● Women’s empowerment technology We will shift to core businesses, and ● Food crisis Ensuring stable supplies of the precision ● Global operation ● Skilled workers/engineers ● Comprehensive manage both the decreasing of volatility ● Declining birthrate and products that support society ● Accumulated manufacturing, of performance and improvement of risk manufacturing knowhow engineering, development, aging population in developed countries 8 Providing safe and reliable products S and sales capability ● M&A capability/PMI management. ■ Net sales of core businesses ● Widening disparity ● Pandemic (spread of 9 Practicing responsible procurement S Instrumental capital Pages 37 to 38 Human capital Pages 39 to 42 Intellectual capital Pages 43 to 44 ■ Net sales of sub-core businesses Fiscal year ending March 2029 infections) Basic strategies for next 10 years 10 Reinforcing risk management Material issues Page 46 G Becoming the world’s precision components mightiest INTEGRATION manufacturer of with our new Eight Spears Fiscal year ended March 2020 ¥ 2.5 trillion 1. Change to new Eight Spears 3. Cultivate new markets ¥978.4 billion Management foundation and risk management 2. Launch new products 4. Pursue active M&As Instilling the corporate philosophy + Digitalization Group governance Human resources development + shareholder return maintaining financial discipline (including training successors) Succession planning, etc. Business and other risks Pages 61 to 62 17 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 18 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter II Financial Strategy and Capital Policy President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Highlights of Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Message from Chief of Tokyo Head Office, CFO EPS growth rate ROE of CAPEX Shareholder returns There are no changes to our basic 15% 50% 50% CAGR of financial policy of portfolio reform and 15% or more or more or less of EBITDA of FCF carrying out highly effective M&As. We will pursue growth through an appropriate and agile financial Impact of COVID-19 on performance strategy that envisions even the Impact on net sales was approximately 30 billion yen for the ■ Impact on production (as of early May) worst-case scenario. fiscal year ended March 2020. Impact on operating income was a decline of 9.0 billion yen. This was mainly due to 2.6 ◦ Medical/aircraft: At reduced utilization. billion yen from operational losses/control measure expenses Europe ◦ Automobile: Operations have partially started sinceApril. （8％） Full utilization in late May. and 6.4 billion yen due to declined sales. (France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Slovakia, Hungary, Russia, etc.) Since entering the fiscal year ending March 2021, we have been responding to the fast changes in the business North environment in the with-corona era. As of the end of May America ◦ In operation as usual. （5％） 2020, all our factories are operating. By region, the Chinese Katsuhiko Yoshida factories have already realized 100% utilization. European ◦ China: In operation as usual since April. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer factories also began operations at the start of May. While ◦ Thailand: In operation as usual. gradual, production activities are recovering. Asia ◦ Cambodia: In operation as usual. （74％） ◦ Philippines: Continued operations at reduced utilization in Luzon but operations remained normal in Cebu. Crisis response ◦ Malaysia: In operation as usual. Note: Figures in parentheses are the production ratios in FY3/2020. The COVID-19 pandemic is having a broad effect on the economy payable) accounted for 57% of bonds and borrowings. and corporate activities. The Group is also being affected by Furthermore, although the financial authorities in each country are declined net sales due to changes in the external environment and currently actively supplying funds to the financial markets, and we reduced factory operations caused by travel restrictions in different recognize that there is a limited possibility this will have a significant Financial strategy going forward countries. Amid these conditions, in addition to restricting capital impact on our cash flow and financial stability, in the event of a investment this fiscal year, we created ten-year fixed terms for 100 major turmoil in the financial markets, there may be an increase in Under our vision for the fiscal year ending March 2029, ■ Results and plans: EBITDA/ billion yen in borrowings through last year, and we see no large, funding costs and an impact on new fund procurement. We will we have set targets for net sales and operating income of net interest-bearing debt/free cash flows immediate refinancing demand. As of March 31, 2020, long-term monitor the market accordingly. 2.5 trillion yen and 250 billion yen, respectively. While the (Billions of yen) ■ EBITDA ● Net interest-bearing debt interest-bearing debt (excluding current portion of long-term loans effects of COVID-19 are unclear, we will strengthen our core 250 ● Free cash flows businesses in ultra-precision technologies and ultra-high quality in the Eight Spears and solidify our position as the world’s mightiest INTEGRATION manufacturer of precision 200 components. Meanwhile, we are considering options for Operating results for the fiscal year ended March 2020 and flexibly allocating cash generated by these numerous highlyoutlook for the fiscal year ending March 2021 profitable No. 1 products to initiatives that involve carrying 150 136 114 110 out M&As and enhancing shareholder returns with top 104 111 108 105 97 98 109 The global economy faced a large decline in the current fiscal year, year attributable to owners of the parent to decline by 23.6% YoY to 93 priority placed on achieving organic growth, premised on the 100 99 caused by the overseas economic slowdown from U.S.-China trade 46.0 billion yen. notion of maintaining financial discipline. 89 71 77 75 86 friction from the previous fiscal year and a slowdown in automobile Regarding our results forecasts for the next fiscal year, information 56 47 53 51 50 43 53 46 44 sales in Japan and overseas, as well as a large decline in exports is limited due to the uncertainty surrounding COVID-19. Our policy ● Basic approach 33 28 31 25 36 37 and capital investment in the fourth quarter due to the spread of is to provide ranges in our results forecasts that envision the worstHaving made “strengthening our financial position” a key 18 22 43 24 COVID-19. Working against this backdrop, the MinebeaMitsumi case economic scenario. Our plan is for net sales of 900 billion yen management policy, the MinebeaMitsumi Group has taken 0 Group concentrated on cutting costs, creating high-value-added to 1 trillion yen (down 8% YoY to up 2% YoY) and operating income various steps that include efficiently engaging in capital (1) (4) (9) (15) products, developing new technologies, and enhancing its of 50 to 60 billion yen (down 15% YoY to up 2% YoY). In addition to investment, managing assets, and reducing interest-bearing marketing approach to boost profitability further. As a result, net the new consolidation effects of ABLIC, with which we conducted debt. We will promote an appropriate and agile financial -50 ’10/3 ’11/3 ’12/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 ’21/3 Note Next 10 years sales finished at a record high of 978.4 billion yen (up 10.6% year on a business integration on April 30, 2020, we expect a large recovery strategy which entails reforming our portfolio in a manner Plan ’29/3 year). However, in addition to the global economic slowdown, yen in demand for “in-home products” such as smartphones and that puts more weight on highly profitable core businesses Note: It is difficult to calculate it rationally due to the impact of the global spread of COVID-19 and the appreciation and the business integration with U-Shin led operating video games. However, we expect the market slowdown to affect while also carrying out highly effective M&As. lockdown of each country, therefore our business forecasts are based on a range of upper and lower income to decline by 18.6% YoY to 58.6 billion yen and profit for the automobile and civilian aircraft demand. limits for both sales and profits. * Figures are subject to change upon implementation of large-scale M&As. * Figures for periods up through the fiscal year ended March 2018 are based on JGAAP, and figures from the fiscal year ended March 2019 onward are based on IFRS. 19 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 20 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter II Financial Strategy and Capital Policy President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation CFO’s Message Cash allocation Financial base Investment for growth It is our belief that securing a stable financial foundation is of the utmost importance when it comes to ensuring that we Rating and A Generated operating cash flows are to be preferentially allocated capital investment of 50.1 billion yen and had R&D expenses of continuously provide returns to our shareholders. We have very to R&D and capital expenditure to act as a driver of organic growth. 28.9 billion yen (3.0% of net sales) in the fiscal year ended March favorable credit ratings received from two credit rating agencies, Investment Moreover, we are also considering options of carrying out effective 2020. In addition, we are planning capital investment of 43.0 billion having been assigned an “A” rating from Rating and Investment Information, Inc. M&As enlisting 50% of our free cash flows and borrowings, yen and R&D expenses of 30.0 billion yen (3.0% of net sales) in Information, Inc. (R&I; in October 2017 increased from an “A-” （R&I） premised on the notion of maintaining financial discipline such that the fiscal year ending March 2021. rating) and an “A+” rating from Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. A+ the net debt equity ratio falls within the 0.2 times range. We made (JCR; unchanged since December 2015). Japan Credit Rating Although our equity ratio attributable to owners of the parent is ■ Allocating capital backed by ability to generate cash subject to change in the short-term as a result of M&As, we aim Agency, Ltd. to achieve a stable financial foundation by accordingly maintaining （JCR） Operating cash flows an equity ratio of at least 50% over the medium to long term. We will allocate capital with the aim of achieving Mediumto long-term policy organic growth, backed by our ability to generate cash accompanying profit growth. Organic R&D expenses 3％ of net sales Initiatives for increasing corporate value growth CAPEX 50％ of EBITDA CAPEX 50％ of EBITDA We maintain ROE and ROIC levels exceeding the upper limit of From the fiscal year ended March 2010, we strengthened the Free cash flows 8% of the expected capital cost, and heighten corporate value portfolio while making appropriate decisions on development, We will flexibly allocate capital upon having secured while increasing capital efficiency. We expect the uncertain M&As, and business withdrawals. As a result, both ROE and resources necessary to achieve organic growth. Operating business environment created by COVID-19 to continue in ROIC have significantly improved with both levels exceeding the cash flows M&As geared to reducing earnings volatility Dividends 50％ the short term. However, we have defined our main KPIs as capital cost of 8%. M&A growth 50％ of free cash flows + borrowings Share buyback of free cash flows achieving EPS CAGR (annual average growth rate) of at least 15% and ROE of at least 15% by strengthening the core Going forward, we will continue to improve our corporate value by implementing risk management to achieve sustainable ROE Maintaining financial discipline (within 0.2 times D/E ratio) business of ultra-precision and ultra-high quality and by expanding and ROIC that exceed expected capital costs and by reducing sales of our top high-profit products. capital costs, while also tackling ESG issues. M&As 50％ Dividends and share buyback of free cash flows Shareholder returns 50％ of free cash flows + Borrowings (Adjustments made to ratio of dividends to share buybacks depending on stock price levels; Share buybacks are to TSR involve purchasing shares at appropriate thresholds) Over the past ten years, the Company’s total shareholders effective M&As. To continue to realize a TSR that exceeds return (“TSR”), which considers dividends and stock price our capital cost, we will implement a highly effective financial Shareholder returns changes, has produced an earnings ratio that exceeds the strategy and work to enhance shareholder value. TOPIX by reforming our portfolio and carrying out highly Regarding the annual dividend, in principle, MinebeaMitsumi ■ Usage of free cash flows will take a flexible approach to paying out dividends, aiming for a dividend payout ratio of around 20% on a consolidated Ten-year dividend-included stock price basis, underpinned by our policy of enhancing returns to our (Depending on stock price shareholders. 450 levels) We have decided to pay out 28 yen in dividends per share for the fiscal year ended March 2020, the same amount as the previous Share buyback 400 fiscal year, after considering factors such as our current financial + dividends 350 FCF standing and continuity of dividends. We paid these dividends ｰ MinebeaMitsumi quickly without waiting for the approval at the General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition to our 10.6 billion yen buyback of shares 50 ％ 300 250 ｰ TOPIX executed in November 2018, we also executed a 15 billion yen M&As Dividend-included stock price with the March 31, 50 2010 stock price set at a base value of 100 buyback of shares from December 2019 to February 2020. 200 ％ Going forward, while maintaining continuous, stable profit 150 distribution, MinebeaMitsumi gives top priority to improving the + borrowings efficiency of shareholders’ equity and distributing more profit to 100 shareholders, and while considering our financial standing and 50 stock market trends, we plan to promote an appropriate and agile financial strategy. 0 ’10/3 ’11/3 ’12/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 21 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 22 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter II Financial Strategy and Capital Policy President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Financial and Non-financial Highlights Financial highlights Non-financial highlights ■ Net sales, operating income and ■ EPS and dividends ■ Percentage of net sales of Green Products ■ CO₂ emissions operating margin (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (yen) (%) (Thousand tons) (Tons/million yen) 1,000 200 150 141.14 143.90 40 879.1 884.7 Net sales 1,600 1.00 Earnings per share, 0.878 0.883 ¥978.4 billion basic 0.872 Per basic unit 111.11 85.8% 0.771 750 609.8 638.9 150 100 97.26 107.33 ¥ 30 Fiscal year Net sales 1,200 0.814 tons/ million yen 0.75 8.4% 9.0% Dividend payout ratio 8.1% 20.6 18.4 （Consolidated） ended March ¥ 599.5 billion 771.5 781.2 500 7.7% 79.2 72.0 Operating margin 100 19.5 25.2 ％ 20 2020 800 Total 0.50 51.4 49.0 6.0% 50 518.0 557.0 796,267 tons 250 50 13.0 10 Operating income 26.0 28.0 400 0.25 20.0 Dividends per share ¥ 58.6 billion 14.0 ¥28.0 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS JGAAP IFRS In order to realize a further increase in profitability, we have been concentrating on cutting Dividends for the fiscal year ended March 2020 were 28 yen, the same amount as the The net sales of Green Products in the fiscal year ended March 2020 amounted to 599.5 We address the matter of CO₂ emissions related to climate change both in terms of costs, creating high-value-added products, developing new technologies, and enhancing our previous fiscal year, as a result of efforts to provide shareholder returns at levels that better billion yen, which was 85.8% of the total net sales (excluding products that cannot be total volume and per basic unit of output. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, our CO₂ marketing approach, and as a result reached historic highs in net sales. reflect business performance. designed in-house). emissions increased 1.9% in total volume and decreased 7.8% per basic unit of output, in comparison with the previous fiscal year. Green Products Page 47 ■ CAPEX, depreciation and amortization ■ Net interest-bearing debt and free cash flows ■ Environmental conservation costs ■ Number of employees by region (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Japan 8,406 60 97.5 54.2 100 8 54.2 Net interest4.8 America 3,776 43.9 75 70.9 CAPEX bearing debt 6 4.8 4.4 50.1 billion 75.2 billion Expense Europe 5,624 *1 40 34.8 36.4 ¥ 52.5 ¥ 3.7 31.8 28.2 31.6 50 46.5 Free cash flows ¥ 4.5 billion As of May 31, Proportion of overseas employees Depreciation and amortization 25 36.3 37.2 21.7 ¥ 42.9 billion 4 2020 90.0% 20 ¥ 46.2 billion 2 0 Investment (1.1) Asia 66,229 0 0 1.4 0.9 1.3 1.1 1.3 billion ¥ -25 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3*2 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS JGAAP IFRS CAPEX was incurred mainly due to investment undertaken to strengthen operations in the Net interest-bearing debt increased due to the business integration of U-Shin Ltd. upon Environmental conservation costs are calculated as the total of investment and expense on The Group’s proportion of employees based overseas is high at 90.0% given that some Electronic Devices and Components business. having made it a subsidiary, while persistently generating high levels of free cash flows. the basis of the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” published by Japan’s Ministry 70% of its net sales are generated outside of Japan and roughly 90% of its production *1 CAPEX does not include the increase in leased assets at the IFRS 16 application start date. of the Environment. We incurred 5.8 billion yen in environmental conservation costs which takes place abroad. *2 F  Y3/20 includes 4.6 billion yen of CAPEX and 4.6 billion yen of depreciation and amortization for U-Shin encompassed investment and expense combined in the fiscal year ended March 2020. Ltd. ■E  quity ratio attributable to owners of the ■ ROE and ROIC ■ Proportion of female employees ■ Average of working years by gender parent and net debt equity ratio (employees, managers, and new hires) （％） （times） (%) As of May 31, 2020 As of May 31, 2020 Equity ratio Female 64.1% Male 35.9% (Years) Employees 60 51.7 53.9 attributable to 0.60 24 17.0 Domestic 50.2 50.0 Female owners of the parent ROE 45 45.6% 0.45 18 15.9 14.9 17.3 15.9 11.6% Male 17.2 13.1 12.4 0.4 10.9 10.4 ROIC Female 15.1% Male 84.9% Managers 30 0.2 0.30 12 8.8% 12.8 Overseas Net debt Female equity ratio 15 0.1 0.1 0.2 times 0.15 6 *Shareholderʼs equity cost (max 8%) Male 9.1 0 0.00 0 Female 56.2% Male 43.8% 12.9 New hires ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 Female Group JGAAP IFRS JGAAP IFRS Male 11.1 In association with the business integration of U-Shin Ltd., the equity ratio attributable to Both ROE and ROIC have been maintained at high levels. ROIC has stayed above our We have been creating workplace environments where our diverse group of employees is The average years of service for female employees of the overall Group is high, and there owners of the parent decreased 8.3 percentage points YoY and the net debt equity ratio stood shareholder’s equity cost (max), and we have been raising our corporate value while increasing able to maximize their talents. This involves promoting the empowerment of our female are no substantial gender differences in that regard. As such, we are taking steps to at 0.2 times. capital efficiency. employees with the aims of creating new values and competitiveness. Female accounted develop workplace environments where it is possible for employees to continue working for 64.1% of our employees and 15.1% of our managers as of March 31, 2020. after having taken childcare leave. 23 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 24 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation Machined Components Business Electronic Devices and Components Business Income down ■ SWOT analysis Income up ■ SWOT analysis 16.5％ YoY 3.7% YoY S S Strengths Strengths Ultra-precision machining technology High-quality and mass production High-quality and mass production technologies Strategies by Sales and income decreased technologies Secured increased earnings Product supply speed due to the macroeconomic Product supply speed with a diversified product High market share in niches High market share in niches Extensive product lineup slowdown portfolio W W Weaknesses Weaknesses Business Relatively low profitability for some Low profitability for some products products Insufficient sales channels for new Handling low-priced products products (non-high-end products) ■F  uture growth ■F  uture growth O O strategy Opportunities strategy Opportunities ● Response Innovation of products Innovation of products to increasing ● Core business centered More sophisticated and advanced More sophisticated and advanced Net sales Operating income demand products on motors and sensing products composition composition ● Improvements in Demand for greater energy devices Demand for greater energy efficiency efficiency ● Expansion productivity of automotive T T ■ Machined Components Fiscal year ended ■ Machined Components ● Development of new product lineup Business technologies Threats ● INTEGRATION with former Threats March 2020 Business 18% 51 ● Expansion of portfolio Substitution with new technology MITSUMI ELECTRIC’s Substitution with new technology (Certain products including those Net sales for HDDs) technologies Intensifying competitive % environments 978.4 billion Shift to low-priced products ● Development of new Rising raw materials and parts prices technologies ■ Electronic Devices ¥ ■ Electronic Devices and Components and Components Business Operating income Business 39% ¥ 58.6 billion 22% ■ MITSUMI Business ■ MITSUMI Business MITSUMI Business U-Shin Business 30% 24% Income down ■ SWOT analysis Income down ■ SWOT analysis S S ■ U-Shin Business ■ U-Shin Business 16.3% YoY Strengths 62.9% YoY Strengths 13% 3% R&D capability/proposal-based sales Transaction results of doing capability business with leading OEMs Capability for handling mass production worldwide/Global manufacturing Secured the same level of Sales and income decreased sites/Shift to in-house production Product supply speed ＊ The ratios were calculated income in real terms as the Connectivity (IoT) related technologies due to the slowdown in the of parts and development of new products exclusive of other adjustments. previous fiscal year automobile market W W Weaknesses Weaknesses Low profitability for some products Dispersing strengths and Susceptibility to demand trends relationships in Europe/Insufficient Product portfolio investment due to poor financial performance/Limited customer ■ Future growth ■ Future growth segment strategy strategy O O Opportunities Opportunities ● Focus on developing ● Improvements in Adding to our other three segments – the Machined Components, the Electronic Devices and new products Demand for greater energy efficiency Increased demand for connectivity productivity Substantial growth opportunities through the business integration/ Components, and the MITSUMI business segments – we newly introduced the U-Shin business ● Expansion of automotive related products ● Higher yield Shift to electric lock systems/ Increasing business involving shift to Emergence of revolutionary products products segment in April 2019. Increasing digitalization of components ● Implementation of clear smart house technologies ● Generation of synergies location strategy T T We originally embarked on business as a manufacturer specializing in ball bearings, but later applied with ABLIC in the field of ● Establishing competitive Threats Threats analog semiconductors products core technologies, such as ultra-precision technologies developed through machining operations, to Substitution with new technology Intensifying offensives mounted by ● Development of Intensifying competitive competitors our Electronic Devices and Components business. business focused on environments Stagnation of global automotive shipment sales of modules rather Change in trend of major customers We will build a unique position as an “INTEGRATION manufacturer of precision components” with a than sales of single units multi-faceted business portfolio unlike any other in the world and contribute to risk diversification. 25 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 26 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strategies by Business President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Overview of the fiscal year ended March 2020 Machined Components ■ Highlights of the Machined Components business Net sales composition ROIC External sales volume of Production volume of Business ball bearings ball bearings 18% 24% Approx. 190 million units/ month Approx. 260 million units/ month (+ internal sales 65 million units/month) Aim to achieve strong growth on the back of increasing structural demand, Overview of the fiscal year ■ Net sales (Billions of yen) ■ Ball bearings ■ Rod-end and fasteners ■ Pivot assemblies ■ Others particularly for ultra-high quality products Sales and income decreased due to the 200 163.8 156.3 176.4 7.1 188.3 29.5 180.9 24.5 34.3 31.5 37.6 and overwhelming competitive edge 150 32.6 39.3 macroeconomic slowdown 31.9 32.1 29.6 121.2 117.1 Sales to data centers of ball bearings, one of our mainstay products, 100 97.4 94.1 105.9 decreased on a full-year basis, but from the third quarter, we saw 50 Satoshi Mizuma a clear trend of recovery. On the other hand, sales for automobile Managing Executive Officer, applications gradually slowed in the latter half of the fourth quarter 0 Chief of Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 although sales were up year on year for the fiscal year. JGAAP IFRS Despite the impact of reduced production in B737MAX, rod-end and fasteners sales increased owing to favorable ■ Operating income/operating margin orders in other aircraft and other products. Meanwhile, pivot (Billions of yen) ■ Operating income (left axis） ● Operating margin (right axis) (%) 60 ■ Major products ■ Major applications 30 assembly sales were down both in volume and amount due to 24.9 25.0 25.4 24.2 50 22.0 25 shrinking of the HDD market. 47.8 40 42.7 20 As a result, net sales were 180.9 billion yen (down 4.0% YoY), 40.9 39.1 39.9 operating income was 39.9 billion yen (down 16.5% YoY), and 30 15 operating margin was 22.0%. 20 10 10 5 Automobiles HDDs 0 0 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS Data centers Drones “Becoming the one-of-a-kind through INTEGRATION capabilities” Strategy Creating value that only one company in the comprehensive capabilities.” This is what we call INTEGRATION. High-end home electronics Medical devices world can For example, we are working to realize “malfunction The Company is the only ball bearing manufacturer that detection” through the development of sensor-equipped ball also produces sensors. The Company is the only rod-end bearings. Furthermore, by combining the wireless technologies Ball bearings Rod-end bearings Spherical bearings Roller bearings Fasteners bearing manufacturer that also produces connectors. of our Electronic Devices and Components business and the Bushings Pivot assemblies Mechanical assemblies Aerospace fasteners Aircraft Robots With our vertically-integrated manufacturing system, one MITSUMI business with our battery-less power generation of the Company’s core competencies, and our “vertically technologies, we aim to produce benefits including labor comprehensive capabilities,” we can create value like no savings, environmental burden reductions, and energy Basic strategies Core competencies other company in the world by strengthening our “horizontally efficiency improvements. Material issue A basic strategy of the Machined Components business, which has been the Company’s core business since its founding, is to maintain Through the fundamental strength of the Company’s DNA, including ultra-precision machining, vertical integration, global development, Creating solutions to social issues 7 consistent and permanent growth while maximizing growth areas and mass production, we are securing a dominant market share by expanding the business portfolio. To such ends, we have been and high-level QCD*. By pursuing overseas development early The higher the quality of the product, the higher the specifications required, the higher the Company’s market share increasingly fortifying the business of miniature and small-sized and strengthening our in-house manufacturing and maintenance market share: developing together with an energygets—for applications, such as luxury vehicles, cooling fans ball bearings which already boast overwhelming competitive capabilities for components and facilities, we have succeeded in saving society for data centers, drones, high-end home electronics, and pivot advantages in the market, while taking steps to further balancing ultra-high quality and low costs. The accumulation of The most important function of bearings is to reduce energy assemblies for hard disks. strengthen the earnings base by actively arranging M&As aiming knowhow over many years forms a barrier to entry that cannot be consumption by allowing things to rotate more easily. Amid rising global environmental awareness, the Company to acquire new technologies and expand the business portfolio. measured in terms of capital investment, making entry practically Furthermore, bearings should also reduce or silence noise is working to protect the environment while growing our impossible for competing manufacturers. during rotation. For ball bearings, the higher the precision and business. * “QCD” is an abbreviation for Quality, Cost and Delivery. 27 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 28 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strategies by Business President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Overview of the fiscal year ended March 2020 Electronic Devices and ■ Highlights of the Electronic Devices and Components business Net sales composition ROIC Currently Components Business 39% 11% No.1 in numerous niche fields share expanding the product portfolio Develop new business areas by expanding our portfolio and achieve consistent Overview of the fiscal year ■ Net sales (Billions of yen) ■ Motors ■ Electronic devices ■ Sensing devices ■ Others growth over the long term Secured increased earnings with a diversified 500 445.5 3.6 441.6 4.0 451.5 3.8 387.3 379.4 400 35.9 38.3 35.7 344.7 245.0 4.2 4.3 product portfolio 241.0 227.8 36.4 32.5 300 158.5 162.4 Overall, the business was affected by reduced demand for 200 various products that began with U.S.-China trade friction and 184.2 188.1 180.2 161.0 158.3 Ryozo Iwaya the spread of COVID-19. Sales of stepping motors and other 100 Director, Vice President Executive Officer, motors declined due to decreased demand associated with 0 Chief of Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 sluggishness in the automobile market. JGAAP IFRS Sales of electronic devices rose due to strong sales of models using our LED backlights. Sales of sensing devices were down ■ Operating income/operating margin due to general decline in demand. (Billions of yen) ■ Operating income (left axis） ● Operating margin (right axis) (%) 40 ■ Major applications As a result, net sales were 379.4 billion yen (down 4.6% 8 ■ Major products 6.9 YoY), operating income was 17.6 billion yen (up 3.0% YoY), and 30 5.0 5.0 6 operating margin was 4.6%. 31.2 4.4 4.6 20 22.3 21.9 4 16.9 17.6 10 2 High-end Smartphones home electronics 0 0 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS Automobiles Medical devices “Becoming the one-of-a-kind through INTEGRATION capabilities” Strategy Resonant devices: driving next-generation superior startup. Because they can successfully mimic the Office automation Game consoles electronics using magnetic force equipment feel of the real thing, resonant devices can produce a range Resonant devices are previously unimagined devices that of vibratory effects including AR/VR functions in video game use magnetic force to generate vibration. Previous vibrating consoles and wearable devices. Furthermore, we will work to Electronics devices (LED backlights, sensing devices, resonant devices, etc.) motors used weights attached to the tip of the motor to advance the coming IoT social innovation by fusing resonant HDD spindle motors Stepping motors DC motors Air movers (fan motors) HDDs Wearable generate vibration, requiring time to begin revolving. Because devices with the Company’s ultra-sensitive sensors and analog Precision motors Special components devices resonant devices use a coil and magnet to produce a resonant semiconductors and sublimating them in our INTEGRATION phenomenon, they provide good energy efficiency and activities to produce new added value. Material issue Basic strategies Core competencies Creating solutions to social issues 7 In the Electronic Devices and Components business, our In addition to the Company’s DNA, including ultra-precision basic strategy is to maximize profit by reinvesting cash machining, vertical integration, global development, and Fulfilling our supply responsibilities to the breathing devices such as ventilators and cardiopulmonary generated from the sub-core businesses to core businesses mass production, we will fuse core technologies in the medical field and resolving social issues bypass devices. It also included solutions for circulatory and strengthening the platform of our core businesses of electronics field including sensors, optics, and magnetics. MinebeaMitsumi provides the Company’s products for a medical equipment such as artificial dialysis devices and blood motors and sensors. In our sub-core businesses with rapid We are expanding our products into a broad market including range of devices in the medical field and maintains a thorough purifying devices, and blood testing instruments. technological changes and large earnings opportunities, automobiles which require stringent quality characteristics and supply system to respond to increasing needs, carrying Going forward, we will continue to fulfill our supply important issues include policies to thoroughly reduce fixed smartphones which require vertical launches—balancing quality out top-priority operations. Specifically, we provided the responsibility as a parts manufacturer while contributing to the costs and accurately assess business risks. With the aim of and quantity in a short period. A dynamic location system product group from our Electronic Devices and Components resolution of social issues—including COVID-19, decreasing achieving consistent growth over the long term, we will expand which responds to customer demands through manufacturing business. This included various motors and sensors, bearings, birthrate and aging population, and labor shortages on the our portfolio and develop new areas of business through the automation & semi-automation and employee education & semiconductors, connectors and power supplies for medical medical frontlines. INTEGRATION with other Eight Spear products. training, is another source of our competitiveness. 29 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 30 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strategies by Business President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Overview of the fiscal year ended March 2020 MITSUMI Business ■ Highlights of the MITSUMI business Net sales composition ROIC Optical devices Analog semiconductors Sales and Significantly Develop new products for future growth 30% 15% income strengthened fields by taking an INTEGRATION increased by organic growth and M&As approach of Eight Spear products and Overview of the fiscal year ■ Net sales create business opportunities for the (Billions of yen) 400 entire group Secured the same level of income in real terms as 300 250.6 308.4 292.2 the previous fiscal year 200 178.0 163.6 Camera actuators have enjoyed a large increase in sales with 100 trends in smartphones with multiple cameras and higher 0 Ryozo Iwaya functionality. Amid the global economic slowdown, analog ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS Director, Vice President Executive Officer, semiconductors trended strongly and enjoyed increased sales. Chief of MITSUMI Business Headquarters Meanwhile, sales of mechanical components decreased due to ■ Operating income/operating margin a change in the product mix of some OEM products. Sales of (Billions of yen) ■ Operating income (left axis） ● Operating margin (right axis) (%) precision components, power supplies, and automotive products 30 12 8.6 22.3 declined slightly compared with the previous fiscal year. 20 7.2 18.7 8 21.5 6.4 ■ Major products ■ Major applications As a result, net sales were 292.2 billion yen (down 2.0% YoY), 10 4 operating income was 18.7 billion yen (down 15.8% YoY), 0 0 and operating margin was 6.4%. Taking into account positive (4.6) special factors amounting to approximately 4 billion yen in the (10) (2.8) (10.6) (4) previous fiscal year, operating income was almost on par with (20) (5.9) (8) the previous year. ’16/3 ’17/3 ’18/3 ’19/3 ’20/3 Smartphones Medical devices JGAAP IFRS “Becoming the one-of-a-kind through INTEGRATION capabilities” Strategy Game consoles IoT devices Analog semiconductors are growing as an earnings connectivity technologies and dedicated devices closely pillar by both organic growth and M&As associated with IoT technologies. Going forward, through We expect to leverage very substantial synergies in the the INTEGRATION of the unique products of ABLIC including dual fronts of top line and costs, in conjunction with ABLIC, medical device IC, battery-less sensors, and magnetic Automobiles Data centers which was subject to business integration in April 2020. sensors with the Company’s technological platform of motors, Analog semiconductors of ABLIC for automobiles, medical sensors, and wireless communications, we will work to create devices and industrial machinery are applied to sophisticated revolutionary new products to contribute to the IoT society. Precision components (connectors/switches/coils) Optical devices (camera actuators) Material issue 7 Power supply components Mechanical components Automotive products (high-frequency High-end Wearable home electronics devices components) Semiconductors (analog semiconductors) Creating solutions to social issues MinebeaMitsumi’s new Eight Spears Ten core technologies Challenging ourselves to create revolutionary Basic strategies Core competencies new products to contribute to the IoT society Ultra-precision machining Bearings technology Since the founding of its predecessor, MITSUMI ELECTRIC, Mass production technology MinebeaMitsumi is well aware that the key challenge to The source of our competitiveness is our technological the MITSUMI business strength has been its technological Motors secure the absolute permanence of the MITSUMI business is development capability in fields requiring microfabrication— development in connectivity, including high-frequency Sensor technology (load, pressure, etc.) to facilitate robust growth of the five areas encompassing the represented by sensors, optics, micro-electro-mechanical technology and wireless communication technology. Access products Optical technology new Eight Spear product groups as the future core businesses. systems (MEMS), high-frequency technology, electronic circuits That technology resides at the center of the source of As such, the basic strategy of the MITSUMI business involves technology, and semiconductor design technology. Furthermore, our competitiveness created by the INTEGRATION of the Analog semiconductors MEMS technology strengthening the new Eight Spear products using cash by fusing MinebeaMitsumi’s DNA, our core technologies MinebeaMitsumi Group. These technologies are now used in a Sensors High-frequency technology generated from sub-core businesses as a growth resource. This including ultra-precision machining and vertical integration, range of products including automobiles, consumer electronics, will be achieved through (1) organic growth, (2) development through the business integration, we are creating an all-in-one and Smart White Goods. Going forward, we will contribute Electronic circuits technology Connectors/switches of the new products encompassing these businesses, and (3) system to respond to our customers’ detailed needs from to the acceleration of an advanced information, smart society Semiconductor design technology performing M&A of companies thought to be able to effectively development through to mass production. Half of the new Eight through IoT, big data, and AI. Power supply components utilize these businesses. Spear products belong to the MITSUMI business and are the Furthermore, as stated to the right, the MITSUMI business Mechanism design technology driving force in the creation of the Group’s overall INTEGRATION. will cover six of the new Eight Spears and seven of the ten core Wireless/ communications/software System design technology technologies, and is a field poised for large growth in the future. ■ Components covered by the MITSUMI business 31 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 32 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strategies by Business President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Overview of the fiscal year ended March 2020 U-Shin Business ■ Highlights of the U-Shin business Net sales composition ROIC Cost cutting New products Work to achieve a quick turnaround in the 13% 3% through higher rate of that combine technologies of European business, maximize synergies, in-house manufacturing both companies and boost the competitiveness mainly in Overview of the fiscal year ■ Net sales the automotive devices business (Billions of yen) 200 164.2 168.6 Sales and income decreased due to the slowdown 153.9 148.6 150 in the automobile market 125.1 Production showed a significant slowdown because of 100 restrictions imposed on operations mainly in Europe, in the fourth 50 Hiroshi Yoshikawa quarter, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, on top of the slump in Managing Executive Officer, the automobile market in China, Europe, and elsewhere. 0 Chief of U-Shin Business Headquarters ’15/11 ’16/11 ’17/12 ’18/12 ’20/3 As a result, net sales were 125.1 billion yen and operating JGAAP IFRS income was 2.6 billion yen. Temporary expenses totaling about 1 billion yen incurred in relation to the integration of U-Shin ■ Operating income/operating margin operations and the launch of new products were accounted for in (Billions of yen) ■ Operating income (left axis） ● Operating margin (right axis) (%) 10.0 4.7 ■ Major applications 5 ■ Major products operating income. 7.0 4 7.5 3.2 2.9 3 5.0 2.1 5.4 2.1 4.7 2 3.3 2.6 2.5 1 Automobiles 0.0 0 ’15/11 ’16/11 ’17/12 ’18/12 ’20/3 JGAAP IFRS *A s a result of change of the fiscal year end, FY12/2017 consists of 13 months. Both net sales and operating income until FY12/2018 are pre-merger results and use JGAAP. FY3/2020 uses IFRS and does not include Jan-March 2019 figures. Agricultural machinery “Becoming the one-of-a-kind through INTEGRATION capabilities” Strategy Construction machinery Our INTEGRATION capabilities are featured in our and stored electrically when driving or when away from the latest flush handles vehicle. Flush handles provide a completely different value, As the trend focused on styling continues in the automotive in terms of style and function, from traditional handles. They industry, demand for flush handles is rising. Flush handles include many key technologies of the Group such as motors, External cylinders Internal (thumb turn) Home security units are door handles that do not protrude from the vehicle body actuators, sensors, and antennas, and we expect sales growth Automotive components Components for industrial equipment that are stored within the door outside of normal operations. through these technological synergies. Components for home security units (house and general buildings’ locks and others) The grip is extended electrically when the door is opened Material issue Basic strategies Core competencies Creating solutions to social issues 7 The basic strategy for the U-Shin business is to achieve Our core competency is our all-in-one knowhow from a turnaround in the European business and to generate development and design through production for system in a Contributing to the evolution of automobiles using magnesium die cast, and using high-tensile steel plates, synergies—and, with the automotive devices business at the range of automotive fields—from mechanical structures to through a balance of miniaturization and weight we succeeded in miniaturizing and reducing the weight of high reduction with safety and comfort center, to pursue business expansion for home security units. To electronic technology and software. At the Hiroshima mother strength components. do so, in addition to improving quality, boosting productivity, and plant, in addition to an all-in-one system including product To realize reduced CO2 emissions, reduced energy consumption, As a result, we succeeded in making side door latches lighter strengthening our managerial control framework, we will work development, prototyping, mass production, market introduction, and comfortable driving functions, demands for lighter by 8% on the front and 6% on the rear and reducing the number to promptly improve earnings. We will achieve this by injecting and quality assurance, we prevent the leaking of knowhow components to reduce vehicle weight are increasing daily. of components on the liftgate latch from 51 to 39, realizing a 15% global personnel and manufacturing knowhow throughout the through the in-house manufacturing of core components As such, U-Shin is working toward thorough component weight reduction. We simultaneously realized cost reductions. Group and to establishing competitive products through the centered on molds. miniaturization and weight reduction. In mechanical production, While contributing to increased automobile safety and comfort INTEGRATION of our technologies. through miniaturization to increase structural precision, reducing through these activities, we will also work to produce components component numbers, changing metal components to resin, aimed at reducing the vehicle’s environmental burden. 33 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 34 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strategies by Business President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation We will face the challenge of a globally expanding Highlights of ABLIC ABLIC market through the strength of Japan’s unique manufacturing and masterful technology! Net sales Operating margin DNA Solutions that resolve social challenges Approximately Serious manufacturing Aim to promptly achieve 100 billion yen in ¥30.0 billion 10% or more and a penchant for quality CLEAN-Boost® analog semiconductor sales through the synergies generated by the INTEGRATION Strength (selling points) with the Eight Spear products <Core competencies> <Initiatives for SDGs> ◦ SMALL (ultra-small) ◦ CLEAN-Boost® technology that uses ◦ SMART (power-saving) High-level discarded energy ◦ SIMPLE (easy-to-use) operating Nobumasa Ishiai Representative Director, margin and <Solid support for global customers> <Commitment to quality> President and CEO of ABLIC Inc. ◦ One global team (solidarity and speed) ◦ Received awards (top-quality supplier) for competitiveness ◦ Vertical integration (three-pronged system ten consecutive years from major automotive of development, manufacturing, and sales) clients ■ Background details of business integration ■ Effects of business integration Product portfolio With a focus on “ultra-small, power-saving, and easy-to-use” in its analog Sales ◦ Strengthening mainstay products and semiconductors, ABLIC is strong in the consumer electronics, automobile, expanding the global customer base ABLIC’s Three Spears newly added to MITSUMI semiconductor’s Five Spears (focus development fields) medical, and industrial fields. The organization excels in solidarity, speed, Production ◦ Building a production system that allows Lithium-ion battery protection ICs Automotive ICs stable supply with high technology and and energy, and is a development-driven company that constantly cost competitiveness Smart Phone TWS xEV ESS Power Tool ECU Functional Safety Camera Module Battery TCU Power Supply challenges itself to pursue cutting-edge industrial innovation. ◦E  stablishing rock-solid BCP responsiveness Through the recent business integration of ABLIC with MinebeaMitsumi, Vertical integration Medical/high voltage NEW Technological ◦ Strengthening new product development we expect strong synergies in all fields including sales, production, and capabilities through technological Fan Motor Stepping Motor High Sensitivity Strain Gauge MINEGETM Ultrasonic Diagnostic Equipment Sonar Fish Finder Non-destructive Inspection Solenoid Valve development technological development. Using ABLIC’s abundant transaction track synergies between integrated electronic components and analog semiconductors MEMS Sensor/Custom Magnetic Sensor NEW record and knowledge within a range of industries in INTEGRATION— Fan Motor Encoder Battery Long Lasting 100 Smart Factory Smart White Goods Medical Current Sensor including overall Group product development and proposals to end BLDC Motor Number of Rotations Angle Detection Equipment (ex. TWS) Growth image of net sales customers—we are working to expand our business opportunities to for analog semiconductors IGBT CLEAN-Boost NEW achieve 100 billion yen in net sales in the analog semiconductor business. (Amount: billions of yen) xEV Renewable Energy Inverter Vehicle Products (Various Sensors) Power Core Open Innovation 59 1 and 2 are the fields on which both MITSUMI and ABLIC focus, while 3 5 and 6 8 are the fields on which MITSUMI and ABLIC focus, respectively. By mutually complementing and integrating these fields, we will generate synergies and pursue powerful growth. 31 The corporate profile can Material issue be viewed from here. 28 Simple totals for Image after Creating solutions to social issues 7 FY3/2020 several years CLEAN-BoostRtechnology Origin of the company name History This is the ABLIC’s unique technology, which is optimal for energy harvesting etc., that allows wireless signaling by storing and boosting small amounts of energy that could not previously be used as power. Eliminates the need Company name in Japanese: エイブリック株式会社 Established K. Hattori for batteries 1881 The Power storage and voltage boost circuit technology, the core of CLEAN-Boost® technology, has Company name in English: ABLIC Inc. (currently Seiko Holdings Corporation) been developed through joint research with Ritsumeikan University. EnvironmentCompany name in Chinese: 艾普凌科有限公司 Established Daini Seikosha Co., Ltd. friendly 1937 Battery-less water leak detection (currently Seiko Instruments Inc.) <Example> “Battery-less water leak detection sensor” sensor On January 5, 2018, the new company name ABLIC Inc. was born. 1968 Began CMOS IC R&D. – INTEGRATION with the infrastructure business ABLIC is a coined word combining ABLE (possible) and IC (abbreviation CLEAN-Boost®-compliant product that wirelessly sends water leaking signals using self-generating power with of “integrated circuit”), expressing that semiconductor technology enables 1979 Started manufacturing analog quartz ICs leaked water. This product has been created through joint development with TAISEI CORPORATION. possibilities. The company name was decided by a vote by all employees. As no power supply is required, no large-scale construction nor battery replacement is necessary. The device SII semiconductor business spin-off The company logo consists of an upwards arrow, representing growth, 2015 can be easily retrofitted, even to places difficult to access for maintenance. By installing this sensor, water Established SII Semiconductor Corporation combined with a diamond (◆), representing integrated circuits, which leaks can be detected from the initial stages, allowing a response before trouble occurs or damage spreads. SII Semiconductor Corporation commenced The device realizes significant cost and time reductions and makes a significant contribution to reducing the together form an “A,” the first letter of the company name. This, as a 2016 operations environmental burden. whole, expresses its corporate vision of striving to help society grow Image of “battery-less water leak detection sensor” 2018 Change Name to “ABLIC Inc.” installed on a pipe through semiconductor technology. In 2019, ABLIC received Best Paper Award at IEEE* – CLEAN-Boost® technology recognized around the world for its potential for semi-permanent power supply – 2020 Business integration with MinebeaMitsumi Group * IEEE (“I” triple “E”): Headquartered in the U.S., IEEE is the world’s largest expert organization contributing valuable technological information to human society 35 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 36 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strengthening of Non-financial Capital President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Strengths of Strategies of Strike a balance between ultra-precision Vertically-integrated manufacturing system Instrumental Instrumental machining technology and mass Capital and global production framework Capital production technology Strategy within sales divisions but also with manufacturing divisions and Strength Strengths and benefits of verticallyThe Company’s proprietary technologies enable it 1 Provide safe and reliable products logistics divisions. Meanwhile, manufacturing divisions manage to handle everything from design and development 1 integrated manufacturing system to assembly and inspection in-house Quality management framework inventories of customers’ requirements by ensuring appropriate availability of such items. Vertically-integrated manufacturing system which enables us The Group has created “Group Quality Management Rules” The Group also prepares itself for surges in future market We are able to efficiently produce to achieve both ultra-precision machining technology and mass production covering the entire Group as part of our measures to ensure the demand by drawing on its marketing data. high value-added products, enlisting safety of its products & services and to prevent accidents. Product design and development vertically-integrated seamless The chief officer of the quality management framework is the Everything from production, involving in-house Design and manufacture of production equipment and jigs President and Chief Executive Officer, who is supported by the Strategy Ensure succession of production of everything from parts to processes “Quality Management Committee.” 3 manufacturing knowhow component parts to machine tools. Mass production of component parts managed As a subordinate organization, the “Quality Assurance Assembly and inspection of component parts in-house Managers Council,” comprised of managers responsible Conceptual approach to instilling manufacturing knowhow Drawing on its vertically-integrated manufactaring system, for quality in each business unit, was established. At these Premised on the notion that human development is an MinebeaMitsumi handles everything from design and development to assembly and inspection in-house. meetings, managers regularly share information on specific integral aspect of manufacturing, the Group takes steps to Ultra-precise quality Stable supply capabilities Reduction of manufacturing costs quality issues and work to implement internal measures to instill manufacturing knowhow based on a conceptual approach Substantial competitive strengths made possible ensure similar problems do not reoccur. that involves developing employees into human assets. by MinebeaMitsumi’s vertically-integrated manufacturing system In the Group’s parts machining operations, the pursuit of Risk assessment precision not only improves product performance and increases The Group takes steps to mitigate the risk involving endadded value, but also facilitates higher yields and improves Others 2% Strength Benefits of global Singapore 1% products in which the Group’s parts are commonly used and productivity of the assembly divisions. Meanwhile, the Group which could have a serious impact on society in the event of a strives to pass down its manufacturing knowhow by developing Cambodia 2% 2 production framework North America 5% problem. Accordingly, headquarters and the respective business human talent capable of deriving ingenuity from knowledge, units perform collaborative risk assessments to such ends. equipped with a sense of balance among technologies to Europe 8% help achieve such outcomes, international sensibilities, and We act as a market leader, Manufacturing Thailand Customer satisfaction surveys output by specialization. Moreover, the Group aims to engage in team leveraging our overwhelming Philippines 12% 33% geographic region 93 Within the Group, individual business units conduct their own building in a manner that involves developing teams whereby supply capabilities and cost production and ¥ 978.4 billion customer satisfaction surveys. The survey results are provided inherited manufacturing knowhow is shared within such teams, competitiveness, thereby promptly development sites (Fiscal year ended to the departments of each business unit. If customers should rather than remaining the sole domain of certain individuals. in 22 countries and appropriately addressing March 2020） evaluate any criterion below a specific satisfaction level, we diverse market needs—drawing on Japan 12% China 25% assess and implement improvements across all departments. our mix of manufacturing sites. Measures to address risk: Manufacturing site mix Whereas the Company’s 93 production and development sites in 22 different countries enable it to diversify risk, its efforts extend beyond that of simply Thoroughly adhering to manufacturing Strategy Maintain and improve capability situating production in disparate locations. Strength 2 to supply products swiftly Accumulated manufacturing knowhow At all of our locations in every country, we provide guidance premised on the processes, employing consistent standards notion of “identical technologies and administration,” and develop frameworks 3 at all of our locations worldwide which facilitate manufacturing of products underpinned by the notion of “uniform The Group maintains and improves its capacity to supply products quality” regardless of the country of production. This enables us to truly avoid 25plants 16plants 12plants risk while supplying products embodying standards demanded by our customers, swiftly by developing systems for facilitating communication South Asia, even during instances when we might encounter production stoppages in certain Japan China, Korea Southeast Asia among its sales divisions and manufacturing divisions. Key to geographic areas. this is the sharing of information on customer order backlogs, We also diversify risk in a manner that involves “manufacturing across multiple factories of similar types,” with our sights set on the notion of local production forecasts of future demand, backlogs of orders from sales for local consumption. divisions to manufacturing divisions, data on sales results and production plans. Karuizawa Plant MITSUMI U-Shin Shanghai Plant MITSUMI U-Shin Wuxi Plant Chai Chee Plant Malaysia Plant Cebu Plant (Registered head office) Chitose Plant Hiroshima Plant Qingdao Plant (Singapore) (Philippines) Units of the organization arrange production with manufacturing ■ Example: manufacturing China 10plants 20plants 10plants divisions while monitoring customer developments and the status site mix involving the Ball North and Bearing Business Unit General oversight: Thailand, Cambodia Europe South America of inventories in the sales divisions of respective countries. Manufacturing site mix Mother plant Transfer of knowhow Meanwhile, the Group addresses customer demands by Thailand from Japan (Karuizawa) coordinating efforts across the organization in other countries, Cambodia and by seeking flexible inventory solutions and prioritizing Singapore production arrangements when encountering urgent situations. Bang Pa-in Plant Lop Buri Plant Cambodia Plant Lincoln Plant (UK) myonic Kosice Plant Chatsworth Plant Peterborough Plant Mitsumi Automotive (Thailand) (Thailand) Germany Plant (Slovakia) (U.S.) (U.S.) (Mexico) Such data and operational status is invariably shared not only 37 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 38 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strengthening of Non-financial Capital President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Strengths of Strategies of The individuality of each and every employee Achieve ideals of the corporate philosophy Human Human Capital acts as a catalyst of our success worldwide Capital acting as an unwavering presence Engage in human resources Material issue Strength 3 Global human resources Strategy development and 1 1 organizational reinforcement worldwide As of May 31, 2020 As of May 31, 2020, the Group has 84,035 84,035 In order to achieve the targets for the fiscal year ending March Proportion of overseas employees employees, which amounts to 1.7 times 90.0% 2029, the Company will redouble its efforts to develop human our workforce relative to that of the fiscal resources capable of achieving operational excellence on a 1.7times year ended March 2010 as a result of global scale. We will generate synergies that extend beyond business expansion, including M&As. conventional boundaries by leveraging the diversity of the With its overseas employees accounting Group’s talent and promoting human resource exchanges for some 90.0% of that workforce, the Fiscal year ended worldwide through various units of the organization, employment Group’s diverse range of workers each March 2010 ■ Japan positions, and professional duties. leverage their own unique abilities across 49,091 ■ Overseas Main initiatives its 27 sites of production, manufacturing ◦Provide many employees with opportunities to work overseas and sales worldwide, and give rise to ■ Trends in the number of ◦Dispatch employees to business schools in the U.S. (training to various synergies working in teams. employees of the Group nurture next-generation leaders) ◦Organize leadership training for overseas manager-level employees ◦Overseas national staff training in Japan (improving business skills, learning Japanese, building networks) Material issue Generating new value Strength 2 Women’s empowerment Strategy 2 Promote the empowerment of women 4 by leveraging teams Proportion of The Group has been taking steps to strengthen its team-building female employees On a non-consolidated basis, women remain 15% of MinebeaMitsumi initiatives. We have achieved numerous accomplishments 64.1% The Company serves as a global enterprise that carries out 87% of its production overseas and employs Inc.’s overall workforce and 1.8% of its management. in various activities at individual business sites and units of 90% of its workforce abroad. Meanwhile, the Group empowers many female employees given that To achieve its aims of attaining further growth and becoming a the organization. As an example, we have been striving to women account for 64% of its overall workforce, while more than 15% of its managers are women. corporation whose history spans an entire century, the Company ensure that micro-bearing assembly skills are passed down With respect to the Company’s record of promoting women to management positions, believes it must create working environments that fully empower through the generations, as profiled on the next page of MinebeaMitsumi Inc. has a total of three female officers, consisting of two Outside Directors and Proportion of each and every one of its employees irrespective of their this report, and have been engaging in ongoing efforts for one Executive Officer. As for the Company’s overseas affiliates, one female Group Executive Officer female managers gender. Accordingly, we are carrying out training for our female connecting teams with the aim of pushing the limits of our 15.1% is employed in Thailand and another in China. Under the Group Executive Officer system, they were employees, actively recruiting women, and developing programs technological capabilities. As an example of our efforts to selected from among employees who are local nationals and they take part in management meetings to facilitate positive and rewarding work environments. promote productivity gains and cost reductions through bottomheld at the head office. up activities, we have been striving to motivate team members in terms of equipping them with a strong desire to achieve our Redouble efforts to develop and managerial objectives. As an example of our efforts to address Strategy 3 gain engineers and highly-skilled challenges of developing rewarding workplace environments, technical experts our aim of improving person to person engagement among our Strength current and potential future employees has acted as a driving 3 Skilled workers/engineers The Company is generating an increasing proportion of business force for initiatives enlisting the entire organization. involving big data, artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things These initiatives are examples of how our efforts are (IoT) and robotics, along with increasingly mounting needs for ultimately helping to realize the ideals of the Company’s The Company is taking steps to pass down manufacturing Work Instructions (WI), with the aim of achieving a zero ratio of engineers and highly-skilled technical experts capable of building corporate philosophy, “to contribute to society by ‘Producing knowhow through human resources development as noted defective products. and managing technologies that enlist cutting-edge technologies. better products, with faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower under the section on instrumental capital. We are accordingly Moreover, the Company has been focusing its efforts on Amid that environment, the Company will redouble its efforts to cost and by smarter means,’” through co-creation in terms of enhancing the level of our technological capabilities through developing and gaining talent capable of promoting innovation develop and gain engineers and highly-skilled technical experts in collectively creating new value while engaging in dialogue with systematic engineering education and the Company’s by building business models and developing mechanisms in such fields. To such ends, we will further upgrade opportunities people harboring a variety of viewpoints. The Group aims to proprietary technical certification programs. We are also new fields of technology, which has accordingly been yielding involving engineering education encompassing cutting-edge achieve the ideals of its corporate philosophy while consistently reinforcing mechanisms for fully educating operators and other innovative products that include SALIOT, Smart City Solutions, technologies, while also taking steps to develop mechanisms and evolving as an organization by further promoting such teammembers of the workforce on-site based on documented and the Bed Sensor System. a corporate culture that will help us attract top-notch talent. building initiatives. 39 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 40 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strengthening of Non-financial Capital President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Human Capital Team-building initiatives for co-creation of new value Developing global human resources Retaining and securing skilled workers and engineers Developing human resources through team-building Taking on challenges to ensure a Mechanical Assembly Business Unit, Thailand Production operators have been Since the initiatives started, I rewarding company environment In September 2019, the Thai Plant’s Mechanical Assembly Business achieving improved results by have gained more opportunities myonic GmbH, Germany Unit embarked on team-building initiatives for members of all of taking part in morning assemblies to engage in dialogue with and other such forums, where those in factory operations. I get its divisions including production operators. The purpose of the Having become a member of the MinebeaMitsumi Group in they intently the feeling that initiatives has been to take a bottom-up approach in forming teams listen to issues everyone is 2009, myonic GmbH (“myonic”) is a German company with which create ideas derived from solutions generated by each and encountered developing a a history of manufacturing precision miniature ball bearings every participant. These efforts have contributed to the Group’s by other greater sense spanning 80 years. teams. of autonomy. achievement of its managerial objectives, particularly in terms of With the aim of increasing its retention rate when it comes improving productivity, improving quality, reducing scrap, cutting Senior Manager to skilled workers and engineers, myonic initiated a project to and customers. myonic has been taking part in the “Germany’s cost, and improving workplace environments. Takumi Niwa Fumika Kubo make the company a rewarding place to work in 2011. It has Best Employers” competition held by Great Place to Work® furthermore been promoting a strategy of employer branding (GPTW), an international institute that administers awareness which involves making the enterprise more appealing as a surveys. It went from a ranking of 153rd in 2011 to landing STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Concrete results workplace and engaging in initiatives entailing communication among the top ten for its first time ever with a ninth-place achieved directed toward not only its employees but also individuals ranking in 2020 as a result of having implemented policy Start of team-building Teams seek solutions Reinforcement of initiatives that address issues team strengths such as potential employees, family members of employees, planning that drew on findings of survey analysis. Productivity for the fiscal year Details on team-building Enlisting on-site interviews, A deeper level of mutual ended March 2020 was significance, objectives and team members discuss among understanding and greater 21 percentage points higher process shared with all division themselves measures that would cohesion achieved by than that achieved in the fiscal Five key practices that help make our workplaces more appealing year ended March 2018! members streamline an entire process engaging in initiatives i. We enhance our approach to open communications among management, senior management, employees, and employee working with team members representatives ii. We promote an open-door culture whereby everyone is able to freely communicate with management iii. We thoroughly engage in communication policy that combines top-down and bottom-up approaches Promoting the empowerment of women iv. We fortify support for policies that show appreciation for employees as individuals, and team initiatives in that regard Succession of skills and spurring their evolution: v. We reinforce employees’ trust in management and MinebeaMitsumi Technology for assembling the world’s smallest ball bearings ■ Rankings achieved in Germany’s Best Employers ■ Initiatives to achieve improvement with respect to Bearing Products Division, Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters, Japan competitions* serving as a Best Employer Our ultra-micro ball bearings featuring an outer diameter of the final stage of the project that engaged the teamwork Selected as one of the 100 14 9 Initiatives carried out since 2011 1.5 millimeters and a thickness of 0.65 millimeters became of the entire business unit in efforts apart from design, Best Employers! Feedback based on findings of GPTW survey commercially available in 2009 and are the culmination parts production, assembly and other aspects of normal 54 analysis of painstaking efforts and hard work enlisting the entire manufacturing operations. myonic earned high marks particularly for Furthermore becoming a Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters. Initiated We will forge connections with other advanced skills in our in 2008 to test the limits of our technological capabilities, its efforts to retain and secure skilled rewarding place to work ongoing efforts to spur the evolution of our technology for 131 workers with respect to its 153 Apprenticeship Program in 2018 and the the project enlisted the involvement of three generations of putting together the smallest of bearing assemblies, which myonic Kids Activity Program in 2020. Prepare proposals for female technical experts in the assembly process. This was extends over three generations. Determine aspects of the improvement upon having 2011 2014 2016 2018 2020 transformation process as required all employees engage in Number of participating companies in order for management to make discussions regarding GPTW First generation (2008 to 2015) 407 600 613 740 840 the company more appealing survey findings Manager, I encountered various difficulties which I was able to overcome thanks to * Rankings achieved in the category of companies with 251 to 500 employees Productivity Improvement teamwork, particularly in terms of efforts of the many people involved in Promotion Section the project and mutual support. Ikuko Koyama Outcomes attributable to GPTW initiatives ◦ Employees developed a greater sense of ownership and Second generation (2015 to 2018) loyalty with respect to myonic Succession Group Leader, I am grateful for having worked in an environment of reciprocal trust. I ◦ A greater number of job candidates have been accepting Productivity Improvement gained support from machine shops that manufacture parts and from other of skills Promotion Section relevant units of the organization, and was blessed to work with a helpful job offers given that myonic has come to be recognized as a mentor and a junior employee who could be trusted to carry things forward. socially distinguished entity worthy of trust Junko Tsuchiya Employee retention rate Job offer acceptance rate (2020) in 2019 99.1% Third generation (from 2018) 25 Assembly Section, I was able to positively engage in tasks largely thanks to an organizational Up percentage Manufacturing Department culture conducive to work whereby those around me listened to my approx. points suggestions and opinions, and accompanied me in carrying out my duties. Ayaka Kodaira From left to right: Julia Mischke (Corporate Communications), Mr. Böck (CEO) and Sonja (Up 13.4 percentage points (Relative to 2011) Westerhof (Human Resources Director) relative to 2011) 41 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 42 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter III Initiatives for Value Creation – Strengthening of Non-financial Capital President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Strengths of Strategies of Create new value by combining We extend ultra-precision machining Intellectual Intellectual our ultra-precision machining technologies Capital technology to a wide range of products Capital with our core technologies Strategy Strength 1 Upgrade core technologies and roll out new products 1 Ultra-precision machining technology Fiscal year ended Under its policy for technology development, MinebeaMitsumi is March 2020 28.8 engaging in key strategies that involve: In 2018, MinebeaMitsumi achieved monthly production makes it possible to consistently maintain quality at nanometer ●U pgrading key technologies (core technologies) essential for volume of ball bearings, its founding product, exceeding machining precision, from cutting tools for machining, grinding developing new products that will achieve market success over the medium to long term, and ¥ 300 million units as a result of having devoted nearly oil, and equipment, to the production environment. ●P romoting launch of new products by effectively leveraging billion 3.4 times seven decades to in-house development of ultra-precision As a parts manufacturer, the Company has furthermore Group synergies. machining technology necessary to achieve the ultra-precision established an unparalleled manufacturing framework geared to required for miniature-sized bearings and mass production. meeting market and customer needs by undertaking in-house 1. Expand the motor business development of applied raw materials and engaging in basic 2. Bring about a paradigm shift with respect to Fiscal year ended Ultra-precision machining technologies, distinctive to the the optical technology development product line March 2010 8.4 Company, must enable universal control with respect to development of new raw materials required for future products. 3. Expand the sensor business setting machining dimensions on the order of nanometers We draw on our experience in ultra-precision machining 4. Enter the robotics market (one nanometer equates to one-billionth of a meter). The Company has completed development of its cutting-edge technologies developed thus far and our performance data, and apply it laterally in-house in the form of robust big data to our 5. Connectivity with sights set on IoT ¥ 6. Increase added value of machined components machining technology in-house, encompassing everything that machined components and other products. billion ■ Trends in R&D expenses 7. Collaborate with U-Shin 8. Collaborate with ABLIC Strength Comprehensive manufacturing, engineering, Gaining a grasp of customers’ and society’s needs 2 development and sales capability Strategy Effectively promote our portfolio in intellectual property management 2 Developing new product (INTEGRATION of core technologies × Product development through the INTEGRATION of our core Eight Spear products) The MinebeaMitsumi Group maintains ownership of some 8,000 different patents in its portfolio as illustrated below. We have effectively technologies with our Eight Spear products assembled a portfolio that covers the Group’s businesses drawing on complementary offerings of MinebeaMitsumi, MITSUMI ELECTRIC, In addition to expanding R&D investment, we will also develop new markets by utilizing Creating new markets U-Shin, and ABLIC. the comprehensive manufacturing, engineering, development and sales capabilities. 0 500 1,000 0 500 1,000 0 500 1,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Having established MinebeaMitsumi Technical Service (Suzhou) Ltd. (China) Machined Mass production + mass supply components in December 2018 and Motors MinebeaMitsumi Technology Center Europe GmbH in September 2019, Automotive products we have been strengthening our Create new value through Semiconductors framework for swift development in difference that transcends our respective geographical regions. MinebeaMitsumi MinebeaMitsumi conventional wisdom Sensors Technical Service (Suzhou) Ltd. Technology Center Europe GmbH (China) (Germany) Backlights/Lighting Camera actuators Strength Maintenance and improvement World in which GALILEO X Broadcasted on June 28, 2020 This TV program introduces synergies of the Others magnetic force 3 of M&A capability/PMI MinebeaMitsumi business integration with develops respect to the theme of magnetic force. MinebeaMitsumi MITSUMI ELECTRIC U-Shin ABLIC Entire Group MinebeaMitsumi has been strengthening and reviewing its for developing cutting-edge technologies, they have been able business portfolio through 50 M&As in 49 years. MITSUMI to leverage synergies brought about by combining simulation Joined “IP Open Access Declaration Against COVID-19” ELECTRIC, with which we conducted a business integration in technologies of the former Minebea and those of MITSUMI Based on this declaration, MinebeaMitsumi will neither seek compensation nor assert any intellectual 2017, have managed to upgrade their operations in terms of speed, ELECTRIC. In April 2020, MinebeaMitsumi undertook integration property rights, including patents, utility models, designs or copy rights against any activities whose technological capabilities, and products themselves as a result of of ABLIC, whose mainstay product is Hall effect components for sole purpose is stopping the epidemic, until the World Health Organization (WHO) declares that having gained access to our financial muscle, rigorous commitment magnetic detection. As a result, we will strive to further increase COVID-19 outbreak no longer constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. to craftsmanship and manufacturing strengths. our competitiveness having added magnetic sensing technology For instance, with respect to simulations of magnetic circuits to MinebeaMitsumi’s lineup of magnetic products. 43 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 44 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation MinebeaMitsumi’s Sustainability Initiatives for material issues (Materiality) We have set goals to be achieved with respect to material issues identified in 2019, with the aims of fulfilling our social responsibilities as Our approach to sustainability a global enterprise and improving sustainability of our operations. Going forward, we will continue to promote initiatives in a manner that involves implementing the cyclical plan–do–check–act (PDCA) management approach. We believe that diversification serves as the essence of sustainability, premised on the notion that sustainability acts as the starting point of business management. The Company builds and refines multifaceted and decentralized frameworks across areas that include Priority Topic 1 manufacturing sites, markets, technological development, in addition to products, in a manner whereby such frameworks act as a Creating environments where all employees can demonstrate their maximum capabilities source of the Company’s competitiveness. Reasons why it was determined Main SDGs that Material issues Targets for the fiscal year Medium-term targets Our policy is to boldly invest our business resources in a manner that reinforces our efforts relating to the environment, society and to be significant it contributes to corporate governance, encompassing execution of such business activities. Ensuring Ensure the safety and raises the Reduce workplace injuries: 0 incidents of workplace injuries 1 employee safety productivity of employees, the Group’s • 0 incidents of workplace injuries • Employee health maintenance 3 3 and health most important management resource Encourage employees to undergo health checkups: 100% compliance Creating positive Raise the motivation, satisfaction, and Examine and introduce systems for achieving diverse styles of work 8 • Achieve diverse styles of work that enable 2 8 Philosophical profile: Approach to sustainability and framework and rewarding work environments productivity of employees, the Group’s most important management resource Reduce extended working hours: Achieve 5% reduction in average amount of overtime worked per employee employees to work enthusiastically Instilling the corporate philosophy for its promotion Achieve growth of employees, the Strengthen training to nurture next generation of executive leaders Strengthen human resources development to Human resources Group’s most important management actively promote expansion and development The MinebeaMitsumi Group believes that the mission of a The Sustainability Management Division was established in 3 development resource of business operations worldwide leveraging 8 8 worldwide Secure human resources as a global Develop locally-based leaders overseas benefits of the integration serving as the company is to contribute to the sustainable development of April 2019 for the purposes of contributing to the development enterprise MinebeaMitsumi Group Continuously promote empowerment of our female employees • Develop an environment that empowers the global environment and of humanity, not only through strict of a sustainable society and separating auditing functions Diversity Secure employees, the Group’s most employees irrespective of their nationality, cultural important management resource adherence to laws and regulations, but also through fair and from executive functions to reinforce governance within the 4 promotion Promote respect for human rights and Achieve statutory rate of employment with respect to hiring people with disabilities and retain such employees: More than background, origins, etc. 5 10 worldwide • Increase the proportion of female managers (aim to proper business management in accordance with business ethics. MinebeaMitsumi Group. INTEGRATION among employees 2.2% employment of people with disabilities achieve double the number in 2021 relative to 2016) To achieve this mission, we have established our company credo Sustainability Management Division Priority Topic 2 “The Five Principles” which is our basic manegement policy Creating new value that contributes to the development of society based on our corporate philosophy, “to contribute to society by Reasons why it was determined Main SDGs that Compliance Internal Auditing Internal Control Trade Compliance Material issues Targets for the fiscal year Medium-term targets CSR Promotion Security Trade ‘Producing better products, with faster speed, in larger numbers, to be significant it contributes to Contribute to solutions to increasingly severe at lower cost and by smarter means,’” and on the basis of Creating environmental issues Increase the proportion of net sales attributable 7 Promotion Office Office Office Promotion Office Control Office Control Office 5 environmentally Green Products to account for 81% of net sales to Green Products (at least 90% in the fiscal year 7 this credo, we have formulated the “MinebeaMitsumi Group friendly products Respond to increasing calls from customers to ending March 2029) enhance environmental performance Basic CSR Policy” and the “MinebeaMitsumi Group’s CSR Develop and reinforce the Group’s sustainability management • Promote CSR management based on material issues Implementation Principles” to guide our CSR activities. framework in line with the business integration relating to sustainability through an understanding of stakeholder expectations and requests Set goals for each relevant division in relation to material issues Sustainability website • Continue initiatives that instill the notion of Continue to promote dialogue with communities at our sustainability at our domestic and overseas More detailed information regarding our sustainability Contributing Gain trust at business sites around the domestic and overseas locations locations initiatives is available on the MinebeaMitsumi Group to dialogue Corporate philosophy website. 6 with and the world Engage in public relations through the media in a manner that 1 4 6 development of Maintain business continuity through enables our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of the Contribute to improving corporate value over To contribute to society by “Producing better products, with faster local communities regional development Company’s business operations the medium to long term and furthermore gain speed, in larger numbers, at lower cost and by smarter means.” The MinebeaMitsumi Group’s CSR Implementation Continue to actively disclose information regarding business the understanding and trust of our stakeholders plan progress and measures by promoting information disclosure and Principles Continue to actively communicate with domestic and overseas communications Basic Management Policy: 1. “The Five Principles” and Our “Code of Conduct” investors In promoting CSR activities, the MinebeaMitsumi Group will appropriately Respond to increasing calls from customers Our Company Credo “The Five Principles” 7 Creating solutions to solve social problems Incorporate a social issue perspective into processes for Develop key components and technologies in fields that include labor savings and automation in 8 9 10 manage the organization in accordance with “The Five Principles,” and to social issues evaluating technology development factories Be a company where our employees are proud to work adhere to its “Code of Conduct.” Raise productivity through technological advances Earn and preserve the trust of our valued customers 2. Creation of Social Value through Products Priority Topic 3 Respond to our shareholders’ expectations As a manufacturer of precision products supporting society, the Ensuring stable supplies of the precision products that support society Work in harmony with the local community MinebeaMitsumi Group is actively developing “reliable products which Reasons why it was determined Main SDGs that Material issues Targets for the fiscal year Medium-term targets reduce energy consumption,” and making them widely available. to be significant it contributes to Promote and contribute to global society Build and standardize a unified quality 3. Continuous Improvement and Raising of Awareness Create mechanisms tailored to improving skills of employees management system to support expansion and We will put forth goals to be achieved, based on understanding the Providing safe As a manufacturer of parts used in all development of business operations worldwide MinebeaMitsumi Group Basic CSR Policy MinebeaMitsumi Group’s social responsibilities and the key problems that 8 and reliable types of products, ensure improvement Introduce and develop unified bar code labels for MITSUMI products 99 products and reliability of product performance Improve loading efficiency by introducing unified As a manufacturer of precision products supporting society, the need to be addressed, and continue to improve our CSR activities through Improve packing for marine shipping containers to improve bar code labels across the Minebea Group loading efficiency and quality MinebeaMitsumi Group is “working toward stable supply and implementation and continual review. Confirm U-Shin’s status of CSR procurement, We will also strive to raise awareness of CSR among all employees Practicing Ensure the continuity of the entire supply Confirm status of efforts to promote CSR achieved by MITSUMI making reliable products with low energy consumption widely confirm status of efforts to promote CSR achieved through CSR activities. 9 responsible chain ELECTRIC’s suppliers in Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines by its suppliers based on the “CSR Procurement 12 12 available,” to contribute to the sustainable development of the procurement Reduce reputation risks by using the “CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist” Guidelines,” and promote initiatives in that regard 4. Dialogue with Stakeholders global environment and of humanity. Implement compliance training as part of rank-based training: Constructive dialogue with stakeholders (employees, customers, 100% enrollment shareholders, local communities, global society, suppliers, and the Implement e-learning drawing on awareness survey findings: Build and reinforce the global compliance environment) allows us to meet expectations and respond to requests, and Enrollment of more than 90% framework in a manner that supports expansion we will improve transparency and accountability in our corporate activities. and development of business operations Reinforce training on power harassment worldwide Strengthen the framework for gathering information on Avert crises and minimize loss incurred compliance worldwide Reinforcing risk 10 management at times of crisis by pre-identifying risks facing the enterprise Reinforce training on trade compliance Sufficiently reinforce trade compliance as a global 13 13 enterprise Upgrade BCP relating to epidemics at the Shanghai Plant in China, and extend it to the Group’s major locations Acquire certification under the ISO 22301 international standard Develop BCP at locations of the MinebeaMitsumi for business continuity management systems at the Ayutthaya Group upon its expansion due to the business Plant and Ban Wa Plant in Thailand integration Confirm and coordinate with the risk management framework of ABLIC 45 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 46 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation ■ Highlights of environmental initiatives Initiatives for the Target of Green Products Fiscal year ending March 2029 CDP Scores August 2020 90 Awarded “B” in Climate Change 2019 Declaration on support for Environment At least of percentage of net sales % and “A-” in Water 2019 the TCFD recommendations The MinebeaMitsumi Group has established an environmental management system Initiatives for reducing environmental burden Waste plastic reduction program (Thailand) based on the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Environmental Policy,” Operation of Plant Wastewater Zero System No Plastic Bags Project and all Group companies are striving to contribute to the protection of (Thailand and China) ปฎิเสธหลอด/ฝาพลาสติก… The environmental policy The MinebeaMitsumi Group the earth’s environment and the realization of sustainable society. can be viewed from here. The Group operates plants which use large amounts of water has been actively taking steps ลดภาระขยะโลก Material issue in the processing of manufactured products and take measures to reduce waste plastic amid SAY NO Creating environmentally friendly products 5 to reduce discharges of wastewater. Our plants purify used water to reduce the impurities to below standards required by concerns in recent years over the issue of marine plastics. environmental laws and regulations of each country and locality, S i n c e F e b r u a r y 2 0 19 , o u r Conclusion of the second year of the “MinebeaMitsumi ■ Green Products certification system before releasing the water into the environment. Despite these Thai Plant operations have Green Products Certification Program” measures, we cannot guarantee that the released water has zero been carrying out the No Plastic Plastic Straw & Plastic Lid Almost all our products are environmentally friendly products which Green Products impact on the surrounding environment. At our plants in Thailand Bags Pr o jec t wher eb y da y s #ไม่หลอดเนาะ #ไม่ฝาพลาสติกนะ are originally small sized and allow precise downsizing, and contribute and China, which use large amounts of water, we have adopted the are specified during which the to saving energy and space. Plant Wastewater Zero System facility will not use plastic bags. As a result, we have reduced our Designation as Green Products @nmbevent-th In the “MinebeaMitsumi Green Products Certification Program,” to reduce the wastewater to consumption of plastics by 5,447.29 kilograms (3,704,154 plastic which selects products that are particularly environmentally friendly Environmentally Commercialization be released, its impact on the bags) over the months February to December, 2019. Furthermore, and certifies them as MinebeaMitsumi Green Products, percentage friendly environment to as close to zero we have discontinued use of the plastic bags since January 2020. of net sales of Green Products increased by 6.4% to 85.8% in products Development and design as possible, and amount of Moreover, the coffee shop inside the facility has started using comparison with the fiscal year ended March 2019 after careful water purchased from external paper cups without lids, thereby ending its use of plastic lids and Rainwater basin and rainwater recycling selection of target products in the fiscal year ended March 2020. We Product planning suppliers. plastic straws. equipment at the Bang Pa-in Plant in Thailand plan to create products that contribute to energy conservation and global environmental improvement through our corporate activities, MinebeaMitsumi Group Environmental Management and to increase the ratio of Green Products to over 90% of our sales Declaration on support for the TCFD recommendations in the fiscal year ending March 2029. In August 2020, the Company declared its support for the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) recommendations, and going forward, will ■ Criteria for determining Green Products disclose and send information in accordance with the TCFD recommendations as well as strengthen initiatives to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. In designing In manufacturing In shipment In using Certified Green Products Governance Strategy (Below is a partial listing of our certified Green • Selection of • Reduction of electric • Use of packaging • Reduction of electric Products.) Established the following systems related to climate Include climate change issues into strategy formulation processes materials with power consumption materials with power consumption consideration for the consideration for the change issues in its corporate governance Taking risks and opportunities related to climate change into consideration for • Reduction of raw • Smaller products Miniature ball bearings environment materials and environment ▶The Risk Management Committee and the Environmental the resilience and growth strategy for MinebeaMitsumi. • Lighter products • Selection of energysecondary materials • Reuse of packaging Management Committee, which are responsible for efficient parts • Reduction of waste materials • Longer product life responding to climate change, function as an organization 〈Risks〉 〈Opportunities〉 • Use of recycled and • Reduction • Reduction of CO 2 in directly under CEO. Response to physical risks: Response to opportunities due to reused materials of chemical logistics Promotion of BCP for intensifying market changes, etc. due to climate • Consideration for substances ▶ Matters decided by the Risk Management Committee and disasters change: disposal of products the Environmental Management Committee are periodically Response to transition risks: MinebeaMitsumi will promote strategy • Reduction of water • Confirmation of nonusage reported to the Board of Directors, and its Chairperson, CEO Energy efficiency that provides for the related to products laid out in “Next Ten use of prohibited has the responsibility of monitoring and supervising risks and strengthening of regulations as well as Years of MinebeaMitsumi,” the growth AC adapters Smart City Solutions substance opportunities related to climate change as well. a carbon pricing system, and reduction strategy looking over the next ten years of CO₂ through the introduction of renewable energy Risk Management 〈Scenario analysis〉 ■ Green Products sales targets ■ Net sales of Green Products At least 90% Integrate climate related issues into company-wide risk management processes In order to study what kind of impact climate change will have on MinebeaMitsumi’s business, the Company is currently performing scenario analysis using the timerelated perspectives of 2030 and 2050 with the scenario of 4 ˚c of global warming and of percentage of ■ Total net sales (excluding products that cannot be designed in-house) ▶ Climate change issues are integrated into the various risk the scenario of being sufficiently under 2˚c of global warming, and the Company will (Billions of yen) ● Percentage of net sales of Green Products net sales of Green elements in company-wide risk management processes. increase the effectiveness of its strategy. 2,000 Products Overview of Risk Management Process 1,600 Examination Material issue analysis, Periodic reporting of of risks and which includes the the formulation and Indicators and Objectives opportunities from possibility of occurrence results of response 1,200 [Indicators and objectives related to climate change] 85.8% a value chain and the severity of the plans to the Board of perspective financial impact Directors 800 79.4 ▶ Formulation of objectives for 2030 and 2050 with regard to scope 1 and 2 is being considered (objectives are considered keeping SBT achievement levels 400 The details on Smart City Solutions in mind in light of trends for the transition to a carbon-free society). can be viewed from here. The details on environmental data can be ▶ Formulation of objectives for the introduction of renewable energy is being 0 viewed from here. considered. ’19/3 ’20/3 ’21/3 ’22/3 ’23/3 ’24/3 ’25/3 ’29/3 47 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 48 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation ■ Highlights of social initiatives Initiatives for the Society Creating positive and rewarding work Reinforcement of quality Response to COVID-19 environments control systems The MinebeaMitsumi Group believes that the mission of a company is to contribute to the sustainable Amid facing a worldwide crisis, we will continue to fulfill our responsibilities as a parts manufacturer to supply Response to products for all business activities, including production and sales, as well as work to prevent the spread of the development of the global environment and of humanity, not only through strict adherence to laws and COVID-19 disease outside the Group and to ensure the safety of our employees. regulations, but also through fair and proper business management in accordance with business ethics and works continuously on social issues. Material issue Ensuring employee safety and health 1 Actions taken by MinebeaMitsumi Newsworthy developments Given that the Group has regarded employees as its most ■ Workplace injuries and other accidents From January 29, 2020 January 2020 valuable resource since its founding, we accordingly state that we in the MinebeaMitsumi Group Established an ad hoc committee headed by Representative Director, COVID-19 begins to spread are to “be a company where our employees are proud to work” CEO & COO Yoshihisa Kainuma (Unit: incidents) ■ MinebeaMitsumi Group ■ MITSUMI ELECTRIC ■ U-Shin 150 as the first of “The Five Principles” of our company credo which 121 120 Sessions of the ad hoc committee held three times a week; sharing of February 2020 is our basic management policy. 120 344.7 38 107 43 specific details, and stringent implementation of measures in China Epidemic hits its peak in China 43 94 89 We encourage employees to undergo health checkups and 90 40 26 → Our efforts have been profiled in the media which portrayed our plants 13 15 take steps to reduce workplace injuries underpinned by our target 60 70 12 13 as model factories in Shanghai and Zhuhai Cities. 0 62 of zero such incidents—with the aim of ensuring that each of our 52 50 30 54 Best practices from China carried out in a consistent manner worldwide March to April 2020 employees can work safely and in good health, and fully The details on our 0 →W  e safeguard the health of our employees, but furthermore carry out our Infection Global shortage ‘16/3 ‘17/3 ‘18/3 ‘19/3 ‘20/3 exercise his or her abilities. relationship with employees *1 The results for FY3/16 and FY3/17 are the combined results for the Minebea responsibility to furnish products in a manner that results in consistent spreads to of medical can be viewed from here. Group and MITSUMI ELECTRIC from before the business integration. Material issue supply of components used in medical products and other such items. other countries supplies *2 MITSUMI ELECTRIC only refers to production sites in Japan 2 worldwide Launched production of masks in-house on April 1 Creating positive and rewarding work environments Donated items to more than 150 medical institutions worldwide, including N95 masks that had been stored for use in the event of an epidemic, We have made it possible for our employees to enlist various productivity of our employees. Accordingly to such ends, we have volcanic eruption or other such natural disaster → Contributed to relieving shortages of medical supplies styles of work thereby enabling them to work enthusiastically, been reducing extended working hours while also evaluating and with the aims of increasing the motivation, satisfaction, and introducing programs that give rise to diverse styles of work. MITSUMI ELECTRIC’s Yamagata Business Division certified as an excellent (Diamond) company under the “Yamagata Childcare and Nursing Care Support Lively Company” program The Yamagata Business Division of MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. has been certified as an excellent (Diamond) company under the “Yamagata Childcare and Nursing Care Support Lively Company” program implemented April 30, 2020 by Yamagata Prefecture. The excellent (Diamond) company certification constitutes the top ranking granted to Business integration with ABLIC companies working on more than four of the five certification criteria. → Integration successfully achieved ahead of schedule despite adversities Under the program, Yamagata Prefecture registers and certifies companies that meet certain criteria in May 8, 2020 May 2020 terms of undertaking initiatives in areas such as working to promote women’s COVID-19 hits the economy Announcement of → Posted record-high net sales, and released a range empowerment and furnishing support for balancing work and family life. Companies are increasingly financial results of profit and loss forecasts Companies that have gained the certification receive support that includes grants The details on other CSR initiatives can be viewed postponing earnings announcements and public relations initiatives enlisting various types of public relations media. from here. June 26, 2020 Further details June 2020 can be viewed Launched sales of masks on Amazon.co.jp from here. Cumulative total number of people → We have been manufacturing the masks in a domestic Material issue Material issue infected by COVID-19 worldwide Providing safe and reliable products 8 Practicing responsible procurement 9 clean-room environment enlisting our knowhow in ultra-precision machining technology. Received a 99% filter trapping tops 10 million efficiency rating performance evaluation in a Viral Filtration Efficiency We strive to improve performance of our products and ensure We confirm the status of initiatives undertaken by our suppliers (VFE) test performed by Nelson Laboratories, LLC ! Note: Masks do not completely safeguard against the possibility of infection and viral infiltration. their reliability serving as a manufacturer of parts used in all to promote CSR pursuant to the “MinebeaMitsumi Group CSR * 99% of VFE, PFE, BFE. Tested by Nelson Laboratories, LLC. types of products. To such ends, we have been building and Procurement Guidelines,” with the aims of ensuring continuity of June 29, 2020 standardizing a unified quality management system, while the entire supply chain and reducing reputation risk. Joined “IP Open Access Declaration Against COVID-19” also taking steps to enhance loading efficiency and quality by introducing unified bar code July 17, 2020 labels across the Group and Introduced recruitment program offering tuition support The details on our relationship improving packing for marine The details on our with suppliers can be viewed relationship with customers shipping containers. can be viewed from here. from here. 49 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 50 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation relation to these topics, which have not previously been fully discussed at meetings of the Board of Directors due to time constraints, I think we need an opportunity to discuss specific initiatives to address them and the methods by which we develop them. As an example, I would point to our unique and highly efficient global system for human resources development, which includes the full utilization of female talent. With regard Outside Director to the use of female talent, I myself traveled to factories in Outside Director Kohshi Murakami Karuizawa, Hamamatsu and Fujisawa at the beginning of the Atsuko Matsumura year to speak with female employees. I was able to confirm that Outside Director various opportunities are provided to women looking to advance Yuko Haga their career, and that various routes to managerial roles are open to them. I hope that the existence of such role models will lead to more extensive use of women’s abilities within the Company Outside Directors in Roundtable Discussion going forward. On the other hand, I also feel it is important to discuss the Company’s support structure for achieving a balance Sustainable Management at MinebeaMitsumi between work and child rearing, caring for family members, etc. Haga: At the Board meetings there is a trade-off between the Looking Back, Looking Forward portfolio management, another important factor is the ability to make appropriate decisions with regard to businesses for which number of items on the agenda and the amount of time for discussion, so I think achieving a balance there is important. there is no rationale for continuing to hold, even if the operations I also feel that one valuable function of the Board of Directors is We took the opportunity to discuss MinebeaMitsumi’s sustainable management and corporate are profitable. At the PMI stage, I would expect the extent to not just to say whether it is “for” or “against” a project, but to governance with existing Outside Directors Kohshi Murakami and Atsuko Matsumura, and newly which the synergy effects originally envisaged are achieved to be discuss the logic leading up to those decisions, and the thinking appointed Outside Director Yuko Haga. verified by setting KPIs that are checked at regular intervals. behind them. Using the example of material issues mentioned Murakami: As both of you have pointed out, PMI is also by Ms. Matsumura, I think that information can be provided –– As an Outside Director, what are your views on the growth have managed to implement such a number of mergers and important. In addition, the President places great importance on right from the investigative stage, such as by holding interviews of the Company up to this point, and on the leadership of acquisitions while also continuing to grow organically. I was personal relationships and trust relationships on the side being to ask Outside Directors which viewpoint we should take into the President? impressed by the President’s responses to questions put to him acquired. Many times we have heard comments such as “If account, then based on that, we can work to deepen discussions Murakam: I believe that the driving forces behind the threefold at my first meeting of the Board of Directors in June. Rather than we’re going to be acquired anyway, we’d like to be acquired by at meetings of the Board of Directors. I would also like the increase in net sales and the fivefold increase in operating simply responding to the questions related to the issue at hand, Minebea.” Even after the acquisition, he takes good care of the Company to consider how to create time for discussions by income over the past ten years are the superb management he gave a solid explanation of his positions from a future-oriented acquired company, and I think it’s fair to say that the ability to streamlining the number of agenda items. skills of the President, his powerful leadership, and the fact that perspective. It gave me a sense of the abilities that have allowed cultivate these trust relationships is also a factor in our success. the corporate philosophy, “to contribute to society by ‘Producing him to drive growth while conducting M&A over a span of many In addition, the President’s background is the relative approach –– What about mutual communication with Internal Directors, better products, with faster speed, in larger numbers, at lower years, and of the strength of the leadership that supports it. taken by lawyers and attorneys, and rather than listening to and the sharing of information with Outside Directors? cost and by smarter means’” has been instilled in all employees. just one side, he also pays attention to the opinions of outside Matsumura: Partly because one of our goals is to deepen With a short-termist approach to management the focus is put –– As someone who has repeatedly succeeded as an M&A officers, and acknowledges their arguments. Previously we discussions at the Board of Directors, new opportunities for only on profitable businesses, and the unprofitable areas tend to expert, the President often uses phrases like “on-site Outside Directors have seen a number of projects that we Outside Directors to have regular face-to-face meetings with get squeezed out—but that is not the case with this company, strength” and “discernment.” How do you feel about this? thought were problematic, and that were canceled as a result the President have been established. In cases where we get which has built a portfolio of businesses with an eye on the long Matsumura: With regard to the growth of the Company through of discussions; or project decisions that, after questioning by information directly from the President, we will be sure to use term, and which I think is linked to the way it maintained its M&A, I would point to two factors. The first is that we prepare Directors, were postponed by the President until the next time it effectively. In addition, liaison councils between the Audit & performance despite the recent coronavirus crisis. meticulously for integration, and we consider synergies very to allow time for consideration. Nevertheless, if after such Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors have also Matsumura: My feeling is that the President has supported carefully. The second is the way that the President communicates discussions we encounter a project that we think should go become more energized, and the amount of information offered at the sustainable growth of the Company through the strength with all the employees in the newly integrated company directly forward, even if it entails assuming a certain amount of risk, such meetings has increased. I feel that the cooperation between of his belief in various difficult times, and the speed with which after the integration has taken place. In addition to discussing as Outside Directors, we have taken the approach of providing Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors is he reacts to situations. The President conveys his vision to all the post-integration positioning of the new business within the encouragement to the President as board members. becoming stronger. This can be seen in the way that points made employees through a regular publication called “Navigation,” organization of the Company, these communications include It is because the President has properly responded to this during discussion at meetings of the Board of Directors which which explains the current situation of the Company and gives a details on the utilization of human resources after integration, encouragement that the Company has grown into what it is need to be followed up are deliberated in more depth at the sense of reassurance and motivation to employees. In addition, which is conducted in a spirit of equality. We believe that this today, in my opinion. liaison councils immediately following the Board meetings. at meetings held twice a year for nearly a week (Top Meeting and ability to communicate inspires the employees of the other Haga: This is partly an aspiration for the future, but Outside business plan review meeting), the thoughts of the President are company, and helps enhance synergistic effects. –– Our next topic is the Board of Directors. We would like to Directors want to fully understand in advance the agenda items conveyed to the heads of each department, and in this way the Haga: I think the reason for the President’s success in so many hear your views on what areas could be enhanced and on presented at meetings of the Board of Directors, so at the very organization of this large group is unified. Moreover, the President M&A transactions is that he forms a clear idea of the objective how it could evolve going forward, including themes such least it would be good to be able to secure time for that. proposes a variety of initiatives based on his own unique ideas. of the acquisition beforehand, as well as having a well-defined as sustainability. With regard to providing explanations beforehand, I think it should For example, he is promoting plans for teambuilding from the vision for after the purchase has been completed. I imagine that Matsumura: I see discussions by the Board of Directors to be possible to go through the Secretariat to ask for explanations perspective of utilizing human resources. Employees react to the he is careful to use negotiation and due diligence to ascertain promote sustainability as being an important part of improving President’s enthusiasm, for example by coming up with effective whether those objectives can be achieved or not. What is corporate value when pursuing challenging targets. The ideas of their own, and I think this interaction between the important in M&A-driven growth is not whether the company Company has identified material issues (Materiality) in relation to Our strategy of building a portfolio President and staff is one of the strengths of the Company. succeeds in coming to an agreement and acquiring another, but the promotion of sustainability and set priority topics by category, of businesses with an eye on the Haga: My research themes are M&A and management to what degree the combining of the acquired management such as creating workplaces that maximize the abilities of long term bore fruit during the strategy, so I have seen a variety of cases over the years. resources with the company’s own resources results in the employees, contributing in various ways to society, and ensuring coronavirus crisis My understanding is that there are almost no companies that expected synergies being achieved. From the perspective of stable supplies of precision products that support society. In 51 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 52 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation appropriate monitoring of the optimal planning for the Company. Haga: I consider that my experience in giving advice related List of Officers (As of August 2020) My highest priority is to to management is the reason why I was asked to be newly ■ Directors maintain my objectivity from an appointed as an Outside Director. The composition of the current independent viewpoint Board of Directors is such that when viewed in terms of a skills Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting matrix, there are outside officers from a really wide range of fields, 100％ (12/12) 100％ (12/12) and this suggests that monitoring and the provision of advice can directly from the department that is tabling the agenda item. be implemented from a variety of angles and perspectives. Beginning this fiscal year, there has been one additional As a member of the Nomination and Compensation Committee, Representative Director, CEO & COO Representative Director, Vice Chairman independent Outside Director, so that independent Outside I think it is important to consider our objective to be not the Yoshihisa Kainuma Shigeru Moribe Directors account for one third of the Board of Directors. This has nomination itself, but rather the proper management of the Apr. 1983 Member of Daini Tokyo Bar Association Mar. 1980 Joined MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. resulted in a further strengthening of the governance structure. succession plan. This is a point that is often misunderstood by the Dec. 1988 Director, General Manager of Legal Department of the Company May 1990 General Manager of Development Headquarters, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Sep. 1989 Member of New York State Bar Association This will probably require some consideration of the number outside world, but the Nomination and Compensation Committee Dec. 1992 Managing Director and Deputy General Manager of Operations Headquarters Apr. 1991 Director, Head of Singapore branch, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Apr. 1994 Managing Director, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. of people working in the Secretariat that supports the Board of does not create the succession plan. Instead it periodically Dec. 1994 Senior Managing Director, General Manager of European and American Regional Oct. 1999 Senior Managing Director, General Manager of Sales Headquarters, MITSUMI Sales Headquarters, Deputy General Manager of Operations Headquarters ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Directors, and of the structure of the Secretariat. monitors whether the actions taken by the personnel and human Jun. 2003 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2002 Representative Director, President, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Apr. 2009 Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Jan. 2017 Adviser of the Company Murakami: Rather than being constrained by previous practice, resources development departments are following appropriate Jan. 2017 Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Apr. 2017 Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Present) we should exchange opinions throughout the Company regarding processes and methods. Interviews with the candidate are a way Jun. 2017 Representative Director, CEO & COO (Present) Jun. 2017 Representative Director, Vice Chairman (Present) Aug. 2019 Representative Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors, U-Shin Ltd. (Present) what is needed for more substantial discussions at the Board of of confirming their reasonableness, and I believe that this should Apr. 2020 Representative Director, Chairman, ABLIC Inc. (Present) Directors, while moving forward with mutual cooperation between be the role taken by the Nomination Committee with regard to Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Mr. Yoshihisa Kainuma has been in command of management of the entire Group since 2009, Mr. Shigeru Moribe served as Representative Director, President of MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Outside Directors. succession planning. What is difficult in the case of the Company expanding the Group’s operations and steadily implementing and achieving an improvement in for many years until the business integration between the Company and the said company in 2017, corporate value. He was appointed since the Company considered that his management skills would and he has a wealth of experience and keen insight as a corporate manager. He was appointed since is not that it is an organization that has grown to be large through contribute to a further sustainable growth of the Group. he properly oversees the management of the Group as Representative Director, Vice Chairman. –– F inally, the Nomination and Compensation Committee that a single business, but that due to the integration of businesses was set up as an advisory body to the Board of Directors is we have many companies all working together. Rather than only Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting now in its second year. How do you view its prospects going having a plan for nurturing new graduates, I believe we must forward? consider how to provide equal opportunities to those people who 100％ (12/12) 100％ (12/12) Murakami: The Company’s voluntary Nomination and have joined us through integrations, and if we are still unable to Compensation Committee will utilize the freedom it was designed acquire the human resources we need, we must look at hiring Director, Vice President Executive Officer Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer to have. As mentioned by Ms. Haga just now, its structure from outside the Company. Ryozo Iwaya Tetsuya Tsuruta strengthens the involvement of independent outside officers, Murakami: I agree. With regard to the nomination of officers, we Apr. 1981 Joined the Company and its members include one Outside Audit & Supervisory Board have begun interviews and so on with the Executive Officer class Apr. 1981 Joined the Company Oct. 2005 Head of Mechanical Assembly Business Unit Dec. 1989 Head of Tokyo Sales Division at Tokyo Branch Member. As a Committee, it is involved in the decision-making that provides the candidates. And in addition to nominating candidates Jun. 2009 Executive Officer, Head of Lighting Device Business Unit at Electronic Device & Jun. 2007 Executive Officer Component Business Headquarters Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer process for nominating and compensating Directors and I believe for officers, we must also consider how to set up an appropriately Jun. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Jan. 2016 Deputy Chief of Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters Apr. 2015 Deputy Chief of Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters, Officer in Jun. 2016 Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer (Present) that its opinions have carried considerable weight in compensationfunctioning compensation system of incentives for officers. charge of Electronic Device Division at Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Sep. 2017 Chief of Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters, Officer in charge of related matters. There is room for debate on whether the Haga: This performance-linked stock compensation system is just Headquarters, Head of Lighting Device Business Unit Production Support Division Jun. 2015 Director (Present), Senior Managing Executive Officer May 2018 Deputy Chief of Sales Headquarters (Present) compensation of Directors should include an indicator representing the sort of thing that aligns interests with those of shareholders, Jan. 2017 Chief of MITSUMI Business Headquarters (Present) Apr. 2017 Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., corporate value over the medium to long term, or whether greater and I feel it is the kind of system that will be well received even LTD. (Present) Jun. 2017 Chief of Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters (Present) weight should be given to the contribution of recent performance, from the perspective of investors. How much of an incentive Aug. 2019 Director, U-Shin Ltd. (Present) but I think this is an area where trial and error will continue to be this provides to Directors is something that we must verify going Oct. 2019 Vice President Executive Officer, Officer in charge of Electronic Device & Component related Business (Present) required going forward. I believe that deliberating matters at the forward. With regard to the weightings assigned to the evaluation Apr. 2020 Director, ABLIC Inc. (Present) Nomination and Compensation Committee has led to greater of individual contributions and the evaluation of the Company’s Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Mr. Ryozo Iwaya has held important positions in the Sales Division, the electronic devices & Mr. Tetsuya Tsuruta has held important positions in the Sales Division and the machined components objectivity, transparency and fairness, and it seems to me that results respectively, I think it should also be possible to change components manufacturing business, etc. for many years, and he has a wealth of experience and keen manufacturing business for many years, and he has a wealth of experience and keen insight. He was insight. He was appointed since he, as Director, Officer in charge of Electronic Device & Component appointed since he mainly oversees sales of machined components as Director, Deputy Chief of Sales Directors are also convinced that this is the case. this proportion somewhat, depending on the role of the officer and related Business, supervises Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters, MITSUMI Headquarters and properly fulfills his role. Business Headquarters, and U-Shin Business Headquarters and properly fulfills his role at present. Matsumura: Under the leadership of Mr. Murakami, who chairs their experience. Compensation for officers will vary according to the Nomination and Compensation Committee, we have dealt their position. Depending on the role taken by the officer, I think Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting with a considerable volume of compensation-related matters over we must consider what percentage of total compensation is fixed, the nine meetings of the Committee that have been held since it and what percentage is performance-linked. 100％ (12/12) 100％ (12/12) was established. Moreover, this time we introduced a new share Murakami: When we talk about incentives for Directors, we do granting trust system. The compensation system for Directors not mean the next one to two years. The issue is more about Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer consists of a mechanism whereby shares of the Company taking into account mediumto long-term factors. We have are granted in accordance with the degree of achievement introduced a performance-linked stock compensation system, but Shigeru None Michiya Kagami towards the Company’s performance, and the level of individual we must continue to focus on this to ascertain whether the overall Apr. 1982 Joined the Company Jan. 1989 Joined the Company Sep. 1999 Manager of Osaka Branch Jul. 2005 Head of Electronics Development Division at Engineering Headquarters contribution. The Committee has conducted discussions from compensation structure provides appropriate incentives to Directors. Jun. 2007 Executive Officer Jun. 2009 Deputy Chief of Electronic Device & Component Business Headquarters a variety of viewpoints, and we expect to see results from Apr. 2011 Deputy Officer in charge of Sales Division Jun. 2011 Executive Officer Jun. 2012 Managing Executive Officer Mar. 2013 Head of Engineering Development Department of Electronic Device Division at incentives aimed at improving the performance of officers, and –– T hank you. Jun. 2015 Director (Present) Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters Jun. 2016 Senior Managing Executive Officer (Present) Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer further increasing their contribution to the Company. In terms Jun. 2017 Officer in charge of Sales Division Aug. 2015 Deputy Chief of Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters, May 2018 Chief of Sales Headquarters (Present) Officer in charge of Engineering Development Division at Electronic Device & of nominations, we conducted interviews with candidates in It is important for the Jun. 2017 Component Manufacturing Headquarters Director, Chief of Engineering Headquarters (Present), Officer in charge relation to the most important personnel matters, and we were Nomination Committee to of Engineering Development Division at Electronic Device & Component also given opportunities to receive appropriate training in relation Manufacturing Headquarters (Present) implement proper management May 2018 Senior Managing Executive Officer (Present) to succession plans. Through training such as this, I came to feel Reason for appointment Reason for appointment the necessity of recognizing the various possibilities in relation to of the succession plan Mr. Shigeru None has held important positions in the Sales Division for many years, and he has a wealth Mr. Michiya Kagami has held important positions in the development branches of the electronic of experience and keen insight. He was appointed since he mainly oversees sales of electronic devices devices & components business for many years, and he has a wealth of experience and keen insight and components as Director, Chief of Sales Headquarters and properly fulfills his role. in research and development. He was appointed since he properly fulfills his role as Director and succession plans. In addition, I feel it is important to implement Chief of Engineering Headquarters. 53 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 54 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation ■ Directors ■ Audit & Supervisory Board Member ■ Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting 100％ (12/12) 100％ (10/10) 100％ (12/12) Attendance at the Audit & Supervisory Board Meeting Attendance at the Audit & Supervisory Board Meeting 100％ (14/14) 100％ (10/10) Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Katsuhiko Yoshida Director, Managing Executive Officer Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Standing Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Assumed the office on June 26, 2020) Hiroshi Aso Naoyuki Kimura Koichi Yoshino Apr. 1984 Joined the Company Mar. 1981 Joined Kyushu MITSUMI CO., LTD. Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 1985 Joined Marubeni Corporation Dec. 2010 General Manager of Cambodia Business Promotion Office of Corporate Planning Oct. 2007 Head of Power Supply Business Unit, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. May 2008 Deputy General Manager of Personnel & General Affairs Department at Karuizawa Apr. 2000 General Manager of Consumer Products Division, Marubeni (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Department of Operation and Planning Division Plant, Personnel & General Affairs Division Apr. 2002 General Manager of Textile Materials Division, Marubeni Textile (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd. Jun. 2010 Director, General Manager of Semiconductor Business Headquarters, MITSUMI Dec. 2013 Head of Operation Department at Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Sep. 2011 General Manager of Personnel & General Affairs Department at Operation and Apr. 2007 Vice President, Marubeni Textile (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Headquarters, General Manager of Vertical Integration Improvement Office, General Planning Division Apr. 2010 Assistant to President, SUPER TOOL CO., LTD. (Temporary transferred) Apr. 2016 Director, Managing Executive Officer (Present), General Manager of Development Manager of Business Support Office Headquarters and Semiconductor Business Headquarters, Officer in charge of Jul. 2012 General Manager of Personnel Department and General Affairs Department at Oct. 2010 President, Super Tool (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Temporary transferred) Jun. 2014 Executive Officer Automotive Devices Business Unit, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Personnel & General Affairs Division Apr. 2015 Chief Examiner of Audit Department, Marubeni Corporation Jun. 2016 Deputy Chief of Business Administration Headquarters, General Manager of Business Jan. 2017 Deputy Chief of MITSUMI Business Headquarters, Officer in charge of Engineering Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (Present) Jul. 2018 Joined Kyoto Robotics Corporation Administration Department (Present) Development Division (Present), Officer in charge of Semiconductor Business Acting CFO and General Manager of Internal Audit Office, Kyoto Robotics Corporation Jun. 2017 Managing Executive Officer Division, Officer in charge of Automotive Devices Business Division of the Company Jun. 2019 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (Present) Jun. 2018 Deputy Chief of Tokyo Head Office, Deputy Officer in charge of Business Administration Jun. 2017 Director, Managing Executive Officer, Deputy Chief of Engineering Headquarters (Present) and Accounting & Corporate Finance Division Sep. 2018 Officer in charge of IoT Business Development Department of Business Development Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Apr. 2019 Officer in charge of Business Administration and Corporate Planning Division, Deputy Division (Present) Mr. Naoyuki Kimura has a wide range of business experience, including in personnel, labor affairs and Mr. Koichi Yoshino has a wealth of overseas experience and practical management experience at a Officer in charge of Accounting & Corporate Finance Division, Deputy Officer in charge Apr. 2020 Officer in charge of Semiconductor Division at MITSUMI Business Headquarters (Present) overall general affairs, from serving at Personnel & General Affairs Division for many years. He was general trading company and in the manufacturing industry, as well as a qualification as a Certified of Sustainability Management Division Apr. 2020 Director, ABLIC Inc. (Present) appointed so that his abundant experience and accumulated knowledge would be reflected in audits Internal Auditor and considerable knowledge of finance and accounting. He was appointed so that his Oct. 2019 Senior Managing Executive Officer of the Company. abundant experience and broad knowledge would be reflected in audits of the Company. Apr. 2020 Director, ABLIC Inc. (Present) Jun. 2020 Director, Chief of Tokyo Head Office, Officer in charge of Sustainability Management ■ Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Division (Present) Director, Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Present) Director, U-Shin Ltd. (Present) Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Mr. Katsuhiko Yoshida has held important positions in the business administration division, the corporate Mr. Hiroshi Aso held important positions in the development division, the power supply business, the planning division, the procurement division, etc. for many years, and he has a wealth of experience and semiconductor business, etc. of MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. until the business integration between 100％ (12/12) 100％ (10/10) keen insight. He was appointed since he is well-versed in general administrative tasks and properly fulfills the Company and the said company in 2017, and he has a wealth of experience and keen insight. He Attendance at the Audit & Supervisory Board Meeting Attendance at the Audit & Supervisory Board Meeting his role as Deputy Chief of Tokyo Head Office. was appointed since he properly fulfills his role as Director, Deputy Chief of Engineering Headquarters, Deputy Chief of MITSUMI Business Headquarters. 100％ (14/14) 100％ (10/10) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member ■ Independent Outside Directors Shinichiro Shibasaki Makoto Hoshino Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting Apr. 1980 Joined Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau Apr. 1989 Registered as attorney-at-law, Joined Inami and Ota Jul. 2006 Chief Examiner, Large Enterprise Examination and Criminal Investigation 100％ (12/12) 100％ (12/12) Apr. 1993 Inami and Ota changed its name to Inami, Ota and Shibasaki (Partner) Oct. 2010 Member of Dispute Resolution Committee of The General Insurance Association of Department, Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau Jul. 2007 Special Officer, Management and Co-ordination Department, Kantoshinetsu Japan (Present) Regional Taxation Bureau May 2011 Inami, Ota and Shibasaki changed its name to Law Office Juricom (Partner) (Present) Jul. 2009 District Director, Fukagawa Tax Office Apr. 2012 Part-time Professor, Tokai University School of Medicine Outside Director Outside Director Jun. 2014 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (Present), Jul. 2010 Senior Internal Inspector, Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau, Commissioner’s Secretariat of the National Tax Agency Kohshi Murakami Atsuko Matsumura Independent Committee Member of the Company Apr. 2015 Visiting Professor, Tokai University School of Medicine (Present) Jul. 2012 District Director, Ota Tax Office Jul. 2013 Director, Planning Division, Management and Co-ordination Department, Apr. 1967 Assistant Judge, Tokyo District Court Apr. 1978 Joined Japan Center for Economic Research Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau Apr. 1999 Presiding Justice of the Division (Acting Chief Justice, Specialized Economic and Apr. 1981 Visiting research fellow, Economic Research Institute, Economic Planning Agency Jul. 2014 Chief Internal Inspector, Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau, Commissioner’s Financial Affairs Department), Tokyo High Court (currently Economic and Social Research Institute) Secretariat of the National Tax Agency Apr. 2005 Professor, Graduate School of Law, Kyoto University Apr. 1987 Part-time Lecturer, Jissen Women’s Junior College Jul. 2016 Chief Internal Inspector, Osaka Regional Taxation Bureau, Commissioner’s Jun. 2005 Joined TMI Associates as Advisor Attorney (Present) Apr. 1988 Full-time Lecturer, OTSUMA WOMEN’S UNIVERSITY Secretariat of the National Tax Agency Nov. 2005 Outside Corporate Auditor of SANEI-INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD. Apr. 1991 Full-time Lecturer, Faculty of Economics, Tokyo International University Jul. 2017 Deputy Commissioner, Large Enterprise Examination and Criminal Investigation Department, Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau Apr. 2008 Visiting Professor, Yokohama National University Apr. 1999 Associate Professor, Faculty of Economics, Tokyo International University Jul. 2018 Retired from Kantoshinetsu Regional Taxation Bureau May 2008 Member of the Independent Committee of the Company Apr. 2006 Professor, Faculty of Economics, Tokyo International University (Present) Aug. 2018 Registered as a certified tax accountant Jun. 2008 Outside Director of the Company (Present) Apr. 2010 Part-time Lecturer, Department of Social and Family Economy, Faculty of Human Director, Makoto Hoshino Certified Tax Accountant Office (Present) Apr. 2010 Professor, Juris Doctor Program, Daito Bunka University Sciences and Design, Japan Women’s University (Present) Jun. 2019 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (Present) Apr. 2015 Part-time Lecturer, Department of Politics, Faculty of Law, Keio University (Present) Jun. 2016 Outside Director, RENESAS EASTON Co., Ltd. (currently Glosel Co., Ltd.) (Present) Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Jun. 2018 Outside Director of the Company (Present) Mr. Shinichiro Shibasaki is well-versed in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law. He was appointed Mr. Makoto Hoshino has considerable knowledge of finance and accounting as well as abundant so that his abundant experience and keen insight would be reflected in audits of the Company. experience with tax services. He was appointed so that his abundant experience and keen insight Reason for appointment Reason for appointment would be reflected in audits of the Company. Mr. Kohshi Murakami has a wealth of experience and keen insight as a former Presiding Justice of the Ms. Atsuko Matsumura has expertise in international economics as well as broad knowledge and Division of the Tokyo High Court and as an attorney-at-law. He was appointed so that he would provide experience. She was appointed so that her abundant knowledge and experience would be reflected in guidance to ensure the sound management of the Company and promote compliance. the management of the Company. Attendance at the Board of Directors Meeting ■ Skills Matrix of Independent Outside Officers 100％ (12/12) Independent Outside Directors Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Outside Director Outside Director Yuko Haga (Assumed the office on June 26, 2020) Takashi Matsuoka Apr. 1989 Senior Consultant, Tokyo Office, Price Waterhouse Consultants Apr. 2003 General Manager of Planning Division, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. Apr. 1991 Representative, Haga Management Consulting Office (Present) Jun. 2003 Director, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. Apr. 2008 Executive Officer, Sompo Japan Healthcare Services Inc. Jun. 2004 Managing Director, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. Feb. 2010 Director, Social Welfare Corporation Fujikenikukai (Present) Jun. 2005 Outside Director of the Company (Present) Apr. 2010 Visiting Professor, Department of Policy Management, Faculty of Policy Jun. 2007 Senior Managing Director, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Management, Shobi University Jun. 2011 Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. Director Director Director Director Board Member Board Member Board Member Apr. 2017 Associate Professor, Graduate School of Management, NUCB Business School Jun. 2014 Director, Vice President Executive Officer, KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. (Present) Mr. Murakami Ms. Matsumura Ms. Haga Mr. Matsuoka Mr. Yoshino Mr. Shibasaki Mr. Hoshino Jun. 2017 Board Member, Non-Profit Organization Japan Abilities Association (Present) Mar. 2019 Outside Director of the Board, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. (currently Kyowa Kirin Corporate management ● ● ● Co., Ltd.) (Present) Apr. 2020 Professor, Graduate School of Management, NUCB Business School (Present) Global ● ● ● Jun. 2020 Outside Director of the Company (Present) Legal affairs ● ● Finance and accounting ● ● Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Ms. Yuko Haga has expertise in corporate strategy as well as broad knowledge and experience Mr. Takashi Matsuoka has been in charge of the Planning Division, etc. of KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. for many Tax services ● ● accumulated as a management consultant. She was appointed so that her abundant knowledge and years, and he has broad insight and experience in business operation. He was appointed so that his experience would be reflected in the management of the Company. abundant knowledge and experience would be reflected in the management of the Company. 55 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 56 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation ■ Highlights of corporate governance Introduced performance-linked Number of female Outside Directors Corporate Governance stock compensation system for Directors Increased by (Two out of 12) One Takeover Defense Measures were not updated We are continuing to enhance and reinforce the corporate governance, which will be the basis of ■ Corporate governance system sustainable growth. General Meeting of Shareholders Elect/Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Basic approach to corporate governance Report Board of Directors MinebeaMitsumi has adopted our company credo “The and contribute to global society.” Consistent with this company Consult 12 Directors Audit Report Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors Five Principles” as our basic management policy. “The Five credo, MinebeaMitsumi will aim to increase corporate 4 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Principles” are; “be a company where our employees are value as well as fulfill its social responsibilities to its various Report Report Determinate Content of Election/ Internal (8) Outside (4) Dismissal Proposals proud to work”; “earn and preserve the trust of our valued stakeholders, including shareholders, business partners, local Evaluate Suitability of Accounting Audit Appoint/Remove customers”; “respond to our shareholders’ expectations”; communities, international society and employees. Nomination and Delegate Business Supervise Internal (1) Outside (3) “work in harmony with the local community”; and “promote Compensation Execution Authority Report Committee Cooperate Audit Audit ■ History of corporate governance (Exhibit Policy) Representative Director, Cooperate Consult Senior Executive Officer President and Chief (years) 〜2000 2003 2005 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 Council Executive Officer Report (Consult) Putting in place Report Environmental Compliance Committee Risk Management Information Security Quality Management Patent Committee Large-scale acquisitions the foundations for Report Order Report Expanding Group through Yoshihisa Kainuma appointed aimed at achieving the next 10 years promotion of M&A, President/Battles with 1trn/100bn yen targets, after leveraging the Order putting in place a foundation successive crises for governance further strengthening power of the Group Supervise Sustainability Management Committee of governance in response to Division Committee Committee Management Committee infectious disease Global Great East Financial Japan U.S.-China Executive Officers & Emerging crises Crisis Earthquake Trade COVID-19 Pandemic Technical Officers Internal Auditing Office Thailand Friction 37 members (*) Floods Present Policy Integration Execute Duties Audit Present Plan Report, etc. Integration Integration Approve Plan, etc. with Symbolic M&A MITSUMI with with (no. of Group companies) （39） （40） （69） U-Shin ABLIC ELECTRIC （89） (118) (123) Headquarters, Divisions, Business Units and Group Companies (*) Excluding seven Executive Officers who concurrently hold a post of Director of the Company From 2005 From 1999 From 2009 President President President Yamamoto Yamagishi President Kainuma Status of the Board of Directors Chairperson for the President and Chief Executive Officer begins serving concurrently as Chairperson Board of Directors/CEO In accordance with the basic policy of respecting diversity on appropriate, with 12 Directors (including four Outside Directors) 2003 the Board of Directors, the Company shall appoint Directors to enabling prompt and highly strategic decision-making, in 2002 10 9 10 12 11 12 Board of Directors Number of Directors reduced (25 → 10) due to provide the knowledge, experience, ability and internationalism 25 Directors addition to oversight of management. introduction of Executive Officer System required, irrespective of nationality, race or sex. As a rule, In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, multiple M&A Compensation Abolition of the executive Introduced incentive Introduced performanceordinary meetings of the Board of Directors shall take place projects were screened and in December 2019 the acquisition Introduced stock options linked stock System for Directors retirement benefits system compensation once a month and extraordinary meetings shall be held as of ABLIC Inc. was decided. compensation system Outside Directors 2 3 4 Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Outside Audit & Supervisory 2 3 In order for the Board of Directors to effectively discharge based on the grades given in the questionnaire and the content Board Members its duties, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of the comments, was that the effectiveness of the Board of Established the Nomination and of Directors was conducted to check whether the Board of Directors has generally been secured. Advisory committee Compensation Committee Directors as a whole was functioning appropriately, to verify Established “MinebeaMitsumi Group the composition of the members, the agenda items discussed, [Points for improvement this fiscal year] Group Governance Established “Minebea Group Basic Rules for Risk Management” Basic Rules for Risk Management” and the status of the operation of the Board of Directors, and to It was decided that in order to further deepen deliberations at (abolished “Minebea Group Basic Rules for Risk Management”) identify issues and acknowledge problems and strengths. meetings of the Board of Directors, regular discussions will be Established “Code of Conduct” Established “Compliance Guidelines” Established “Compliance Management Rules” In March every year, written self-evaluation questionnaires held on themes such as “corporate strategy,” “initiatives to Established “Rules of contact with competitors” are distributed to all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board promote sustainability” and “human resources development.” Established “Rules for Management of Group Companies” Members with the aim not only of looking back at progress The background to this decision is that in addition to performance Established “Anti-Corruption/Anti-Bribery Rules” made on points for improvement raised in the previous fiscal and capital efficiency (ROE, etc.), human resources development Established year, but also of unearthing key themes to be addressed over the and the further promotion of sustainability will become an “Global Rules for IP” following fiscal year. The results and analysis of the questionnaire important part of preparations for achieving long-term targets Takeover Defense Introduced (updated) (updated) (updated) (not were reported at the May 2020 Board of Directors meeting. of 2.5 trillion yen in net sales and 250 billion yen in operating Measures updated) After an exchange of opinions among Directors and Audit & income, and it was recognized that these are issues that must be Supervisory Board Members, the assessment of the Board, addressed by the Board of Directors. 57 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 58 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Corporate Governance Nomination and Compensation Committee Initiatives for Group governance <Composition of members> (as of August 2020) <Activities of the committee> Under its Basic Policy for the Formulation of an Internal Control MITSUMI ELECTRIC, U-Shin, and ABLIC over the years 2017 to 2020. Chairperson: Kohshi Murakami (Independent Outside Director) The Company held meetings of the committee six times during System, the Company has been developing various regulations Established in 2019 with the aim of enhancing initiatives Members: the period from April 2019 to March 2020. The committee applicable across the Group (Group regulations). We need to further pertaining to governance of the entire Group, the Sustainability Yoshihisa Kainuma (Representative Director, CEO & COO) deliberated and reported to the Board of Directors on the reinforce our corporate governance through efforts that include Management Division will furthermore overhaul Group regulations Atsuko Matsumura (Independent Outside Director) following matters. overhauling various rules amid a scenario where the number of going forward, while otherwise enhancing risk management and Yuko Haga (Independent Outside Director) (1) Proposal of candidates for Director to be submitted at General companies in the Group has increased more than threefold relative compliance frameworks of the entire Group, and also seeking to Shinichiro Shibasaki (Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Meeting of Shareholders to the number in 2012, upon having integrated the businesses of improve effectiveness of our governance. Board Member) (2) Proposed bonuses for Directors based on the consolidated results and stock price levels, and proposed revision of basic Compliance Risk management compensation In June 2020 the introduction of a stock-based compensation <Basic approach> <Basic approach> system was considered. To continue to act appropriately as a corporate citizen, the Because our response to risk could profoundly affect the Company has established the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Code of MinebeaMitsumi Group’s business fundamentals, we believe that Processes for determining the compensation of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Conduct” and “MinebeaMitsumi Group Officer and Employee risk management is vital to the management of the company. Compliance Guidelines,” and on the basis of these policies, We established the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Basic Rules for Risk (i) Compensation for Directors billion yen, consolidated operating income of 58.6 billion yen, and we strive to achieve fair, appropriate and highly transparent Management” which define preventive measures we should have The compensation for Directors is determined by a resolution market capitalization at the end of the fiscal year of 689.3 billion management. in place, our response in crisis situations, and the type of system of the Board of Directors after deliberation by the Nomination yen. Having taken various circumstances into account, incentive <Compliance promotion structure> the group should put in place. and Compensation Committee, by the following compensation compensation disbursed in relation to achieving the consolidated The President and Chief Executive Officer of the MinebeaMitsumi <Risk management system> composition and calculation methods and within the maximum net sales target of 900 billion yen for the current fiscal year will be Group has ultimate responsibility for compliance. He is supported The President and Chief Executive Officer of the MinebeaMitsumi amount authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. returned. directly by the Compliance Committee. Meeting twice a year, the Group has final responsibility for risk management, with major <Basic compensation> <Performance-linked stock compensation> committee ensures implementation of the Code of Conduct and decisions regarding risk management being made by the Basic compensation comprises job responsibility compensation At the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on makes decisions on emergency response measures in the event Risk Management Committee. As a precautionary measure, according to the Directors’ individual positions and performance June 26, 2020, approval was obtained for the introduction of of significant violations of the code. The Compliance Promotion MinebeaMitsumi attempts to predict and classify tangible risks compensation revised each fiscal year in consideration of a new stock-based compensation system for Directors of the Office acts as the administrative body for the Compliance in advance, and remains vigilant against such risks. In the unlikely individual performance, the performance of the Company and Company (excluding Outside Directors). Committee, creating various policies for the promotion of event that an incident occurs, a management headquarters and other factors, and is determined in a reasonable amount. Under this system, the Company pays cash through a trust compliance. local countermeasures office will be established according to <Performance-linked monetary compensation> to acquire the Company’s shares. The Company’s Directors Additionally, we appoint compliance officers at each site the severity category of the circumstances as defined in the Bonuses for Directors are structured to reflect the Company’s are granted a number of the Company’s shares equivalent to in order to enhance the group management. To reinforce the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Basic Rules for Risk Management” performance, job responsibilities, and performance, and the amount points conferred to them according to the level of contribution structure throughout the Group, in the fiscal year ending March to respond rapidly and effectively to the situation. Further, of bonuses to be paid is determined based on the bonus calculation to business performance, etc. The goals of adopting the system 2021 we appointed a compliance officer as well as staff and subMinebeaMitsumi has established a system under which, depending table, which is based on consolidated results, primarily on the are to help improve corporate earnings over the medium and staff in charge of compliance at ABLIC Inc., which joined the on the nature of the risk, a supervisory division can be appointed to profit for the year, and stock price of the Company. The reason for long term and to enhance an awareness of contributions to Group as a result of business integration. handle a situation to draft and implement risk prevention measures. selection of these indicators is to include in the Directors’ evaluations corporate value gains by more clearly linking the Company’s <BCP initiatives> corporate value represented by stock prices, while emphasizing the Director’s compensation to corporate earnings and share value ■ Compliance framework In the event of a major disaster, infectious diseases such as final result of each fiscal year in the form of profit for the year. of the Company. This will expose the Company’s Directors to the Chief Compliance Officer influenza, act of terrorism or other emergency, we believe that our The amount of incentive compensation to be paid is determined same benefits and risks associated with share price fluctuations Representative Director, social responsibility includes confirming the safety of our employees President and Chief Executive Officer based on the degree of achievement of the Midterm Business as shareholders. In principle, the Company’s shares would be and their families with top priority, as well as ensuring that, as a parts Plan aimed at 1 trillion yen in net sales and 100 billion yen in granted upon retirement of Directors. manufacturer of products with world-leading market shares, we can operating income, and market capitalization of the Company, Compliance Committee continually supply our customers and minimize the impact to our ◦ Chairperson (Officer in charge of compliance) at the end of the fiscal year. The reason for the selection of (ii) Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members business. For that reason, we have formulated business continuity ◦ Committee members these indicators is to enhance the incentive to increase the Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members consists plans (BCP) for major business sites in and outside Japan and are Company’s performance and corporate value by achieving the solely of the basic compensation, which is paid in a fixed amount implementing training drills, etc. Administrative Worldwide Sites Midterm Business Plan. Targets for the fiscal year ended March on a monthly basis, and is determined through discussions by ◦ Compliance Officer In terms of specific activities, BCP encompass the creation of Office 2020 were 900 billion yen in consolidated net sales, 80 billion yen the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, within the maximum Compliance ◦ Staff in charge of compliance emergency response manuals, earthquake strengthening of facilities, Promotion Office ◦ Sub-staff in charge of compliance in consolidated operating income, and market capitalization of 1 amount of compensation, as authorized by the General Meeting storage of food and drinking water, establishment of an internal fire trillion yen, whereas results were consolidated net sales of 978.4 of Shareholders. brigade, disaster drills, and safety confirmation drills, among other measures. BCP drills are conducted at the Karuizawa Plant three ■ Actual compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (fiscal year ended March 2020) The details on initiatives for compliance times annually in anticipation of an earthquake or other emergency. promotion can be viewed from here. In addressing the prevailing threat of COVID-19, the Amount of compensation (millions of yen) Categories Number of payees MinebeaMitsumi Group has set up a headquarters to take swift Performance-linked Performance-linked Basic compensation Total action. We have accordingly managed to keep damage to a monetary compensation stock compensation Directors 11 309 319 629 minimum by thoroughly implementing shared measures globally, (Outside Directors) （3） （33） (Not applicable) (Not applicable) （33） with the first of such efforts having taken place in China. Going Audit & Supervisory Board forward, we will draw on our measures to contend with the 7 50 Not applicable Not applicable 50 Members (Outside Audit & （5） （34） (Not applicable) (Not applicable) （34） pandemic as an opportunity to upgrade BCP pertaining to infectious Supervisory Board Members) disease at our Shanghai Plant in China, and will extend such plans Total 18 359 319 679 to the Group’s major locations. The above table includes amounts paid to Mr. Kazunari Shimizu, Mr. Kazuyoshi Tokimaru, and Mr. Hisayoshi Rikuna, who retired from the position as Audit & Supervisory Board Member at the conclusion of the 73rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2019. 59 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 60 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter IV Initiatives to Support Value Creation President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Corporate Governance Business and other risks (6) Risk related to accrued post-retirement benefit and (8) Risk related to environmental laws and regulations pension costs Our business is vulnerable to risks associated with various The Group defines risks as uncertain events that could affect the execution of its operations, or its business activities, either directly or If the fair value of pension assets declines due to a low rate of environmental laws and regulations that are in effect in the regions indirectly, and describes the content and response to major risks that could have an impact on the Group’s operating results and financial return on a pension fund, or if the discount rate falls, or if the where we operate. For this reason, the Group has established position from the perspective of external environment and internal environment. rate of salary increase changes, or if other assumptions used in an environmental management structure (Environmental The following future major risks are those recognized by the Group as of March 31, 2020. the actuarial calculations change, there is a risk that this could Management Committee) under the “MinebeaMitsumi Group result in increases in the retirement benefit obligation and a Environmental Policy,” as well as appointing a Manager of deterioration in the funded status, leading in turn to a rise in Environmental Management, and it promotes rigorous activities pension costs. For that reason, the Group maintains multiple to prevent environmental pollution even in normal times and ■ External environment defined benefit pension plans, and seeks to mitigate risk by mitigate risk. concentrating management in specific assets. (1) Risk related to natural and other disasters (4) Risk of sudden changes in the market environment and (9) Risk related to M&As and alliances Even in normal times, the Group headquarters and various low-price competition (7) Legal risk The Group considers M&A and alliances to be one of its most locations work closely together to respond to risks by The principal markets for our Group products, including those for The Group has developed its operational activities over a wide important policies and promotes such opportunities, but changes strengthening their disaster prevention training, which assumes PCs and peripheral devices, information and telecommunications range both in Japan and overseas, and there is a risk that material in the market environment, etc., as well as the occurrence of the occurrence of a natural disaster or similar, and their crisis equipment, household electrical appliances, automobiles, and legal action or lawsuits could be brought against it at some mismatches with the strategy of the other party in alliances, management system. aircraft components, are subject to extraordinary levels of point in the future. We envisage legal risks associated with a may lead to the non-materialization of the effects that were competition both in Japan and overseas, and there is the risk of variety of statutes, such as the Antimonopoly Act, the Product originally expected. In order to respond to such risks, the Group (2) Latent risk related to operations overseas significant fluctuations in demand. Liability Act, or the Intellectual Property Laws. In the event that a emphasizes the blending of human resources and organizations Our Group’s manufacturing activities are conducted primarily In order to prepare for sudden contractions in demand, and material legal action is brought against the Group, the response during M&A, and in alliances places great importance on mutual in Thailand, China, Philippines and Cambodia. While we have competition with low-priced products manufactured overseas, is managed entirely by the Legal Department, in conjunction with use of know-how to generate synergies. been operating in these countries for quite some time, overseas the Group operates in accordance with the management legal advisers. operations are always subject to the following risks (any of strategies of “Reinforcing Core Businesses,” “Diversified which could have a negative impact on our operating results and Niches (the Eight Spears),” and “Generating Synergies through financial position): the INTEGRATION” to reduce as much as possible the risk of ■ Internal environment (a) Unexpected changes to laws or regulations concentration on individual customers. With regard to credit, (b) Difficulty in attracting and securing qualified human resources in addition to strengthening our debtor management, such as (1) Risk related to compliance (3) Risk related to information security (c) Acts of terrorism or war, or other occurrences that could by negotiating debt protection activities with counterparties for The Group conducts its business activities while being subject Since we obtain large amounts of important information, disrupt social order. which there are concerns, and focusing on creating one-of-a-kind to laws and regulations in each country of the world, and in including personal information through the course of our For this reason, we have arranged for crisis management high value-added products that are resistant to price competition the event that these laws and regulations, etc. are infringed, business operations, we are vulnerable to risks associated with manuals to be provided in overseas locations in order to deal in order to mitigate the risk of market environments and lowor if there is behavior, etc. that violates social requirements, information security. For this reason, the Group established with potential risks associated with expanding overseas, and are price competition. there is a risk that legal punishment, legal action, or social the Information Security Committee with the aim of verifying strengthening preparations to deal with unforeseen situations. sanctions could be taken against the Group, leading in turn to that the information security system is operating appropriately. In addition, we are working closely with the relevant (5) Risk related to supply chain a loss of trust among customers. The Group has established In addition, we strictly enforce tests to check levels of authorities in the countries and regions in which the Company In order to build healthy partnerships with its suppliers, the Group the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Code of Conduct,” which covers understanding as part of information security education, and we operates, and are striving to ensure the safety of the Company has established “Basic Procurement Policies,” and accepts labor, health and safety, environmental conservation, and implement countermeasures to avoid risk by working to prevent and its employees by taking prompt action based on accurate new suppliers only after it has confirmed that they accept the ethical management, and it has additionally formulated the information leaks resulting from the loss or theft of equipment, information collected in the event of an incident. Group’s views on procurement, such as by being able to maintain “MinebeaMitsumi Group Officer and Employee Compliance or carelessness. Moreover, by expanding mass production factories overseas continuous transactions, by complying with requirements and Guidelines,” which is a specific standard that must be followed and building a global research and development structure, we standards in relation to chemical substances used in the Group’s by all officers and employees. In order to instill these concepts, a (4) Risk related to R&D have established a risk diversification system in which product products, and by endorsing the “MinebeaMitsumi Group CSR Compliance Committee has also been established to exert crossThe Group introduces a continuous flow of new products to mixes that are effective in combating changes in the external Procurement Guidelines.” sectional control of compliance initiatives across the Group, and it the market, and in order to make a contribution to achieving net environment and global production sites mutually complement We also work to diversify the procurement sources of raw is this Committee that plays the central role in educating officers sales and profit targets, it conducts research and development each other, resulting in profits being supported. materials necessary for production over multiple suppliers so and employees. activities that include basic research, key technology as to enhance the stability of the supply chain, and take various development, product development and production process (3) Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuation measures to deal with risk, such as reducing costs by improving (2) Quality risk development. It is uncertain whether research and development Since a significant portion of our consolidated net sales (66.1%) productivity. Our products are used across a wide range of industries, efforts will bear fruit, but in order to obtain results within the and production (87.7%) occur outside Japan, our business especially for applications including advanced products that projected range, the Group efficiently and effectively manages is vulnerable to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign could affect human health and safety such as automobiles, the progress and costs of R&D projects in accordance with the currency exchange rates. For that reason, we use hedging, aircraft, medical devices, etc. For these reasons, high levels of “Research and Development Management Manual” and other primarily using currency exchange contracts, to mitigate the risk quality assurance are required in addition to an acceptance of documents. of sharp movements in exchange rates. social responsibility, and there are risks associated with quality defects. The Group seeks to instill the corporate philosophy based on the “MinebeaMitsumi Group Quality Policy,” and is working to establish quality assurance structures and to ensure that quality can be guaranteed. In addition to activities to improve quality undertaken at production sites by the Quality Assurance Headquarters, the Group practices risk management by taking out various types of insurance to cover damage in preparation for unforeseen situations. 61 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 62 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Major Financial and Non-financial Data over 11 Years FY3/2010 FY3/2011 FY3/2012 FY3/2013 FY3/2014 FY3/2015 FY3/2016 FY3/2017*1 FY3/2018 FY3/2018 FY3/2019*3 FY3/2020*4 Profit and Loss JGAAP IFRS Net sales Millions of yen 228,446 269,139 251,358 282,409 371,543 500,676 609,814 638,926 879,139 881,413 884,723 978,445 Operating income Millions of yen 12,059 22,163 8,599 10,169 32,199 60,101 51,438 49,015 79,162 68,902 72,033 58,647 Operating margin ％ 5.3 8.2 3.4 3.6 8.7 12.0 8.4 7.7 9.0 7.8 8.1 6.0 Profit before income taxes Millions of yen 9,261 18,656 5,551 4,882 26,811 51,773 46,963 48,473 71,230 66,855 71,321 58,089 Profit before income taxes ratio ％ 4.1 6.9 2.2 1.7 7.2 10.3 7.7 7.6 8.1 7.6 8.1 5.9 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Millions of yen 6,662 12,465 5,922 1,804 20,878 39,887 36,386 41,146 59,382 50,326 60,142 45,975 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ratio ％ 2.9 4.6 2.4 0.6 5.6 8.0 6.0 6.4 6.8 5.7 6.8 4.7 Per Share Earnings per share, basic Yen 17.20 32.61 15.63 4.83 55.94 106.73 97.26 107.33 141.14 119.61 143.90 111.11 Earnings per share, diluted Yen 15.54 4.65 53.14 101.32 92.35 105.64 137.80 117.02 140.75 108.68 Dividends per share Yen 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 8.00 12.00 20.00 14.00 26.00 26.00 28.00 28.00 Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share（BPS） Yen 279.87 282.03 288.74 351.65 422.62 604.83 616.43 759.15 872.66 849.15 962.83 965.64 Performance Indicators ROE（Profit to equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio） ％ 6.3 11.6 5.5 1.5 14.4 20.8 15.9 14.9 17.3 14.8 15.9 11.6 ROA（Profit before income taxes to total assets ratio） ％ 2.4 4.4 2.0 0.5 5.6 9.2 7.7 7.5 8.8 9.9 9.9 7.2 ROIC ％ 3.7 6.4 2.6 2.1 7.9 11.8 10.9 10.4 13.1 10.7 12.4 8.8 Interest-bearing debt Millions of yen 123,399 133,212 142,543 170,411 148,498 138,461 137,109 164,010 157,414 156,471 162,042 221,712 Net interest-bearing debt Millions of yen 96,892 103,622 114,213 136,229 109,883 93,134 97,515 70,885 52,520 51,505 21,673 75,175 Net debt equity ratio Times 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Equity ratio attributable to owners of the parent ％ 38.5 37.1 35.7 36.2 41.4 46.1 50.2 50.0 51.7 50.6 53.9 45.6 Cash flows from operating activities Millions of yen 30,408 24,439 20,233 22,990 49,173 59,864 43,582 83,125 96,606 92,201 100,722 86,486 Cash flows from investing activities Millions of yen (12,733) (28,631) (29,018) (37,813) (24,957) (35,326) (44,642) (46,800) (59,453) （54,853） （54,190） (43,540) Cash flows from financing activities Millions of yen (20,118) 7,984 4,761 17,409 (25,233) (19,627) (4,200) (17,339) (27,026) （27,026） （13,334） (28,758) Free cash flows Millions of yen 17,675 (4,192) (8,785) (14,823) 24,216 24,538 (1,060) 36,325 37,153 37,348 46,532 42,946 Investments, etc. Depreciation and amortization Millions of yen 21,140 20,805 19,588 20,800 23,740 28,775 34,787 28,164 31,596 30,491 36,398 46,245 CAPEX* 2 Millions of yen 11,081 27,335 27,306 43,687 20,679 37,557 43,878 31,847 54,171 50,789 54,199 50,144 Research and development expenses Millions of yen 8,410 7,895 7,490 7,743 8,561 8,972 9,680 12,347 24,381 24,381 25,453 28,886 Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales ％ 3.7 2.9 3.0 2.7 2.3 1.8 1.6 1.9 2.8 2.8 2.9 3.0 Non-financial Data CO2 emissions Tons 423,099 508,081 505,012 484,288 510,766 543,254 518,013 556,972 771,458 771,458 781,163 796,267 Environmental accounting Billions of yen 3.8 3.6 3.9 4.1 4.9 5.2 6.2 5.7 5.7 5.7 4.8 5.8 Investment Billions of yen 0.9 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.8 1.4 0.9 1.3 1.3 1.1 1.3 Expense Billions of yen 2.9 3.3 3.4 3.4 4.1 4.4 4.8 4.8 4.4 4.4 3.7 4.5 Use of water Thousand ㎥ 2,301 4,032 3,992 3,986 4,089 4,630 4,525 4,883 7,694 7,694 7,542 8,113 Number of employees Persons 49,091 53,827 51,406 53,327 54,768 63,967 62,480 78,957 78,351 78,351 77,957 82,617 *1 MITSUMI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. was included in the scope of consolidation on January 27, 2017. *2 Investment into intangible assets and new finance leases, in addition to investment into tangible fixed assets, are included in accordance with the change in lease accounting treatment in the fiscal year ended March 2009. *3 From the fiscal year ended March 2019, we have adopted IFRS, and account titles are shown in accordance with IFRS. *4 U-Shin Ltd. was included in the scope of consolidation on April 10, 2019. 63 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 64 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of March 31, 2020 and 2019 (Amount: millions of yen) (Amount: millions of yen) Assets 2019 2020 Liabilities 2019 2020 Current assets Current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 122,432 130,746 Trade and other payables 109,344 143,964 Trade and other receivables 151,349 182,890 Bonds and borrowings 86,642 95,268 Inventories 141,385 169,803 Other financial liabilities 1,983 6,984 Other financial assets 21,045 18,057 Income taxes payable 5,448 2,905 Other current assets 9,343 14,375 Provisions 200 4,353 Total current assets 445,554 515,871 Other current liabilities 31,848 42,209 Non-current assets Total current liabilities 235,465 295,683 Property, plant, and equipment 244,388 275,064 Non-current liabilities Goodwill 8,284 18,626 Bonds and borrowings 75,400 126,444 Intangible assets 9,375 13,798 Other financial liabilities 5,138 13,639 Other financial assets 14,635 18,896 Net defined benefit liabilities 14,577 22,482 Deferred tax assets 16,650 18,008 Provisions 1,196 579 Other non-current assets 3,241 4,218 Deferred tax liabilities 1,754 1,702 Total non-current assets 296,573 348,610 Other non-current liabilities 1,337 1,676 Total assets 742,127 864,481 Total non-current liabilities 99,402 166,522 Total liabilities 334,867 462,205 Equity Common stock 68,259 68,259 Capital surplus 137,464 134,707 Treasury stock (19,448) (34,455) Retained earnings 202,172 234,667 Other components of equity 11,256 (8,806) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 399,703 394,372 Non-controlling interests 7,557 7,904 Total equity 407,260 402,276 Total liabilities and equity 742,127 864,481 65 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 66 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (Amount: millions of yen) Fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (Amount: millions of yen) 2019 2020 2019 2020 Net sales 884,723 978,445 Cash flows from operating activities: Cost of sales 718,125 811,859 Profit before income taxes 71,321 58,089 Gross profit 166,598 166,586 Depreciation and amortization 36,398 46,245 Selling, general and administrative expenses 94,468 107,647 Share-based payment expenses (407) － Other income 2,171 3,969 Interest income and dividends income (1,298) (1,681) Other expenses 2,268 4,261 Interest expenses 1,089 1,484 Operating income 72,033 58,647 Loss (gain) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment (421) (988) Finance income 1,482 1,822 Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables 10,353 (3,968) Finance expenses 2,194 2,380 Decrease (increase) in inventories 10,611 (16,612) Profit before income taxes 71,321 58,089 Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (5,786) 8,731 Income taxes 10,619 11,166 Other (5,948) 8,502 Profit for the year 60,702 46,923 Subtotal 115,912 99,802 Interest received 1,090 1,297 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to: Dividends received 207 368 Owners of the parent 60,142 45,975 Interest paid (1,540) (1,389) Non-controlling interests 560 948 Income taxes paid (14,947) (13,592) Profit for the year 60,702 46,923 Net cash flows provided by operating activities 100,722 86,486 Cash flows from investing activities: Earnings per share (EPS) Decrease (increase) in time deposits (2,190) 1,262 Basic (Yen) 143.90 111.11 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (52,268) (47,295) Diluted (Yen) 140.75 108.68 Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,587 5,938 Purchase of intangible assets (1,122) (1,072) Purchase of securities (1,866) (1,764) Proceeds from sale and redemption of securities 1,685 1,740 Proceeds from purchase of investments in subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation － 47 Purchase of investments in subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation － (1,822) Other (16) (574) Net cash flows used in investing activities (54,190) (43,540) Cash flows from financing activities: Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 21,637 (9,829) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 4,100 50,850 Repayments of long-term borrowings (20,301) (32,176) Repayments of bonds － (100) Acquisition of non-controlling interests (103) (7,693) Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 3,472 － Purchase of treasury stock (10,700) (15,059) Dividends paid (11,329) (11,624) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (34) (22) Repayments of lease liabilities (76) (3,105) Other 0 － Net cash flows used in financing activities (13,334) (28,758) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 457 (5,874) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 33,655 8,314 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 88,777 122,432 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 122,432 130,746 67 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 68 Introduction/ Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV President’s Message Value Creation Story of MinebeaMitsumi Financial Strategy and Capital Policy Initiatives for Value Creation Initiatives to Support Value Creation Corporate Data Corporate Information (As of August 2020) Status of MinebeaMitsumi as a constituent of certain indexes (As of August 2020) MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Tokyo Headquarters Registered Head Office Established 3-9-6, Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8330, Japan 4106-73, Oaza Miyota, Miyota-machi, Kitasaku-gun, July 16, 1951 This index is built from companies selected for their superior gender diversity within their Tel: 81-3-6758-6711 Nagano 389-0293, Japan sector, based on gender diversity scores calculated by MSCI. Fax: 81-3-6758-6700 Tel: 81-267-32-2200 Independent Auditors MinebeaMitsumi has been selected as one of the constituents of the ”MSCI Japan https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/ Fax: 81-267-31-1350 KPMG AZSA LLC Empowering Women Index (WIN),” which is composed of companies that are promoting the advancement of women. *The inclusion of MinebeaMitsumi in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of MinebeaMitsumi by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. Overview of Shares (As of March 31, 2020) Summary of information available on the MinebeaMitsumi Group website Common Stock Overview of Shareholders On the MinebeaMitsumi Group website we make available on an ongoing basis more detailed information and reports on the Authorized: 1,000,000,000 shares Classification by Ownership of Shares most recent activity, that could not be included in these printed materials. A variety of other corporate information is also available, Issued: 427,080,606 shares Number of Percentage of Number of shares held Percentage of shares Capital: ¥68,258 million shareholders shareholders (%) (Hundreds of shares) outstanding (%) which we recommend you view at your leisure. Shares per unit: 100 Japanese financial institutions 105 0.3 1,841,536 43.1 Corporate information website https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/ Overseas institutions 644 2.2 1,567,998 36.7 Common Stock Listings Information for investors https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/corp/investors/ Other Japanese corporations 309 1.1 315,075 7.4 Listed on the first section of the Tokyo and Individuals and others 23,155 78.8 540,748 12.7 Nagoya Stock Exchanges Sustainability information https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/corp/environment/ Subtotal 24,213 82.4 4,265,357 99.9 Others 5,180 17.6 5,449 0.1 Corporate governance information https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/corp/investors/management/governance/ American Depositary Receipts Total 29,393 100.0 4,270,806 100.0 Ratio (ADR : ORD): 1 : 2 Exchange: Over-the-Counter (OTC) Top Ten Major Shareholders For further information, please contact us listed below. Symbol: MNBEY Number of shares Shareholding ratio （Thousands of shares） （%） CUSIP: 602725301 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 40,933 10.02 Product purchasing and catalog requests: CSR information: Employment opportunities: Depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 22,852 5.60 Sales Headquarters CSR Promotion Office Human Resources Development Dep. 240 Greenwich Street SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 16,937 4.15 Tel: 81-3-6758-6746 Tel: 81-3-6758-6724 Tel: 81-3-6758-6712 New York, NY 10286, U.S.A. Takahashi Industrial and Economic Research Foundation 15,447 3.78 Fax: 81-3-6758-6760 Fax: 81-3-6758-6700 Fax: 81-3-6758-6700 Tel: 1-201-680-6825 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited 15,413 3.77 U.S. toll-free: Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 13,919 3.41 IR information: Other inquiries: 888-269-2377 (888-BNY-ADRS) Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 10,223 2.50 Corporate Communications/ Corporate Communications/ URL: https://www.adrbnymellon.com/ Investor Relations Office (Investor Relations) Investor Relations Office (Corporate Communications) MUFG Bank, Ltd. 10,181 2.49 Tel: 81-3-6758-6720 Tel: 81-3-6758-6703 Agent to Manage Shareholders’ Registry KEIAISHA Co., Ltd. 10,100 2.47 Fax: 81-3-6758-6710 Fax: 81-3-6758-6718 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited STATE STREET BANK CLIENT OMNIBUS OM04 8,728 2.14 Tel: 0120-782-031 Notes: 1.  The Company holds 18,676,128 shares of treasury stock, and is excluded from the major shareholders list above. 2. Shareholding ratio is calculated exclusive of treasury stock. (toll-free, available only in Japan) 3. The number of shares and shareholding ratio are rounded down to the nearest unit of presentation. URL: https://www.smtb.jp/personal/agency/ 4. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. changed its trade name to Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. on July 27, 2020. Editorial Policy This report is designed to create new opportunities for dialogue with our shareholders, investors, and Referenced guidelines T  he International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), other stakeholders by communicating the Company’s efforts to expand its corporate value. Additional “International Integrated Reporting Framework” Stock Prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange financial information and reports on CSR activities not included in this report can be found on the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, “Guidance (Yen) 2,700 Company’s website. for Collaborative Value Creation” High High MinebeaMitsumi website https://www.minebeamitsumi.com/english/ Japanese Standards Association, Opening Closing “ISO 26000:2010 (Guidance on social responsibility)” 2,075 Scope of report MinebeaMitsumi and 118 group companies Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), “Sustainability Closing Opening Period covered by this report F  iscal year ended March 2020（April 1, 2019–March 31, 2020） Reporting Standards” Low Low However, this includes some activities before this period and from Ministry of the Environment, “Environmental 1,450 Blue: opening price ＞ closing price fiscal year ending March 2021. Reporting Guidelines” (2018 edition) Publishing information Published September 2020（next edition planned for September 2021） Supported initiatives United Nations Global Compact Light blue: closing price ＞ opening price 825 200 Disclaimer Regarding Future Projections In this report, all statements that are not historical facts are future projections made based on certain assumptions and our management’s judgement drawn from currently available information. (Millions of shares) Accordingly, when evaluating our performance or value as a going concern, these projections should not be relied on entirely. 160 Please note that actual performance may vary significantly from any particular projection, owing to various factors, including:（i）changes in economic indicators surrounding us, or in demand 120 trends;（ii）fluctuation of foreign exchange rates or interest rates; and（iii）our ability to continue R&D, manufacturing and marketing in a timely manner in the electronics business sector, where technological innovations are rapid and new products are launched continuously. Please note, however, this is not a complete list of the factors affecting actual performance. 80 * Information contained herein is the exclusive property of MinebeaMitsumi Inc., and may not be reproduced, modified or transmitted in any form or by any means for whatever purpose without 40 MinebeaMitsumi’s prior written permission. Note: “  Electro Mechanics Solutions” is a registered trademark in Japan of MinebeaMitsumi Inc. Its registration No. is 5322479. 0 “Bed Sensor System” is a registered trademark in Japan of MinebeaMitsumi Inc. Its registration No. is 6152256. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 “MINEGE” is a registered trademark in Japan of MinebeaMitsumi Inc. Its registration No. is 6069512. 69 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 MinebeaMitsumi Group Integrated Report 2020 70
