we package protect & sustain INTERTAPE POLYMER GROUP INC. 2019 Sustainability Report Sarasota, Florida 100 Paramount Drive Suite 300 Sarasota, FL 34232 941-727-5788 Montreal, Quebec 9999 Cavendish Blvd. Suite 200 St. Laurent, Quebec, H4M 2X5 514-731-7591 https://www.itape.com Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statement This Sustainability Report contains “forward looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation and “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 2 WHO WE ARE 28 OUR PEOPLE 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities A message from our CEO and President Worker safety Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (collectively, “forwardSuccesses and opportunities Education, training and development looking statements”), which are made in reliance upon the Organizational overview Diversity and inclusion protections provided by such legislation for forward-looking Our approach Employee retention statements. All statements other than statements of • Sustainability vision & mission Human rights historical facts included in this Sustainability Report, may • Sustainability objectives constitute forward-looking statements. These forwardlooking statements are based on current beliefs, assumptions, expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections made by Intertape Polymer Group Inc.’s (IPG or the Company) management. Although the Company 36 OUR COMMUNITIES believes that the expectations reflected in these forward 10 OUR PRODUCTS Corporate philanthropy looking statements are reasonable, these statements, by Product and material innovation Stakeholder engagement their nature, involve risks and uncertainties and are not • Product Design & Innovation Partnerships and collaborations guarantees of future performance. Such statements are also for Sustainability Memberships of associations subject to assumptions and the Company can give no • Chemicals and raw materials assurance that these assumptions will prove to have been • Product safety correct and actual outcomes and results may, and often do, Circular economy differ from what is expressed, implied or projected in such • Recycled content forward-looking statements, and such differences may be material. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance 46 OUR GOVERNANCE on any forward-looking statement. For additional information Governance structure regarding important factors that could cause actual results Code of Conduct to differ materially from those expressed in these forwardAnti-corruption looking statements and other risks and uncertainties, and 18 OUR PLANET Anti-competitive behavior the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements, Operational footprint Data security you are encouraged to read “Item 3 Key Information Risk • Energy and climate Factors”, “Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and • Air 52 ABOUT THIS REPORT Prospects (Management’s Discussion & Analysis)” and • Water statements located elsewhere in the Company’s Annual • Waste Materiality Report on Form 20-F (20-F) for the year ended December • Environmental Policy Awards 31, 2019 and the other statements and factors contained in Data summary the Company’s filings with the Canadian securities UNGC index regulators and the US Securities and Exchange GRI index Commission. Each of these forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this Sustainability Report. The Company will not update these statements unless applicable securities laws require it to do so. 1 who we are. A message from our CEO and President We are pleased to present the IPG 2019 sustainability report. (102-14) Our sustainability journey is only growing in importance in all facets of the Company’s products and operations as well as with its stakeholders. We are excited by the opportunities that this brings to us both in terms of growth of the Company as well as enhancing our position as a good, responsible corporate citizen of our planet. But, like every journey, it is important to pause for a moment and reflect on our successes. I believe that this report is not only a reflection of progress, but a celebration of the road ahead. I’m excited about IPG’s accomplishments this past year. In 2019 we engaged William McDonough as a strategic advisor in the design, manufacture and delivery of sustainable packaging and protective solutions. We also launched our Curby™ family of products that include new and, in some cases, proprietary, curbside recyclable solutions. We continued our focus on ENERGY STAR® practices. During this past year, we were recognized once again by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy with the ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award for continued leadership and superior contributions. In December 2019, we signed the United Nations Global Compact (the Compact) agreeing to adopt the ten principals governing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As good corporate citizens, we have already embedded processes within our operations to demonstrate our support of these ten principles aligning with our care and concern for our employees and the communities we serve. By signing the Compact, we are publicly stating that our expectation is for our suppliers to support the Compact’s principles as well. We have taken a multitude of steps to continue to embed a culture of sustainability within our business. This past year we modified our Corporate Vision statement to include our commitment to embracing sustainability as one of our four primary pillars. To execute on this vision, we have formed a framework of Sustainability Value Network (SVN) teams. We have designed these SVN teams to drive improvement in four key areas: Circular Economy Solutions, Product and Material Innovations, Operational Footprint, and People and Communities. Our SVN teams have become a welcome and valued part of our internal operations. These SVN teams are responsible for both goal setting and project management for all of our sustainability initiatives and I look forward to sharing their progress in future reports. This report represents a series of milestones, successes and opportunities that symbolize the Company’s commitment to embrace sustainability. It also lays out a path of continuous improvement and a commitment to measure and report our progress in matters related to sustainability. We appreciate the support of all our stakeholders as we continue our journey towards a more sustainable future for IPG where People, Planet and Profitability thrive. Gregory Yull, 2 3 Successes (102-15) • Evolved our corporate strategy and vision statement to • Initiated our first roof-top solar projects co-located at our include our commitment to embracing sustainability as facilities in Portugal in 2018 and one of our four primary pillars. India in 2019. • Published the Company’s first annual Sustainability • Enhanced safety programs Report in 2019. through the implementation of several key digital • Engaged William McDonough, co-author of “Cradle to technologies across most of Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things,” as an our manufacturing operations to advisor on sustainable design for our packaging and • Achieved the ENERGY STAR allow us to proactively reduce protective solutions. Challenge for Industry at the risk, and conducted workshops Carbondale, IL manufacturing to build front-line leader skills in • Hired McDonough Braungart • Developed a framework of facility for the 4th consecutive effective safety coaching. Design Chemistry and SVN teams in four key areas: time and recognized as • Several of our facilities joined committed to using their Circular Economy Solutions, ENERGY STAR Partner of the Operation Clean Sweep®, a Cradle to Cradle Material Product and Material Year Sustained Excellence product stewardship program of Health protocol to assess our Innovations, Operational (fifth year running). the American Chemistry Council’s products, which began in 2019 Footprint and People and for our biggest suppliers and Communities. • Partnered with GreenSoft Plastics Division and Plastics will continue in 2020. Technology, Inc. to engage our Industry Association with the goal • Signed the Compact in suppliers, and to develop an of achieving zero pellet and flake • Achieved Cradle to Cradle December 2019. inventory of the chemical makeup loss to the environment. Certified™ Bronze level for of the raw materials we use. water-activated tape (WAT) using the Cradle to Cradle Products Program. Opportunities (102-15) • Continue ongoing efforts to embed • Elevate the focus on sustainable packaging a culture of sustainability within to help to develop the market for sustainable packaging materials. our business. • Enhance data collection and assurance protocols • Continue to integrate, assess, and for further transparency in our sustainability reporting. implement sustainability initiatives • Continue to maintain the data security posture of and safety process systems in our organization to protect our most valued assets recently acquired companies. both now and into the future. • Passed the Western Michigan • Undertake a materiality assessment to more fully • Define our role to help address the global challenge University Old Corrugated understand the topics of interest to our various of plastic waste. Cardboard Equivalency (WMU stakeholders and where IPG can create the most positive impact on People, Planet and Profitability. • Develop a supply chain for plastic recyclate that OCC-E) testing protocol to performs as well or better than the current raw certify the recyclability of IPG material supply chain for resin. non-reinforced WAT. 4 5 The impact of IPG’s operations and supply chain, as As of December 31, 2019, IPG Organizational Overview considered in this report, is based upon a two-part employed 3,603 permanent footprint. One part is our operations including offices, IPG is a recognized leader in the development, workers. Shown below are manufacture and sale of a variety of paper and manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and warehouses, as well as outbound logistics, employee breakouts by employment type, film-based pressure-sensitive and water-activated commute leased vehicles and business travel. The other gender, and region. (102-8) We tapes, polyethylene and specialized polyolefin films, part is our raw materials and supply chain. (102-9) do not include our temporary protective packaging, engineered coated products and packaging machinery for industrial and retail workforce in this data. use. Headquartered in Montreal, Quebec and IPG introduced new products and expanded our Sarasota, FL, as of December 31, 2019, the offerings in several categories of our business, though there were no significant changes to our physical FULL TIME VS. PART-TIME Company employed approximately 3,600 employees withOUR VALUES operations in 30 locations, including footprint in 2019. (102-10) In the event there are significant Full-Time 3,586 21 manufacturing facilities in North America, four in changes to our operations, including our supply chain, we communicate them in our 20-F. Part-Time 17 Asia and one in Europe. IPG is registered with the Passion Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:ITP). (102-1-7) Integrity Performance Teamwork GENDER STRATEGY STRATEGY IPG and its suppliers share three overarching Male 2,816 goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Female 787 Strengthen Expand The Product The Global water use and waste Bundle Footprint OUR GOALS OUR GOALS TO TO REDUCE REDUCE REGION Drive Greenhouse North America 2,893 Water Use Waste Embrace Operational Gas Emissions Sustainability Excellence Europe 131 India 579 Information about the Company can be found online IPG OPERATIONS by visiting www.itape.com and in its 20-F. Outbound Logistics Employee Commute Business Travel Leased Vehicles 2019 PERCENTAGE OF SALES BY GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION Offices Distribution Centers Manufacturing Warehouses Facilities U.S. 80% SHARED GOALS OF OUR SUPPLIERS Canada 9% Germany 2% TIER 1 Other 9% TIER 2 6 7 Our Approach For IPG, embracing sustainability is a key strategy of doing business to drive operational Sustainability Vision & Mission excellence and realize our company vision of global leadership in packaging and protective Sustainability is a journey of continuous improvement solutions while also doing what is right for our employees and communities. a journey that is familiar to IPG. We have always lived the values of a safe work environment, i n p ac ka g i ng a environmental stewardship, efficiency in raw material e ade r nd al l pro and energy usage, and good corporate citizenship. g lo b t ec ti o a We are continuing that journey by embracing n / Be s sustainability as a strategy to help us perform better N ol for our customers, business partners, employees, Circular ut IO Economy VI S io our investors and shareholders, and our ns communities now and in the future. Renewable Water Energy Stewardship Performance Teamwork Social Fairness Material Health Passion Integrity People FOUNDATIONAL ENABLERS Metrics, Monitoring, and Reporting (utilizing e ble) xistin g systems, scorecards, and processes where applica Extern al Communicati raining Sustainability Objectives on + Internal Education and T (sales and mark ) eting, plant operations, procurement, etc. We have developed a framework to execute embracing sustainability throughout our business OUR VALUES that focuses on: • Product and material innovation • Circular economy solutions SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY In 2019, we engaged William McDonough, co-author • Our operational footprint of “Cradle-to-Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things,” as a strategic advisor to put in place the • People and communities practice-proven processes that will allow us to Dedicated SVN teams are establishing benchmarks, deliver on our promise of embracing sustainability. setting targets and developing data collection to We revised our corporate vision to include measure our progress. We look forward to reporting embracing sustainability as one of our four primary Circular Economy Operational People and Product and the progress of these SVN teams in more detail, in strategic pillars and we adopted SVN teams and Solutions Footprint Communities Material Innovation processes to help us be more definitive in our our 2020 report. approach to sustainability with a greater emphasis Design circular economy Optimize operational Actively promote Differentiate product on metrics and reporting. product solutions to footprint to manage responsible business portfolio by designing eliminate the concept of environmental impacts operations and ethics products that are safe and We embrace sustainability as a Also, we signed on to the Compact and in doing so waste with intentional recyclable or compostable (energy/GHG, water, waste, and other emissions). for all stakeholders, including the supply chain healthy for humans and the environment from committed to the principles embodied in the Compact strategy to help us perform better. pathways. and the environment. production through that deal with human rights, labor, the environment end-of-use. and anti-corruption. 8 9 OUR PRODUCTS we innovate. IPG focuses on meeting and driving the demand for sustainable products. IPG is a packaging and protective solutions Product and Material Innovation company, and we make our products primarily Product and material innovation is an essential from plastic or paper. Concern about plastic element to achieve a sustainable reality. Moving use, and its presence in the environment, has from a linear “one and done” approach to a circular been growing steadily. In December 2018, the model, where waste is a thing of the past, is a lofty Royal Statistical Society announced that 90.5% objective. But it is one we have been moving toward of plastic waste has never been recycled. Of and are now actively embracing. The planet is telling us we have to with a population of 7.7 billion and the 8.3 billion metric tons of plastic produced, growing, our resource demands on the systems 79% has accumulated in landfills or the natural that support us are threatening the very planet on environment.* In May 2019, governments which we depend. around the world approved changes to the Basel Convention, a global waste treaty, making Product Design and Innovation for Sustainability global trade in plastic waste more transparent We manage our research and development (R&D) and better regulated. At IPG, we are keenly efforts at the product level, overseen by the IPG aware of this reality and we are committed R&D Leadership Team. Operating primarily as a to leading changes in the industry to achieve business-to-business organization, we mainly sell sustainable solutions. our products to other companies that use them to provide their products to the consumer. *https://www.statslife.org.uk/news/4026-statistics-of-the-year-2018-winners-announced 10 11 Product Standard is a transformative pathway for designing and making products with a positive impact on people and planet, rooted in design principles established by William McDonough and Dr. Michael Braungart. To receive certification, a product is assessed for environmental and social performance across five critical sustainability categories: material health, material reuse, renewable energy and carbon management, water stewardship and social fairness. A product receives an achievement level (Basic, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum) for each We consider our customers, their consumers and category. A product’s lowest category achievement our other stakeholders when evaluating the markets also represents its overall certification level. The for our products. In 2019, we established crossstandard encourages continuous improvement over functional teams charged with setting sustainability time by awarding certification based on ascending goals for IPG, to fully integrate sustainability as a levels of performance and requiring certification driver for IPG’s businesses moving forward. The renewal every two years. demand for more sustainable products is growing, and we are innovating our products to meet—and IPG has embraced this standard, and the effort to drive—this demand. obtain certification for IPG products is well underway, with the first products targeted for certification In 2019, we also realized several notable products are assessed down to 100 parts per To meet this demand and inspire new ways of already identified. accomplishments in our product innovation million by an outside assessor. thinking about sustainable packaging solutions, efforts, including: Expanded markets for our Orbit AirTM stretch we have adopted the Cradle to Cradle Certified™ • Innovation does not end when we sell our • Entered into an exclusive agreement with film, an ultra-thin stretch film manufactured with Product Standard for certain products to drive and products. We are increasing our efforts to HexcelPack LLC to produce and sell a new less plastic than conventional stretch film. measure our product innovation process. The innovate from cradle-to-grave to cradle-toproprietary, curbside recyclable protective mailer Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Product Standard is • Introduced three new paper systems, under cradle for products that we bring to market. made from paper, called the Curby Mailer, a globally recognized measure of safer, more the X-Fill™ and X-Pad™ brands for our powered by HexcelPack™ and made exclusively sustainable products. The Cradle to Cradle Certified™ PaperSpace™ lineup, that dispense paper void from Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Program for the Endorsement of Forest fill and cushioning, two of which use paper made Certification (PEFC) certified paper. from made from 70-100% post-consumer recycled (PCR) paper content, and all of which • Achieved Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Bronze use paper that is 100% recyclable when removed level for our WAT and passed the WMU OCC-E from the box. testing protocol to certify the recyclability of IPG non-reinforced WAT. • Employed the Sustainable Packaging Coalition’s recyclable labeling protocols for our air pillows • Began the material health assessment using the and some of our other protective packaging Cradle to Cradle protocol on all raw materials products, and we are working to increase the used by IPG and expect completion of this products included in this effort. exercise in 2020. This means the formulas of all 12 13 Chemicals and Raw Materials Product Safety Our efforts are focused on both reducing the volume of virgin raw IPG considers the material health and safety impacts of all of our products by applying voluntary materials we use, and on reducing and ultimately eliminating the and mandated health and safety assessments during the development and manufacturing chemicals of concern in our products that may cause harm to human process. Described below are the assessments applied to several of our primary product lines; health or the environment. In 2019, we purchased approximately 186,000 these lines represent approximately 99% of our business. (416-1) metric tons of primary raw materials, compared with approximately 191,000 metric tons in 2018*. (301-1) The primary raw materials used by Also, we apply quality assurance tests across all product lines. IPG considers quality products that IPG include resins, adhesives, paper, additives, color concentrates and perform well to be an important aspect of product safety. reinforcements, along with lesser amounts of several other materials. See the Circular Economy section on page 17 for a description of our efforts to replace the virgin raw materials we use with alternative materials. Protective Packaging Polyethylene resin is used in the To design sustainable products, we need sustainable raw materials. In manufacture of bubble material, and 2019, IPG partnered with GreenSoft Techonolgy, Inc. to engage our in rolls of film that become air pillows. suppliers, and to develop an inventory of the chemical makeup of the raw These products represent 12% of our materials we use. In addition, we engaged McDonough Braungart Design global business. IPG uses industryChemistry and committed to using their Cradle to Cradle material health standard melt testing and density protocol to assess our products, to eliminate chemicals of concern that specifications to ensure the resin is may cause harm to human health or the environment. This effort began in within internally established ranges. 2019 for our biggest suppliers and will continue in 2020. Tape & Stencil Contamination issues are rare, and *Excludes Capstone, Powerband, Fibope, Polyair and Maiweave IPG assesses the raw materials used in our composition issues appear when tape and stencil products, which represent materials are not to specifications. 57% of our global business, through a third-party survey of suppliers to assure compliance with California Proposition 65, Coalition of Northeastern Governors Film & Engineered Coated Products (CONEG), The Toxics in Packaging Clearinghouse (TPCH), REACH and IPG’s film and woven products, which Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). represent 30% of our global business, are assessed for compliance with U.S. IPG monitors the supply chain for substance Food and Drug Administration Food regulation compliance and received 80% Safety requirements and fire retardant supplier feedback in 2019 for our raw properties according to the expected materials. Among tape, stencil and related use of the product. In 2019, IPG products, all products comply with California applied food safety tests or burn-testing Proposition 65 with only ten products that where applicable and the results carry the labeling requirement. (417-1, 417-2) indicated full compliance of all products. Information about raw materials and other detailed product specifications are made available to our customers via our business-to-business intranet. When applicable, product labels include other information such as safety warnings or recycling protocols. (417-1) For more information, see the Circular Economy section of this report on page 17. 14 15 Circular Economy The historical economic system of producing goods and services following A circular economy is a goal and a long term one at a traditional take-make-waste model is unsustainable. In contrast, a that. But at IPG, we believe it is achievable, and we are setting goals and establishing processes to circular economy is one in which waste from one process can serve as support our effort to get there. In the Product Design a raw material for another, eliminating waste by creating a closed-loop section of this report (see page 11), we address how system. Thus, all ‘waste’ becomes ‘food’ for another process. we are exploring the redesign of our products to make them more sustainable. Ultimately, they will have an end to their useful life. So IPG is exploring how to make our products more recyclable and how to use more recycled content/products in our production processes. Distribute There are distinct challenges to packaging circularity, one of which is cost. The biggest hurdle to circularity Manufacture Retail of any product is the lack of an infrastructure that captures, sorts and creates materials from the collected goods. The infrastructure and processing of Design materials increases the cost of goods as compared to the simple process of making the same goods from virgin materials. Therefore, the use of PCR content Use usually increases the cost of the product containing recycled content. However, as consumer demand Recycled Content A Circular increases, many large brands have made public While pursuing our long-term circularity goals, we commitments to incorporating PCR into their have also actively sought and found opportunities packaging products, helping to create demand. IPG Economy to start to replace virgin materials with recycled is committed to working with all companies and input materials. Recent examples include: stakeholders to increase PCR use, and we will seek • In 2019, 11% of the raw materials used in IPG’s opportunities to leverage this raw material transition to manufacturing film lines* were recycled film reduce the cost of any PCR content we use. Another scrap. Sources of the recycled materials include major challenge in using PCR plastic materials is resin film trim and other unsalable materials that were quality. IPG is actively working with multiple PCR collected, re-pelletized, and put back into the Residual manufacturers who are driving quality improvements in the PCR industry. process. (301-2) waste • At our Blythewood, S.C. facility, we have Raw engineered a solution to reclaim production materials Another path to increase the circularity of our process waste that would have gone to a Recover product’s is to explore the use of renewable materials landfill, resulting in the recycling of approximately as potential replacements for petroleum-based 591,000 lbs of adhesive waste in 2018, which Recycle products, and another is to create a market for increased to approximately 1,200,000 lbs recycled content in our products. Both efforts are in 2019. underway, and in 2019 IPG began the process of developing long-term goals to drive further progress. * Excludes Polyair and Fibope film lines 16 17 OUR PLANET we conserve. IPG operates 27 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Canada, Portugal and India, that produce a variety of paper and film based pressure-sensitive and water-activated tapes, polyethylene and specialized polyolefin films, protective packaging, engineered coated products, and packaging machinery IPG stewards our planet’s for industrial and retail use. Our corporate offices, machine assembly and distribution sites also contribute to our operational footprint. limited resources, and embraces the vision for a Operational Footprint Environmental performance across our operational footprint is overseen by the Senior more circular economy. Vice President and General Counsel, reporting to the CEO. Our IPG Environmental Policy (see sidebar on page 27) guides our operations and includes commitments to continual improvement, compliance with environmental laws, regulations, and other applicable requirements, assessment of operational impact, investment in technologies to improve performance, employee training and education, and public engagement. This policy is currently under review, and we anticipate this review to result in an update in 2020. NORTH AMERICA 24 19 23 24 14 18 25 24 12 16 15 22 1 EUROPE ASIA 23 6 10 21 8 25 7 3 13 25 11 19 17 30 18 19 9 2 5 11 29 27 23 16 21 20 28 15 9 7 26 6 3 12 14 17 8 2 4 20 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE 1. Ansonia, CT 10. Chicago, IL 18. Montreal, QC 25. Flensburg, Germany 2. Atlanta, GA 11. Corona, CA 19. Salisbury, NC 26. Porto, Portugal 3. Bardstown, KY (2) 12. Cornwall, ON 20. Sarasota, FL 5. Blythewood, SC 13. Danville, VA 21. Springfield, OH ASIA 6. Brighton, CO 14. Delta, BC 22. Toronto, ON 27. Chopanki, India 7. Carbondale, IL 15. Marysville, MI 23. Tremonton, UT 28. Daman, India 8. Carlstadt, NJ 16. Menasha, WI 24. Truro, NS 29. Dahej, India 9. Carrollton, TX 17. Midland, NC 30. Karoli, India Locations list as of December 31, 2019. Current IPG complete locations list 18 19 BRIDGE TO EXCELLENCE At a site level, the Operations Manager is responsible Spanning our journey to excellence, IPG operates with acute attention on continuous improvements, breakthrough improvements for the performance of the IPS. Each site audits its and focused improvements built on a foundation of Safety, Strategic Alignment and Sustainability. IPG fosters and measures these performance against metrics tracked at the site and the system itself sites conduct coaching and principals across all aspects of operational performance to make IPG a safe and productive environment. development along with a targeted audit at least quarterly. Goals are set by the Operations Managers at each location and approved through the Corporate Steering Team. The Senior Vice President of Operations leads the Corporate Steering Team, which includes the Global Continuous Improvement Leader and the Corporate Pillar Leaders for sustainability, safety, quality, visual communication, IPG Carbondale ENERGY STAR equipment optimization and organizational Challenge for Industry development. The site goals are aligned and IPG achieved the ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry integrated with IPG’s overall operational strategy. at the Carbondale, IL location in 2019 by reducing Key performance indicators track progress across 2018 energy intensity by 11.8% and avoiding a variety of metrics. approximately 1,663 metric tons of CO2e emissions Since adopting the IPS framework in 2012, IPG has from a 2016 baseline. The Carbondale facility has realized significant plant performance improvements achieved the award for Industry Award four times, and in all pillars of the program, including process waste IPG locations have achieved the award thirteen times reductions, decreased quality returns, machine since becoming a Partner in 2009. IPG implements the policy in part through the Intertape Performance System (IPS). Created in 2012, IPS is a daily management system that drives continuous improvement throughout the Company. Leveraging lean manufacturing techniques and based on six guiding principles engagement, alignment, measurement, communication, operational focus and use of zero-based loss techniques IPS is the rule book for IPG’s manufacturing and related activities and provides operational guidance for everything we do. We organize our IPS structure around pillar teams for sustainability, safety, quality, visual communication, equipment optimization and organizational development. A continuous improvement team supports these pillar teams, helping them apply lean techniques to identify improvement opportunities. Each pillar team utilizes a set of dedicated tools to guide their efforts. We use these lean continuous improvement techniques across 16 defined categories to reduce loss or inefficiencies. Currently, 15 of IPG’s 27 sites use the IPS and there are plans to implement IPS at IPG’s other facilities. 20 21 uptime improvements, reductions in workplace injuries reducing energy usage. The policy communicates our 2017 and 2018) and to achieve the ENERGY STAR and increased employee engagement. Notable recognition that through the awareness, commitment Challenge for Industry at U.S. and Canadian plant continuous improvement accomplishments in 2019 and capability of our employees, IPG will achieve locations. We continue to work toward achieving this include yield improvements at our Blythewood, success and surpass its energy efficiency goals. recognition at additional facilities and are pursuing the Danville, Truro, Tremonton, Marysville, Menasha, and U.S. Department of Energy Better Buildings Challenge at Carbondale facilities, and energy reductions and IPG has also set and met a goal to maintain key locations. productivity improvements across the portfolio. In ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year (POY) addition, both Blythewood and Carbondale have Sustained Excellence Award (also received in 2016, To achieve these goals, IPG has implemented a variety of made reductions in waste through recycling programs. initiatives, including an Energy Action Plan (EAP) that we Furthermore, Danville implemented a sustainable update throughout the year. The EAP sets out oneand packaging solution that reduced the amount of five-year company-wide energy goals. The plan materials required for some of its core products. establishes the current state; lists action plans, projects and program activities; and records progress for each No significant spills* occurred from 2017 2019. (306-3) goal. Plant energy managers deliver weekly updates on Below are our compliance metrics. their facility’s progress and the Corporate Utilities Team reviews and updates the plan monthly. Successes and Noncompliance (307-1) 2019 2018 2017 challenges are reviewed and shared at the IPG annual Energy Summit, and we recognize plants and individuals Notice of violations: (#) 3 3 2 for their accomplishments. Fines ($) — — $14,600 *Defined as a release to the environment of a registered substance above its reportable quantity threshold. Energy & Climate Energy efficiency has been a critical focus area for IPG for over ten years. Using IPS, we are better able to link energy-saving efforts with production practices, creating a common language and enabling continuous improvement in both energy consumption and production. IPG’s Energy Policy commits the Company to operate its facilities in an efficient, environmentally responsible, and safe manner; to reduce energy intensity by 2.5% per year and CO2 emissions by 3% per year, and to achieve this goal by implementing continuous improvement programs and employee training initiatives across the entire organization. The policy assigns the Corporate Utilities Team the role of measuring progress towards achieving the energy efficiency goal, identifying energy efficiency projects, and providing a forum for identifying best practices. It requires every employee to be highly involved in 22 23 Additionally, in 2019, IPG: In 2019, these efforts resulted in: Transportation • Conducted an energy treasure hunt at Danville. • A 3.7% reduction in energy intensity in 2019 IPG has been working to improve the efficiency of In total, IPG has conducted 15 treasure hunts at compared to 2018. its distribution systems for several years. In 2019, various facilities, which have engaged 202 IPG undertook an evaluation of opportunities to • A 0.3% increase in direct (Scope 1) energy use individuals and identified more than $1.9 million increase shipping efficiencies further, and these will and a 1.2% reduction in indirect (Scope 2) in potential savings since we adopted the be explored with numerous IPG customers in 2020 energy use from 2018-2019. approach in 2013. to reduce the carbon emissions associated with the • A 0.5% reduction in direct CO2 emissions and distribution of IPG’s products. Efficiencies realized to • Continued participation in ENERGY STAR. just under a 3% reduction in indirect CO2 date have resulted from an increase of pool points • Adopted smart technologies to manage lighting emissions in 2019 compared to 2018. (grouping shipments for the initial portion of the trip) and building systems at multiple locations. • Just under a 6% reduction in carbon intensity in and reducing shipments with less than a full Capstone Polyweave Private Limited Solar Project • Continued to integrate energy efficiency best 2019 compared to 2018. truckload. In 2019, the expanded use of pool points Capstone Polyweave Private Limited, a majority owned practices in new plants, equipment, and resulted in a savings of over $500K and 5.6 million • Savings of over $367,000 in avoided energy subsidiary in Karoli, India, which was acquired in 2017, acquired companies, through a dedicated miles. Interest in these opportunities has increased costs in 2019 and approximately $6 million installed a 1 MW solar power plant on its rooftop. The solar Energy Playbook applied by corporate as well as IPG’s customers’ interest in reducing scope since 2009. array started producing power in May 2019 and generated as plant-level energy management teams. through emissions increases. approximately 2,807,000 MJ of electricity for the year. The • Recognized with ENERGY STAR Partner of the • Maintained partnerships with SmartWay and Year Sustained Excellence award for 2020 total savings expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents UPS Carbon Neutral. (fifth consecutive year). equates to 93 U.S. homes’ electricity use for one year. The • Installed solar capacity in India that adds to our • Achieved ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry Capstone solar plant and the FIBOPE solar plant in Portugal solar generation capacity. Last year, we at Carbondale. IPG has participated with EPA’s SmartWay program are IPG’s first major renewable energy projects. These since 2010. SmartWay data provided to IPG highlighted our solar installations in Portugal. projects support our corporate sustainability goals. reported 24,143 metric tons of CO2 associated with upstream distribution in 2017 and 28,492 metric tons in 2018 (increase is due to volume). The ENERGY USE in terajoules* SmartWay program has allowed IPG to partner with Scope 1 (302-1) Scope 2 (302-2) transportation providers who work with the EPA to help enhance the sustainability of their supply 2019 2018 2019 2018 chains. IPG increased their SmartWay miles (number 852 850 665 672 of miles on SmartWay carriers) by 2.2% from 2017 CARBON EMISSIONS* (Metric Tons) to 2018, bringing total Smartway miles to 99.5%.* Scope 1 (Direct) (305-1) Scope 2 (Indirect) (305-2) IPG also participates in the UPS Carbon Neutral 2019 2018 2019 2018 Program. In 2019, approximately 467 metric tons 42,175 42,393 90,741 93,307 were offset by UPS through its Carbon Neutral Program. (305-3) ENERGY INTENSITY* (302-3) CARBON INTENSITY* (305-4) *Note: EPA Smartway Program evaluates shippers compliance annually in Q4 for the previous (GigaJoules / Metric Ton) (Metric Ton CO2e per Metric Ton) calendar year. 2019 data is not available until late 2020 and is therefore not reported. * Reflects approximate energy use at our Blythewood, Brighton, Cantech Cornwall, Carbondale, Danville, Delta, Marysville, Menasha, Midland, Tremonton and Truro facilities 24 25 Air Waste At IPG, our air emissions are primarily VOCs, NOx, IPG generates both hazardous and nonhazardous In 2019, IPG* generated approximately 7,380 and SOx, although we only track VOCs at a wastes. Below are the amount and fate of the metric tons of nonhazardous waste, up from company level. IPG has been systematically working wastes generated. (306-2) In 2017 and 2019, approximately 7,225 metric tons in 2018, an to reduce solvent emissions for several years. As maintenance issues at one of our sites resulted in increase of approximately 2%. The majority of the highlighted in last year’s report, in 2014-2015, we the unexpected generation of waste material, which nonhazardous wastes are landfilled. developed a proprietary technology to produce our was able to be captured and recycled. *Excludes Capstone, Powerband, Fibope, Cantech, Polyair and Maiweave tape adhesives without the use of solvents, resulting in an overall 56% reduction in VOC emissions FATE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED* (IN METRIC TONS) between 2015 and 2016, and eliminating over 600 tons per year of VOCs. Between 2017 and 2018, 2019 2018 2017 Marysville Projects our total VOC emissions increased due primarily to Sent to waste disposal company for waste to energy disposal 56 52 59 In 2019, the IPG Facility in Marysville, MI, replaced the acquisition of three acquired facilities. We will Sent to waste disposal company for recycling 1,358 1,313 2,680 its 522 KW boiler with a more efficient design, saving incorporate data from other recent acquisitions into Sent to waste disposal company for landfill (special waste) 34 17 36 approximately 1.3 MMcm of natural gas per year, and our reporting over time. The reduction from 2018Total generated 1,448 1,382 2,776 installed a series of winter coolers for a 703 KW chiller. 2019 is attributable to the closure of the Johnson The savings in electricity consumption is estimated to City and Montreal plants. * Excludes Capstone, Powerband, Cantech and Polyair facilities. be 1,080,000 MJ, and 1,683,000 MJ, respectively. The boiler project was voted as the Best Plant Energy Environmental Policy YEAR VOC’s emitted (in metric tons)* (305-7) Project at the 2019 IPG Energy Summit. IPG is committed to operating its facilities in an Objectives: 2019 1,019 efficient, environmentally responsible, and safe • Implement a commitment to continual improvement 2018 1,425 manner. IPG will maintain its commitment to enhance company environmental programs and 2017 966 through the use of an ISO 14001 environmental prevent pollution. management system. It is the responsibility of • Comply with environmental laws, regulations and other * Excludes Capstone, Powerband and Fibope manufacturing facilities every employee of IPG to demonstrate excellence applicable requirements. in environmental stewardship. Through the Water • Assess the impact of our operation’s products, services awareness, commitment and capability of our IPG purchases water from public service companies and activities on the environment. employees, IPG expects to successfully meet its and tracks usage using utility reports. Our water • Invest in technologies that conserve natural resources stated environmental objectives. usage volume decreased 6.5% from 2018 to 2019, and promote a cleaner environment. primarily due to decreases at our Truro location. • Provide relevant, documented training and education to (303-5) Wastewater is either captured and trucked enhance the awareness, commitment and capability of offsite for disposal or discharged to the local our employees. publicly owned treatment works in accordance with applicable permits and regulations. We do not track • Review progress of stated environmental objectives wastewater discharge volumes. (303-4) frequently with senior management. • Foster a spirit of interaction throughout the community WATER USAGE, IN MEGALITERS* (303-5) by making this statement available to the public. 2019 417 2018 446 0 200 400 600 800 1000 * Excludes Capstone, Powerband, Fibope, Cantech, Polyair and Maiweave 26 27 OUR PEOPLE we work together. IPG purposefully builds and retains a dedicated workforce. At the heart of our corporate Worker Safety values is our commitment to people.* Our values of People, Providing a safe work environment is one of our top priorities, and each Passion, Integrity, Performance employee shares the responsibility for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. Over the past 15 years, IPG has achieved significant and Teamwork are built on reductions in safety incidents. a foundation of individuals who are the embodiment of For 2019, this data is inclusive of our entire portfolio of manufacturing our Company’s culture. These operations including recent acquisitions. We have accomplished values commit us to support and improvements through benchmarking with peers and other leading companies, by establishing safety pillar teams at the plant and corporate nurture our employees and the levels, conducting process hazard assessments, incident reviews and communities in which we work. internal audits. IPG is also committed to providing comprehensive training and employee engagement opportunities in health and safety improvements. We’re proud of our internal safety recognition programs, and we have a system to designate our manufacturing facilities as gold-, silveror bronze-level safety performers based on scoring relative to our safety performance criteria. At IPG, health and safety expectations are set in our Corporate Health and Safety Policy and implemented at all levels of the organization. Our Senior Management Team provides commitment, sets expectations and assigns resources. The IPG Operations Team leverages the IPS, for which safety is a foundational element, to manage operations and drive continuous improvement. Safety Leadership Teams provide comprehensive feedback and organize to deploy and sustain strategic improvement goals through the IPS process. *The data in this section is inclusive of the entire IPG organization 28 29 Safety audits, daily workplace inspections, safety work orders and employee suggestions identify and lead to accomplishing the reduction of hazards. We use process hazard and job safety assessments to identify risks at the operational level. The Job Safety Assessments (JSAs) evaluate specific job tasks, potential hazards and adequate hazard controls based on a variety of risk assessment factors. A checklist identifies and tracks the assessment results. The Process Hazard Assessment (PHA) is an essential counterpart in the risk assessment process, focusing on workplace layout and design, equipment design and reduction of risk using a variety of control methods. (403-2) Our IPS governs the overall management of these risk assessment and risk reduction efforts (see the Operational Footprint section on page Our Health and Safety Policy 19 for more information). (403-1) IPS applies to all employees, including commits us to: full-time and temporary workers, and undergoes routine audits. (403-8) To • Provide a safe work environment support the hazard assessment process, in 2019, IPG implemented the • Comply with all applicable laws use of a digital safety platform that allows instant capture of potential hazards or safety issues in the workplace and tracking of issue resolution. • Recognize the priority of safety The digital platform also documents safety contacts completed by and health over other front-line leaders with employees. considerations In 2019, goals were set around the deployment of • Hold each employee health and safety plans, reducing the number of A safety contact is a planned, structured conversation between the accountable for the safe exposures and completion of safety training. While front-line leader and an employee to reinforce safe decision-making, and execution of all jobs individual facility objectives varied based on the size, coaching and correcting any at-risk conditions or decisions observed to • Train our employees in safe and complexity and level of safety systems, most focused achieve safer outcomes. A series of two-day workshops supplement the proper procedures on hazard identification and reduction, employee system, during which front-line leaders learn effective coaching techniques, training and self-assessment. To ensure a sustained as well as how to communicate and promote safety within their workforce. • Promote worker health and safety focus on safety leading indicators, each facility both on and off the job, and tracked and reported monthly on the number of Safety training at IPG happens at all locations and all levels of the • Maintain leadership in safety and hazards corrected in the workplace. Other metrics organization. Sites are required to conduct safety training monthly, accident prevention by tracked at the site level include a variety of both including new employee training and routine refresher training. Each continuously improving safety leading and lagging indicators, which get reported to facility identifies the training topics and reports the percent of employees performance and work methods. management monthly. Tracked lagging indicators trained each month as one metric in the monthly safety report, which rolls include, but are not limited to, total Occupational up the site information and is monitored by the Operations Leadership Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable Team. Typical training includes topics such as hazard recognition, forklift cases, Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR), Lost safety, emergency planning and response, electrical safety and other Workday Case Incident Rate (LWCIR), and Days essential workplace topics. (403-5) Away Restricted or Transferred (DART) cases. IPG tracks incident and injury information at all IPG strives to maintain worker health and safety committees at all of its manufacturing facilities worldwide and strives to manufacturing facilities. In some cases, laws require these committees. normalize the data to U.S. OSHA record keeping Sometimes a collective bargaining agreement sets the mandate. In other criteria. Each facility reports on additional leading cases, they exist as part of the IPS, which incorporates worker indicators such as on-time training completion, near participation, consultation, and communication at the shift-to-shift and misses, and the number of exposures reduced. 30 31 IPG did not experience any fatalities at our sites in Education, Training and Development 2019, but four employees and one temporary Education, training and development programs are Training and Leadership Training, among other topics worker suffered high consequence injuries. The main standardized where appropriate, but also vary by – are offered as needed at individual locations or one types of injuries encountered in 2019 were sprains, region and operation, as necessary. All four areas centralized location. IPG does not track the average strains and hand lacerations. The number of hours (U.S., Canada, Europe and India) offer New Hire, IT hours of training per employee. worked was approximately 8.2 million, inclusive of Security and Safety Training. Additionally, in 2019, hours worked by both employees and workers who IPG Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (Code of In 2019, approximately 50% of our workforce are not employees but whose work/workplace is Conduct) Training was provided to the majority of received a performance review. Of these, 50% were controlled by the organization, and the above rates salaried employees,* and is continuing in 2020. Other salaried employees, 40% were hourly employees, are calculated on 200,000 hours worked. types of training – including First Aid Training, Fire and 10% were probationary reviews. Below is a IPG implements daily Safety Gemba Walks Extinguisher Training, Workplace Hygiene, Hazard breakdown of each of these by gender. (404-3) Overall, The work-related hazards that pose a risk of highCommunication Training, On the Job Training, Forklift by gender, 73% were male and 27% female. Originating in the Lean Six Sigma principles, the consequence injury include moving equipment, Safety Gemba Walk allows site leaders to focus sharp edges and points, electrical and thermal. exclusively on safety during a structured review PROBATIONARY HOURLY SALARIED of their workplace and to capture feedback from Our risk assessment tools include PHAs, JSAs, an workers on any potential workplace risks or concerns. inspection of electrical cabinets and equipment by Male Female Male Female Male Female Issues identified are caught, communicated within the trained outside contractors, and structured 67% 33% 78% 22% 71% 29% facility and other IPG sites, and tracked to completion. workplace inspections by the facility management team and senior management. Employee teams focus on identifying and reducing workplace hazards. Diversity and Inclusion worker-to-management levels (see the Operational In 2019, the dangers associated with moving We recognize, respect and embrace the cultural differences found in Footprint section on page 19 for a description of IPS). equipment or slips and falls were responsible for our the worldwide marketplace. Our workplace is a meritocracy where The frequency of worker health and safety committee high consequence injuries. In response, we have our goal is to attract, develop, promote and retain the best people meetings vary from site to site, intending to meet no modified processes, equipment and job tasks, and from all cultures and segments of the population, based on ability. less than quarterly. Most of these committees meet in some cases, have machines perform higher-risk We have zero-tolerance for discrimination of any kind. We strive to monthly or more frequently. (403-4) tasks. In other instances, we retrofit machines with create a diverse, global workforce that represents the communities physical and electronic guards, replace electrical in which we operate. Our safety challenges continue to be integrating new controls and wiring, develop or revise workplace acquisitions into the IPG system, normalizing recordinstructions and procedures, expand employee Our Board of Directors consists of nine individuals, 22.2% of which keeping practices across all sites, and ensuring training and workplace audits, and identify are women and all of whom are over 50 years of age. safeguards are in place commensurate with any opportunities for expanded use of personal emerging safety risks. In 2019, we focused on protective equipment designed to protect workers Below are the gender and age break down of our employees. (405-1) improving machine design, ergonomics and from specific hazards. There were no work-related ill hazardous energy control. health events at IPG facilities in 2019. (403-10) 19% 22% 78% Under 30 Female Male WORK-RELATED INJURIES (403-9) 35% 694 787 2,816 YEAR TCIR LWCIR Over 50 1,254 2019 2.6 0.9 46% 30-50 2018* 2.6 1.1 1,655 * Restated to include Polyair, Cantech, Fibope and India operations. Excluding these operations, 2018 TCIR = 1.7 and LWCIR = 0.4, as reported in the 2018 Sustainability Report *Excludes Capstone, Powerband and Fibope 32 33 Employee Retention IPG maintains a Human Rights Policy formalizing IPG offers a comprehensive and for cause and not due to retirement. plan permits short-term disability our commitment to conduct business with honesty competitive benefits program to payments. and integrity in all our operations throughout the Assistance offerings vary by position. attract and retain talented world. The policy commits IPG to complying with all (404-2) employees. Benefits provided to Canada and Portugal require applicable laws, regulations and treaties and to full-time employees may include parental leave, and India provides treating all people with dignity and respect. It In the U.S., IPG’s practice is to health insurance, life insurance, leave for female employees only. includes a statement regarding ethical business allow parental leave under FMLA. disability insurance, retirement IPG also maintains a policy to conduct, protection of workers rights and equal For the father or adoptive/foster plans, paid leave, vacation, sick support breastfeeding mothers. The opportunity, compensation and indigenous people. parent, this will mean an unpaid, time, personal time and tuition but job-protected leave. We allow table below shows the breakdown assistance. However, offerings vary in the parental leave taken in 2019 Per our Human Rights Policy, IPG is committed to employees to use vacation to by employees entitled to do so in providing our employees with a safe, nonby country and by location. (401-2) subsidize income. For the birth discriminatory work environment that promotes mother, the IPG short-term disability India, Canada and Portugal. (401-3) Regarding minimum notice periods Human Rights open and honest communication and embraces dignity, respect and diversity in all aspects of its for operational changes, we have Parental Leave, by Country* India Canada Portugal Regulations in many of the countries in which we business operations. IPG further supports the no minimum period established at Eligible males — 474 104 operate protect human rights. In our Code of Conduct, elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or the corporate level. In the United we state our firm commitment to provide equal compulsory labor and the freedom of association. States, we follow the WARN Act or Eligible females 13 242 15 opportunity in all aspects of employment and that we collective bargaining agreements. In Males taking leave — 2 4 will not tolerate illegal discrimination or harassment of We believe that people should work because they certain regions, including Canada, Females taking leave — 8 1 any kind. We maintain a separate No Harassment want or need to, not because of force. We prohibit laws dictate the notice required. Males returning to work after leave — 1 4 Policy. Human Resources Managers, located at the the use of prison labor, forcibly indentured labor, Females returning to work after leave — 4 1 operating facilities, report to the Corporate Senior Vice bonded labor, slavery or servitude. IPG condemns We provide transition assistance for President for Human Resources. all forms of exploitation of children, and IPG does employees in the U.S. not terminated *IPG is FMLA compliant in the U.S. not recruit child labor. We have zero-tolerance for discrimination or harassment of any kind. We also strive to create a diverse, global workforce that represents the communities in which we operate. We have not conducted human rights assessments or impact reviews, nor do we conduct dedicated human rights training. However, training is conducted on our Code of Conduct, which includes components of human rights topics. (412-1-2) We do not consider any of our operations to be at risk for child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or limits to freedom of association or collective bargaining. (407-1; 408-1; 409-1) A collective bargaining agreement covers approximately 24% of employees in North America; outside of the U.S., a collective bargaining agreement covers 11% of employees. (102-41) 34 35 OUR COMMUNITIES we give back. IPG recognizes and highly values the communities in which we work and live. We are committed to supporting our communities in ways that matter locally and our priorities are related to children and wellness. IPG does not consider any charity with a religious affiliation, or any IPG works closely with our affiliation with any political or controversial topic to be an IPG Qualified Charity. We expect those we sponsor to model financial transparency. communities, stakeholders and partners. Corporate Philanthropy It is our view that each facility understands best what is needed and appropriate and can direct local philanthropic efforts accordingly. Each facility’s budget includes funds marked for philanthropy managed locally. The Human Resource Manager at each location tracks efforts and outcomes at that facility. IPG does not currently track the local efforts at the corporate level, however, efforts are underway to provide centralized oversight and reporting for these activities. (413-1) 36 37 Sarasota Headquarters At our headquarters in Sarasota, FL, our largest sponsorship as a corporation is with Other fundraising and awareness-raising events supported by employees in Sarasota include: The Boys and Girls Clubs of Sarasota County (BGCSC). IPG sponsors several events including: Movember Foundation – Headquarters employees grew mustaches and beards throughout November to raise funds and Annual Corporate SWAT Challenge – IPG employees awareness for men’s health issues. participated in Sheriff Knight’s 10th Annual Corporate SWAT A reveal day contest brings together “Rock the Boat” Regatta IPG employees Steak & Burger Sponsorship IPG sponsors Challenge. In 2019, this was the IPG TAPE Warriors’ second-year participants and others to admire team up with BGCSC youth to design, the annual event in which the BGCSC taking the Corporate SWAT Challenge to support the Sheriff’s their facial hair creations, as well as construct and race boats made solely of IPG’s announces its Youth of the Year. At dinner, kids Activities League of Sarasota County, Inc. (SAL), whose slogan is to participate in a silent auction style colored duct tape and cardboard. Last year eat the steak and adults eat the burgers. In “Connecting Kids to the Community.” Students from local schools raffle. IPG donates $50 per marked the 3rd annual event where youth race connection with the Steak & Burger event, IPG participating in SAL enjoy a variety of unique programs that provide participant to the Movember to win trophies for the fastest and most creative purchases a pig raised by youth in 4H, Future youth with safe, experiential opportunities which allow them to Foundation in addition to cash boats. Staff from IPG, the BGCSC and the Farmers of America or another program and explore diverse aspects of our communities while developing raised by employees from the raffle. Sarasota County Sheriff’s Office constructed pays for the meat processing. IPG then donates their corporate boats for their CEOs to race the meat to BGCSC’s culinary arts program. positive relationships with law enforcement. against each other on race day. Youth for Troops – IPG was able All Faiths Foodbank – Each year American Cancer Society – IPG to provide Youth for Troops with IPG colleagues help “spread the employees raised funds and packing tape to help seal over love” for Valentine’s Day by donating awareness for the American Cancer 1,700 packages for deployed bins of non-perishable foods to Society through the “Making Strides troops. Youth for Troops is a All Faiths Food Bank, a member of Against Breast Cancer Walk.” In Community Leadership Breakfast Sponsorship Holiday Gift Giving IPG employees help area families youth-led nonprofit organization Feeding America’s network. The addition to race/walk participation, IPG hosts this annual event which brings together in need by purchasing a gift for a specific BGCSC child that supports service members, nationwide network serves more employees held a luncheon and a community partners to honor visionary leaders who to be given to them at the Club’s annual holiday party. veterans and their family members. than 40 million people each year mini-putt golfing contest to raise serve as advocates and role models in inspiring the through a nationwide network of 200 online and cash donations of $5,339. community’s young people. food banks. In 2019, IPG donated close to 1,000 pounds of food. 38 39 Elsewhere, Around Our Facilities Stakeholder Engagement IPG initiates different types of stakeholder Our stakeholders include customers, business engagement as part of our regular activities. partners, employees, investors and shareholders, As we have developed this report, we are finding as well as various community, third-party and awareness of these engagements as useful inputs government groups, as outlined in the chart on for decisions on reporting and shaping our page 42. We engage with stakeholders through sustainability journey. (102-44) multiple methods in the course of doing business, as we are fulfilling roles in industry and associations IPG defines stakeholders consistent with the GRI, and in our communities. as entities or individuals, we can reasonably expect to be significantly affected by our activities, products Our approach to stakeholder engagement considers or services; or whose actions we can reasonably the guidance of our Code of Conduct and other expect to affect our ability to implement strategies specific policies. The frequency of engagement or achieve objectives. (102-42) depends on each stakeholder group and is In Danville, VA, IPG fielded the largest corporate team in the Bridge 2 Bridge Race to benefit the appropriate to the nature of the relationship. (102-43) Danville Cancer Association. In Blythewood, S.C., 20 employees IPG Menasha participated in the 27th In Dahej, India, employees at our participated in the Midlands Heart Annual Sole Burner 5K in Menasha, Powerband facility planted 29 trees Walk to benefit the American Heart WI to benefit the American Cancer in honor of World Environment Day. Association (“AHA”). Society. Forty nine Menasha employees represented IPG. IPG’s Danville Plant and Regional Distribution Center participated in the Danville Heart Walk & 5K to raise money for the AHA. The IPG team raised more than $2,500 from 80+ donors for the AHA and had a fun time walking with the community for such a great cause. 40 41 Stakeholder Groups* Methods of Engagement Topics of Interest* Stakeholder Groups* Methods of Engagement Topics of Interest* General Group Description (Including, but not limited to) (Including, but not limited to) General Group Description (Including, but not limited to) (Including, but not limited to) CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS • Financial support Corporate philanthropy, employee GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS • Regulatory filings Environmental policies and management Registered charities with financial • Employee volunteering giving and volunteering, stakeholder Country, State and Local Governments; • Public reporting systems, environmental mitigation and transparency that are supported through • Donation of time and products engagement, partnerships and elected officials and their • Product labeling remediation, energy and climate, toxic air IPG’s philanthropic program collaborations, governance, code of representatives emissions, water, waste, worker safety, conduct, data security human rights and employment standards, stakeholder engagement, partnerships COMMUNITIES • Open houses Environmental policies and management and collaborations, governance, code of The communities in which our • Sponsorship of local events systems, environmental mitigation conduct, data security facilities are located and where our • Participation in local chambers and remediation, energy and climate, employees live of commerce toxic air emissions, water, waste, INDUSTRY ORGANIZATIONS, • Participation at trade shows Product design and innovation, worker safety, employee giving and AND OTHER NGO’S and conferences recyclability, recycled content, volunteering, corporate philanthropy, Industry associations, consisting • Membership and leadership positions stakeholder engagement, partnership stakeholder engagement primarily of trade associations for the • Participation at local, regional and and collaborations, governance, code of markets served by IPG national events conduct, data security CONSUMERS • Product labeling Product design and innovation, product People who interact with our products • Social media safety, recyclability, recycled content, • Website contact form governance, code of conduct, data SHAREHOLDERS AND • Annual Report and Product design and innovation, product security THE IPG INVESTOR COMMUNITY Annual Sustainability report safety, recyclability, recycled contents, Investors in our company, including both • Annual shareholders meeting environmental policies and management DISTRIBUTION OR RETAIL CUSTOMERS • Sales processes for our product Product design and innovation, product individual and institutional investors as • Investor meetings systems, environmental mitigation Customers that purchase products • Supply around the bundle and safety, recyclability, recycled content, well as our credit providers • Road show events and remediation, energy and climate, from IPG and resell or “distribute” the market governance, code of conduct, data • Press releases toxic air emissions, water, waste, them to other customers, usually in • Marketing support security, security of supply worker safety, education, training and a specific market • Training support development, diversity and inclusion, • End user trials/New product trials employee engagement, human rights • Trade show booth presence and employment standards, employee • Customer appreciation events at satisfaction, corporate philanthropy, trade shows employee giving and volunteering, • Social media stakeholder engagement, partnerships and collaborations, governance, code of EMPLOYEES • Newsletters Product design and innovation, product conduct, data security The IPG team of employees • Quarterly videos safety, recyclability, recycled content, • Variety of social media environmental policies and management VENDORS OTHER • Contracts Product design and innovation, product • Employee training systems, environmental mitigation Vendors that do not supply our raw • Routine business communication safety, recyclability, recycled content, • Town halls and remediation, energy and climate, materials, but who provide components, code of conduct, data security • Employee engagement activities toxic air emissions, water, waste, services, supplies, products and • Surveys worker safety, education, training and equipment to support our operations or • Union interactions development, diversity and inclusion, offices, as well as items that we offer employee engagement, human rights for resale. and employment standards, employee satisfaction, corporate philanthropy, VENDORS RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS • Monthly/Quarterly meetings Product design and innovation, employee giving and volunteering, Vendors that supply the raw material • Annual business reviews chemicals and raw materials, product stakeholder engagement, partnerships components of the products we produce • Routine business communication safety, recyclability, recycled content, and collaborations, governance, code of • Senior management meetings code of conduct, data security conduct, data security • Collaborative R&D training • Joint development • Negotiation * Groups in chart satisfy 102-40 and topics meet 102-44 42 43 Memberships of Associations IPG maintains corporate memberships in various industry or other associations and national or international advocacy organizations including (102-13): Partnerships and Collaborations External Initiatives (102-12) IPG subscribes to externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles and other initiatives that align with our sustainability efforts. EPA ENERGY STAR: An ENERGY STAR Industrial partner since 2009, IPG is a 2019 Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence for ongoing contributions to reducing harmful carbon pollution through superior energy efficiency efforts. For more information, see the Energy and Climate section on page 22. EPA SmartWay: IPG participates in EPA’s SmartWay Transport Partnership, which helps companies and organizations achieve their freight supply chain sustainability goals by providing credible tools, data, and standards-at no cost for measuring, benchmarking and improving environmental performance. See the Energy and Climate section on page 25 for Heating, Air-conditioning & Refrigeration Distributors International more details about our work with SmartWay. Sustainable Packaging Coalition/How2Recycle®: IPG is proud to partner with How2Recycle to make it easier for consumers to understand how to recycle our products. How2Recycle is a voluntary, standardized labeling system that communicates recycling instructions to the public. Six IPG product lines, typically not accepted through curbside recycling or community recycling centers, have been approved to use the How2Recycle labeling system. These products are recyclable at store drop off locations (where applicable) for plastic film. IPG also offers protective packaging products that are curbside recyclable and are approved to use the How2Recycle labeling system. The Association for Packaging and Processing Technologies United Nations Global Compact: IPG has signed the Compact agreeing to adopt the ten principals governing human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We have begun efforts to assess our adherence to the Compact’s Principals since signing in December 2019. 44 45 OUR GOVERNANCE we govern ethically. The Board of Directors and management of IPG believe that the highest standards of corporate governance are essential in the effective management of the Company as well as our ability to build sustainable worth for our customers, business partners, employees, investors and IPG drives responsible and our communities. Our Board of Directors is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance, and regularly reviews and ethical decision-making updates its corporate governance systems considering changing practices, expectations and legal requirements. throughout the Company. Our corporate governance practices reflect applicable rules and guidelines adopted by the Canadian Securities Administrators as set out in National Policy 58-201 Corporate Governance Guidelines and National Instrument 58-101 Disclosure of Corporate Governance Practices (collectively, the CSA Guidelines). Further, our governance practices also comply with the governance rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to foreign issuers and those mandated by the U.S. SarbanesOxley Act of 2002. Governance Structure Our Board of Directors meets at least quarterly and has nine members, seven of whom are independent. (102-18) The Board of Directors supervises the management of business affairs of IPG, including the development of major policies and strategies and identification of business risks and implementation of appropriate systems to manage these risks. (102-16) As stewards of IPG, the Board of Directors discharges its responsibilities either directly or through its committees. The IPG Board of Directors has established four committees, namely the Audit Committee, the Human Resource and Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee to facilitate the carrying out of its duties and responsibilities and to meet applicable statutory requirements. Each committee operates under a formal mandate. The Board of Directors receives reports from the executive level on economic, environmental and social topics. (102-18) IPG has adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees, officers, directors and third-party representatives of IPG. The Board of Directors Audit Committee oversees these efforts. 46 47 Code of Conduct (102-16) The Code of Conduct provides an overview of IPG’s Human Resources Managers at each location provide commitment to doing business the right way and all new employees with either a written or electronic sets out basic guiding principles that apply to all version of the Code of Conduct. Where necessary, a governance body members, workers, business translated version of the Code of Conduct is provided; partners and other stakeholders, regardless of the Code of Conduct is currently available in four location or nationality. languages. Salaried employees complete an online training module. The corporation holds periodic information and training sessions for all directors, management The Senior Vice President of Human Resources is personnel and employees to promote compliance responsible for efforts to communicate and train all with laws and regulations, as well as IPG’s policies governance body members, workers, business and procedures. partners and other stakeholders regarding the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct requires compliance with laws, regulations, and IPG’s policies and procedures. These Employees are encouraged to talk to supervisors, policies and procedures include: Antibribery and managers, human resources, the legal department, or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy, Insider Trading other appropriate personnel about observed illegal or Policy, Whistleblower Policy, Diversity Statement and unethical behavior, and when in doubt about the best a No Harassment Policy. course of action in a situation. It is the policy of the Company not to allow retaliation for reports of The Code of Conduct also addresses expectations misconduct by others made in good faith by of behavioral norms related to conflicts of interest, employees. IPG expects employees to cooperate in confidentiality and fair competition, discrimination internal investigations of potential misconduct. (102-17) and harassment, record-keeping, confidential information and protection, proper use of corporation IPG maintains a Business Conduct and Ethics Hotline assets and the responsibility of each employee for and our Whistleblower Policy protects those who use it maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. from retaliation for any good faith report. (102-17) Anti-Corruption Anti-Competitive Behavior Bribes, kickbacks and other illegal payments to or IPG did not have any legal actions pending or from any individual with whom we conduct business completed during the reporting period related to are strictly prohibited. All governance body members, anti-competitive behavior and violations. (206-1) workers, business partners and other stakeholders Management and other employees throughout the receive communication about anti-corruption via the Company received training by outside legal counsel Code of Conduct which includes basic information to educate them on the laws concerning antiand encourages all to review the Anti-Bribery and competitive behavior to ensure that compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy. (205-2) all anti-competitive laws and regulations is emphasized by the Company. Our Code of Conduct IPG completed an assessment of all our operations further emphasizes the importance of compliance and has a third-party assessing vendor compliance, with these requirements. Furthermore, IPG has not and we report significant risks and or breaches to identified any material non-compliance with laws or the Audit Committee. (205-1) regulations in the social and economic areas. (419-1) 48 49 Data Security Email Security Technology continues to advance quickly, and the In 2019, IPG’s secure email world is becoming more interconnected. At the gateway screened and same time, privacy continues to be redefined by processed 8.5 million inbound both the public and private sectors. This new normal email messages. requires everyone’s involvement to improve the security posture of our organization and to protect 4.5 million (53%) were accepted our most valued assets both now and into the future. and sent on to the intended email recipients’ mailbox. We intentionally implemented both technical and 3.4 million (40%) emails were non-technical security controls to improve our data rejected for content consistent security posture. While these security controls with malware, information with contribute significantly to our defense-in-depth malicious intent, or content strategy, we recognize that no organization, not against company policy. even our own, is immune from a security breach. Overall, 46% of all inbound IPG In 2019, we initiated online annual Security email is rejected for various Awareness Training for anyone with an active reasons – 86% of which is directory system account to reinforce our rejected for security reasons. commitment to protect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our assets. IPG’s IT department partnered with Gartner, a recognized leader in the security awareness computer-based training space. One hundred percent of senior management and IPG uses a managed security service provider 92% of general employees* completed online (MSSP) for security operations center (SOC) training on electronic security. functions along with internal resources to monitor the environment. To date, IPG has had no Additionally, as part of our onboarding process, complaints concerning breaches of customer new users are required to complete this security privacy or losses of customer data. (418-1) awareness training. By the end of 2019, we implemented a new Privacy To supplement the annual security awareness Policy and Cookie Policy in compliance with both training, IT made specialized topics, role-based topics the European General Data Protection Regulation and departmental specific training available and California Consumer Privacy Act. throughout the year to improve IPG’s security posture. Recognizing that information security is everyone’s IPG provides an online business-to-business (B2B) business and we are all gatekeepers, IPG also uses e-commerce center for our customers worldwide. a third-party service to screen the security posture We use both technical and non-technical security of our vendors. Our employees, contractors and controls to protect the privacy and confidentiality of business partners all play crucial roles in reducing customer profiles and information regarding orders. and preventing a security incident or breach. We do not share or sell our customer information. * Excludes Fibope, Polyair and Maiweave in training completeness Rather, we maintain control of customer data. 50 51 About this Report The data contained in this report was vetted through internal audit and included reviews by internal subject matter experts as well as IPG’s Leadership Team. We believe this information accurately represents our environmental, social and economic impacts in 2019. Reporting Cycle This is IPG’s second annual sustainability report and contains data that pertains to our 2019 calendar year performance. (102-50-52) Scope and Boundary This report was informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards as detailed in the GRI Index on page 58. (102-54) Since our previous report, IPG has undertaken a third-party assessment of topics to be considered, informed by a benchmarking exercise and resulting in an expanded list of topics within environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas that are relevant to our stakeholders. (102-49) Because of data availability limitations, some reported data exclude certain acquisitions and our manufacturing facility in Portugal. Where data is excluded, it is identified in the report. Supply Chain Data For many of our operational locations, the percentage of procurement budgets spent on local suppliers is not available at this time. (204-1) IPG sources raw materials globally based on quality and price. We expect suppliers to adhere to the Code of Conduct and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (Transparency Act). Additionally, IPG has signed on to the the Compact and has sent a letter to all suppliers communicating our expectations that their business activities should abide by the the Compact. The Transparency Act is included in all formal supplier contracts and is posted on the IPG website. (414-1) Contact For questions about this report, please contact the Sustainability Communications Committee at sustainability@itape.com. (102-53) FIBOPE – IPG’s shrink film facility in Porto, Portugal 52 53 Materiality Awards Data summary Topics Included in this Report (102-47) Evidencing our further embrace of sustainability within our business, in the course of this reporting cycle, IPG has 2019 Awards Presented to IPG undertaken to measure and disclose data that support our journey towards a more sustainable future. We report a Environment • 2019 The United Group Pinnacle Award for Packaging majority of the data below for the first time. • Product Design & Innovation Sherwin Williams – 2019 Operational Excellence Award • Metric 2019 2018 2017 • Chemicals & Raw Materials • 2019 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained OUR PEOPLE • Recycled Content Excellence Award EMPLOYEES Permanent Workers / # 3,603 Full time 3,586 • Product Safety • Aramsco – 2019 Supplier of the Year Partnership Award Part time 17 (2nd Place) • Environmental Policies and Male 2,816 Management Systems • 2019 South Carolina Manufacturing Transformation and Female 787 Operations Excellence Award Finalist EMPLOYEES -By Region / # • Energy & Climate North America 2,893 • Toxic Air Emissions / VOCs 2019 Staff Awards presented to IPG Individuals Europe 131 • Water from Customers India 579 • Waste • 2019 Nassco Vendor Representative of the Year – EMPLOYEES By age group / # Jim Grimes Under 30 694 Between 30-50 1,655 Social • 2019 NetPlus Reporting Excellence Award – Kristen Weston Over 50 1,254 • Worker Safety Employees Receiving Performance Review / % 50 • Education, Training & 2019 Achievement Certifications Presented to IPG WORKER SAFETY Development • 2019 EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry TCIR (Total Case Incident Rate) 2.6 3.0 Achievement Carbondale LWCIR (Lost Workday Case Incident Rate) 0.9 0.6 • Diversity & Inclusion OUR PRODUCTS • Employee Retention RAW MATERIALS PURCHASED / metric tons 186 191 2019 Customer Certificates of Appreciation • Human Rights & Employment OUR PLANET • Flipkart Packaging Partner’s Day Standards COMPLIANCE non compliance violations / # 3 3 2 • Corporate Philanthropy 2019 Social/Philanthropic Certificates of Appreciation Fines (US Dollars) / $ $0 $0 $14,600 • Employee Giving / Volunteering • Water Smart Tots ENERGY USE / terajoules • Stakeholder Engagement • Kids for Life Foundation Direct (Scope 1) 852 850 Indirect (Scope 2) 665 672 • Partnerships & Collaborations • American Cancer Society ENERGY INTENSITY / gigajoule/metric ton 7 8 • Boys & Girls Club CARBON EMISSIONS / metric tons CO2 Governance • Manatee Youth Livestock Show Direct (Scope 1) 42,175 42,393 • Code of Conduct Indirect (Scope 2) 90,741 93,307 CARBON INTENSITY / metric tons CO2 / metric tons production 0.6 0.7 • Data Security Transportation (Scope 3) (Smartway) * 28,492 24,143 UPS Carbon Neutral Programs offsets 467 VOC EMISSIONS / metric tons 1,019 1,425 966 WATER USE / megaliters 417 446 HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED / metric tons 1,448 1,382 2,776 NON HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED / metric tons 7,380 7,225 *Information not yet available 54 55 UNGC index UNGC Principles Approach Learn More Cross Reference to GRI Indicators HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support At the heart of our corporate values is our commitment to people. Our Organizational Organizational Overview: GRI 102-9 and respect the protection of values of Passion, Integrity, Performance, and Teamwork are built on a Overview Human Rights: GRI 102-41; GRI 407-1; internationally proclaimed foundation of individuals who are the embodiment of our Company’s Human Rights GRI 408-1; GRI 409-1; GRI 412-1; GRI 412-2 human rights. culture. These values commit us to support and nurture our employees and the communities in which we work. Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion: GRI 405-1; 2. Businesses should make The IPG Code of Conduct provides an overview of IPG’s commitment to Employee Retention Employee Retention: GRI 401-2; GRI 401-3 sure that they are not complicit doing business the right way and sets out basic guiding principles that Our Governance Code of Conduct: GRI 102-16; GRI 102-17 in human rights abuses. apply to all governance body member members, workers, business Code of Conduct About this Report: GRI 414-1; GRI 204-1 partners and other stakeholders, regardless of location or nationality. The code requires compliance with laws, regulations, and IPG’s policies and Anti-Corruption: GRI 205-1; GRI 205-2 procedures, including our Human Rights Policy. Anti-Competitive Behavior: GRI 419-1 LABOR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the The Code of Conduct provides an overview of IPG’s commitment to doing Organizational Organizational Overview: GRI 102-9 freedom of association and the business the right way and sets out basic guiding principles that apply to Overview Human Rights: GRI 102-41; GRI 407-1; GRI effective recognition of the right all governance body member members, workers, business partners and Human Rights 408-1; GRI 409-1; GRI 412-1; GRI 412-2 to collective bargaining. other stakeholders, regardless of location or nationality. The code requires compliance with laws, regulations, and IPG’s policies and procedures. Our Governance Code of Conduct: GRI 102-16; GRI 102-17 4. Businesses should uphold These policies and procedures include: Human Rights Policy; Whistleblower Code of Conduct About this Report: GRI 414-1 the elimination of all forms of Policy, Diversity Statement, and a No Harassment Policy. Anti-Competitive Behavior: GRI 419-1 forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support IPG is a packaging and protective solutions company, and we make many Product and Material Chemicals and Raw Materials: GRI 301-1 a precautionary approach to of our products from plastic or paper. Concern about plastic use, and its Innovation Recycled Content: GRI 301-2 environmental challenges. presence in the environment, has been growing steadily. At IPG, we are Chemicals and Raw keenly aware of this reality and we are committed to leading changes in Operational Footprint: GRI 306-3; GRI 307-1 Materials the industry to achieve sustainable solutions. Energy and Climate: GRI 305-1; GRI 305-2; 8. Businesses should undertake Circular Economy GRI 305-4 initiatives to promote greater Recycled Content Energy and Climate; Transporation: environmental responsibility. Operational Footprint GRI 305-3 Energy and Climate Water: GRI 303-4; GRI 303-5 9. Businesses should Air Air: GRI 305-7 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Water Waste: GRI 306-2 friendly technologies. Waste ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work The Code of Conduct provides an overview of IPG’s commitment to doing Organizational Code of Conduct: GRI 102-16; GRI 102-17 against corruption in all its business the right way and sets out basic guiding principles that apply to Overview About this Report: GRI 414-1 forms, including extortion and all governance body member members, workers, business partners and Our Governance bribery. other stakeholders, regardless of location or nationality. The code requires Anti-Corruption: GRI 205-1; GRI 205-2 compliance with laws, regulations, and IPG’s policies and procedures. Code of Conduct Anti-Competitive Behavior: GRI 419-1 These policies and procedures include: Antibribery and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy; Insider Trading Policy; and Whistleblower Policy. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents. 56 57 GRI index (102-55) GRI index GRI Standard Title DiscloDisclosure Title Location in Report Indicates which specific content from the Standard has been GRI Standard Title DiscloDisclosure Title Location in Report Indicates which specific content from the Standard has been (This material references the title and sure Individual disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here applied, IF the Standard has not been used in full (This material references the title and sure Individual disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here applied, IF the Standard has not been used in full publication year of the Standards below) publication year of the Standards below) Number Number General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Organizational Overview Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Included per topic where available General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Organizational Overview Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Included per topic where available General Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Organizational Overview Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Included per topic where available General Disclosures 2016 102-4 Location of operations Organizational Overview Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers About this Report; Supply Chain Data Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant General Disclosures 2016 102-5 Ownership and legal form Organizational Overview locations of operation is not available at this time. General Disclosures 2016 102-6 Markets served Organizational Overview Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-Corruption a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed General Disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization Organizational Overview for risks related to corruption. General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Organizational Overview “For Permanent employees only: a. Total number of Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about Anti-Corruption employees by employment contract (permanent and anti-corruption policies and procedures temporary), by gender. Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Anti-Competitive Behavior b. Total number of employees by employment contract anti-trust, and monopoly practices (permanent and temporary), by region. Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Chemicals and Raw Materials a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to c. Total number of employees by employment type produce and package the organization’s primary (full-time and part-time), by gender. products and services during the reporting period General Disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain Organizational Overview Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used Recycled Content Provided for our film business only General Disclosures 2016 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Organizational Overview Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and Climate a. Total fuel consumption within the organization (not its supply chain broken out by renewable or non renewable) General Disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives Partnerships and Collaborations Energy 2016 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy and Climate a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Membership of associations Partnerships and Collaborations joules or multiples General Disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Energy and Climate General Disclosures 2016 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO Letter; Successes and Water 2018 303-4 Water discharge Water a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. Opportunities b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen General Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Governance; Code of Conduct to calculate the ratio.” General Disclosures 2016 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Code of Conduct Water 2018 303-5 Water consumption Water a. Total water consumption from all areas in megaliters. General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure Our Governance Reflects water usage at our Blythewood, Brighton, General Disclosures 2016 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Proxy Cantech Johnson City, Carbondale, Columbia, Danville, and its committees Marysville, Menasha, Midland, Tremonton and TRURO General Disclosures 2016 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy facilities only. General Disclosures 2016 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Proxy Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy and Climate a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of governance body CO2 equivalent. General Disclosures 2016 102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy and Climate a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) General Disclosures 2016 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Proxy GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. body’s performance Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Transportation a. Gross other indirect General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. General Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights For our SmartWay carriers only General Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Energy and Climate “a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen General Disclosures 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement to calculate the ratio.” General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 20-F Emissions 2016 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Air a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for financial statements iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) General Disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics About This Report A formal materiality assessment has not been completed. Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste “a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by The process used to identify the list of topics in this report disposal methods is included in About This Report. b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, NOT broken General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information Relevant sections, as appropriate down by disposal method” General Disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report Effluents and Waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills Operational Footprint General Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period About This Report Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Operational Footprint General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report and regulations General Disclosures 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Employee Retention Lists benefits provided to full time employees. General Disclosures 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report not provided to temporary or part-time employees General Disclosures 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with About This Report This report has been prepared with reference to the Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave Employee Retention GRI Standards GRI Standards detailed within this Index. Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Worker Safety General Disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI content indeGRI INDE 58 59 GRI index GRI index GRI Standard Title DiscloDisclosure Title Location in Report Indicates which specific content from the Standard has been GRI Standard Title DiscloDisclosure Title Location in Report Indicates which specific content from the Standard has been (This material references the title and sure Individual disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here applied, IF the Standard has not been used in full (This material references the title and sure Individual disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here applied, IF the Standard has not been used in full publication year of the Standards below) publication year of the Standards below) Number Number Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Worker Safety a. A description of the processes used to identify Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Product Safety incident investigation work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and and labeling non-routine basis, and to apply the hierarchy of controls Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Product Safety in order to eliminate hazards and minimize risks, including: and service information and labeling i. how the organization ensures the quality of these Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Data Security processes, including the competency of persons who customer privacy and losses of customer data carry them out; ii. how the results of these processes Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Anti-Competitive Behavior are used to evaluate and continually improve the social and economic area occupational health and safety management system. Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Worker Safety “a. A description of the processes for worker participation communication on occupational health and safety and consultation in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the occupational health and safety management system, and for providing access to and communicating relevant information on occupational health and safety to workers. b. Where formal joint management–worker health and safety committees exist, a description of meeting frequency” Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Worker Safety Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and Worker Safety safety management system Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries Worker Safety a. For all employees: i. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; ii. The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); iii. Thenumber and rate of recordable workrelated injuries; iv. The main types of work-related injury; v. The number of hours worked. Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-10 Work-related ill health Worker Safety a. For all employees: i. The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; ii. The number of cases of recordable work-related ill health; Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Employee Retention b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate and transition assistance programs continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment Training and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Education,Training and Development performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity & Inclusion Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Human Rights Collective Bargaining 2016 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Human Rights incidents of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Human Rights incidents of forced or compulsory labor Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Human Rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Human Rights or procedures Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Corporate Philanthropy impact assessments, and development programs Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using About This Report; social criteria Supply Chain Data Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Product Safety product and service categories 60 61
