COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS 2019 2 Our story Danoffice IT was established in 1995 and provides IT infrastructure to InternationalOrganizations & Businesses operating worldwide. We provide IT equipment and services to more than 180 countries worldwide. Our Vision is “The most recognized IT solution partner”. Technology is contributing to our happiness in many ways; communication, information, education, practicalities, less physical tasks and expand of lifetime. The publication “Happy Planet” by New Economics Foundation concludes the degree of happiness is related to use of technology. Danoffice IT portfolio include hardware, software, consulting and services and covers all leading brands. Our technical staff have a broad and deep knowhow in IT infrastructure and assist our clients from Denmark, Switzerland and USA. Since 1995 we elaborate of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing International Organisations, Governmental, Intergovernmental and Non-Governmental Organisations and B2B partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having the United Nations as client. We cooperate very closely with our clients throughout the entire process from analysing needs, supplying the needed IT equipment, installing the solution and offer a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which bring VALUE to the client and return on their investment. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 3 Our story With us your wishes regarding infrastructure, hardware and logistics are our first priority. This is important to ensure trust and credibility in our collaboration – and essential in order to earn the right to be your preferred IT partner. • We provide strong competences and unique expertise. And we can document our know-how. • We care for the environment. We take responsibility on behalf of both of us when we are searching for, demanding and recommending the most sustainable IT solution. • We make things happen. Because progress, quality and results are deep-rooted in our DNA. Entering a partnership with something as important as your organisation comes with commitments. • We take on these commitments, when we work for and with you, when we listen to your needs and when we see the world through your eyes. • We are present both globally and locally. This is your assurance that it’s never far from thought to action. When you need it, we are quick on the trigger: • We keep our word and make things happen. • We strive to optimise and demand deliveries that optimise global recirculation. • Together, we can contribute to a development in the right direction and make a positive imprint on the future. Submitted, July 9 th, 2020 by Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 4 Facts about Danoffice IT Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com IT solutions anywhere, any time, any way 6 Content Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Corporate Social Responsibility & SDG’s. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 • Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 • Labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 • Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 • Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Corporate Values. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 7 Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values, our DNA The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values is in our DNA. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. Our CSR is two-folded and based on The Global Compact and The Sustainable Development Goals: The Sustainable Development Goals Path Danoffice IT supports and initiate activities on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs) also known as the Global Goals, and the need to identify, develop and accelerate initiatives. Responsibility is in our DNA and we always support our customers with sustainable products and solutions. Anchoring our strategy to the SDGs was a natural continuation of our long lasting work with the United Nations, leading global businesses and organisations as an ongoing process to accelerate solutions to meet the SDG challenge. The Global Compact Danoffice IT is proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. Our Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Danoffice IT is member of the UN Global Compact which is the worlds largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organisations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 8 Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 9 Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and predominantly sustains poverty. Danoffice IT position on corruption is not to take part, or to accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form thereof. This has been our position since our foundation in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form of fraud or corruption. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver that the recipient would otherwise not alter. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 10 Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact Whistle Blower Hotline If any business associate to Danoffice IT has knowledge or suspicion of fraud and corruption in regards to an employee of Danoffice IT or any associated business partners to the company, it is strongly requested immediately to engage the anti-corruption whistle blower hotline on any knowledge or information of corruption. Any business associate is requested to use whistleblower@danofficeit.com to inform the company management of this crime. Staff commitment on anti-bribery All staff members of Danoffice IT have signed acknowledgement letter confirming to have read and understood the company’s policies on anti-bribery. ISO 37001 certification on Anti Bribery Compliance During 2019 Danoffice IT have started the process in obtaining the ISO 37001 certification on Anti Bribery Compliance. And expects to have finished the process mid 2020 achieving the ISO standard on 37001. The process is ongoing in corporation with Bureau Veritas and all staff will undergo external auditing setting up the criteria of the ISO standard on 37001. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 11 Corporate Social Responsibility & SDG’s RUN for a purpose Our staff is our most important resource wherefore we strive at keeping our staff mentally and physically fit. We have implemented a “healthy diet” program, with natural foods, organic foods, whole foods and vegetarian foods, in our daily cantina and follow WHO recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. We also participate in sport activities. Every year Danoffice IT sponsor running gear to all our employees to support an active healthy lifestyle. During the year we all “RUN for a purpose!”. Danoffice IT find a project we wish to support and thereafter all employees runs once or twice a week and end year Danoffice IT donate a fixed $ amount per activity. #SDG4 Quality Education Danoffice IT has together with Hand UP – digitally empowering refugees, which enable unaccompanied minors from Eritrea,Ethiopia, Somalia and Afghanistan to develop IT skills from computer literacy to coding . The project is a collaboration with Association de mediatrices interculturelles (AMIC), IT Step, American International Women’s Club of Geneva (AIWC) and HP inc. The Hand UP center is #SDG4 hosted at AMIC Les Grottes, Geneva The funds raise will support 10 refugees to complete full training from computer literacy to comprehensive web marketing skills. #SDG5 Gender Equality Based on the staff activities in Run for Purpose, Danoffice IT have chosen to support Peace Innovation Foundation through the TechGirls program. Danoffice IT have made a donation for a program scholarship and the beneficiary Martha, who is a talented young woman now able to study at university driving for a tech career in Uganda. #SDG5 About Peace Innovation Foundation: Peace Innovation Foundation’s TechGirls program aims at encouraging young women in developing countries to pursue a career in technology or science. TechGirls will change the lives of these talented smart girls, their families and communities; and will create the future women technology leadership elite of their countries. #SDG5 · To be continued... Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 12 Corporate Social Responsibility & SDG’s #SDG5 · Continued About TechGirls TechGirls support talented young women from less privileged backgrounds to become the next tech leaders. TechGirls helps to afford the tuition, room and board to study at a college or university in their home country. However, TechGirls is much more than a traditional scholarship program. TechGirls create opportunities to gain experience beyond academic education, specifically in the areas of leadership and entrepreneurship. Therefore, TechGirls is not a charity program – it actually helps promoting talents and provides opportunities. TechGirls help make talented young woman dreams come true. By sponsoring scholarships for college and university education, so that young woman can explore careers in technology, medicine and business, and become pillars of their country’s economy. With access to education, girls can achieve amazing things: they can launch businesses, become engineers and researchers, run schools, build factories and lead governments. #SDG8 Decent Work And Economic Growth At Danoffice IT we empower vulnerable women in Kenya. We buy coffee beans through the NGO NGUVU who buys directly from local female farmers cutting all the middlemen giving the women higher yield. The women agrees on a contract where the NGO secures education of their children and other #SDG8 necessities. This way we can support the women and their children with food, clean water, medical treatment and education. One of the stories: Vulnerable women like Betty is daily fighting to keep her small farm with around 300 coffee trees. It is a struggle to provide her three children with food, clean water and medical treatment. Betty’s biggest dream is to give her children an education, so they can get a future with possibilities. Betty’s dream can now come true, because she is part of the NGUVU coffee initiative. She is not only getting financial support, so she can give her children an education. She also gets 3-4 times more yield on her coffee beans than before and she is getting skill development, so she can continue optimizing her harvest. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 13 Corporate Social Responsibility & SDG’s #SDG10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES United Against Corruption At Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and predominantly sustains poverty. #SDG10 Danoffice IT position on corruption is not to take part, or to accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form thereof. This has been our position since our foundation in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form of fraud or corruption. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver that the recipient would otherwise not alter. #SDG12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Protect Mother Earth Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle #SDG12 them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached several tens of thousands of units collected so far and still counting. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com Danoffice IT Communications on Progress 2019 15 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019 Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organisational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and employee through company employee manual, posters placed within premises and on the Danoffice IT web site: www.danofficeit.com Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 16 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019 Human Rights: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. At Danoffice IT we believe that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organisational culture. We embrace culture and have employees from 10 different nationalities, coming from South America, USA, Europe and Middle East. Our organisation mix is balanced with 48% women & 52% men and we span over various religions. Moreover, we have employees who came to Denmark as refugees from Syria and Croatia. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT supports all human rights and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Danoffice IT staff have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiations of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace, safety and policies. Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees can contact someone for personal matters, ideas for improvement or health & safety conditions. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com Danoffice IT Work Life Balance 18 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019 Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danoffice IT HQ in Svendborg Denmark was build in 2007 and won a prize for its architecture and for its working environment. The building is designed to incorporate a series of innovative green building techniques while operating within tight cost constraints. Functional, economic, and architectural criteria were used as the basis for the design. In addition, a minimal amount of material and technology is used throughout the design while maximising the quality of the working environment and the building’s energy performance. A modern building with technologies within ventilation, heating, shutters and water consumption. All staff has ergonomic chairs, lighting done by experts and height adjustable desks. Our Employee Manual is another tool to inform and update staff on our values, company profile, history, global strategy and information on working terms and conditions: illness and absence, overtime, annual staff interviews and regulations. Continuously we strive to educate and develop our employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops and through daily coaching. Biweekly management gather all staff to share knowledge of professional character or to inform about the work we do with our customers in the field. Here we also learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the world we live in. Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Therefore we have a very clear and transparent communication of our strategy plan where staff is attending biweekly company meeting and weekly department meetings where status on current business and future initiative is discussed in a open and inclusive way where everyone can ask questions and receive information on the strategy and the business. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 19 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour At Danoffice IT we do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour At Danoffice IT we do not use any form of child labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Danoffice IT labour policy prohibit employment of any person under the age of 16 years. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With our presence in Denmark, Switzerland and USA our department management constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our mix of personnel is balanced between all before mentioned groups and all employees receive equal conditions and rights regardless of location or background. To balance the gender best possible we seek to have at least one of each gender represented among the last three candidates in the hiring process. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Danoffice IT only works with internationally recognised vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached 300,000 units is embraced by the recycling program. #SDG12 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 20 Communications on Progress (COP) 2019 The Danoffice IT warehouse is using 100% bio-degradable cardboard materials and we try to reduce weight and volume to a minimize shipment and Co2 pollution. Packing waste is destroyed under environmental recycling friendly conditions. And the Danoffice IT office building is saving energy. Thermostat fan switch to ”auto” to save energy, automatic block of the sun from overheating by use of shades, changing the filters in our heating system every 6 month for optimum efficiency. Outside trees to provide shade on the sunny side of the office. We use laptops – they use less energy than desktop computers. Also our computers go to sleep or hibernate mode instead of using a screen saver so it uses less electricity during periods of inactivity. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TIE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Corruption can be most easily defined as the manipulation or perversion of a system for the benefit of a single party rather than for the benefit of the public or the intended beneficiaries. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. To emphasize the zero tolerance on Bribery Danoffice IT have started the process in obtaining the ISO 37001 certification on Anti Bribery Compliance. And expects to have finished the process mid 2020 achieving the ISO standard on 37001. The process is ongoing in corporation with Bureau Veritas and all staff will undergo external auditing setting up the criteria of the ISO standard on 37001. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 21 Corporate Values Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values / DNA. The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. We are proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. This Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Danoffice IT Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com IT solutions anywhere, any time, any way danofficeit.com
