BETTER ENERGY, KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 BETTER WORLD ABOUT THIS REPORT We at the Korea Gas Corporation (“KOGAS”) are striving to fulfill our social responsibilities as a public enterprise that aims to convert to environmentally-friendly energy. We will accomplish this by playing a leading role in the natural gas industry and creating social value based on our corporate motto, namely, “Better Energy for a Better World!” We aim to strike a sound balance between economic, environmental, and social values while carrying out our business, and disclose the results transparently in our annual sustainable management report. The present 2019 Sustainable Management Report is our fourteenth, following on from the thirteenth report published in June 2019. Report period and scope This report has been drawn up based on the data related to the results of our sustainable management for 2019 (January 1 to December 31). In terms of the quantitative results, this report contains the data for the three years since 2017 in order to show the corporation’s changes, as well as contents related to the qualitative results obtained during the first half of 2020. This report covers our corporate headquarters, terminal/district divisions, and the KOGAS Research Institute, plus overseas business where necessary. There have been no important changes in the size and organizational/ownership structure of our corporation during this report period. Where there have been changes in the data disclosed in the preceding report, we provide the reasons for such in the relevant pages. Criteria for drawing up this report and verifications This report has been drawn up based on the core methods of the GRI Standards, which are the international standards for the production of sustainability reports. The contents of this report have been duly verified by an independent verification institution in an effort to enhance its reliability and quality. The results of the verification are shown in the Appendix. Additional information You may obtain more detailed information about KOGAS on our homepage. If you have any queries about our sustainable management activities or wish to express an opinion on this report, please contact us through the following contact details: Homepage : http://www.kogas.or.kr Postal address : 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu City, South Korea (41062) Department : CSR Planning Team, CSR Department Email : ksy26@kogas.or.kr Tel : +82-53-670-0603 Fax : +82-53-670-0601 CONTENTS 02 About This Report 04 CEO’s Message 06 KOGAS Profile 10 KOGAS Business 12 Vision & Strategy 14 KOGAS Social Value Highlight Shared Value with KOGAS 20 KOGAS Social Value Creation 22 #1 Contributing to Environment Improvement by Converting into Eco-friendly Energy 24 #2 Stable Supply of Natural Gas by Technological Innovation 26 #3 Supporting Community Development and Mutual Growth Better Energy, with KOGAS 30 Materiality Assessment 32 Future Energy Leaping Toward the World 40 Eco-friendly Energy for Future Generations 52 Win-Win Energy Growing Together 62 Happy Energy Enjoying Together Sustainability Fact Book 72 Governance 74 Integrity & Ethical Management 77 Human Rights Management 82 Risk Management 84 Stakeholder Engagement Appendix 87 Sustainability Performances 93 GRI Standards Index 96 Global Initiatives 98 Third-party Assurance Statement 100 Prizes and Awards/Memberships KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 04 CEO’S MESSAGE We will create better energy and a better world through clean and safe energy conversion, and thereby create social value. Better Energy, Better World 05 Dear stakeholders, Second, we will create social value by communicating with our stakeholders. Dear stakeholders, We are creating social value by identifying and supporting the practical KOGAS has strived to secure a safe and stable supply of clean natural needs of all our stakeholders, including local communities, business gas for the public during the past thirty-seven years. Based on our partners, and customers. In particular, we support the sustainable world best LNG storage tank construction technology and excellent growth of SMEs by helping them to achieve technical independence operational experience, we are currently operating seventy-four 11.56 and by exploring sales channels on their behalf. We have also million ㎘ storage tanks in five LNG terminals nationwide, with a total introduced the KOGAS fair trade model with the aim of promoting fair pipe length of 4,908 km, and are actively involved in twenty-five trade. In addition, we will promote a variety of local win-win programs projects in thirteen countries around the world. related to the characteristics of our business, such as improving energy welfare, nurturing future generations, and creating jobs while Under our corporate philosophy of “Better Energy, Better World,” we increasing public satisfaction through service innovation activities that aim to create social value by incorporating the government's policy reflect the diverse needs of the public. goals of innovative growth and inclusive growth into the sustainable management of our organization. In 2019, our sustainability initiatives Third, we will strengthen our competitiveness by enhancing our were acknowledged with the receipt of the Excellence Award at the sustainability management practices. 1st Public Institution Social Value Creation Contest in recognition We are not only practicing human rights management that respects of our efforts to expand the market for social economy enterprises. our stakeholders, but are also strengthening our culture of ethics and We were also honored with a Presidential Award as the best public integrity to establish a sound corporate culture. We are committed to institution in disaster management evaluation in the energy sector improving the working environment of both our employees and those and a Presidential Citation at a national volunteering competition. of our partners, and to ensuring that all KOGAS-related employees Furthermore, we are fulfilling our social responsibility as a public achieve a healthy work-life balance through maternity protection, energy company by increasing the city gas supply rate (based on local childcare support, and health and working environment improvements. government data) to 92.1% in an effort to achieve equitable energy We will create a corporate culture that improves working conditions by welfare, expanding the scope of vulnerable groups who are eligible for taking all of these factors into consideration. discounted rates, and reducing the energy burden for people affected by natural disasters. KOGAS will continue to make the following social KOGAS will continue doing our very best to meet the expectations value creation efforts to become a leader in sustainable management. of our stakeholders and become a trusted public enterprise through steadfast efforts to innovate and create social value. We will also First, we will drive our future growth engines by leading the transition to achieve our vision of promoting the public interest and realizing energy green energy. welfare, and will continuously provide better energy that is clean and We are making multi-faceted efforts to address environmental safe to create a better world. problems such as air pollution and climate change and to implement green strategies that are aligned with the government's energy conversion policy. In an effort to secure future growth engines, we Thank you! will actively promote eco-friendly fuel conversion projects such as LNG bunkering, which is projected to become an alternative to the International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) regulation of GHG emissions from ships, and LNG tank cars that will help to solve the problem of fine dust in exhaust emissions. Moreover, we will take the lead in the hydrogen energy industry, which is attracting attention as a future source of sustainable energy. President & CEO Hee-bong Chae, Korea Gas Corporation KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 06 KOGAS PROFILE Overview KOGAS is a representative energy-based public enterprise established in 1983 to supply natural gas safely and steadily to the Korean people, guided by its corporate philosophy of “Better Energy, Better World.” Since supplying natural gas to Pyeongtaek Thermal Power Plant in 1986, KOGAS has continued to expand the provision of natural gas nationwide and recorded a 92.1% natural gas penetration rate as a result. (As of Dec. 31, 2019, Consolidated Financial Statements) Company Name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Type of Corporate Stock company Representative Hee-Bong Chae Body Establishment Date August 18, 1983 Sales KRW 249,826 Hundred Million Grounds for Korea Gas Corporation Act Operating Profit KRW 13,345 Hundred Million Establishment (Act No. 3639, Enacted in Dec. 1982) Earnings Per Share KRW 395 (basic EPS), KRW 395 (diluted EPS) Location 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Republic of (EPS) Korea Employees 4,107 persons (as of Mar. 31, 2020) Key Business Areas Production and Supply of City Gas and Purification Construction and Operation of LNG Terminals and and Sales of By-products Natural Gas Distribution Network Exploration, Transport, and Import/Export of Natural Exploration and Import/Export of Liquefied Gas Petroleum Gas (LPG) Development and Import/Export of Hydrogen Production and Distribution of Hydrogen Energy Energy Research and Technical Development (R&D) for Projects Commissioned by the Central or Local Related Business Areas Government Overseas Projects Related to the Businesses Above Businesses Related to the Exploration and Development of Petroleum Resources KOGAS Key Milestones 1980’s 1990’s 2000’s Base Building Expanding Growth Becoming a World Class 1983. Aug. Establishment of KOGAS 1990. May. E  stablishment of the R&D Center 2002. Oct. Completion of the Tongyeong Pro1986. Jan. First import of LNG (now KGAC) duction Base Nov. Commencement of natural gas dis1993~1999 Commencement of natural gas Nov.  Commencement of the city gas suptribution to power plant operations supply in the central region (Daejeon, ply in Gangwon Province (Pyeongtaek Thermal) Cheonan, and Cheongju), Yeongnam 2004. Jan. Secured 10 million households as 1987. Feb.  Commencement of the city gas supregion and Honam region (1995), natural gas customers ply to the Seoul metropolitan area Busan (1996) and West Coast region, 2005. Aug. Equity investment in Myanmar Sector A-3 Apr. Completion of terminal and distribuand Southern region (1999) 2006. Jul. More than 10,000 natural gas buses tion facilities at Pyeongtaek 1994. Jun. Commissioning national flag LNG 2007. Dec. KOGAS Vision 2017 Proclamation carrier Ceremony 1997. Oct. Completion of the Incheon Produc2008. Feb. Conclusion of agreement on the estion Base tablishment of a JV for the Uzbekistan 1999. Dec. Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange Surgil Project 2009. Oct. Acquired interest in the offshore and onshore pipeline for a Myanmar gas field Better Energy, Better World 07 Organization KOGAS has restructured its organization in order to internalize the national policy of the Korean government with regard to innovation and inclusive growth and respond actively to changes in the external environment. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Division has been newly established for the realization of fair transactions and social value, and the Hydrogen Business Department, for the promotion of the new hydrogen business in earnest. In addition, the New Growth Business Division has been reorganized for the early establishment of the energy conversion system and rebirth as a customer-centered energy business operator. As of the end of March 2020, KOGAS consists of 28 Departments (including Offices and Institutes) and 14 Divisions (including Terminal Divisions and District Divisions) under 7 Headquarters. (As of March 31, 2020) CEO Corporate Auditor Legal compliance Corporate Research Institute Communication HR Development Office of the Office of the & Human Rights Strategy & Finance of Economics & office Office President & CEO Auditor Management Office Office Management Sr. Executive Vice President for Safety Sr. Executive Vice President for Management Technology Safety & Security Dept. of Central KOGAS Research Dept. System Control Institute Office of Emergency & Security Management Management New Growth Overseas Business LNG Procurement & LNG Terminal Trunk Line Division Support Division Support Division Business Division Division Marketing Division Division ・Administration & ・CSR Dept. ・New Growth ・Overseas Business ・Marketing Planning ・Terminal Operation ・Trunk Line Management Dept. ・Technology Business Dept. Operation Dept. Dept. Dept. Operation Dept. ・General Affairs Cooperation Dept. ・Hydrogen Business ・Overseas Business ・Marketing Dept. ・Terminal ・Trunk Line Dept. ・ICT Deployment Dept. Development Dept. ・Procurement Dept. Construction Dept. Construction Dept. ・Accounting Dept. ・Plant Business ・Resources ・Pyeongtaek ・Seoul District Management Dept. Dept. Technology Dept. Terminal Division Division ・Incheon Terminal ・Incheon District Division Division ・Tongyeong ・Gyeonggi District Terminal Division Division ・Samcheok ・Gangwon District Terminal Division Division ・Jeju LNG Division ・Daejeon Chungcheong District Division ・Jeonbuk District Division ・Gwangju Jeonnam District Division ・Daegu Gyeongbuk District Division ・Busan Gyeongnam District Division 2010’s Better Energy, Better World 2010. Jan. Incheon LNG Terminal surpassed the 100 million-ton mark in 2017. Jun. Commencement of Stage 3 commercial operation of the Samaccumulated production of natural gas cheok Production Base with a 270,000㎘ storage tank (the largest 2011. Mar. Named as the World's 4th Most Admired Energy Company by capacity in the world) Fortune 2018. Sep. Ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Asia Pacific Level 2012. Oct. Received the President’s award at the Korea Sharing Awards (DJSI Asia Level) for the 6th consecutive year 2013. Jan. Received the Top Award at the Korea Ethical Management Awards Dec. Won the General Grand Prize in the Korea Management Awards in the Public Corporation Category 2019. Apr. Established a hydrogen business execution roadmap Aug. 30th anniversary of the founding of KOGAS May. Selected as “the best institution” in the evaluation of disaster Sep. Included in DJSI Asia Pacific Level, No. 1 in the Gas sector management by MOIS 2014. Mar. Hosted “Gastech 2014” at Kintex successfully Jun. Won the grand prize in the “Korea Innovation Awards” for 2 conOct. Attracted the 2021 World Gas Conference to Daegu secutive years Oct. Headquarters moved to Daegu Innovation City Oct. The Jeju LNG Base commenced supplying natural gas 2015. Oct. Commencement of commercial operations at GLNG, Australia 2016. Jan. Declared Vision『KOGAS 2025』(“NEXT Energy, with KOGAS”) Oct. Received the Prime Minister citation on World Standards Day “With KOGAS” We will work with the people for a better tomorrow and a brighter future. • Possessing 74 storage tanks in 5 LNG terminals nationwide with 11.56 million ㎘ total capacity • Operating 4,908km of an annular piping network and 411 supply management facilities nationwide Since supplying natural gas to the Pyeongtaek Thermal Power Plant in 1986 for the first time in Korea, KOGAS has secured storage tanks at the best locations around the country for the stable supply of gas. Today, it is supplying natural gas to 47 power plants and 32 city gas companies through a nationwide piping network. KOGAS will contribute to easing the petroleum dependency of the Korean economy and stabilizing the supply of national energy by not only making efforts to maintain a stable natural gas supply system but also expanding the supply of natural gas, an environment-friendly energy source. NEXT ENERGY, WITH KOGAS (MEANING : NEO EXCELLENT TRUST ENERGY, WITH KOGAS) KOGAS PROMOTES CONVERSION INTO ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY ENERGY BY LEADING THE NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY, SHARES THE PROCESS AND PERFORMANCE OF BUSINESS WITH THE PUBLIC, AND LEADS INNOVATION TOWARD THE FUTURE. “Excellent KOGAS”: We explore the future of sustainable energy. • Production quantity of 4,049,000 tons through overseas resources development projects in 2019 (LNG sales quantity of 33,596,000 tons in 2019) KOGAS is making comprehensive efforts to secure resources and supply natural gas stably to all people at a time when the degree of dependence on energy resource imports is very high in Korea. In particular, we have continued overseas resources exploration through careful investments and with confidence in order to explore energy as the foundation of national development. As a result, we have achieved national energy security through continuous overseas resources development and production. KOGAS will not rest on its laurels but will continue exploration for the next generation and push ahead with overseas resources development and production projects with a passion for ensuring a stable supply of energy. “Neo KOGAS”: KOGAS will be a global energy company based on advanced technical know-how. • Success in the LNG terminal in Manzanillo, Mexico, CNG project in Uzbekistan. • Technical support for LNG terminals in China, Kuwait, Singapore, etc. The capability of KOGAS is being recognized by the world through successful participation in and execution of overseas plant projects using its know-how of the construction and operation of LNG terminals accumulated for over 30 years. In particular, the LNG business, which began in 1996 in the form of equity investment, grew into a stage of independent development, leading the entire operation in 2016. KOGAS will secure energy independence for Korea with a keen eye for business feasibility and strong execution power for business success based on its experience and know-how of the construction and operation of LNG terminals. “Trust KOGAS”: We will practice trustworthy, transparent global management. •R esult of an internal evaluation of satisfaction with social contribution: 94.8 points •P romoting human rights management as a pilot organization for the application of the manual of the National Human Rights Commission We can go faster if we walk alone, but we can go farther if we walk together. With KOGAS, not only executives and staff members and partner companies but also small & medium enterprises, local citizens, and vulnerable social groups share bigger hopes and dreams together. We fulfill our social responsibility and listen to the voice of the field through various channels via transparent and ethical righteous management. In addition, KOGAS pursues win-win growth by providing economic and technical support for the formation of a healthy corporate ecosystem and sharing the results and offering opportunities in various ways from product production to securing sales channels. We focus on the specific realization of the meaning of ‘win-win growth’ and are making efforts to make a virtuous cycle of social contribution in which support of vulnerable social groups can lead to revitalization of the regional economy. KOGAS proceeds fairly in order to make not only the results but also the process trustworthy. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 10 KOGAS BUSINESS KOGAS introduced LNG to Korea, which was a wasteland for the natural gas industry, and it has positioned itself as the best energy company in Korea with 11.56 million ㎘ in LNG storage capacity and a 4,908㎞ piping network. In particular, we have established a business area encompassing all processes from the exploration and development of overseas resources, transport of natural gas to Korea, and production and supply to sale of natural gas. Moreover, we are leading the global energy industry as a global enterprise implementing 25 projects in 13 countries. Meanwhile, the natural gas industry can be classified into upstream, midstream, and downstream, based on the scope of activities. The upstream sector involves the exploration and mining of natural gas before liquefaction, the midstream sector, liquefaction and transporting, and the downstream sector, re-evaporation and supply of the gas through pipelines for customers. Liquefaction Exploration Mining Shipping Bases Upstream Midstream Overseas Resources Exploration/Development/Production LNG Projects Procurement and To secure a stable supply chain of natural gas, KOGAS has explored and developed overseas KOGAS participates in large-scale LNG Transportation of Natural Gas oil and gas fields by improving its resource development capabilities. projects ranging from the production, KOGAS has diversified its procurement sources shipping, and transportation of LNG. As for from the Middle East and Southeast Asia to floating LNG (FLNG), a collaboration with Australia and the United States in order to a domestic shipbuilding company is in import foreign LNG to Korea stably. KOGAS progress in terms of a large-scale offshore is also contributing to the growth of the Outcome liquefaction plant capable of transporting domestic shipbuilding industry by utilizing and unloading the gas. national vessels as LNG carriers and investing ▪Achieving a 41.2% cumulative rate of return on investment by increasing investment in the development of LNG transportation collection and saving costs technology. ▪Securing future resources stably by increasing production quantity and discovering new operating rights projects ▪Establishing a precise project management system by setting up a comprehensive project & Outcome Outcome 33,734,000 subsidiary management system ▪F irst advancement of the KOGAS 2019 LNG procurement Consortium into an overseas LNG bunkering project 4,049,000 59 2019 order receipt in an overseas 2019 production quantity LNG bunkering project tons million tons USD in profit creation Social Value Performance Social Value Performance Social Value Performance ▪National Contribution : Securing energy resources for the public stably through oil and ▪National Contribution : Securing KRW 77.2 ▪Environment : Contributing to the reduction gas fields development projects when competition among nations for securing resources billion worth of funds for reducing gas rates of fine dust by securing more LNG for power is intensifying through stable project operation → Reducing generation according to the replacement of the burden of gas rates for the public coal-fired power plants ▪Community : Supporting developing countries (Mozambique, etc.) that seek to improve their national economy using natural resources ▪Mutual Growth : Gaining a foothold in the ▪Mutual Growth : Leading the localization of Team Korea project by receiving an order core equipment and creating jobs in new ▪Mutual Growth : KOGAS partnering gets results in receiving overseas orders for SMEs by for the LNG bunkering infrastructure construction or operation of a national flag expanding export channels project carrier ▪Job Creation : Direct job creation through projects in Mozambique, Australia’s Prelude, ▪Job Creation : Construction of a special Iraq’s Zubair and Badra, etc. (4,271 jobs) LNG carrier worth KRW 73 billion by a Korean shipbuilding company, creating 148 direct jobs for 8 years Better Energy, Better World 11 Production facilities LNG storage LNG evaporation City Gas Sending Supply Management Power Company Facility Plant Household Industrial Unloading Production Supply Sales Downstream Production and Supply Downstream Infrastructure and Natural Gas Sales The LNG imported into Korea is unloaded to KOGAS’s domestic LNG terminals and stored in As public awareness of clean energy has grown, the sales volume of natural gas increased large storage tanks during the summer when gas demand is low. In the winter season when by 24 times in over 30 years. The gas is sold for a variety of purposes including household the demand increases, the gas is re-evaporated and sent to city gas companies and power use, industrial use, and power generation. The price of natural gas is affected by winter cold plants through the national pipelines. waves, rate of operation of nuclear power plants, oil prices, etc. Outcome Outcome Total length of the national main 11.56 4,908 33,596,000 LNG Storage Capacity pipelines (as of the end of 2019): LNG sales in 2019 million ㎘ km tons 2019 Output (Unit: 1000 tons) (Power plant: 14,774,000 tons, City gas: 18,822,000 tons) Pyeongtaek Incheon Tongyeong Samcheok Jeju LNG Total LNG LNG LNG LNG Terminal Terminal Terminal Terminal Terminal Production 41,291 54,400 26,542 11,563 265 134,061 Capacity* ● HousingᆞHeating 44% Output 10,978 12,368 6,954 3,897 23 34,220 ● Industrial 39% * Production capacity (ton/hour) * 24 hours/day * Operation days ● General 9% ● Cogeneration 4% The applied production capacity of Pyeongtaek LNG Terminal is 4,816 ton/h for the first quarter of 2019 and 4,680 ton/h for the second and third quarters; that of the Incheon, ● Heating & Cooling 3% Tongyeong, and Samcheok LNG Terminals was 6,210 ton/h, 3,030 ton/h, and 1,320 ton/h ● Other 1% respectively. The Jeju LNG Terminal began operation in the fourth quarter of 2019, and the applied production capacity of the fourth quarter was 120 ton/h. Social Value Performance Social Value Performance ▪National Contribution : Increasing supply and demand stability by efforts to raise the ▪Environment : Saving about 2,000 tons of gas use by the new implementation of energy accuracy of demand forecasts and minimize supply crises efficiency enhancement project such as replacement by high-efficiency boilers ▪Safety : Establishing a business continuity management system meeting the global ▪National Contribution : Easing the burden of gas charges for vulnerable social groups standard to maintain business continuity in times of crisis (acquired ISO 22301 through the national expansion of the ONE-STOP gas charge reduction service international certification) ▪Job Creation : Expanding the horizon of job creation by receiving orders for the LNG bunkering new business KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 12 VISION & STRATEGY KOGAS 2025 KOGAS is actively implementing the “KOGAS 2025” midand long-term management strategy in order to accelerate transition into environment-friendly energy by leading the natural gas industry and become a clean energy public enterprise that pursues innovation toward the future based on public trust. In particular, we are practicing 12 strategic tasks according to 4 strategic directions to accomplish the management goal of “saving KRW 6 trillion in production cost, creating new demand of 7 million tons, and achieving business integrity Level 1” by 2025. KOGAS will continue to grow by promoting national benefits and improving public welfare based on the corporate philosophy of KOGAS to create “Better Energy, Better World.” Purpose of Establishment Promoting national benefits and improving public welfare through the long-term and stable supply of natural gas Corporate Philosophy Better Energy, Better World Core Values Challenge Change Responsibility Trust (Challenges to the world) (Changes for the future) (Responsibility to society) (Trust in people) Vision Next Energy, with KOGAS KOGAS promoting the transition to green energy by leading the natural gas industry, sharing its business processes and achievements with the public, and implementing innovations for the future Goals for Vision KRW 6 trillion in production cost savings, new demand of 7 million tons, 90,000 jobs, and business integrity Level 1 Leading the natural Conversion to Realization of Constitutional improvement to 4 Strategic Directions gas industry environment-friendly energy social value prepare for the future 12 Strategic Tasks ・Reinforcing the public features of ・Invigoration of new energy ・Creation and sharing of jobs ・Innovation of ways of working the gas business business ・Expanding shared and win-win ・Improvement of financial ・Creation of overseas business ・Expansion of scope of fuel cooperation stability performance conversion ・Reinforcing disaster and safety ・Advancing the ICT-based ・Securing natural gas leadership in ・Reinforcing the R&D of future environment management management system Northeast Asia energy technologies KOGAS’s Major Performances and 2024 Goals 4 Strategic 12 Strategic Tasks Key Performance Indicators Outcome in 2019 Achievement ratio Goals by 2024 Directions compared to goals Leading the natural gas 1. Reinforcing the public features of the Reduced procurement cost (KRW 100 million) 3,804 134.7% 3,833 industry gas business Supply Stability Index (score) 100 100% 100 2. Securing natural gas leadership in ROI of overseas business (%) 41.2 89.4% 65.1 Northeast Asia 3. Creation of overseas business PNG business progress Joint research of Korea and Russia 100% Pipeline construction performance Conversion 4. Invigoration of new energy business Hydrogen filling stations (No. of stations) Create infrastructure for the hydrogen business 100% 30 toenvironment-friendly 5. Expansion of scope of fuel conversion Supply for fuel cells (1,000 tons) 577 125.4% 850 energy (Fuel conversion) Sales volume for industrial use (1,000 tons) 6,459 98.6% 8,726 6. Reinforcing the R&D of future energy General new growth technology level Fulfilling improvements in the organization, personnel 100% Improving strategic technologies management system and research process according to the technology levels recommendations of the R&D Innovation TF Realization of social 7. Creation and sharing of jobs Job creation (persons) 14,688 91.1% 13,320 value 8. Expanding shared and win-win Urban gas penetration rate (%) 83.1 98.3% 92.7 cooperation Index of win-win cooperation (points) 77.44 112.6% 87.4 Settlement of human rights Introduction and implementation of global human rights 100% Spread of global management (100%) human rights management Accident rate construction orders (%) 0.09 Incomplete 0.0 9. Reinforcing disaster, safety, and Greenhouse gas reduction rate (tCO2e/kilo ton LNG) 18.7 102.2% 18 environment management Constitutional 10. Innovation of ways of working Composite index of organizational culture (points) 84.34 96.9% 94.6 improvement to 11. Improvement of financial stability Debt ratio (%) 382.6 117.4% 273 prepare for the future 12. Advancing the ICT-based Establishing ICT-based new systems (cumulative) (cases) 6 100% 20 management system Better Energy, Better World 13 Sustainable KOGAS has adopted a sustainable management strategy along with our vision, Global KOGAS With People, With the management Planet, managing it from the governance, economic, environmental, and social perspectives. All business pertaining to strategy sustainable management such as social value creation, mutual growth, social contributions, win-win cooperation, fair transactions, and contracts are managed by the CSR Division. Important decisions on matters concerning the establishment and promotion of strategies and the results thereof are made by reporting them to the Committee of Innovative Growth (formerly the Committee of Sustainable Management) on a periodic basis. We will listen to our stakeholders’ valuable opinions, fulfill our social responsibilities, and continue to create social values. Sustainable management strategy system Vision Global KOGAS with people, with the Planet Mission Sustainabillity Excellence : DJSI World Level Governance Economy Environment Society Strategic directions Securing sustainable management Minimizing our environmental Promoting sustainable business Fostering a corporate culture that leadership by reinforcing the impact through proactive through a stable energy supply. puts people first. management basis. environmental management. Major subjects to be promoted ▪Operation of the Board of Directors ▪Strengthening the capability of ▪Strengthening the environment ▪Ethical management (BoD) overseas businesses management policy/system Strengthening ethical management Enhancement of the BoD’s Upgrading of technological capability Reestablishment of environmental policy security independence and efficiency Enhancement of E&P business management procedures and Strengthening ethical management Strengthening of the BoD’s efficiency guidelines transparency responsibility for sustainable Establishment of biodiversity policy/ management ▪Demand side management strategies ▪Human resources management Improvement of demand side Development of sound human rights/ ▪Risk management efficiency ▪Enhancement of the reliability of labor practices Systematization of enterprise risk Devising ways of cooperating with internal/external environmental Strengthening the result management. industries policies compensation system. Devising ways to identify risks in Improvement of the environmental Training of employees as world-class advance ▪New business development pollutants human resources LNG facility operation/TransportationContinued disclosure of information ▪Stakeholder management related business line development on environmental pollutant emissions ▪Health and safety Integrated management of Strengthening our business network Making business sites free of stakeholder issues Creation of hydrogen-based demand ▪Strengthening the system for accidents/disasters. Internal sharing of issues and addressing climate change Maintaining the health management disclosure of issues externally Establishment of a low-carbon system Establishment of an integrated management system Helping subcontractors to carry out stakeholder management system Contributing to the government’s industrial disaster prevention/safety greenhouse gas reduction target management activities Exploration of programs that can contribute to reducing greenhouse ▪Win-win cooperation gas emissions Support for SME’s sustainable management Striving to help SMEs enhance their capabilities ▪Customer satisfaction management Customers’ voice analysis/feedback Strengthening the protection of customers’ personal information ▪Social contributions -S  trengthening the management of results of social contribution activities -P  romotion of strategic social contribution activities Vision Slogan Next Energy, with KOGAS KOGAS will stand by you in the world of futuristic energy! N EX T with KOGAS Neo Excellent Trust Securing new growth Fostering an organizational culture where Growing as a business Growing with stakeholders engines people work together to enhance their technical that serves the people and is through the creation of social capability and create substantial results trusted by the people value KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 14 KOGAS Social Value Highlights 01. Winning the presidential award as an “excellent organization” in the evaluation of disaster management by public agencies KOGAS received the presidential award as an excellent organization in the “evaluation of disaster management by public agencies in the energy sector” from the Ministry of Public Administration and Security. It received a positive evaluation in the establishment of a situation management system for advanced prevention of major disasters such as typhoons, strengthening on-site safety management, creation of safe villages in connection with local governments, reinforcement of capability to cope with fire disasters, etc. in 2019. In particular, KOGAS increased the stability of equipment by performing assessments of safety against forest fires for gas facilities near forests and installing and operating disaster prevention facilities and 24-hour surveillance CCTV cameras. We will continue to make efforts and improvements to establish the best safety management system against disasters. 02. Concluding a joint labor-management agreement to realize win-win cooperation and social values In July 2019, KOGAS concluded a joint labor-management agreement for the “realization of win-win cooperation and social values.” The joint labor-management agreement includes not only contents related to labor conditions but also comprehensive matters such as efforts for the successful implementation of the national energy policy and cooperation for the realization of social values. In addition, labor and management agreed to make joint efforts for securing governance autonomy and realizing responsible management, creating a safe working environment, protecting vulnerable social groups, etc. We will continue to make constructive labor-management relations by leading labor relations with dialogue and communication. 03. Winning the grand prize in the “Korea Innovation Awards” in the social innovation sector for 2 consecutive years KOGAS won the grand prize in the “2019 Korea Innovation Awards” in the social innovation sector for 2 consecutive years. The members of the Deliberation Committee, who are specialists in each area, examined more than 500 candidate companies, selected superior companies that have created new values, and discovered new growth engines through innovation in the areas of technology, product, and service. KOGAS was recognized for its contribution to innovating environment-friendly future energy by taking the lead in the “development of the hydrogen industry” and encouraging “energy conversion.” We will continue to contribute actively to the development of the national industry through ceaseless innovation activities and lead the era of environment-friendly future energy. 04. Starting to supply natural gas to the Jeju combined cycle power plant KOGAS began to supply natural gas to the Jeju combined cycle power plant in October 2019 for the first time in the Jeju region after the first LNG carrier docked in Jeju the month before. It spent KRW 427.5 billion on the Jeju LNG Terminal and piping network construction project and built 2 sets of a 45,000㎘ storage tank, 60 ton/h evaporation transmission facility, one pier, main supply pipe (20″× 80.09km), and 7 supply management facilities for 34 months from January 2017. We will improve the universal energy welfare of the citizens of Jeju Province and actively contribute to the “Carbon-free Island 2030” policy of Jeju by supplying safe natural gas in a stable manner. Better Energy, Better World 15 05. Raising Mutual Growth Fund KOGAS is operating the Mutual Growth Fund it has raised to support the liquidity of small and medium businesses. In 2019, we raised KRW 120 billion jointly with IBK Bank and gave loans at low interest rates. In 2020, we have raised an additional KRW 40 billion for loans to alleviate the economic burden of small businesses and SMEs in the Daegu and Gyeongbuk regions, which are suffering from serious financial difficulties due to the COVID-19 pandemic. KOGAS expects the additional Mutual Growth Fund to help small businesses and SMEs overcome the damage caused by COVID-19 and contribute to the recovery and revitalization of the local economy. 06. Being selected as an exemplary disclosure corporation for the first time among public enterprises KOGAS was selected as an exemplary disclosure corporation for the first time among public enterprises in November 2019 at the awards ceremony of “Exemplary Corporations in the Disclosure of Corporate Governance” held at the Korea Exchange. Exemplary corporate governance disclosure corporations are selected based on the faithful disclosure of rights of shareholders and status of institutional devices of companies for transparent management such as the responsibility of the BOD, independence of the auditing body, etc. Among the 170 listed public enterprises subject to submission of the disclosure report, KOGAS was selected as one of the 5 exemplary corporations recognized for the stable establishment of corporate governance disclosures. 07. Receiving a government citation for innovation city policy and social value creation KOGAS received an excellence award in the “First Awards to public agencies for the creation of social value and social economy-friendly city,” which were launched in 2019. It was recognized for its efforts to expand the sales channels of social economy enterprises using its infrastructure. In addition, KOGAS was awarded a Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport citation in the “Specialized regional development” sector of “The first innovation city performance report contest” for its superior performance in supporting mutual growth with local SMEs. We will continue to support the sustainable growth of SMEs and social enterprises and create social values by creating jobs and revitalizing the local economy for mutual prosperity with SMEs as well as the community. 08. * The human rights impact assessment was conducted via an on-site survey among approximately 380 persons using 117 items in the checklist. Taking the lead in improving human rights in the construction field Being designated as the pilot organization for the application of the human rights management manual of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea in 2018, KOGAS established the midand long-term roadmap of human rights management. KOGAS has further taken the initiative in establishing a human rights management system. In 2019, KOGAS discovered 23 items that need to be corrected for human rights improvement in the field of the construction business based on the issues drawn in the results of human rights impact assessment* and discussion with partner companies. In addition, we have resolved a case of violation of human rights of employees of a partner company by the effort of a professional lawyer of the human rights counseling center of KOGAS for the first time among public enterprises to take the lead in human rights management. Moreover, KOGAS contributed to spreading the culture of respecting human rights by giving a representative presentation at a forum of public agencies hosted by the National Human Rights Commission of Korea as an exemplary organization representing public agencies and diffusing exemplary cases of human rights management (to 40 public agencies). KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 16 “KOGAS Win-Win Cooperation Package” to Overcome the COVID-19 Pandemic KOGAS has not spared support for the citizens of Daegu who are suffering much more difficulties than other regions because COVID-19 hit the Daegu region in the early stage of its outbreak. In particular, we created the KRW 210 billion “KOGAS Win-Win Cooperation Package” to support SMEs and small business owners in crisis due to COVID-19 in various ways using 24 execution plans. Such execution plans include supporting medical supplies for the prevention of spread of COVID-19 in the early stage of the outbreak, giving loans for urgent liquidity support to SMEs and small business owners through the mutual growth and win-win fund, providing articles for vulnerable social groups, and revitalizing the regional economy by creating jobs. In addition, KOGAS prepared the first social financing (micro credit) platform in Daegu through voluntary donations from executives and managing the staff of KOGAS to give interest-free loans to the small business owners in the Daegu region. We plan to continue to make additional contributions to the win-win fund, support SMEs by placing orders for construction, service, and products early, support small business owners in liquidity and sales, prepare various programs for the revitalization of the traditional market and local commercial areas, provide vulnerable social groups with daily necessities so that they could overcome the disaster, and create jobs. KOGAS will fulfill the role of a public enterprise leading the national industry based on its management principle and vision for mutual growth and win-win management. 2020.2 2020.3 2020.3 1. Reason for implementation Proactive response prior to Quick and proactive action of the Setting up plans to overcome the government instruction or policy Emergency Planning Committee COVID-19 disaster • Establishing a 24-hour emergency • Company-wide quick decision making • Donation by all employees (190 million response system and response to disaster won) • Early implementation of remote working • Strict social distancing • Quick support of medical supplies in • Supporting the urgent disinfection of the • Establishing measures for the stable Daegu local community supply of natural gas • Urgent planning and execution of the • Prompt and accurate judgement and Win-Win Cooperation Package response of the CEO KOGAS supports overcoming the COVID-19 disaster by leading win-win c ooperation with the public Urgent loans for SMEs in Daegu Social financing (Micro Credit) Early implementation of heat 2. Contents efficiency improvement program and support of compact rooms KOGAS Win-Win SMEs (11 execution plans) Small business owners Vulnerable social groups Cooperation Package (8 execution plans) (5 execution plans) • Expand the mutual growth fund (120 billion • Expanding the win-win fund (20 billion won → • Supporting vulnerable social groups in won→ 160 billion won) 40 billion won) connection with energy welfare • Early order placement for SME products (140.6 • Supporting the urgent operating fund • Early purchase of articles to be sent to compact billion won → 176.2 billion won) through social financing (about 350 million rooms for wintering (250 million won) • Increasing the minimum winning rate won collected through the return of pay of • Creating jobs by hiring people living in compact (80.5%→87.75%) executives and managing staff) rooms for disinfection work • Exemption from compensation for arrears due to • “Traditional market day,” “Alley cafeteria day,” • Expanding social contribution designed for the COVID-19 (2.7 billion won), etc. and “Warm heart relay” campaigns revitalization of the local economy, etc. Supporting effect | About KRW 210 billion in support! Liquidity support (63.8 billion) | Sales support (149.9 billion) | Disinfection support (1.7 billion) | Livelihood support (3.4 billion) 3. Future Plan Expanding financial support for SMEs in the Daegu & To develop additional win-win cooperation programs Gyeongbuk regions to improve their financial stability customized for SMEs in the Daegu & Gyeongbuk regions and profitability • Discover customer-centered business opportunities • Planning to increase the amount of win-win fund with Daegu • Focus on providing support in connection with Bank, which is located in the Daegu & Gyeongbuk regions commercialization, etc. regions Win-Win Thorough performance management with a smooth Cooperation Continuous execution of projects in connection with feedback system Package the yearly win-win cooperation plan • Hold regular meetings to check the performance of • Check and manage the performance of the “2020 win-win cooperation (twice a year) Win-Win Cooperation Basic Plan” (established in • Checking the execution performance of each task regions May 2020) commercialization, etc. regions Better Energy, Better World 17 4. Major Execution Plans ■ Create a mutual growth/ Object of support: SMEs Win-win fund Support effect win-win fund to support the 2.7% liquidity of SMEs and small business owners Max. of Reduce interest! 500 KOGAS: KOGAS: ￦60bil.+￦20bil. ￦10bil.+￦10bil. Max. of ￦ mil. About 720 IBK DGB ・Expand mutual growth/win-win fund Available ￦60bil.+￦20bil. ￦10bil.+￦10bil. 461 About for the revitalization of the regional 332 159.5 160 bil. 40 bil. 257 economy of the Daegu & Gyeongbuk 143 115.7 regions! 94.2 -O  ffer urgently-needed liquidity for ￦ ￦ 42.1 73.7 SMEs and small business owners hit Object of support: SMEs + Small Support target: SMEs + Small by COVID-19 business owners business owners 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 -A  dd KRW 60 billion more to the already raised KRW 140 billion to ● Sales amount Supporting the liquidity of SMEs and of companies create a KRW 200 billion liquidity in Daegu & small business owners and reducing Gyeongbuk fund. (companies) interest █ Sales amount of 720 enterprises can benefit as of large companies Number of 2020 (3% of Daegu's total SMEs) companies(bil) ■ Supporting the liquidity Purpose and Source of Main Terms Implementation and sales of small business Revenue System (Platform) owners (Social Financing: Micro Credit) • Resolving the financial pinch of small business owners and supporting the urgent operating • Object of loan ▶ Small business owners in • (KOGAS) Supporting fund to overcome the Daegu region crisis and evaluating the program fund (Policy funds take at least 5 weeks to • Limit of loan ▶ KRW 5 million • (Community & Economy) Planning and arrive.) • Interest rate ▶ No interest PR as the representative organization in ・Providing interest-free loans for • Supporting small business owners in the blind • Term of loan ▶ 2 years (24 months) Daegu in the area of small business and spot of policy funds with low credit ratings by small business owners in Daegu as giving loans through social financing • Method of repayment ▶ Redemption of social economy principal by installment with a six-month • (Foundation Band) Execution of loans and urgent operating funds through the • Using the fund raised by the voluntary donation grace period management as a professional agency in voluntary donations of executives of executives and managing staff of KOGAS social financing with sufficient experience (KRW 350 million) and managing staff of KOGAS (Social in supporting social enterprises financing/Micro Credit) *Social Financing (Micro Credit): Offering priming water for the expansion of social Finance that pursues realizations of financing by implementing the first social financing social value and financial profit. in the Daegu region ■ Supporting the sales of traditional markets and local cafeterias ■ Supporting medical supplies and jobs for vulnerable social groups Expanding the existing Revitalizing the ・Creating jobs by using the people living in compact rooms for supporting activities regional economy disinfection work • Expanding “Traditional market day”: Once • Supporting online market sales channels ・Supporting medical supplies for COVID-19 a month → Twice a month for small business owners (KRW 100 →Each department/division visits a million) Donating the money collected by the executives and staff members of traditional market in a certain week and buys goods. →Use “Dongbanmall” platform and KOGAS to the Daegu branch of the Community Chest of Korea support entry into the mall • Implementing “Alley cafeteria day” • “Warm heart relay” for the promotion of Supporting medical supplies for the medical staff and vulnerable →Each department/division uses a cafeteria near the office during lunch time voluntary awareness of all employees social groups in Daegu →Lunchbox purchase movement for →Use safe (disinfected) cafeteria supporting sales of local small business ・Distributing the Onnuri Sharing Box designated by the Dong-gu District Office owners Groceries, functional clothing, masks, hand sanitizer, etc. •P  urchase community gift cards with the ・Deferring the payment of city gas charges In April: 2,257 persons (KRW bonus points of company cards and donate them to social welfare facilities. 529 million) (KRW 100 million) Direct support for sales of small business owners (KRW 210 million) SHARED VALUE WITH KOGAS AS A LEADER IN ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY ENERGY, KOGAS IS MARCHING TOWARDS THE FUTURE BY CREATING SOCIAL VALUES. WE WILL FAITHFULLY FULFILL OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WIN-WIN GROWTH WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY, CUSTOMERS AND PARTNER COMPANIES BY DEVELOPING FUTURE GROWTH ENGINES THROUGH THE ACTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF TECHNICAL INNOVATION, ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY BUSINESSES, AND OVERSEAS PROJECTS. • KOGAS Social Value Creation 20 • #1 Contributing to Environment Improvement by Converting into 22 Eco-friendly Energy • #2 Stable Supply of Natural Gas by Technological Innovation 24 • #3 Supporting Community Development and Mutual Growth 26 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 20 KOGAS CREATING SOCIAL VALUE As a public enterprise established for the promotion of benefit and improvement of welfare of the nation in the energy field, KOGAS has a mission of contributing to the interest of society and development of the local community and the nation. It is facilitating sustainable development by creating the common value of society through the creation of good-quality jobs guaranteeing labor rights and human rights, mutual growth with smalland medium-sized partner companies for the creation of a healthy industrial ecosystem, social contribution for win-win growth with the local community, and energy welfare for vulnerable social groups. Efforts of KOGAS to create social values KOGAS has newly established the “Corporate Social Responsibility Headquarters” to take 2019, KOGAS developed the standard textbook of social values for public organizations charge of the realization of social values such as mutual growth with smalland mediand spread it not only to the executives and staff members of KOGAS but also to local um-sized enterprises, establishment of fair trade practices, etc. Moreover, we have placed governments and other public organizations (3,812 persons). Moreover, it developed and the CSR Department and Technology Cooperation Department in the headquarters. As operated educational programs reflecting the characteristics of the local residents and a result of such organizational restructuring, KOGAS can now internalize the Korean govstakeholders. In 2020, we will establish the company-wide social value implementation ernment’s policy of innovative and inclusive growth and actively respond to the change in system and strategic tasks by adding new tasks unique to social values such as the govthe external environment. The case of KOGAS was selected as a good example of fair trade ernment’s “implementation strategies in the public sector for realization of social values” by the government, drawing the highest level of satisfaction from partner companies. In based on the midand long-term strategic tasks and innovation tasks of KOGAS. Strengthening the management of publicness indicators for the creation of social value performance Safety ▪Strengthening the management of safety indicators including the “establishment of the safety management system” Integrity ▪New establishment of indicators of the external integrity level Internalization of integrity awareness ‧(Head Office) Expanding the weight of measurable items in ‧Internal integrity level → Internal integrity + External integrity Achieving the “Best” level in the evaluation of technical departments: 15 points → 17 points Acquiring “Level 2” in the evaluation of level (newly established) ▪Violation of social responsibility is added, with the lowest grade to disaster management by the Ministry of Trade, ‧(Business Departments) All departments, measurable items (19 measures for the prevention of corruption be given if there is a violation points → 29 points), immeasurable items (8 points → 10 points) Industry, and Energy ※ To be given the lowest grade if an accident occurs due to safety by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights ‧Sexual harassment, assault (abusive language), workplace bullying, abuse of power law violations Commission ▪Indicator of “Efforts to institutionalize the internal accounting management system” (√ newly established) Innovation Social value ▪Strengthening the indicator of “efforts to participate in ▪Strengthening the indicator of “efforts to realize social innovation activities” (3 points → 4.5 points) values” (6 points → 8 points) ‧Additional points will be given to a department that ▪Indicator of “contribution to social values” (2 points) Winning in the “Korea Innovation Awards” in implements innovative projects related to “national Winning the “grand prize” in the and indicator of “efforts to implement job creation” the social innovation sector participation,” “national suggestion,” and “sharing establishment of a comprehensive social for common additional points (0.5 points) (√ newly information and data” economy platform established) ‧Holding the Innovation EP Contest by national participation ‧Additional points will be given for conversion into direct jobs and (evaluation by the national evaluation group: 70%) execution of a new project. KOGAS’s measurement of social values KOGAS aims to secure sustainable competitiveness by preparing the standard for meacreation, energy welfare, and safety maintenance and converted the quantitative perforsurement of corporate social value. In 2018, it developed the tool for measuring Social mances from 2016 to 2018 into costs. We will be a public institution that can fulfill social Value Performance in collaboration with the Korea Institute of Public Finance (KIPF) and responsibility with the ability to measure performance and set goals by internalizing the SK and completed the simulation of performance measurement using the developed basic capability in pursuing social values and upgrading the tool for the measurement of tool in 2019. As a result, we were able to measure the social values in 7 areas including job social values. Current business scope Additional business scope Measured company KOGAS Social value indicator Complementing measuring indicator 1. Government’s management evaluation indicator 1. TOP 100 social value tasks Measurement method Monetization of outcomes 2. Strategic tasks indicator 2. Items omitted in major works 3. Collaboration with KIPF and SK 3. Complement accident and disaster measurement Base year 2018 ・Completed development of tool for measuring social value performance through collaboration (2018) Measurement schedule Sep.Oct. 2019 ・Completion of social value performance simulation using tools (2019) Measurement target All aspects of management ・Measuring performance in the first half of 2019 and deriving objective level in 2020 Yearly performance (KRW 100 million) Social value measuring indicator Components 2016 2017 2018 1. Job creation (new employment) Job creation (new employment) 187 247 240 2. Support for vulnerable social groups (energy welfare) Reducing city gas charges for people who need social consideration and social welfare facilities 768 834 873 3. Safety maintenance Safety cost (Input) 3,354 3,486 3,568 4. Environment preservation Pollution treatment/prevention activities, substitution of natural gas for combined power plant and industrial use 1,176 1,000 3,415 5. Win-win cooperation Amount of support for SMEs, cost of purchasing SME products, and amount of purchase of social enterprises’ products 638 630 830 6. Respect for labor (quality of life) Quality of life of workers (support for health checkup, etc.) 9 9 11 7. Social contribution Donation and volunteer service activities 182 171 188 Total 6,314 6,377 9,125 Better Energy, Better World 21 Continuous efforts to increase social values ❸ receiving an Excellence award in the evaluation of disaster management by the The social value of KOGAS is being created in the direction of contributing to the improveMinistry of Public Administration and Security for a perfect response to disastrous ment of national benefit and improvement of public welfare by reinforcing the publicness situations in 2019 (forest fires in Gangwon-do Province, Typhoon Danas, etc.); of the mission of KOGAS, which is supplying natural gas in an economical, stable manner. ❹ taking the lead in forming an ecosystem for win-win cooperation and mutual For this, KOGAS set “realization of social value” as one of the 4 main strategic tasks in growth and introducing human rights management in the public sector; “Vision 2025” as the midand long-term management plan, and it has made efforts to ❺ contributing to the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 by actively responding generate company-wide results. In addition, the president emphasized in his July 2019 into the pandemic based on the manual for coping with infectious diseases, etc. augural speech that KOGAS must be the best and exemplary enterprise by realizing social values as an important task for sustainable growth. KOGAS will continue to keep pace with the increasing demand of the government for the leading role of the public sector in relation to social values as stated in the “Implementation strategy of the public sector for the realization of social values (Innovative Growth Strategy As a result, we have created substantial results in 2019 Meeting in January 2020),” etc. to establish the status of a leading public enterprise as an ❶ 197% increase of direct job creation in the private sector in 2019 (6,080 workers exemplary social value creation company in the short-term and secure the engine for the yearly) compared to the previous year; creation of sustainable jobs by implementing new businesses such as the hydrogen busi❷ 44% increase in the purchase of social enterprises’ products (KRW 12.5 billion ness in the long-term. yearly) compared to the previous year and creation of a sustainable business environment by upgrading the platform for social enterprises; Establishing a comprehensive platform for the realization of social values KOGAS is actively supporting the social economy enterprises in the local community enterprises is done by integrated company-wide order placements. We purchased prodwith PR and marketing for the exploration of sales channels. For the first time among ucts made by social economy enterprises worth KRW 12.5 billion in 2019. This is a ten fold public institutions, KOGAS opened an offline social economy support center to help increase compared to 5 years ago. Public agencies nationwide and local governments are small social enterprises in the exploration of sales channels and entry into the market. benchmarking the exclusive online mall for the social economy, which is being used by We also changed a welfare mall -which used to be operated by a large company -into a increasingly more companies as a result of applying innovative technologies and continsocial enterprise, providing support for the preferential purchase of products produced uously upgrading. We will continue to support social economy enterprises actively using by companies run by women or handicapped persons. In addition, we opened an online the characteristics of our business and our own facilities and infrastructure. mall exclusively for social enterprises and combined it with innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence and blockchain to expand sales channels. Purchasing from social Establishment and operation of the sustainable and universal social economy platform through omnidirectional collaboration *단위: 억 원 Expanding purchases from social economy enterprises KSP, a social economy platform brand Platform diffusion and continuous growth (KRW 8.7 billion in 2018 → KRW 12.5 billion in 2019) (KOGAS Social economy Platform) Social enterprise Computer, mineral water Core support ・Social economy online mall Year 2017 2018 2019 Social cooperative In-house café ・Social enterprise welfare mall Number of organizations 1 50 Community enterprise Video production, etc. ・Social economy support center using the platform company company Self-sufficient enterprise Cleaning supplies, etc. Leading Institutional AI/blockchain/mobile app Muhan Direct employment 2workers 4workers 8workers Severely handicapped Food supplies for cafeteria, etc. support ・Integrated information system Coop Sales KRW 300 KRW 1.3 KRW 6.3 persons ・Company-wide combined contracting million billion billion ・Guidelines for preferential purchases ・Nationwide delivery and sales network ・Additional entry of social enterprises nationwide ・Wave of benchmarking by local governments and organizations nationwide KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 22 #1. CONTRIBUTING TO ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT BY CONVERTING INTO ECO-FRIENDLY ENERGY KOGAS is preparing to operate the LNG bunkering business by supplying liquefied natural gas (LNG) for vessel fuel, in order to contribute to the solution of fine dust which has become a serious environmental problem. Further, this will expand the conversion of transport fuel into environment-friendly energy. We are also leading the LNG truck business to improve the quality of the land atmosphere by substituting LNG for the diesel fuel for trucks. We expect to gain a foothold for new growth by pushing ahead with new businesses in earnest according to the increasing role of natural gas, going further from the existing investment in natural gas infrastructure. Operation of the first The International Maritime Organization (IMO) makes it obligatory from 2020 to reduce the sulfur content in all vessel LNG bunkering vessel in fuels in the world to less than 0.5% from the previous standard of 3.5%. Countries in Europe and North America are Asia limiting the sulfur content in fuel oil to less than 0.1%, designating their coasts as emission control areas (ECA). Korea, too, revised the regulations on the air transport business in 2018 to add natural gas to vessel fuels. In February 2020, ▪Business Performance ・Pioneering a blue ocean for shipping the LNG bunkering business was included in the Urban Gas Business Act, and the amended act will take effect in Aucompanies in crisis and strengthening gust 2020. Thus, KOGAS is preparing to operate the LNG bunkering business in earnest, supplying vessel fuels at sea. the competitiveness of the export industry (joint business of KOGAS and private In 2017, KOGAS signed a contract with Korea Line Corporation for LNG transportation, and it is now operating “SM companies) Jeju LNG 1 (since September 2019)” and “SM Jeju LNG 2 (since January 2020),” both of which can be used as carrying ・Advancing into the market for supplying vessels and LNG bunkering. KOGAS will lead the environment-friendly low-carbon energy era for Korea by establishing LNG to vessels in Europe for the first time as an Asian company environment-friendly LNG ports, expanding the clean fuel business without fine dust or air pollution. ▪Social Value Performance ・Improving air quality and reducing greenWhat is the LNG bunkering business? house gases by converting vessel fuel The business supplying LNG for vessel fuel in response to the regulations implemented for the reduction of fine dust ・Creating jobs through the bunkering and greenhouse gases vessel infrastructure supply business Sulfur oxide content of vessel fuel Limit of sulfur oxide content in Sulfur oxides emissions of the existing 3.5% > 0.5% 0.1% 1 = 50 5 major ECAs vessel fuels 5 Emission Control Areas: Busan port, Incheon port, Yeosu Gwangyang port, Ulsan port, container million diesel Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port vessel cars *IMO (International Maritime Organization) 2020 *Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries What is LNG bunkering vessel? A vessel filling LNG for vessel fuel; there are only 6 bunkering vessels being operated in the world. LNG bunkering methods *Ship to Ship *Pipeline to Ship *Truck to Ship Effect of conversion of fuel into natural gas [air quality improvement] PM emission Unit: Kg/yr SOx emission Unit: Kg/yr CO2 emission Unit: ton/yr 0.4 60 60 0.3 40 40 100% 99.9% 31% 0.2 20 20 0.1 0 0 0 Bunker-C LNG Bunker-C LNG Bunker-C LNG Better Energy, Better World 23 Improving the air Looking at the emission source of fine dust downtown, the fine dust generated in the transportation sector is said to environment with account for 41% of the total and about 70% is emitted by trucks. The need for the propagation of LNG cars is increasing eco-friendly LNG cars with the issue of reducing fine dust in the transportation sector and the increasing interest in LNG fuel. Accordingly, KOGAS is introducing environment-friendly large LNG cars to improve the quality of land atmosphere and installing LNG ▪Business Performance ・Strengthening logistics competitiveness stations. In 2019, KOGAS expanded the types of LNG trucks and decided on 37 kinds of trucks to be fueled with LNG by increasing fuel economy by agreements. KOGAS plans to supply about 60,000 LNG cars by 2030 to generate approximately KRW 2.1 trillion in (saving about KRW 4.3 trillion in logistics costs) environmental benefit and save about KRW 4.3 trillion in logistical costs. We will continue to supply large LNG cars and ・Strengthening the export competitiveexpand the installation of infrastructure such as LNG stations in order to reduce fine dust and greenhouse gas. ness of environment-friendly commercial vehicles ▪Social Value Performance ・Reducing fine dust by supplying large Results of testing the environmental effects of LNG trucks LNG cars (generating about KRW 2.1 trillion in PM emission Unit: Kg/yr NOx emission Unit: Kg/yr CO2 emission Unit: Kg/yr environmental benefit) 0.4 60 60 ・Can create about 12,000 jobs if more than 0.3 17,000 commercial LNG cars are sold 100% 95% 19% 40 40 0.2 20 20 0.1 0 0 0 Diesel LNG Diesel LNG Diesel LNG ・Reducing pollutants of PM by 100%, NOx by 95%, and CO2 by 19% compared to diesel ・Reducing the pollutants of PM by 0.3kg and CO2 by 11 tons per year per truck compared to diesel KOGAS building a bridge In April 2019, KOGAS unveiled the “strategy to execute the hydrogen business.” The company announced the vision of to hydrogen, the future taking the lead in promoting the hydrogen economy through active participation in all processes including production, energy supply, distribution, and technological development of hydrogen by investing a total of KRW 4.7 trillion by 2030. With over 30 years’ know-how regarding the safe and stable operation of the gas business, KOGAS will not only take the lead ▪Roadmap for installation of in the facility operation and safety management of hydrogen – whose property is similar to that of natural gas -but hydrogen stations also take a significant leap forward as a general energy company by exploring new markets and through innovative 75 75 Total : 310 growth in the future. 74 72 KOGAS will construct 25 hydrogen production facilities in Korea by 2030 and make efforts to reduce the production 30 30 Total : 100 costs by expanding production facilities. In January 2020, it held a groundbreaking ceremony for the “Gimhae di20 20 Government rect production hydrogen station,” which is scheduled to produce and ship out hydrogen in 2021. Moreover, for the installation transportation of hydrogen, KOGAS will procure 500 tube trailers and install a 700km hydrogen piping network by ’10 ’20 ’21 ’22 HyNet 2030 for the transportation of hydrogen and expand the infrastructure for efficient hydrogen transportation mainly installation in the 5 core cities of Seoul, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, and Daejeon. In addition, a special-purpose company (SPC) Construction and operafor the installation and operation of hydrogen station was launched in 2019 with the participation of more than tion of hydrogen stations 10 companies and institutions to install 100 hydrogen stations by 2022 to prepare the infrastructure for hydrogen ▪Business Performance charging. Further, KOGAS will realize the technology independence of the hydrogen industry in all value chains by ・Offering priming water for the self-susinvesting KRW 300 billion by 2030. We will fulfill the roadmap of the hydrogen business, which is essential in the tainable growth of the hydrogen economy with a sense of mission as a future age of low-carbon, eco-friendly hydrogen energy. representative public enterprise leading the energy business as well as know-how Current Status of ▪10 stations under construction ▪stations planned to be installed 10 on supplying natural gas ・Discovering a Korean model of the SPC Hydrogen Stations Incheon Airport (sole) Gyeonggi Yongin (combined) business Gyeonggi Goyang (combined) Gyeonggi Hwaseong (sole) ▪Social Value Performance stations Gyeonggi Gwacheon (combined) Asan Hyundai (sole) 9 Gyeonggi Hwaseong (sole) ・Creating good-quality innovative jobs under construction Gyeonggi Suwon (combined) Sejong Gov. Complex (sole) through the establishment of HyNet and Sejong Jungbu (combined) Seoul Gangnam (sole) installation of charging stations Daegu Dalseo (combined) stations ・Leading mutual growth together with Jeonju Jeonju (sole) Busan Gijang (combined) Korean SMEs related to the hydrogen Jeonnam Yeosu (sole) Gwangju Seo-gu (sole) business through the installation and planned to be Busan Dong-gu (combined) Jeonbuk Gunsan (combined) operation of hydrogen stations through the SPC installed Busan Gijang (combined) KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 24 #2. S  TABLE SUPPLY OF NATURAL GAS BY TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION KOGAS has introduced various kinds of the latest facilities to increase the stability of the 5,000㎞ piping network stretched nationwide. In particular, we are using the innovative key technologies of the 4th industrial revolution, such as drones and virtual reality, to maintain a zero-accident record. In addition, we have computerized the optimum storage level and calorie management of LNG terminals and reduced human errors continuously by introducing a smart equipment management system. We will supply natural gas more stably by grafting the technologies of the 4th industrial revolution onto the technologies used for the safety and competitiveness of natural gas. Development of Advanced Most households using city gas in Korea use a low-price mechanical gas meter, which measures the quantity of gas Metering Infrastructure consumed by unit of volume. Thus, it does not fit the current calculation method, which imposes charges by unit (AMI) technology to accuof calorie, and there may be an error in summing up the consumption due to the temperature difference between the summer and winter seasons and the calculation of rates. Moreover, as the mechanical gas meter needs human rately read gas usage power for reading and inspecting the use of gas, there is risk of privacy invasion and crime. In fact, civil complaints are ▪Business Performance filed frequently due to the use of mechanical gas meters. To solve the problem, KOGAS held an idea contest for the ・Rationalizing gas use as a public enterprise development of smart gas meters and conducted research with the participation of the general public and external ・Strengthening technical competitiveness organizations. Finally, we signed an agreement for research and development after 6 rounds of negotiations and legal by improving the procedures to perform joint consigned research review of the agreement. We also improved the process for the introduction of an open, collaborative-type R&D system and prepared the foundation for the implementation of collaborative research with professional external institutes. In ▪Social Value Performance December 2019, 100 sets of pilot smart gas meters were installed in Nohyeong-dong, Jeju City. We will install 36,500 ・Solving the privacy problem by telemetering sets in 2020 and examine the efficiency of the overall AMI system in 2021. The smart telemetering system will get rid of ・Reducing people’s burdens by saving on the privacy problem associated with visiting the gas-meter reader and worries of gas leaks while there is no one in the gas charges house as the supply of gas is automatically stopped when gas leaks occur. KOGAS will increase social value by enhanc・Contributing to energy saving through the ing the reliability of the gas meter used at home through technological development and realizing results in each stage efficient operation of power generation facilities of technological development by communicating and collaborating with the public. Progress ❶ System improvement ❷ Contest ❸ Project planning Smart gas meter development Guideline enactment for joint consigned Idea contest open to the general public and Review for proposals by inside/outside experts research / 29 types of standard form external organizations / 19 proposals (external, / Setting technical goal direction and world's development, 175 pages in totalva gas AM), 20 proposals (internal) highest level of goal ❹ Agreement ❺ Technical development *AMI: Advanced Metering Infrastructure Finalization of the agreement (Selecting Developing ±1% household ultrasonic smart gas A hi-tech gas measurement and reading research institution and reviewing act etc.) / 2 meter (AMI*) technology infrastructure available for telemetering, months of negotiation, 6 times of work-level Low-friction magnetic flux leak pig [June 2019 ~ February 2023 (45 months), precision measurement, gas leak detection, negotiation, board members' efforts. about KRW 5 billion] etc. through ICT technology convergence Reinventing the buried The method of buried piping can increase the efficiency of the national backbone network easily with the high energy pipe inspection technoldensity of fluid flowing in the pipe buried nationwide. At the same time, enormous damage can be caused by the high ogy for people’s safety energy density if the piping explodes. For such reason, the safety management of the buried piping is emphasized at the national level throughout the world. KOGAS is vigorously pushing ahead with the development of robot technolo▪Business Performance gy for the next-generation piping inspection according to a midand long-term technical development roadmap. The ・Improving the reliability of safety managenext-generation piping inspection robot is an advanced propulsion system equipped with the innovative Magnetic ment of buried pipes with high technological power Flux Leak (MFL: a kind of nondestructive inspection technique) incomparable with the existing system. In 2019, KOGAS ・Securing intellectual property rights for developed the 24-inch, low-friction intelligent pig system by improving the existing system innovatively and performed innovative technologies In-Line Inspection (ILI) of the Mokgam~Gunja line successfully. We have succeeded in securing and demonstrating the ・Import substitution effect in the inspection of original technology of the next-generation MFL platform, which is essential for the next-generation piping robot. low-pressure pipes in the capital area ▪Social Value Performance ・Improving the safety and quality of people’s lives by reinventing the technology for buried pipe inspection Better Energy, Better World 25 From the sky to underground! Calming public anxiety with smart piping management ▪Business Performance ・Using drones for patrolling the piping section beyond the reach of humans to shorten the required time and strengthen safety in vulnerable sections ・Reinforcing the technical competitiveness of the 4th industry ・Can apply the technology to an organization that operates and manages underground facilities ▪Social Value Performance ・Promoting the drone industry through mutual growth with SMEs ・Detecting underground sinkholes near the gas piping in advance and preventing a secondary accident like a traffic accident The public’s concern is increasing due to infrastructure accidents such as rupture of the hot water pipe near Baekseok Station, occurrence of sinkholes near gas piping, etc. It is necessary to prevent an accident near the gas piping in advance as it can cause secondary damage and increase the worries of nearby residents. Therefore, KOGAS is trying to relieve this anxiety by establishing a complete piping safety management system from the sky to underground. We are making efforts for the intensive safety management of the gas piping from the sky, underground, and on the ground using drones, a smart pipeline system, GPR, etc. We fly drones in the sky to leave no blind spots in areas that are not easily accessible by the piping patrol car (mountain, river, sea, etc.), and monitor the sites on the ground using the smart pipeline system equipped with state-of-the-art technology by referring to the latest electronic drawings. In addition, underground, we check for the existence of a sinkhole near the gas piping in advance using the principle of GPR for the detection of sinkholes under the ground. Implementation methods Sky On the ground Underground Existing ˙Unauthorized excavation ˙Identifying the location of ˙Recovery after finding a sink works piping with unrevised paper hole ˙Blind spots in patrol drawings ˙Inaccurate laying information ˙Manual recording in checking form Buried piping management system Drone Smart pipeline system GPR application Piping patrol system Nonstop safety management Detecting underground sinkhole, location information Improved ˙Drone patrol to leave no ˙On-site nonstop safety ˙Removing sinkhole in blind spot management advance and improving accuracy of location KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 26 #3. SUPPORTING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND MUTUAL GROWTH KOGAS believes that it is the responsibility of a public institution to create a sound corporate environment of the natural gas industry for the nation and people. Thus, it has improved unfair business practices for mutual growth together with small and medium partner companies, supporting their growth by sharing technology and know-how and contributing to increasing the productivity of the natural gas industry. 9% nickel steel welding The 9% nickel steel welding material is a core material for the LNG storage tank, but it was 100% dependent on foreign-made materials mainly produced in Japan, which practically has monopoly status. In order to respond to the material localization techexport regulation measures of Japan, the Korean government is implementing the policy to localize core materials, nology bears fruit after 20 and KOGAS is exerting multilateral efforts to ease the dependency on foreign-made products. The Gas Research Instiyears tute of KOGAS developed a welding material in 1996 and transferred the technology to Hyundai Welding Co., Ltd. Note, however, that the technology has not been used in the field for about 20 years, and the original Korean welding rod ▪Business Performance production technology is in danger of being buried. KOGAS organized a consultative group in May 2017, and it has held ・Import substitution effect (about KRW 2.6 11 meetings so far. In order to secure the perfect construction quality of LNG storage tanks, KOGAS inspected the qualbillion) and royalty income (KRW 110 million) ity of the welding material by conducting the model test two times and the preliminary performance test 9 times. In ・Bridgehead for overseas advancement addition, we applied the welding material to the field and improved its performance twice by monitoring the tests. As (receiving the order for “Kuwait LNG Terminal a result, we successfully applied a total of 51.8 tons of domestically produced welding material -which is equivalent to construction work” with the performance of the quantity for 2 LNG storage tanks -to the “#21~23 storage tank construction work” of the Incheon Production Base. delivery to the Incheon Production Base) It is the first case of commercial application of a domestically produced welding material, and we increased the ratio ▪Social Value Performance of the domestic product, which used to be zero, to 4%. This way, KOGAS is contributing to the development of related ・Complying with the government’s industries and overseas advancement of manufacturers that had difficulty in global marketing due to lack of business policy of localizing core materials performance by actively supporting the technological development of Korean-made welding rods as the leader of the ・Contributing to the technology LNG industry in Korea. independence and competitiveness 2.6 billion 2.8 billion improvement of SMEs Import substitution of welding material To supply Korean-made 9% nickel steel welding material to “Kuwait Al Zour LNG Terminal” construction KRW KRW Realizing social value by The various unfair practices in the construction industry caused by vertical and multilevel structure results in costs leak, poor construction, and a greater burden on the socially weak, such as subcontractors and workers at the lower establishing a win-win stage. To remedy such problems, KOGAS conducted a general examination of the existing unfair practices and undue construction culture with special agreements, and it has improved the system through collaboration among the government, public agencies, construction participants and private sector to foster a righteous construction culture upholding principles and common sense, and such efforts led to the establishment of the “Win-win Cooperative Business Model” unique to KOGAS. We are fully committed to the ▪Business Performance formation of a win-win cooperative business environment. ・Fostering a win-win construction culture First of all, we inspected the overall contractual relations with subcontractors that are at the lowest position in the according to the government’s core national task of “establishment of a fair market order” construction business and improved them to maintain fair contractual relations and secure the quality of construction work. In 2019, KOGAS collected various opinions from subcontractors and other participants in construction works in ・Securing construction quality by paying due compensation order to improve the unreasonable practices between the original contractor and the subcontractor and came up with 41 system improvement plans in the TF meeting of the hands-on staff of KOGAS. The plans include ideas for the gen▪Social Value Performance eral improvement of the system including prevention of illegal subcontracting, guaranteeing of appropriate additional ・Securing the safety and human rights of costs, etc. Such system improvement leads to the improvement of the quality of construction work and better safety so construction workers and establishing a that the safety of workers can be guaranteed and the energy welfare of the people can be promoted based on the safe horizontal construction culture without abusing power and stable supply of natural gas. ・Realizing social value by establishing a win-win cooperation system with partner companies Breaking the wall of vertical structure to create a win-win cooperation system Establishing a fairness strengthening system among construction participants in 2021 Worker, Material Original SubClient and equipment contractor contractor supplier 2018 2019 2020 Improve the contractual system such as Improve the system of original Close on-site inspection Workshop for the improvement of unreasonable business practices and system fair design change contractor management Respect workers’ human rights and win-win management (Sep. 2019) Better Energy, Better World 27 Increasing support for KOGAS needs to enhance the efficiency and safety of facility operation using big data, the core technology of the 4th startups with big data, the industrial revolution. Thus, KOGAS is holding startup contests to discover superior startup companies and provide supbasis of the 4th industry port for good startups in need of money and/or data so that they can continue growing. In 2019, KOGAS held a contest themed “Development of the best algorithm for facility operation using big data of facility operation” wherein 40 teams ▪Business Performance (139 persons) of startups and prep entrepreneurs applied. The 30 teams (115 persons) that passed the first document ・Contributing to innovative digital growth screening were instructed to develop algorithms using the big data of KOGAS, and 10 successful participants were by sharing and opening public data ・Enhancing efficiency and safety in the given KRW 35 million worth of prize money for developing good algorithms that can be applied to KOGAS. The secured operation of facilities by applying the techtechnologies of the startup companies are matched with the companies in the community for commercialization to nologies of the 4th industrial industry give opportunities for the win-win prosperity of SMEs and startups. KOGAS will continue to create a good environment ▪Social Value Performance for the promotion of startups using the big data of KOGAS and enhance efficiency and safety in the operation of facili・Offering SMEs and startups opportunities ties by applying technologies of the 4th industrial industry. for win-win growth (Promote and support ten startups and create one direct job) Startup Big data analysis platform KOGAS ・Promoting win-win growth by matching with the companies in the community for commercialization Participate Support ˙Provide data set Big data analysis and algorithm ˙Present problems development/verification/use ˙Evaluate and use Performance goals 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Startup promotion and support (company) 10 10 15 15 20 Practicing win-win coThe motor general diagnosis system is used to analyze the condition of motors including vibration and overheating by operation with the “free conducting test operations after the maintenance of large motors. Many motor maintenance enterprises cannot afford opening of motor general to have all of the expensive 6.6kV high-pressure power-receiving equipment, breakdown analysis device, motor fixing equipment, etc. Thus, they ask large companies to conduct the tests on their behalf or simply substitute the on-site diagnosis system!” test for the test operation. For this, KOGAS is opening the motor general diagnosis system in the headquarters of the ▪Business Performance Incheon Base to the community to raise the use rate of the diagnosis system and contributing to real win-win cooper・Increasing the use rate by reducing the ation through free support of construction equipment. In addition, KOGAS distributed information materials on the idle time of the general diagnosis system introduction and opening of the motor general diagnosis system and distributed them to the SMEs in the community ・Improving our corporate image by opening the motor general diagnosis and held an explanatory session for the participating SMEs to hear their difficulties and suggestions. We are further imsystem for the first time among public proving trust with the local community by transparently sharing all processes of system reservation, entry into KOGAS, enterprises use of facilities, etc. in relation to the motor general diagnosis system, which is opened to the local society. ▪Social Value Performance ・Improving corporate reliability through the free opening of equipment to the local community ・Improving our corporate image through KOGAS’s win-win cooperation model BETTER ENERGY WITH KOGAS KOGAS IS FULFILLING ITS ROLE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AS A PUBLIC ENTERPRISE BY CREATING SOCIAL VALUES CONTINUOUSLY WITH THE CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY OF ‘‘BETTER ENERGY, BETTER WORLD.” WE WILL STRENGTHEN SUSTAINABLE COMPETITIVENESS THROUGH THE ACCUMULATION OF FUTURE ENERGY TECHNOLOGY AND CONVERSION INTO ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY ENERGY. WE ALSO SEEK TO BUILD A SOCIETY THAT CAN MAKE EVERYONE HAPPY BY GROWING TOGETHER WITH STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDING PARTNER COMPANIES AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY. • Materiality Assessment 30 • Future Energy Leaping Toward the World 32 • Eco-friendly Energy for Future Generations 40 • Win-Win Energy Growing Together 52 • Happy Energy Enjoying Together 62 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 30 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Process of selecting and reporting important issues We manage our stakeholders’ needs and opinions from a sustainable management perspective by examining them periodically. We acquire a deeper understanding of the potential issues related to our business based on an international standards analysis, benchmarking of more advanced businesses, media research, and questionnaire-based surveys among other methods. We also strive to identify which issues we should cope with first in our sustainable management activities. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Identify and understand the Prioritize the sustainable Finalize the selection of the issues sustainable management issues management issues and review their effectivity We identify 32 issues using diverse analysis We fix the order of priority of the pool of issues We produce a balanced report regarding the results mechanisms such as media research, benchmarking, secured in the overall review of the stakeholder of sustainable management through discussions analysis of internal materials, etc. evaluation and the level of impact, etc. of important issues selected with the relevant departments of KOGAS Sustainability Materiality Integrity Stakeholder comprehensibility STEP 1 Identify and understand the sustainable management issues We have used a series of issue analysis mechanisms to come up with a pool of 32 sustainable management issues, based on an overall consideration of the relevant factors such as changes in the KOGAS-related environment, industrial characteristics, and internal pending issues, in order to acquire a deeper understanding of the impact of sustainable management on all KOGAS-related activities and services. Media research Questionnaire-based surveys Review of sustainable manAnalysis of media articles on KOGAS’s manon stakeholders agement-related internationagement and other relevant activities. (Jan. 2019 – Apr. 2020) A survey of our stakeholders was conducted al standards from 12-19 May 2020 to judge important Identification of major issues of international issues. (538 stakeholders responded to the standards related to the sustainable managesurvey.) ment. Benchmarking analysis Review of internal materials Analysis of exemplary cases of reports made We gained a better understanding of the status of important issues through by those in the same industry and relevant an analysis of our midto long-term management strategies, sustainable institutions both in and out of the country and management strategies, management public disclosure, and other internal of relevant trends. report-related materials. Results of the survey (1) Level of communication with (2) Level of sustainable manage(3) Necessities for sustainable (4) Areas where major social values stakeholders for sustainable ment execution management are created management; extent to which Diagnosis of stakeholders’ expectations are reflected in corporate management our sustainable 구분 percent 구분 percent 구분 percent management 구분 percent Very positive 32.1% Reactive 12.2% To reduce the business’s 12.4% Safety 27.3% expenses and risks Positive 31.0% Perfunctory 22.0% To maximize the business’s 23.2% Responsibility/ethics 20.6% corporate value by optimizing its competitive advantage Environment 18.5% So-so 20.4% Defensive 23.2% To enhance opportunities for 40.2% the creation of future value Win-win cooperation 21.6% Negative 11.9% Positive 28.4% To create shared values with 22.6% Jobs 8.5% diverse stakeholders Very negative 4.6% Proactive 14.3% Other 1.7% Labor 3.4% Total 100% Total 100% Total 100% Total 100% Better Energy, Better World 31 STEP 2 Prioritize the sustainable management issues We narrowed the pool down to ten main issues in consideration of their relevance to our overall business and the stakeholders’ level of interest based on the results of the materiality assessment. Stakeholders’ level of interest Futuristic energy-related R&D and strengthening of Stable production and technological competitive edge supply of natural gas 7 1 16 Strengthening activities designed to prevent safety accidents 30 Dissemination of an ethical/upright 13 Strengthening greenhouse gas culture emission management (More positive coping with climate changes) 20 Training human resources Expansion of a 28 system of win-win as future leaders cooperation 23 Strengthening the proactive Promotion of social contribution 10 environmental management system 21 activities with a focus on the 24 industry’s characteristics More utilization of and investment 8 13 in the new energy business 27 11 2 15 3 5 12 26 18 22 31 19 17 6 25 14 32 4 29 9 Business connectivity STEP 3 Finalize the selection of the issues and review their effectivity We examined the areas in which the ten issues have an impact on our operations (e.g. finance, operation, strategies and reputation) and reflected our findings in the contents of this report. Nos. Concerned stakeholders Main Issues GRI Topic Area of Contents of report impact* 16 Directors/employees, government Strengthening of activities designed to prevent GRI 403 Reputation Sophistication of safety management at institutions, subcontractors, local safety accidents business sites communities 20 Subcontractors Expansion of the system for promoting win-win GRI 204 Reputation Dissemination of a culture of mutual cooperation growth 1 Customers, government institutions, Stable production and supply of natural gas Finance Sustainable energy-related business shareholders/investors, subcontractors, operations local communities, people 7 Government institutions, shareholders/ Futuristic energy-related R&D and securing of Strategy Expansion of new energy business investors technological competitive edge 28 Directors/employees Training human resources as future leaders GRI 404 Operation Strengthening of human sources-based management 30 Directors/employees, government Dissemination of a culture of ethics/integrity GRI 205 Reputation Upright/ethical management institutions, subcontractors 10 Local communities, government Proactive environmental management system Strategy Realization of environmentallyinstitutions friendly business sites(Reduction of the environmental impact on our places of business) 8 Government institutions, shareholders/ More utilization of and investment in the new Reputation Expansion of the new energy business investors energy business 13 Government institutions, shareholders/ Strengthening of greenhouse gas emission GRI 305-1, GRI Strategy Realization of environmentally-friendly investors management (Coping with climate change in more 305-2 business sites(Efforts to deal with positive ways) climate changes) 23 Local communities Promotion of social contribution activities with a GRI 413 Reputation Provision of win-win support for the focus on the industry’s characteristics local community * 이해관계자 설문조사 진행 시, 재무, 운영, 전략, 평판 등 4가지 영향에 대한 질의로 이해관계자들이 생각하는 영향도를 파악하였음 FUTURE ENERGY LEAPING TOWARD THE WORLD BUSINESS RELEVANCE OUR APPROACH The natural gas business, which accounts for an important part of a counWe at KOGAS strive for the stable operation of the entire process ranging try’s energy industry, is a public good business that requires massive initial from the import of natural gas to its sale to end users. In addition, we do investment and should be promoted from a long-term perspective and our best to ease people’s burden in terms of energy use by enhancing our at the national level. Natural gas is one of the main fuels we use in our evprice competitiveness while trying to realize energy welfare by improving eryday lives, including in various industries, transportation, and heating/ the urban gas penetration rate. We also do our best to create new growth air-conditioning. It is also linked to front/backline industries like LNG carriers engines by making steady forays into not only upstream processes like the or plants, thereby serving as the driving force in the creation of high added exploration/development of gas fields but also downstream processes like value. Recently, it has been linked to the use of hydrogen, which is attracting hydrogen, LNG, operation of overseas LNG terminals, etc. In addition, we attention as a future energy source, and it will consequently be used in virare endeavoring to cement our reputation as a public energy corporation tually all energy-related sectors such as vehicles, planes, and fuel batteries. both at home and abroad based on our new energy technology -LNG This means that its value of use will become even higher. There will be chaltechnology -and base business technologies. We are subject to the govlenges facing mankind such as energy conversion and the development of ernment’s annual management evaluation of major businesses. We manenvironment-friendly technologies. Under such circumstances, the role of age our strategic tasks through the formulation of performance indicators public energy businesses will become more important in connection with and objectives. the need for the enhancement of people’s convenience and benefit and realization of energy welfare through the stable supply of natural gas. 2019 KEY PERFORMANCES Natural gas sales Turnover rate from overseas R&D incubating support for hidUsage rate of the patents for investments den champions technical development 33.6 Unit: million tons 41.2 Unit: % 2 Unit: enterprises 25.3 Unit: % OUR TARGET INNOVATION OBJECTIVE IN 2024 Usage rate of the ・Strengthening the “public good” Reduction of import Turnover rate from R&D incubating support for patents for technical factor of the gas business expenses by overseas investments hidden champions development ・Creation of results in overseas operations ・Invigoration of the new energy business 3,833 89.4 16 27.58 Unit: KRW 100 million Unit: % Unit: enterprises Unit: % Better Energy, Better World 33 OPERATING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY BUSINESS Procurement and Securing price competitiveness by introducing the individual rate system KOGAS adopted the “average rate system,” and it has applied the same LNG price to all power plants by calculating the avsale of stable, erage of different LNG prices. Due to the rapid increase in the portion of direct natural gas imports, however, it has become necessary to introduce the “individual rate system” for a stable supply, demand management, and establishment of a fair economic LNG competition structure among power generation companies. Therefore, KOGAS plans to implement the individual rate system from 2022 for a new generator (100MW and over) and the generators for which the existing sales contract expires to charge different prices for each power plant. While it is difficult for the government to manage supply and demand of the quantity of direct imports, it is possible for KOGAS to manage the supply and demand of the quantity of the individual rate system in an integrated manner. As a result, KOGAS will be able to respond efficiently to a national emergency including rapid increases in power demand. Besides, KOGAS is securing price competitiveness through the strategic conclusion of contracts such as the improvement of prices in long-term contracts, conclusion of new short-term contracts, and conclusion of combined contracts for the summer and winter seasons. Saving procurement costs Saving procurement costs by demand and supply management through spot purchase KOGAS is operating a constant demand and supply management system in order to respond actively to the rapidly changing demand and supply situation promptly. During the winter season of 2019, we were able to secure 5.4 million tons of LNG proactively by conducting weekly monitoring and save KRW 324.1 billion in procurement costs by exercising the right 3,241 3,058 to reduce quantity for high-price, long-term procurement contracts and opting for low-price spot purchase. In addition, we 1,923 could stabilize the supply system and minimize shock by grasping uncertain factors such as the energy conversion policy and fluctuation of other sources of power generation in advance and forecasting a sharp increase in demand in a timely 2017 2018 2019 manner. In 2019, we stabilized demand and supply by reflecting 90% of the expected increase in demand of 5.88 million Unit : ﹩/ mmbtu tons. Operation of LNG carriers and conversion of fuel for carriers Number of days of crisis in KOGAS imports natural gas from the countries of origin in the form of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and supplies it to power demand and supply plants and city gas companies after vaporizing it. In the process, it is necessary to secure LNG carriers based on long-term contracts with shipping companies for the safe, stable transportation of natural gas. As of the end of 2019, we are using 29 0 day national flag carriers for the transportation of LNG to Korea from major procurement countries such as Qatar, Australia, Oman, and the US. From 2020, it is necessary for LNG carriers to use environment-friendly fuels for their operation according to the enforcement of environmental regulations of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The shipping companies can comply with the environmental regulations and at the same time save on transportation costs by using FBOG, which can be generated during the process of transportation of LNG, and low-sulfur oil fuel. Major procurement countries for LNG (2019) TOTAL 33,734 kilo tons(100%) Russia 2,330(7) US 3,662 (11) Malaysia 3,560(11) Brunei 585(2) Indonesia 918(3) Oman 3,898(12) Peru 609 (2) Qatar 11,322(34) Australia 5,669(17) Other 1,181(4) *Other procurement countries: Angola, Trinidad and Tobago, Equatorial Guinea, Papua New Guinea, Algeria, Singapore KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 34 Stable production Supply of natural gas nationwide through the new establishment of the Jeju Production Base KOGAS is now supplying natural gas nationwide with the supply of LNG to the Jeju region from November 2019. A total and supply of of KRW 542.8 billion has been spent on the construction of the Jeju Production Base, the 5th base following Pyeongtaek, natural gas Incheon, Tongyeong, and Samcheok. The Jeju Production Base is composed of two 45,000㎘ natural gas storage tanks and a 80.1km main pipe network. With the supply of natural gas to Jeju, the national city gas penetration rate was expanded to 92.1% as of March 2020. The role of the Jeju Production Base is very important at a time when the source of energy needs to be shifted from fossil fuels to environment-friendly energy. We will realize universal energy welfare without any blind spots by expanding the supply of natural gas even to remote regions such as mountainous areas and islands using the minimum-quantity collective supply system. Penetration rate as of March 2020 Installation of stable facilities for a consistent supply of LNG The production bases and pipe networks of KOGAS are located in optimal locations nationwide for the stable supply of 92.1% (211 local governments) natural gas. KOGAS boasts of the largest volume of LNG storage facilities in the world with 74 storage tanks (11.56 million ㎘) in 5 LNG terminals located nationwide, and it is planning to secure additional storage tanks by constructing new LNG terminals by 2029. The natural gas evaporated at LNG terminals is being supplied to power plants and city gas companies via the national ring pipeline after appropriate depressurizing. In addition, the supply network is usually in the form of a ring 83.8% (18,874,000 households) network to be able to supply gas in the reverse direction in times of crisis, such as supply stoppages. As of 2019, the length of the main pipe stood at 4,908km and additional piping will be done with a goal of installing 5,305km of pipeline in total by 2023. Ring pipeline nationwide Goal of constructing an additional main pipeline Total length of 4,908km 5,305km in all by 2023 Status of the LNG Terminal nationwide (as of January 2020) Incheon LNG Terminal Samcheok LNG Terminal ・The world’s largest delivery capacity in a single base ・The largest-capacity storage tanks in the world ・Storage tanks: 100,000㎘ x 10 sets, 140,000㎘ x 2, ・Storage tanks: 200,000㎘ x 9 sets, 270,000㎘ x 200,000㎘ x 8 sets 3 sets ・Dock and unloading facilities ・Dock and unloading facilities : 75,000 tons 1 dock, 120,000 tons 1 dock : 127,000 tons 1 dock ・Evaporation transmission capacity: 6,210 tons/hr ・Evaporation transmission capacity: 1,320 tons/hr Pyeongtaek LNG Terminal ・ The world’s largest storage capacity in a single base ・ Storage tanks: 100,000㎘ x 10 sets, 140,000㎘ x 4 sets, 200,000㎘ 9 sets ・ Dock and unloading facilities : 75,000 tons 1 dock, 127,000 tons 1 dock ・ Evaporation transmission capacity: 4,950 tons/hr Dangjin LNG Terminal (under construction) Tongyeong LNG Terminal ・Construction period: Dec. 2019 ~ Dec. 2025 ・Storage tanks: 140,000㎘ x 13 sets, 200,000㎘ x 4 sets ・Dock and unloading facilities : 77,000 tons 1 dock, 127,000 tons 1 dock ・Evaporation transmission capacity: 3,030 tons/ Jeju LNG Terminal hr ・Storage tanks: 45,000㎘ x 2 sets ・Dock and unloading facilities: 65,000 tons 1 dock ・Evaporation transmission capacity: 120 tons/hr LNG Tank, Jeju Production Base Better Energy, Better World 35 EXPANDING NEW ENERGY BUSINESSES Strengthening KOGAS continues to secure technological competitiveness in the overall energy industry by accumulating future energy technology and constant investment for the promotion of the Korean gas industry and technological development. We are technology securing not only technologies related to our main business of stably supplying natural gas but also those in new growth development areas such as the hydrogen business, fuel cell, and climate and environment through choice and concentration. We are also conducting comprehensive research related to future new businesses including new & renewable energy, hydrogen competitiveness production, and development of the hydrogen liquefaction process. KOGAS will do its best to secure future gas industry technologies and lead the global market through ceaseless technical innovation. Performing open and innovative technological development R&D expenses in 2019 Consisting of over 100 researchers, the KOGAS Gas Research Institute is focusing on the development of new technologies in order to achieve the research objectives of “maintaining dominant competitiveness in the existing main business,” KRW 56.8 billion “providing basic technology for new growth businesses,” and “securing seed technology for future new businesses” with the vision of “Mission-centered Technology Solution Provider.” In addition, the research institute is operating a win-win cooperation platform among the industry, academia, research institutes, and government based on the infrastructure of (Unit: 100 million won) natural gas including the production bases, pipeline, and supply management facilities of KOGAS by converting the R&D 2017 2018 2019 process into an open, collaborative system. In 2019, the research institute came up with 3 tasks for open and collaborative 678 518 568 work by expanding cooperation with the private sector for technology development and led technical development by holding the Startup Contest and executing the pilot R&D booster project. Intellectual property rights and Strengthening technical competitiveness through global collaboration technology transfer KOGAS is strengthening technical competitiveness in key areas by establishing a solid network for technical cooperation (Unit: case) with leading global energy companies around the world. With ExxonMobil, the largest energy company in the world, we have Industrial 2017 2018 2019 maintained -since 2015 – and expanded technical exchanges by signing an additional agreement on “research on energy property rights and development of technologies” in June 2019. In addition, we have maintained technical exchanges steadily with Australia’s Patent Application 69 62 46 Woodside Company since the signing of an agreement on comprehensive technical cooperation in 2016. In September 2019, Registration 46 30 52 the two companies held a workshop of hands-on staff for the reinforcement of technical cooperation and agreed to conduct Program 0 1 1 joint research. Technology transfer 19 19 28 (contract maintenance) Strengthening technical innovation through professional research KOGAS is developing technologies for all areas of the natural gas industry from exploration and development of natural gas to the transportation and storage of LNG and supply of natural gas. Furthermore, we have proactively secured the technologies in new energy businesses, which are used for the production, storage, and use of hydrogen and related to fuel cells and reduction of carbon, and we are utilizing LNG utilization technologies that can be used in new growth businesses such as power generation through depressurization, cargo tanks, and bunkering. We will continue to do our best to the lead the development of technologies related to future energy such as the technology of environment-friendly cars and technologies for industrial use and transform KOGAS into the world’s best public enterprise in the energy field. Exploration and ・Develop oil & gas field E&P ・Intelligent PIG development of technology ・Gas measurement and quality ・Develop and research shale gas and natural gas ・Risk assessment and safety diagnosis tight gas ・Piping soundness management ・Develop coalbed methane (CBM) Supply of Clean future natural gas energy and safety Liquefaction, transport, ・Hydrogen/Hydrogen fuel ・Biogas and storage ・Korea Single Mixed Refrigerant (KSMR) cell ・Depressurization power of natural gas ・KC-1 ・LNG bunkering generation ・LNG storage tank ・Natural gas vehicle ・Dimethyl ether ・Tri-generation system ・GTL ・Synthetic natural gas KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 36 Implementation In the era of global conversion from fossil energy into environment-friendly energy, energy companies are scrambling to find new growth engines. KOGAS, too, is making efforts to secure future growth engines and take the initiative in the era of of new conversion into low-carbon, environment-friendly energy by actively expanding various environment-friendly fuel converbusinesses of sion businesses such as hydrogen energy, fuel cell, LNG cold heat, and LNG bunkering as well as LNG truck and gas cooling. low-carbon, Future energy (hydrogen, etc.) Establish infrastructure for the production, supply, Smart factory LNG base+(Big data, AI) → Increase of productivity + eco-friendly and charging of hydrogen → Lead the promotion of the hydrogen economy Nurturing startups energy Goal (2030) Invest KRW 4.7 trillion in all Goal (2023) Establish a smart production base (Smart facility operation + Condition-based Production 25 sites 1.73 mil. ton/yr plant (89% of nationwide maintenance) Supply pipe 740km demand) charging 110 sites station Performance ▪ Began construction of an optimal facility Performance ▪ Establishing SPC for hydrogen stations (Mar. operation system (Oct. 2019) and pre2019: began construction of 19 stations dictive maintenance system (Jul. 2019) nationwide) (Saving KRW 1.2 billion/year in opera▪ Groundbreaking of the Gimhae direct protion expense for each production base) duction hydrogen station (Jan. 2020) LNG-based new businesses Drones, robot, etc. Explore LNG-based new businesses➡Promote air Gas piping+(Drone+AI+Robot) → Improvement of quality improvement + related businesses piping safety Goal (Bunkering) Secure 3 exclusive vessels and Goal (2023) Establish an integrated management 1.57 million tons/yr of loading appliances by system for piping risk factors 2026, (large LNG vehicle) Supply to 60,000 Overground Underground In-pipe vehicles by 2030 Drone+object Ground Pipe inspection recognition penetrating robot radar Performance ▪ (Bunkering) Complete loading appliPerformance ▪ Expanding patrols using drones ances (Aug. 2019) and build 1 bunkering (2 sectors → 7 sectors) vessel (Dec. 2019) ▪ Development and application of ▪(Large LNG vehicle) Supplying to 100 new low-pressure pipe inspection robots tractors and developing 2 kinds (48km) Strengthening future energy technology development Contributing to low-carbon KOGAS released the “strategy to execute the hydrogen business” in April 2019 in order to lead the hydrogen business. policy through gas stations KOGAS will take the lead in the promotion of the hydrogen economy as a public institute by actively participating in all pro592 Yearly 592 tCO2e / station cesses of the hydrogen industry including production, supply, distribution, and technological development of hydrogen by investing a total of KRW 4.7 trillion by 2030. In addition, KOGAS established a roadmap for technology development in each stage of all areas of production, storage, transport, and use of hydrogen including localization of natural gas development technology for technology independence in the hydrogen industry, development of carbon capture and resource Fine dust recovery technology, and research on water electrolysis, and it is implementing the roadmap in phases. KOGAS will also reduction effect establish an advanced country-level safety management system for the hydrogen industry and take the initiative in leading 80.7 kg / station the international standards related to safety. We launched demonstration projects by beginning to construct a hydrogen station within the estate of the Gimhae Management Office in January 2020. We will continue to build an ecosystem for the hydrogen industry according to the roadmap for the hydrogen business. Vision “Leading the promotion of the hydrogen economy by establishing a hydrogen production and distribution network” Goal To supply more than 60% of the total national demand (national demand) Preparatory period (~2022) Diffusion period (~2030) Leading period (~2040) 470,000 tons (470,000 tons) 1.73 million tons (1.94 million tons) 3.45 million tons (5.26 million tons) 100% 89% 65.75% Execution strategy Create an ecosystem for the hydrogen Expand the ecosystem of the hydrogen Complete the ecosystem of the hydrogen industry by focusing on the establishment industry by expanding hydrogen industry by diversifying the methods of of hydrogen production bases, hydrogen production bases and hydrogen stations production and distribution of hydrogen stations, and distribution centers. and securing the price competitiveness of and upgrading the distribution structure. the distribution center. Better Energy, Better World 37 Operation of smart production bases Optimal facility operation system KOGAS has established smart production bases using Big data and AI for the stable operation and high efficiency of natural gas production facilities. The smart production base consists of an optimal facility operation system, predictive mainteSaving KRW 1.2 billion/yr nance system, and VR-based education system. The optimal facility operation system conducts an integrated analysis of the dispersed data related to facility operation and prepares equipment in real time considering the efficiency and safety of each facility. In addition, the system analyzes past big data such as the history of breakdowns and vibrations and learns (Amount saved in each base by productivity improvement) the types of breakdowns with an AI algorithm. It can also grasp unusual movements in advance with the predictive maintenance system by substituting the current vibration value in real time. Big data technology is used for the preparation of an integrated demand and supply management system that can establish an optimal management system for the voyage for each base, the dates available for transmission, and the calorie in stock. The VR-based education system is used for realistic training system, improvement of understanding of equipment, and reinforcement of ability to take measures on the ground. KOLAS international certification Upgrading core equipment maintenance technologies KOGAS is strengthening its future competitiveness by upgrading equipment maintenance using innovative technologies such as drones, AI, etc. The patrol of piping -which used to be done by people -has become more efficient with the input of drones, and accidents can be prevented by eliminating underground sinkholes through the inspection of ground conditions near gas pipes using GPR*. In addition, KOGAS succeeded in developing the low-friction Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG)** with its own technology for the first time in Korea to solve the problem of sections that were not available for In Line Inspection (ILI). We have also begun to operate a large-scale flux measurement center, which is ranked No. 3 in the world, with our own technology for the first time in Asia. With the official international certification from KOLAS, the flux measurement center has secured public confidence for its flow correction capacity, and it is expected to be the Asian hub for flow correction. Sales of LNG for trucks * GPR (Ground Penetrating Radar): Used for the detection of structures, cavities, rocks, etc. in the ground by penetrating underground ** PIG (Pipeline Inspection Gauge): A device that inspects the condition of piping running inside the pipe using the pressure within the pipe Reducing fine dust by Pioneering LNG-based new businesses In the area of natural gas for transportation, KOGAS is focusing on the LNG bunkering business and LNG truck business for 1,453 Reducing ton fine dust the use of LNG for vessels and trucks to accelerate fuel conversion into LNG. We have launched the “LNG truck project” to by Reducing 1.27million improve the land air quality by replacing the fuel of diesel trucks -which account for about 68% of fine dust emissions fine dust by 8,5 in the area of traffic and transportation in Korea -with LNG. In November 2019, KOGAS completed a charging station ton 5,8 exclusively for LNG vehicles in Busan Harbor and finished fuel conversion for 343 yard tractors to improve the air quality ton environment of the pier and induce energy diversification of the fuel for transportation. In addition, we established an LNG fuel shipping facility in the Tongyeong Base in August 2019 and began the operation of SM JEJU LNG #2, the first bunkering 7,465 5,115 vessel in Asia, in January 2020 to implement the new LNG bunkering business speedily. We will contribute to solving the problem of air pollution and secure future growth engines by taking the lead in the environment-friendly fuel conversion project. 2018 2019 2024 Unit: ton Sales of LNG for vessels Reducing fine dust by 7,400 Reducing ton Reducing fine dust fine dust by by 3.9million 8.6 7.7 ton ton 4,571 4,048 The Green Iris doing bunkering (truck-to-ship) LNG bunkering combined carrier 2018 2019 2024 Unit: ton KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 38 OVERSEAS PROJECTS Promotion of KOGAS is actively implementing 25 overseas projects in 13 countries to realize energy independence and secure resources economically and stably. It has achieved the best competitiveness in all value chains of the natural gas industry by operoverseas projects ating in not only upstream businesses such as exploration and development of natural gas and crude oil but also in midby choice and stream and downstream infrastructure business areas. These include the LNG liquefaction business, operation of overseas LNG terminals, construction of overseas city gas pipelines, and operation business. concentration KOGAS Global Project (unit: case) Division E&P business LNG business Infra Total business Exploration Development Production Development Production No. of 4 3 6 2 6 4 25 projects Iraq KOGAS was given bidding qualification by the Iraqi government in 2009. In the first successful bidding, KOGAS was selected as the business operator for the Zubair oil field together with Eni S.p.A., a staterun company of Italy. In the second successful bidding, KOGAS built a consortium with Gazprom, a 2 state-run company of Russia, and became the busi3 ness operator of the Badra oil field. We have been 11 stably recouping the investment cost of the Zubair project since 2011 and the investment cost of the 6 Badra project since 2015 in the form of crude oil. 9 10 8 •  ROI of Iraq Zubair: 108% 7 (as of Dec. 2019) 2 •  ROI of Iraq Badra: 48% 3 (as of Dec. 2019) 4 4 2 6 Mozambique Australia 3 Area 4 Gas well in Mozambique was confirmed to KOGAS has a 15% share in the Australian GLNG have natural gas reserves in the 3 gas fields of Mamproject, which is being implemented for the devel1 ba, Coral, and Agulha. KOGAS decided to invest in opment of a coal-layer gas field in the interior of the development of Floating LNG in the Coral gas 5 Australia and export of LNG through the liquefacfield (PIIP: about 16 trillion Tcf) in June 2017, and 4 5 tion base located in Gladstone on the northeastern 7 8 it will begin the first LNG cargo production in late coast of Australia about 420km away from the pro2022. Meanwhile, KOGAS established a JV company duction site. The first production of LNG was sucwith state-run ENH of Mozambique in April 2013 cessfully realized in September 2015. Through the to supply city gas. KOGAS constructed an 82km project, KOGAS plans to secure core competence pipeline and one management office in Maputo, the in the development of unconventional gas fields in capital of Mozambique, for the stable supply of natthe future. Meanwhile, KOGAS is participating in a ural gas to industrial and commercial customers. project of developing the floating LNG of the smallsized gas fields including the one in Prelude, which is at the sea of the northwestern part of Australia. In •  ROI of the Maputo pipeline project: 75% March 2012, KOGAS signed a contract to purchase (as of Dec. 2019) a 10% share and obtained the status of an official participating company in June of the same year. It is the world’s first FLNG project for which the final investment decision (FID) was made. KOGAS will increase the production quantity gradually after the first LNG cargo production in June 2019. Better Energy, Better World 39 E&P Business : 13 LNG Business : 8 Infra Business : 4 ①E  ast Timor, offshore Gas Well ⑦ Iraq, Zubair ① Canada, LNG Canada ⑥ Indonesia, DSLNG ① Mexico, Manzanillo LNG Terminal ② Indonesia, Krueng Mane Gas ⑧ Iraq, Badra ② Qatar, RasGas ⑦ Australia, Prelude FLNG ② Uzbekistan, CNG Cylinder Well ⑨ Iraq, Akkas ③ Oman, OLNG ⑧ Australia, GLNG ③ Uzbekistan, CNG Station ③ Indonesia, Senoro Toili ⑩ Iraq, Mansuriyah ④ Yemen, YLNG ④M ozambique, Maputo natural gas ④ Myanmar, gas field and land ⑪ Uzbekistan, Surgil ⑤ Mozambique Coral FLNG distribution pipeline (A-1/3) ⑫ Canada, North Pole Umiak ⑤ Mozambique, Area 4 ⑬ Canada, Horn River (CAD) ⑥ Cyprus, Block 2, 3 & 9 Gas Well 12 Canada KOGAS is implementing natural gas exploration/ production and liquefaction projects in Canada. 13 KOGAS has had a permanent mining right for the 1 Umiak Area, which is located northwest of Inuvik City, since 2011 when KOGAS began the project. It has been producing natural gas stably in the Horn River gas field since 2012. Meanwhile, the “LNG Canada Project,” the first project to export LNG from Canada, is performed by constructing a liquefaction plant on the west coast. The produced LNG is transported to Korea or exported to Asian countries, etc., and KOGAS has a 5% share in the business. KOGAS has obtained all the required approvals and licenses from the Canadian government including LNG export permits (for 40 years), and it plans to begin production in 2024. KOGAS is preparing to produce competitive LNG using the ample natural gas that can be found in Canada. 1 Mexico The order for the Manzanillo LNG Terminal Project in Mexico was placed by CFE (Comisión Federal de Electricidad) of Mexico for the fuel conversion of a coal-fired thermal power plant in Western Mexico into natural gas and increase of power generation capacity. The project is drawing a lot of attention as the core of the national energy industry, since natural gas will account for 10% of the total amount of gas supply in Mexico. The project was made possible with the cooperation of private enterprises that cannot develop overseas markets by themselves. The project is the first case of investment in an overseas LNG acquisition base and technology export. •  ROI of Manzanillo project: 72% (as of Dec. 2019) ECO-FRIENDLY ENERGY FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS BUSINESS RELEVANCE OUR APPROACH The energy policies adopted by countries worldwide are going through a We at KOGAS prioritize safety and the environment in the entire process period of conversion amid the trend of increasingly stricter environmental ranging from natural gas production to supply. We are operating the unique regulations. The need for low-pollution energy that can mitigate climate Environmental, Health, Safety, and Quality (EHSQ) Management system change and environmental pollution is gradually increasing. International we developed in order to more effectively manage those factors. We are organizations are adopting increasingly stricter regulations to cope with enpositively promoting low-cargo, environment-friendly activities based on vironmental issues. Starting in 2020, the Regulations on Sulfur Content will systematic environmental management/climate change strategies to mincome into force and apply to the seas of the world. Natural gas is becoming imize negative environmental impacts arising in our management activithe center of attention as an environment-friendly fuel that hardly emits ties-related process. We are also implementing strong safety management pollutants other than water and carbon dioxide after combustion. With the of our workplaces through accident-free campaigns and efforts to foster a emergence of LNG (liquefied natural gas) as a transportation fuel, the worldsafety culture, while also operating a system for prompt responses to diwide conversion into environment-friendly energy is being accelerated. sasters like earthquakes or fire. We are subject to the government’s annual Compared to other fuels, natural gas is relatively safe but its proactive safety management evaluation of major businesses, and we manage our strategic management remains important as its use is accompanied by the potential tasks through the formulation of performance indicators and objectives. danger of gas leaks or fire. 2019 KEY PERFORMANCES Attaining a world-class safety Accident rates at outsourcing Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission basic unit culture construction sites: (reduction rate compared to prior year) 7.63 Unit: point 0.09 Unit: % 18.7 Unit: tCO2e/killo ton LNG (3.4%) OUR TARGET INNOVATION OBJECTIVE IN 2024 ・EHSQ system sophistication Aiming at a safety culture Accident rates at outsourcing Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission basic unit ・A stride in safety management to level of construction sites: (reduction rate compared to prior year) meet global standards ・Total Air Pollution Load Management System for the reduction of dust particles 8.1 0 18.0 Unit: point Unit: % Unit: tCO2e/kilo ton LNG Better Energy, Better World 41 UPGRADING WORKPLACE SAFETY MANAGEMENT KOGAS-EHSQ KOGAS benchmarked advanced safety management techniques to develop and operate a unique EHSQ (environment, health, safety, and quality) Management System. It is an integrated safety management system designed for the systematManagement ic, efficient management of safety, health, environment, and quality affairs based on laws and regulations such as OccupaSystem tional Safety and Health Act, Urban Gas Business Act, and Framework Act on Disaster and Safety Management and matters required by international standards* . We have prepared management regulations that identify site safety regulations, safe working methods, etc. for 14 components, procedures, and guidelines to be applied at the sites. We have continuously improved the safety level by performing all EHSQ affairs according to the PDCA process. KOGAS’s safety management • Laws system international certifications EHSQ Management System • •  equirements of international standards R KOGAS safety experience • Recommendation of safety diagnosis agency Certification Area First certification date Components Facility Information/ Risk Measurement/ General rules Policy Organization operation and ISO 9001 Quality Oct. 1997 (14) Technology management Improvement management ISO 14001 Environment Nov. 1997 ISO 29001 Quality of Nov. 2013 Crisis management Design/Construction/ petrochemicals Environment Health Education & PR/Civil /Accident Compliance Materials and natural gas management management training complaints investigation management ISO Safety and May 2019 45001* health * OHSAS 18001 (acquired in June 2000) Design, construction, and materials was changed to ISO 45001 management EHSQ Management Operation System (PDCA Cycle) Procedures Manage EHSQ of (15 kinds) Design management Quality management Materials management •M  anagement •G ap analysis partner companies and and priority improvement determination measures •M anpower and budget allocations Guidelines • M anage the EHSQ • P repare and manage • E valuate the quality of • E valuate and manage (66 kinds) procedures of partner drawings related companies major equipment companies per size (in• Manage design • Piping and welding production companies Action house, small, large) documents works • Equipment inspection Plan • Issue and manage FCN • Non-destructive • Self-inspection EHSQ inspection • Manage inappropriate Management • Completion of quality matters… Operation inspection System • Test operation of gas Check Do facilities… •E  valuation of •D ocuments performance (procedures) of EHSQ development Management and System operation EHSQ global evaluation system Achieving global-level safety culture KOGAS has developed the MASTER (Management & Assessment Tool for Efficient Rating) system, an objective, quantitative global evaluation system, in order to improve the activities of the EHSQ management system and achieve the best ISRS-C 7.63 (higher than the previous year’s points results. In addition, we conducted ISRS-C (International Safety Rating System-Culture) together with DNV-GL, a professional international safety consulting agency, and garnered an evaluation score of 7.63 in 2019; this was higher than Korea’s average of 5.78 points and the global average of 7.6 points. The result shows the high-level safety awareness of KOGAS. In 7.51 points by 0.12 points) addition, we are reflecting the improvement plans suggested after the diagnosis of safety culture level to EHSQ documents such as the Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) management and Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for practical application. * The average of 112 Korean companies including GS Caltex, Hanwha Chemical, Hanwha Total, and S-Oil was 5.78, and the average of global companies (137 companies engaged in Oil&Gas Extraction and 135 companies in the chemical products group) was 7.6 points. Division ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 최종(‘23) Safety awareness 4.1 4.8 5.7 6.2 6.7 6.9 7.1 7.3 7.5 7.6 8.0 level (goal) Performance 3.6 4.1 4.8 5.8 6.2 6.7 6.99 7.19 7.40 7.51 7.63 8.0 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 42 Strengthening KOGAS is implementing advanced safety management strategies aiming at “Zero Accident and Zero Disaster” in order to prevent safety accidents and disasters that can occur in the process of production of natural gas and construction of the the implemensupply network. To accomplish such a goal, KOGAS has acquired and maintained OHSAS 18001 certification and impletation of safety mented global-level safety and health management. In 2019, the management conducted safety accident prevention activities by holding the Accident STEP Safety Resolution Meeting, Industrial Disaster Prevention and Safety Forum, Safe KOmanagement GAS Explanatory Session, etc. In addition, KOGAS secured professional manpower in the safety area by hiring experienced staff in the area of construction safety management and reformed its organization considering the importance of safety by newly establishing an exclusive department in charge of industrial safety. Safety Management Implementation Strategy Investment in safety budget Vision Realizing Zero Accident and Zero Disaster with advanced safety management KRW 494.6 (7% increase from the previous billion Directions of implementation Enhance safety awareness Gain consensus on the safety culture Increase power of execution of safety management • I nitiative of the management • Strengthen internal communication • Reward safety performances year) including CEO • Continue to improve the safety • Improve the ability to cope with • Strengthen the safety management management system disasters system at the sites • Strengthen support for safety • Increase weight in evaluation Division Manual Remarks • Strengthen industrial disaster management at the sites management MOTIE Practical Gas Industry manual Division for crisis (demand Site activities Establish a field-centered autonomous safety culture response & supply and leak of gas), Office Voluntary Labor-Management Initiative of Continuous Field-customized in charge of participation cooperation managers implementation industrial disaster (disaster area) Midand long-term goals of safety management KOGAS Head Demand & Office supply, gas (Action leak, disaster, 2024 goals manual earthquake, Safety culture KOGAS Accident rate of No. of cases of for on-site forest fire (5 level indicator accident rate partner companies facility accidents measures) areas) Place of Gas leak, 8.1 points/ Less than 1/3 of Less than 1/3 of the 0 case 10 points electricity, gas, and average accident Business disaster, waterworks rate of public (Action earthquake, industries agencies manual forest fire (4 for on-site areas) measures) Implementing the Safe Zero Accident Movement After the expiration of the “Zero Accident Certification” system supervised by KOSHA since 1988, KOGAS has been implementing the “KOGAS-Style Safe Zero Accident Movement” since 2019. This movement strengthened the standard of achievement by including “facility accidents” according to the EHSQ guidelines compared to the previous system, which had focused only on “human accidents” and managed safety more thoroughly by directly reflecting the accidents at partner companies. With the movement, KOGAS actively inherited the concept of “compliment” -which was the merit of the previous Zero Accident certification -and it is implementing a solid safety system at the sites by raising the safety awareness of its executives and staff members. Improving the industrial accident rate in construction work orders Evaluation of the level of In April 2019, KOGAS was ranked first (the lowest rate) for 2 consecutive years in the “evaluation of industrial accident rate safety management at conin the construction works ordered by public agencies during 2018,” which was supervised by the Ministry of Employment Excellent struction works and Labor. The industrial accident rate was evaluated by the number of victims among 100 workers in large-scale works ordered by 22 public institutes in Korea, and KOGAS was rated Excellent, having scored 0.09% (average of public institutes: 0.53%) following the lowest accident rate achieved in 2017. KOGAS has held the Safety Management Committee quarterly (The highest level for 2 together with internal and external experts based on the practice of safety management and focused on strengthening the consecutive years) ability to maintain safety and cope with disasters. We will strive to achieve the lowest accident rate and devote all of our strength to fulfilling our mission of supplying natural gas stably and creating a safe Korea. Better Energy, Better World 43 Strengthening the examination of subcontractors’ safety-related steps Satisfaction with consulting of We are strengthening our activities for safety checks concerning subcontractors in an effort to completely prevent indussubcontractors trial disasters. We have come up with a step that will put safety first in our work carried out with subcontractors including 97 points (18% y-o-y rise) stipulating the strict observance of safety regulations in the contract conditions and routinely providing safety information/ education to small-sized subcontractors. In particular, our punitive steps concerning violations of safety regulations on jobsites have been strengthened. We carried out random safety inspections on 44 jobsites engaging in dangerous work like excavation and had them improve the way they carried out work in 32 cases we pointed out. Our team of safety experts held a session of safety consulting/education for employees of seven subcontractors in a bid to foster a safety culture. Posting the lowest disaster Securing facility safety proactively 2 rate among public institution We strive to prevent safety accidents through thorough safety diagnoses and improvements in national infrastructure facilities, multiple-use facilities, government buildings, etc. With regard to national infrastructure facilities including 72 storage initiated tanks and 5 production bases, we standardize alarms that go off in case of a safety accident to prevent human error. We works for years in a row try to use as many locally produced facility parts as possible, and there has not been a single case of a gas facility accident (MOEL; Apr. 17, 2019) over the past three years. We carry out a safety check of multiple-use facilities such as the Gas Science Museum periodically along with emergency evacuation training. The facilities proved to be “good” as a result of the safety diagnosis. We check embedded gas pipes using updated technology and programs for an accident consequence analysis and analysis of danger in a bid to secure gas facility safety. Formation of We have designated every fourth of the month as Safety Check Day, carrying out activities designed to make safety a part of people’s daily lives. Our monthly check covers natural gas production/supply facilities and construction jobsites. We safety culturehold safety education sessions to prevent disasters at our workplaces and remind employees of the importance of safety related consciousness. We held onsite sessions of safety education (for a total of 11 times for 947 people), explanatory meetings (for a total of 16 times for 2,076 people), and safety assessment education (for a total of 568 people) at the subcontractors’ consensus places of business. We reformulate the contents of safety education as required. Other safety education we provide includes those for safety managers/supervisors (507 people in a total of 82 courses) and those held under the sponsorship of the Corporate Headquarters. Rated as the best among 55 Expansion of safety activities that engage the public institutions in an evaluation of public institutions’ disaster We carry out gas-related safety campaigns together with local governments and public institutions. We also operate a management “carefree village” program in an effort to prevent fires and safety accidents in local areas and vulnerable facilities with the cooperation of those from the private sector, local governments, and public institutions. We play a leading role in the formulation of carefree village councils to promote communication among the members of the local community. We strive to disseminate a safety culture, engaging in safety campaigns with the cooperation of the relevant institutions. We also provide fire extinguishers and gas detectors to less-privileged households, hold training sessions against fire, and make an effort to help people enhance their capability to cope with a safety accident. We provided CCTVs worth 100 million won to a vulnerable village in Dong-gu, Daegu in an effort to contribute to the formation of a safe local community. Gas facilities-related activities in Positive reflection of locals’ Safety training in which the public which the public participated opinions participated Standing •C arrying out joint checks of • Forming a joint TFT to define the cause of • Earthquake evacuation training carried out (received the Presidential Safety Check production bases/jobsites stenches for vulnerable people during the gas-related Commendation) Corps -> With the participation of • Promotion of change in a facility to put safety training sessions those from the private an end to locals’ unease concerning the • Gained the participation of 231 young people sector, local governments, incineration of surplus gas including students paying visits to multipleand public institutions -> Adoption of tightly sealed incineration use facilities (number of visitors to the Gas facilities (showing no flames from Science Museum in Incheon: 70,000 a year) Terminal •S haring the results of safety incineration) KOGAS selects 6 carefree Division Safety activities with each other villages Council and offering feedback 6 •D iscussing how to improve safety management KOGAS carefree Excavation •B locking the danger of Work-related unauthorized excavation selects villages Local Watchers work near gas pipes and reporting such instances (cf. one in 2018) KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 44 Upgrading the With disasters increasingly becoming diversified in terms of types and occurring with more frequency, the risk of problems in the natural gas supply is increasing, including people’s anxiety as to the danger of safety accidents and natural disasters. disaster In this regard, KOGAS has prepared proactive plans to respond to new composite disasters including the evaluation of the risk of damage by the volcanic ash of Mt. Baekdusan and the map of the risk of radiant heat of forest fires. We are reinforcmanagement ing the external collaboration system by establishing piping safety management governance, holding safety forums, etc. In system 2019, KOGAS signed exchange and cooperation agreements in the area of disaster safety with 5 local institutes related to energy in order to raise the level of safety management and strengthen the cooperation system for coping with disasters. Strengthening the capability to cope with disasters KOGAS has established a specific disaster response system for each type of natural disaster including damage from storm and flood, gas leak, earthquake, and forest fire. We are strengthening our capability for safety by expanding the object facilities of drills and implementing drills with the participation of the public. In 2019, the CEO of KOGAS personally directed the situation when 7 major disasters occurred including the forest fire in Gangwon Province, Typhoon Danas, etc. As a result of the active response by checking the damaged areas with all the manpower and resources of the company mobilized, no stoppage occurred in the supply of gas. In addition, KOGAS has established the disease prevention and control Agreement ceremony for exchange system based on the guidelines for responding to the outbreak of infectious diseases. If an infectious disease breaks out, and cooperation on safety from disasters among energy companies KOGAS organizes an Emergency Planning Committee to be the control tower for an immediate, systematic response. (May 2019) Maximizing the efficiency of restoration by establishing the Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) KOGAS established the Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) in order to restore core facilities and works in times of crisis due to the outbreak of a disaster. In 2019, we acquired ISO22301 certification, an international standard for BCMS that stipulates the activities that should be performed in each stage of PDCA. Response System for Each Disaster Type Gas Leakage Earthquake Forest Fire Upgrading of • Alert issuance according to the • A lert according to the size and damage • Alert issued according to the distance leakage size • Inspection of the emergency gas • Response and collaboration Manual • Broadcasting of local government facility according to the size status • Response procedure for earthquake and tsunami Korea Forest Service, Fire Department, Strengthening District heating and oil pipeline Korea Meteorological Administration and local government of Cooperation Sharing of earthquake observation Implementation of the joint System Collaboration with pipeline contractors information response system Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) The system designed for business continuity through the quick restoration of facilities and works in times of crisis ❶ Analysis and diagnosis ❷ System establishment ❸ International certification • E xamine the appropriateness of disaster • E valuate the work importance (business • S ecure a driving force with the expression and safety management systems through impact) to draw core works for the (announcement) of the will of the CEO diagnosis and analysis maintenance of function and acquire ISO 22301 • Analyze the ability to respond to disasters • Set up the strategy and plan to secure • Acquisition of MOIS certification as an evaluated by the government business continuity through risk analysis excellent company in the reduction of • Identify the functions to minimize and assessment disaster-related damage (to be acquired damages to the public • Establish a customized system considering in 2020) the characteristics of the organization • Complete global-level BCMS [Anti-disaster drills ] KOGAS established the “action manual for on-site measures against forest fire disasters” for the first time among public institutions related to energy, and it is strengthening the ability to cope with natural disasters by conducting joint drills against forest fires with 7 related organizations including the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy and the local government of Gangwon Province. As a result, KOGAS could respond quickly to the large-scale forest fire that broke out in April 2019 in Gangwon Province by giving the alarm by itself and operating the disaster situation room at the head office building in Daegu according to the manual prepared in advance. Thus, we were able to prevent damage to the gas facilities. In addition, we are strengthening the capacity to respond promptly to various disastrous situations such as typhoon, earthquake, and drone attack by participating in various drills including the Safe Korea Drill and through the efforts of the Fire Drill Center of KOGAS. We will establish the best disaster and safety management system by continuously Safe Korea Drill to respond to disasters (Oct. 2019) reinforcing the capability to respond to disasters. Better Energy, Better World 45 REALIZING AN ECO-FRIENDLY WORKPLACE Reduction of the We acquire or maintain certification of management systems [Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) and Energy Management System (ISO 50001)] to minimize negative environmental impacts occurring in the course of our manageenvironmental ment activities and operate environmental management systems that integrate the needs for managing environmental impacts and coping with climate change. We grasp the environmental impacts occurring in our work activities ranging impact on our from excavation to sale and disclose them through our environmental information disclosure system. We have those at places of our places of business and subcontractors to promote compliance with our environmental management guidelines in a bid to reduce environmental risks. We manage air/water quality and the emission of pollutants with standards stricter than business what is required by law. There has not been a single case of violation of environmental laws and regulations over the past three years. Strategies for the promotion of environmental management Environmental Contribution to the improvement of the quality of people’s lives by proactively coping with climate change objective Five leading Enhancement of Emissions trading Positive execution Establishment of the the transparency of Creation of social strategic system and proactive of environmental environmental/energy carbon/environmental value with the public’s directions coping with climate management system management laws/regulations and participation change government policies information disclosures • P roactive coping with • S ecuring the • E nhancement of the • R ealization of social • P ositive coping Tasks to be changes in policies operational efficiency level of sustainable value by complying with the need for done by the related to the emissions of the environmental/ management by with environmental greenhouse gas Team trading system energy management leveling up DJSI laws/regulations reduction jointly with • Exploration of programs system • Strengthening • Integrated the local community for the reduction of • Overhaul of the the system for management • Establishment of greenhouse gases/ education system for the disclosure of pollutants (Nox, an environmental Securing emission the enhancement environmental Sox, etc.) with dust network for the rights of employees’ management particles considered creation of social value • Adaptation to professional information climate change and capabilities establishment of a • Improvement of the system for checking the level of execution of execution the government’s energy policy Management of air pollutants Total amount of air pollutants It is inevitable that facilities like Submerged Combustion Vaporizers (SCVs), Seawater Heaters (SWHs), and boilers among our natural gas production/supply facilities emit air pollutants such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), dust particles, etc. We manage the level of each pollutant using our in-house environmental management computer system on 317,679 a monthly basis and take steps for improvement based on a reduction plan if the level is in excess of the pre-set annual tar217,718 197,328 get. Natural gas is a clean fuel that emits less air pollutants than other energy sources during combustion but emits NOx, which generates ultra-fine dust particles. We manage air pollutants by applying standards stricter than what is required by the Clean Air Conservation Act. Particularly, our Incheon/Pyeongtaek Terminal Divisions, which are located in the Greater Seoul area, are classified as those subject to total air pollution management under the Atmospheric Management Area 2017 2018 2019 Unit : kg Act. Thus, we ensure that each of them is operated within the total permissible emission volume of NOx set for it. Permissible NOx discharge Total NOx emission Actual emission Permissible amount standards Unit : tons Unit : tons 150 143.5 130 142.8 142.8 105 133.8 35.3 75 45 84.4 19.8 19.4 19.3 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Unit : ppm 9.4 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 Incheon Terminal Division Pyeongtaek Terminal Division KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 46 Water pollutant management Water consumption Most of the wastewater generated in our facilities is processed by businesses that we entrust with the task. With regard to 1,496,757 the portion we process, we make it a rule to manage the water quality periodically using facilities for neutralization, nonpoint pollutants treatment, oil-water separation, etc. We also check marine facilities and anti-pollution devices/materials 1,392,986 1,241,908 on a monthly basis to prevent marine pollution. We conduct training to prevent marine pollution every year in cooperation with the relevant institutions. We try to reduce the water used at our facilities by periodically checking the amount of consumption recorded in meters installed using an environmental management computer system. The amount of water/ seawater consumption is also checked by the local waterworks office in charge of the areas where our facilities are located for more adequate management of water consumption. 2017 2018 2019 Unit : 1,000 m3 Chemical substance management We check toxicity/safety-related matters in the purchase/production/import of chemical substances required in the proTotal waste disposal cess of production/supply of natural gas. We use a small amount of non-toxic substances such as sodium hydroxide (NaOH), 134,230 hydrochloric acid (HCl), potassium hydroxide (KOH), etc. The odorant put into our gas supplied to end users for the detection of gas leaks and the sodium hypochlorite put for the prevention of the attachment of marine life do not include toxic substances. 84,279 63,361 Waste management We strive to minimize the waste generated in the process of natural gas production/supply and management activities like construction work and process them by separating according to their types and usage. In the works we initiated, we re2017 2018 2019 quire the contractors to use recycled aggregates. Our company-wide resource-saving efforts include prohibiting the use of Unit : tons single-use items in offices and having those using single-use cups at the in-house café pay an extra environmental charge. * Reason for the increase: increase in waste due to the addition of places of business Activities for complying Stakeholders’ and construction work. with laws/regulations (L) activities (ST) 0.3% 0.4% Pollution-processing activities (T) 23.8% Unit : KRW Million Pollution Activities Amount prevention 1. Pollution-processing activities (T) 7,788 activities (P) 2. Pollution prevention activities P) 24,698 75.5% 3. Stakeholders’ activities (ST) 116 4. Activities for coping with laws/regulations (L) 92 2019 Budget Performance on the Environmental Activities Total 32,964 Top Award at the 2019 Korea EnvironReceiving a citation from Incheon Environment and Energy Awards KOGAS campaign: Less GHG Emisment and Energy Awards Field of 2019 Environment imporvement Field of Corporation (Nov. 2019) sion and Energy Saving Environment (Nov. 2019) Business Top Award at the 2019 Korea Better Energy, Better World 47 Striving to cope We have duly managed our GHG emissions and made reports on it since our designation by the government as a business subject to emissions allowances allocation with the adoption of the emissions trading system in 2015. We apply the evapwith climate orative fugitive emission factor we developed to reduce GHG emissions caused by leaks of natural gas occurring in the prochange cess of storing and supplying natural gas (relevant guidelines revised in 2020). Accordingly, we recorded an approximately 87% reduction of GHG emissions caused by the existing leaks of natural gas and reported to the government that GHG emissions were reduced by about 267,000 tons in 2019. This evaporative fugitive emission factor, which may be applied to the country’s entire natural gas industry, is deemed to contribute to the country’s attainment of the GHG reduction target. We have each of our business units fulfill their emission target and award the top five business units that have fulfilled the target each year. Status of GHG emissions (Unit : tCO2e) Classification 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Emissions Direct 456,413 469,305 551,497 663,206 287,680 greenhouse gas Indirect 352,277 359,398 360,042 388,662 379,476 greenhouse gas Subtotal 808,690 828,703 911,539 1,051,868 667,156 Remarks 1st planned period of the emission trading system (’15 -’17) 2nd planned period of the emission Occurrence of about 270,000 tons of surplus (reduced) trading system (’18 -’20) portion in emissions allowance Establishment of new/renewable energy facilities Status of new/renewable We comply with the obligatory ratio of the installation of new/renewable energy facilities in the construction of a new energy facilities building for the promotion of more rational/efficient use of energy under the Energy Use Rationalization Act. When pur(As of the end of 2019) chasing devices/materials for a new facility, we prioritize those with high efficiency. As for GHS emissions from LNG bases Classification Capacity Places and gas supply management offices across the country, the relevant records are systematically managed with ECO2 View. Photovoltaic 1,966.4kW 74 Since 2015, we have established our own GHG reduction roadmap and strived to reduce GHG through the exploration of Solar heat 606.8㎡ 5 ideas and improvement of the facilities. Geothermal 1,424.6kW 2 heat (for airPromotion of Strategies to Cope with Climate Change conditioning) KOGAS selected and analyzed a list of risks for each of the 6 climate impact factors (heat waves, cold waves, heavy rain and Geothermal heat 1,459.0kW 3 (for heating) snow, strong wind and rises in sea level) that affect gas facilities to establish measures to adapt climate change. Moreover, Wind power 15.7kW 5 we manage risks through continuous implementation evaluations. To reduce the impact of climate change, we estabFuel cell 301.0kW 2 lished various detailed plans based on 3 strategies and systemically promoted them. Reduced GHG amount Vision Supply of safe/clean energy through adaptation to climate change Objective Supply of natural gas, which is stable and sustainable 28,085 Establishment of a system for the Top 3 strategies Climate change impact Strengthening the capacity for prevention of negative results caused 11,639 assessment coping with climate change by climate change • S patial information-based evaluation • C omposition of a management • O peration of measures for ensuring Tasks to be 2018 2019 Unit : tCO2e of areas vulnerable to extreme organization for adaptation to a stable supply in winter done by the climates climate change • Identifying countermeasures against E xtra 141% decrease in GHG emisTeam • Detailed impact evaluation of rises in • Training of experts on adaptation boil-off gas in hot summers and for sion y-o-y seawater levels to climate change and education of preparation for loads Responding to new climate change • Review/Improvement of facility employees • Education on guidelines on what system by improving and operating design criteria against temperature • Establishment of a system for to do at the jobsite concerning a facilities changes evaluating execution measures special weather forecast • Review/Improvement of facility related to climate change • Preventive preparations concerning design criteria concerning wind load • Improvement of the system for the areas subject to frequent dry • Survey of vulnerable areas with classification of disasters by type/ weather forecasts weak foundations and improvement cause and management of the of preventive measures system for disseminating such • Improvement of the subdivision of the system for coping with disasters and manual improvement KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 48 Protection of KOGAS has established environmental policies to protect biodiversity and ensure the health of ecosystems. We apply these policies to each of our business sites. First, we produce environmental conservation and ecosystem protection plans after conducting biodiversity environmental impact assessments for any projects and operations that may affect the surrounding ecosystem. Most notably, we formulate a council composed of contractors, community representatives, and experts from environmental conservation groups, among others, discuss the environmental impact assessment processes and results, and design solutions to any potential problems together. When operating a business site, we regularly implement post-environmental impact assessments and continue to check for any changes in the surrounding ecosystem. As part of our marine and forest ecological preservation activities, we have promoted the conservation of otters and flying squirrels as well as rare plants and succeeded in restoring habitats for those endangered species. Creating Clean Supply Control Centers without Light Pollution Ministry of Environment Awareness of light pollution and its 01 Necessity significance Defining artificial lighting as pollution [Fact-finding surveys to produce light pollution management plans (2009)] Environmental Confirmation of problems caused by ① Environmental impact assessment of light pollution →② Designation of lighting The Act on the Prevention of Light 02 light pollution in communities near management areas Pollution due to Artificial Lighting Assessment our control centers nationwide →③ Compliance with light emission standards [‘12.21] Identification of control centers using artificial lighting Article 2 of the Enforcement Decree Setting lighting 03 Legal Review management zones Environmental impact assessment of the light emission rate and establishment of of the Act on the Prevention of Light optimal improvement plans Pollution due to Artificial Lighting Preemptive Fulfillment of environmental Building clean control centers focused on the protection of the environment and Fulfillment of the social 04 protection obligations and social human rights Introduction responsibilities -Protection of crops such as perilla, rice, and beans around the supply control centers responsibilities of KOGAS Expanded Review of expanded application to Creating best practices for other companies through the expanded application New centers ⇒ universal application 05 Application control centers nationwide Revision of KOGAS lighting fixture design criteria Existing centers ⇒ selective application Introduction of system for controlling the intensity of light facilities (intensity adjustment) 50-lux light level 2-lux light level measured A pre-adjustment lamp A lamp following 90° An existing light fixture A light fixture with a light measured when set at when set at 60% light adjustment cover 100% light intensity intensity Incheon Clean Corporation’s Environmental Improvement Agreement to Improve the Air Quality in Incheon Metropolitan City Incheon Metropolitan City has launched 'the Incheon Clean Corporation -Council Members: Incheon Metropolitan Government, Korea Gas Corporation, Council' to reduce air pollutants and increase eco-friendly energy consumption SUDOKWON Landfill Site Management Corporation, Incheon International in the city (until Dec. 31, 2024) Airport Corporation, Incheon Port Authority Commitments made by KOGAS • Reduction of vehicle emissions (efforts to promote eco-friendly vehicles) • NOx emission reduction (installation of or replacement with low-NOx burners) • Actively operate NOx reduction facilities and promote local air quality improvement projects while operating submerged combustion vaporizers (SCVs) during the winter • Stricter restriction on NOx emission of SCVs in District 4 (20% NOx reduction: 50ppm ⇒ 40ppm) • Around-the-clock operation of odor control systems for odorization facilities • Installation of a solar power generation facility (669kW) • Manufacturing, installation, and commercial operation of a small hydro power plant (150kW) • Facility modifications and fuel oil changes for vessels (Bunker C ⇒ LSMGO (low-sulfur marine gasoil) Better Energy, Better World 49 Sites subject to Biodiversity Issue Assessments Business sites Unit 2019 Total business sites No. ea 14 Area hectare 842 Target sites for biodiversity issue assessments No. ea 3 Area hectare 262 Sites with biodiversity management plans No. ea 3 Area hectare 262 Efforts to Protect the Endangered 'Flying Squirrel' Species While promoting the development of the Hosan General Industrial Complex, KOGAS carried out notable biodiversity conservation efforts. S pecies: The endangered flying squirrel (classified as Endangered Wildlife Class II, designated as Natural Monument No. 328). Actions: Monitoring of its habitats and implementation of post-environmental impact investigation reviews to reflect the results in the company’s future business management plans. Environmental clean-up efforts launched by various district divisions around Korea KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 50 ISO 14001 Company-wide ISO 50001 Environmental value Company-wide Environmental Energy Grand Prize INPUT 2019 (ME) Amount of energy used Amount of water used A total of A total of 12,775 TJ 1,392,986,000 ㎥ Direct : 4,972 TJ Seawater: 1,392,324,000 ㎥ Indirect : 7,803 TJ Piped water: 644,000 ㎥ Underground water: 17,000 ㎥ Amount of chemical substances used Expenses incurred from environmental activities 34,247,570 kg 32,964 million won Basic unit : 1,019.36 kg/1,000 tons (Amount of natural gas used: 33,597,000 tons) Better Energy, Better World 51 OUTPUT GHG emissions GHG A total of 667,156 tCO2e Direct: 287,680 tCO2e Indirect: 379,476 tCO2e Air pollutant emissions NOx 192,398 kg Basic unit: 5.73 kg/1,000 tons Dust particles 3,700 kg Basic unit: 0.11 kg/1,000 tons SOx 1,230 kg Basic unit: 0.04 kg/1,000 tons OUTPUT Water pollutant emissions COD 101.1 kg Basic unit: 0.003 kg/1,000 tons BOD 236.3 kg Basic unit: 0.007 kg/1,000 tons SS 144.6 kg Basic unit: 0.0043 kg/1,000 tons KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 52 WIN-WIN ENERGY GROWING TOGETHER BUSINESS RELEVANCE OUR APPROACH Publicness and social value have become very important in the evaluation KOGAS implements a win-win growth strategy according to the Team Plus of management of public institutions with the government’s announcewin-win cooperation model. It is realizing mutual growth by grasping the ment of social value as its core philosophy. Today, public institutions have actual needs of stakeholders and providing support through the Win-Win to consider social value comprehensively in the process of establishment Cooperation Committee, Mutual Growth Association, etc. In addition, we and implementation of various policies and evaluate performance in the strengthen the competitiveness of SMEs by supporting the localization of long term in the process of implementing policies reflecting social values. gas equipment, technological independence in all processes, exploration of Social values include the win-win cooperation between large companies sales channels, etc. and create a fair trade culture by establishing a partner and SMEs, creation of good-quality jobs, revitalization of the local commucompany evaluation process using the environmental, social, and governity, and provision of opportunities for the socially weak. Therefore, public nance (ESG) criteria. Moreover, in order to fulfill our social responsibility as a enterprises are practicing it in the form of mutual growth, social contribuleading energy company, we are implementing various social contribution tion, and job creation. In addition, public institutions are deemed to have programs based on the characteristics of our business and contributing to the responsibility of communicating actively with stakeholders, grasping the revitalization of the local economy by creating various jobs including related needs, and making efforts for win-win growth. It is regarded not as innovative and inclusive jobs. KOGAS is rated highly in the category of “job mere charity support but as a driving force for the realization of the social creation” in the annual management evaluation of the government, having value of public enterprises and their sustainable management. established and intensively managed the goals and performance indicators of strategic tasks. 2019 KEY PERFORMANCES Rate of supporting social Number of cases of technical Creation of jobs in the Number of cases of implementing contribution projects development and private sector heat efficiency improvement projdemonstration for SMEs ects for vulnerable social groups 74.28 Unit: % 25 Unit: cases 6,080 1,974 Unit: persons Unit: cases OUR TARGET INNOVATION OBJECTIVE IN 2024 Number of cases of imple・Implement social contribution Rate of supporting Number of cases of Creation of jobs in the menting heat efficiency activities to share the value of social contribution technical development and private sector improvement projects for KOGAS projects* demonstration for SMEs vulnerable social groups ・Increase the effectiveness of mutual growth with partner companies ・Recover the hidden value through 81.5 28 6,241 2,461 Unit: % Unit: cases Unit: persons Unit: cases fair trading Rate of supporting social contribution projects = (Projects for social enterprises + Job creation projects)/(Total social contribution project expenses) Better Energy, Better World 53 EXPANDING THE MUTUAL GROWTH CULTURE Creating a KOGAS decided on “Global natural gas platform working together with SMEs – KOGAS” as its vision for win-win growth. Accordingly, we are providing customized support for SMEs with strategies and tasks systematically established based on win-win natural the Team Plus win-win cooperation model. We prepare practical support programs for SMEs so that they can solve realistic gas business difficulties; as a result, we are realizing win-wingrowth with SMEs by helping them in productivity improvement, exploration of sales channels, etc. environment Vision A global natural gas platform working together with SMEs KOGAS A natural gas platform evolving into a global provider based on the continuous growth and capability of partner SMEs KOGAS Growth Model Team Plus win-win cooperation model Creating Plus win-win value by teaming up with partner companies Team 4 main T : Technology E : Efficiency A : Associating M : Marketing strategies Strengthen technical Strengthen technical Support exploration of sales Partnership/Cooperation competitiveness productivity channel Open doors for Productivity innovation Operate multilateral Secure basic capability in Team tasks participation in R&D communication channels market advancement Strengthen technical Support liquidity Share results openly Offer bridge for exports development linked to SMEs Link with Stabilize employment and Create mutual growth Support the settlement of commercialization by strengthen capability culture stable exports qualification, etc. Creating a win-win business Plus Making partner SMEs global hidden Achieving the sustainable future environment for the natural gas Aiming Values champions growth of KOGAS industry Organization for win-win cooperation For the professional implementation and management of affairs for mutual growth, KOGAS has established the Mutual Growth Team under the CSR Department; the necessary information is shared, and the methods to increase cooperation are discussed in related groups such as the Mutual Growth Consultative Group, Win-Win Cooperation Committee, and Hands-on Consultative Group for Fair Trade. In 2019, the “1st Win-Win Cooperation Committee” was held with the participation of experts, SME business operators, and executives of KOGAS who had in-depth discussions on how to promote fair trading and win-win cooperation. Besides, we are collecting various opinions through both offline channels such as field 1st Win-Win Cooperation Committee meetings, the Export Consultative Group, and online channels such as the “Mutual Growth Band” and “Mutual Growth meeting (Aug. 28, 2019) Center.” Issuance of partner company certificates KOGAS distinguishes the partner companies supplying 5 items including the natural gas ball valve with 19 specifications as major suppliers. We issue partner company certificates for those companies so that they can complement their weak marketplace awareness and enhance their marketing. We issued partner company certificates to 98 companies in 2019, and we plan to increase the number of certified companies to 115 in 2020. In addition, we are making efforts to provide partner companies with convenience in customs clearance using the “Authorized Economic Operator (AEO)” system. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 54 Supporting SMEs Expediting the localization of gas equipment KOGAS established the “strategy to localize technologies and equipment” to lower the foreign dependence of natural gas in strengthening equipment and strengthen the technical competitiveness of SMEs. We are also strategically implementing technological cooperation projects. In 2019, we designated 19 projects in 6 areas for urgent localization and implemented the localizacompetitiveness tion of 12 field-centered materials and components including components of the ultra-low temperature LNG pump. In addition, we established the first test bed for the qualification of SMEs’ products through collaboration with the Korea Institute of Machinery & Materials (KIMM) to lay the foundation for win-win cooperation with SMEs by developing the criteria Performance in development for reasonable evaluation. for localization Classification 2018 2019 Supporting the technical independence of SMEs in all processes KOGAS is strengthening the global technical competitiveness of SMEs by implementing the “Born Global” project, which Development 101 296 expense was designed to support and assume responsibility for all the processes necessary for the technical independence of (1 million won) SMEs. Through the project, KOGAS is providing an aid package for all processes of technology development from conNumber of cases 5 12 sulting for commercialization (Phase 1) and joint R&D and technology development (Phase 2) to transfer and protection (case)* of technology (Phase 3) and product development (Phase 4). In 2019, we have not only carried out active purchase of the * Localization is underway for 12 cases includproducts linked to technology development but also permitted the free use of KOGAS’s patents (including 13 cases of teching components of the ultra-low temperature nology sharing and 3 cases of free technology transfer) to contribute to the spread of win-win growth with SMEs. LNG pump, and 3 cases have been completed including the explosion-proof-type fire detector. A model of support fostering SMEs to be specialized global enterprises (“Born Global” project) Consulting for Joint R&D and technology Technology transfer/ commercialization development protection and final purchase • Consulting to supplement the • Executing the joint technical • Protecting and supporting core deficient planning ability of SMEs development project and technologies for SMEs: 5 companies :M atching with a college in the implementing mentoring support community (2 cases) by an expert • Free transfer of patents of KOGAS: :M atching with KOGAS’s R&D 13 cases of technology sharing and •D  iscovering and presenting experts (8 cases) 3 cases of free technology transfer the necessity of technological development by the company •P  ermitting the use of the • Purchasing products linked to concerned and the grounds for equipment of KOGAS and free technology development business feasibility operation of the test equipment (KRW 0.33 billion for mold transformer diagnosis system, etc.) Specialized support to expand sales channels based on KOGAS’s business Overseas sales of SMEs KOGAS is supporting SMEs in the exploration of overseas markets through support for overseas patents and certifications, 3 provision of information on overseas projects, etc. and in the diversification of sales channels in the domestic market by supporting purchase meetings and exhibitions and providing consulting. In 2019, we arranged the 1:1 matching of SMEs with overseas companies in the same industry and held 1:1 customized business meetings with global buyers of oil and USD million (2019) gas equipment to achieve USD 3 million in exports. In addition, we gave 43 SMEs an opportunity to participate in the Mu* 9 registered vendors tual Growth Exhibition to publicize and promote their products and supported SMEs in domestic exhibitions including “KORMARINE 2019.” Creating a purchasing environment for win-win cooperation Expanding purchases from KOGAS is expanding the purchase of products from social economy enterprises by establishing a social economy platsocial economy enterprises form that is used for the integrated management of the social economy online mall, social enterprises welfare mall, social economy support center, etc. We have also made efforts to establish a win-win cooperation environment by handling the bidding of companies run by women and the handicapped, providing the first system for purchasing small-sum goods for KRW 1.2 billion (2015) 12.5 companies that have yet to establish a track record, operating a contract system reflecting social value, etc. As a result, the KRW amount of purchases from social economy enterprises in 2019 reached KRW 12.5 billion; the number of cases of bidding billion for the purchase of small-sum goods was 61, which was 46 cases more than the previous year. A total of 145 new compa(2019) nies applied to join the business relationship. Purchase from social economy enterprises Social economy platform brand KSP Social enterprises Computer, mineral water Core ・Social economy online mall resources ・Social enterprise welfare mall Social cooperative union In-house café ・Social economy support center Community enterprise Video production, etc. Leading ・AI/Blockchain/Mobile App technologies Self-supporting enterprise Cleaning supplies, etc. Institutional ・Establishment of an integrated information system support ・Operation of company-wide integrated contracts Severely handicapped Food supplies for the cafeteria, etc. ・Establishment of guidelines for preferential persons purchases Better Energy, Better World 55 Sustainable We share our supplier code of conduct with those supplying goods to us to strengthen compliance management, which serves as the basis of mutual growth. The code of conduct stipulates the criteria for matters pertaining to the environment, supply chain human rights, safety/health, and ethics that our suppliers should observe. We not only expect our suppliers to observe this code but also their employees/agents and sub-suppliers. The code of conduct requires that the parties observe the relemanagement vant laws/regulations, the contents of the code of conduct, and the stipulations in the contract documents. We anticipate that together with our suppliers, we will move one step closer to our goal of securing global competitiveness through the code of conduct. Process for identifying subcontractors’ potential risks We operate a system of having major equipment/device manufacturers registered with us to ensure safe gas suppliers, secure certified devices/materials, and enhance the efficiency of our bidding business. Under the system, we evaluate their manufacturing ability and status of management. As of January 2020, a total of 59 manufacturers are registered with us concerning 5 items of major equipment/devices and 19 standards. We carry out a periodic (twice a year) evaluation of manufacturers of major equipment/devices based on the applications submitted. The periodic evaluation includes five stages: submittal of application, document-based evaluation, notice of results, status survey, and registration of qualified candidates. The document-based evaluation includes an evaluation of technical capability and management status. The selection of qualified manufacturers involves an on-site survey designed to check whether the declarations in the documents submitted are true and status surveys such as sample tests. Reg stration The status of our supply Notice of evaluation; Document-based Status survey of qualified chain in 2019 submittal of documents evaluation manufacturers Classification 2018 2019 Number of 131 131 Mar. and Sep. Technical Management Manufacturing Test/ Twice a year capability status QC subcontractors skills Inspection Number of major 56 59 상반기 : Apr.~May period: 5 months subcontractors* 하반기 : Oct.~Nov. * “Major subcontractors” refer to those supplying the following 5 items under the 19 standards: valves, insuStrengthening the supply chain: ESG risk management lation joints, metering facilities, conWith regard to supplier management, we operate based on strategies and promotional directions set systematically. We trolling facilities, and static pressure manage supply network risks with factors including environmental, social, and governance (ESG), which are considered facilities. when doing business with subcontractors and major raw material suppliers. We also consider the ESG factors even in the decision-making process concerning the selection and maintenance of suppliers. As for construction services, we carry out a status survey concerning subcontractors twice a year as per the Subcontract Management Guidelines, followed by an on-site survey on subcontractor management, work environment, compensation for workers, status of safety/workers’ health, and environmental management as well as how complaints from people are handled, etc. With regard to construction projects valued at 5 billion won or more, said survey is carried out including all the items stated. We take punitive steps immediately concerning a business that is in violation of the regulations and give penalty points -which will put the business in a disadvantageous position in biddings -if the business fails to take a remedial step concerning its violation. With regard to suppliers of major equipment/devices, we first evaluate them based on the quality system, supply records, management status, manufacturing capability, and bidding methods, which are said to be the top five business capabilities. We then check their sustainable management activities and results as part of efforts for the integrated management of supply network risks. We disqualify suppliers that are decertified as ISO 9001, fail to meet the disaster rate requirements, or are subject to supply network risks. In 2019, not a single supplier of major equipment/devices was subject to our negative evaluation. Technical Promised Transparency Quality Continuity capability delivery date in selection ISO 9001, Ascertainment of Crisis in management Substantial Open bidding ISO 45001 technical capability (merger, etc..) manufacturing certification including delivery capability records, basic design, (on-site survey) manufacturing skills, etc. Major ESG ・ISO 9001 certification: Securing adequate product quality through the establishment of a system for manufacturing objectives capability of major equipment/materials and quality control. • ISO 45001 certification: Strengthening subcontractors’ safety/health activities by giving bonus points to those who have acquired ISO 45001 certification in a bid to reduce industrial disasters occurring on jobsites. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 56 COMMUNITY SUPPORT STRATEGIC We carry out social contribution activities with the aim of working for the realization of social value and contributing to the development of communities in fulfillment of our social responsibilities as a public business. We seek to provide supSOCIAL port for the less privileged using the Onnuri (meaning A Warm World) brand. We also promote win-win programs for local CONTRIBUTION communities associated with the energy business including those for the promotion of energy welfare, training of social enterprises, and creation of jobs. We will continue to engage in activities designed to realize social values and contribute to ACTIVITIES the invigoration of the local economy. Our slogan for social contribution Better Energy, Better World Our objective for Contribution to the public good and development of communities through social contribution the realization of social values Volunteer Corps’ code of conduct 2019 Playing a lead role in Conversion into Realization of social Improving the way we operate natural gas environment-friendly energy values in preparation for the future ・ Humble mindset ・ Sincerity Strategic tasks for Social enterprise/jobs Energy welfare Training future generations Public participation social contribution (Onnuri harmony) (Onnuri love) (Onnuri hope) (Onnuri togetherness) ・ Positive mindset ・ Pleasant companionship Projects for 2019 ・Socio-economic Org. nurturing ・Fuel cell installation program ・Technical institutions in ・Seniors' reemployment and support ・Energy efficiency improvement Mozambique ・Fire extinguishers for ・ Voluntariness ・Global Innovative Festa (GIF) ・Construction Academy program ・Dosshouse summer support ・Toy library foundation ・Scholarship program dosshouse areas ・Single parents support ・ Sense of responsibility ・Toy library operation program ・Medical support for Uzbek kids ・Single moms support ・Public report session ・R-Bank ・Multicultural family support ・Support for kids with serious ・Happy Nest Program ・ Service mindset symptoms Linkage with UN’s SDGs 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, SDGs 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, SDGs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, SDGs 1, 2, 3, 6, 10, 11, sustainable development 11, 13, 15, 17 12, 15, 17 11, 17 14, 15, 16, 17 objectives Key Performance ・Sales of social economic ・Level of satisfaction with the ・Number of people benefitting ・Number of Onnuri Volunteer Indicators (KPIs) organizations taking part in heat efficiency improvement from scholarship programs: Corps: All employees the work for the heat efficiency project: 96.5% 332 (all Koreans) ・Onnuri Fund donations: KRW improvement project: KRW ・Expected effect on energy ・Level of internal satisfaction 188 million 2,342 million efficiency from the heat with social contribution ・Jobs created in association efficiency improvement programs: 77.9/100 with social contribution project: KRW 72 million/year ・Level of satisfaction with the programs: ・Those benefitting from the quality of service provided as 17 (Architecture Academy) + 8 heat efficiency improvement part of the social contribution (Toy Library) = 25 project: 92 households/184 programs according to institutions outsiders (concerning Toy Library: 85.1/100) An organization engaging in social contribution activities The main engine of our social contribution activities is Onnuri Volunteer Corps, which is composed of directors and employees. The year 2020 marks the 21st anniversary of the Corps, which was launched in 1999. As of January 2020, it is composed of 24 teams (9 from the corporate headquarters and 15 from places of business outside the headquarters). The Corps strives to put the genuine spirit of sharing into practice while carrying out voluntary activities in addition to providing material support for the less privileged. The Corps received the Presidential Commendation at a meeting of the Nationwide Volunteer Associations in 2019 in recognition of its efforts. KOGAS’s Onnuri Volunteer Corps receives the Presidential Commendation at a meeting of the Dissemination of the voluntary fundraising campaign among employees Nationwide Volunteer Associations in We operate the Onnuri Fund, which is made possible through our employees’ participation. Programs supported by the Fund are 2019. selected through a survey of participants’ opinions and an event asking for outsiders’ ideas. In 2019, the Fund provided support to those living in doss-houses (supply of fire extinguishers), single parents, single mothers, and multicultural households. In 2020, the Fund is increasing the support amount for single mothers and providing zero-interest loans to small businesses suffering from the situation caused by COVID-19 using the amount donated by KOGAS officers. We will continue to engage in such win-win programs in ways that can create social values with the invaluable funds donated by our directors and employees. Better Energy, Better World 57 Dissemination of Onnuri culture of sharing Onnuri Energy We engage in locally tailored social contribution programs, making the most of the characteristics of the energy industry to provide support for the less priviWelfare that leged and realize social values. We strive to reduce urban gas charges to ease leverages the the financial burden on the shoulders of the less-privileged and do our best to characteristics of enhance their energy welfare through the Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement <Goal 7 > <Goal 11 > the energy Program and the program for the installation of fuel cells. Supply of sustainSafe, resilient, and industry able energy at sustainable cities reasonable price and residents Expansion of the less-privileged benefitting from gas charge reductions We strive to lessen the financial burden of less-privileged households by reducing urban gas charges in winter. This step covers not only the less-privileged including seniors, the disabled, and single-parent households but also those receiving social welfare benefits. In 2019, we provided the benefit to 27000-plus facilities, for a 17% y-o-y increase. We also expanded those eligible for energy voucher support worth 27.5 bil. won -an 8% y-o-y increase -in an effort to enhance welfare for the less-privileged. Heat Efficiency Improvement Program Number of welfare Amount of energy facilities whose gas charges voucher support Our Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Program replaces dilapidathave been reduced ed heat insulations, boilers, doors/windows, and lightings found in 8% low-income households and social welfare facilities to improve their 17% y-o-y y-o-y increase increase environment for energy use. In 2019, we spent 2.98 bil. won to carry out heat efficiency improvement work at 92 low-income households and 0.5% y-o-y 27,524 27.5 increase 184 social welfare facilities in 9 areas across the country. We have local businesses or social enterprises carry out the work of wallpapering and 25.4 23,535 laying jangpan (flooring material) in an effort to contribute to the local 23,421 economy. Classification 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2018 2019 Unit : facilities Unit : KRW billion Low-income households 65 67 91 Facilities benefitting from welfare programs 96 92 184 Fuel Cell Installation program We operate the Fuel Cell Installation program to promote energy welfare for social welfare facilities and disseminate the distribution of new/renewable energy. Since 2016, we have installed fuel cells in a total of 7 facilities, including a 10 Kw fuel cell each in 2 facilities (Saebyeotwon in Daegu and Hyosarang Seniors’ Center in Gyeongbuk) in 2019. Highly efficient and environment-friendly, the fuel cells go a long way in reducing energy expenses. Helping those living in doss-houses spend summer more * A fuel cell is a system for the generation of heat and electricity through chemical reactions comfortably between hydrogen extracted from natural gas and oxygen in the air. It achieves at least 82% overall efficiency and 40% carbon dioxide reduction. It is a highly efficient, environWe operate a program designed to help the less-privileged spend summent-friendly, new/renewable energy source. mer more comfortably. We provided an “energy kit” consisting of an ice box, mineral water, mini fire extinguisher, and functional clothes to those living in doss-houses in ten areas across the country so that they can spend summer more comfortably. We also provided freezers and icemakers to their administrative offices. The mini fire extinguishers included in this kit are those that won first place in a competition for ideas related to social contribution programs. As part of job creation efforts designed to realize social values, we appointed people in charge of the delivery of these kits to monitor the status of the recipients. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 58 Dissemination of Onnuri culture of sharing Nurturing Dreams We encourage children growing up in low-income households to nurture big dreams by providing them with a scholarship fund and operating the Onnuri by Training Future Toy Library, among other efforts. We also try to provide more medical treatment Generations support for young people from less-privileged households suffering from diseases as part of the effort to fulfill our social responsibilities as a world-class energy <Goal 3 > <Goal 4 > business. Better health Provision of coverage; better good-quality education and lifelong welfare for all learning opportunities Carrying out social contribution activities in linkage with our overseas programs In Mozambique, which has developed the business related to a newly discovered gas field, we are operating a program to provide support for vocational schools designed to help locals develop self-reliance. We supplied educational equipment/materials to Abundante Elementary School near Maputo, the country’s capital (2013-2015), and ran a vocational training class at Seongsan Middle/ High School (2016-2019) as part of the program designed to improve the country’s educational environment, create jobs, increase locals’ income, and enhance the country’s national competitiveness. We will continue to strive to train future leaders and develop the natural gas industry in developing countries. Seongsan Middle/High School (KG Mozambique Senior Manager Lee Won-seop) Operation of the Onnuri Scholarship Program We encourage students from less-privileged households to pursue their dreams by operating the Onnuri Scholarship Program. In 2019, the Program paid 110 mil. won to 224 students in Daegu and 330 mil. won to 108 undergraduates with good grades living near our places of business. In 2019, we launched a system for providing such support up to three years by subcategorizing the beneficiaries, i.e., those with good grades, those with artistic talents, and exemplary volunteers. Presentation of KOGAS’s Blue Lighthouse scholarship fund certificates (Nov. 2019) Program to provide medical support to those from less-privileged households both at home and abroad Other programs we provide include those designed to provide medical support, i.e., providing aid to disabled children, helping children suffering from severe diseases to receive operations, and helping children of developing countries suffering from a heart disease. Through the Onnuri R-Bank* Program, we provided rehabilitation assistive equipment (to 14 children) and free treatment on wheels (to 152 children) and paid medical expenses (for 20 children) in 2019. In addition, we paid a total of KRW 35 million for children suffering from heart diseases or leukemia in Daegu. We have also provided medical support programs for children in developing countries since 2012. A total of 16 children (4 Iraqis and 12 Uzbeks) have enjoyed the benefit until 2019. * R-Bank is a program for repairing/reforming rehabilitation assistive equipment for handicapped children who have Invitation and operation of Uzbek patients with cardiac disease outgrown them and then leasing them to other children. (Nov., 2019) Better Energy, Better World 59 Dissemination of Onnuri culture of sharing Creating In line with the Korean government’s policy, KOGAS is realizing social values by creating jobs through social contribution programs. We come up with social contribution “innovative and programs by finding out the needs of the beneficiaries through the local network with inclusive jobs” the local government, community welfare center, etc. and creating jobs through such with win-win programs. Our representative job creation programs include the construction academy program and job creation program for senior citizens. The program supporting un<Goal 5> <Goal 8> management married single mothers is also connected with the job creation programs. In addition, gender equality Guaranteeing and strengthening sustainable economic KOGAS is contributing to the creation of jobs in the local community and revitalizing the ability of all growth, good-quality the local economy by strengthening the competitiveness of social enterprises. women and girls jobs, and employment Program Job Activities Performance 2018 2019 Senior Academy (Senior citizens) Short-term, regular jobs Disinfecting the Toy Library 21 Producing baskets for toy rental Toy Library (Women who stopped working, unmarried single mothers) Exclusive workers for the Toy Library (5 hrs/day) 6 25 Working while taking care of children Jobs producing baskets for toy rental in the Toy Library Construction (Homeless people) Teaching skills and arranging jobs Arranging jobs in connection with the heat efficiency improvement 15 17 Academy project following mental education to practice the will for rehabilitation and training on construction skills Relief Factory No. 1 (Vulnerable social group) Regular jobs for self-reliance Assistant jobs at the HACCP-certified cooking common workshop 7 11 Hiring social workers Offering sustainable good-quality social contribution works Supplementing exclusive manpower for the heat efficiency 2 improvement project Total 28 76 Creating jobs for homeless individuals and those who live in compact rooms KOGAS is operating the “Onnuri Construction Academy,” which is designed to offer jobs to homeless people and those who live in compact rooms after teaching them various construction-related skills for free. The trainees learn skills like carpentry, wallpapering, laying linoleum, waterproofing, and insulating, after which they are offered jobs or supported in business foundation to become economically independent. In 2019, we produced 44 trainees through the cool roof construction project, heat efficiency improvement project in the Daegu region, etc. and successfully arranged jobs for 17 trainees. Laying the groundwork for the self-reliance of senior citizens, unmarried single mothers, etc. Opening ceremony of the Relief Factory’s shop No. 2 (Dec. 2019) KOGAS supported senior citizens in learning cleaning, disinfecting, and sewing Strengthening the competitiveness of social enterprises skills in the “Onnuri Senior Academy” for employment. We also provided unmarKOGAS opened shop No. 1 of the Relief Factory* in December 2018 with ried single mothers with employment training as well as mental and emotional the participation of 6 social economy enterprises and contributed to education. In 2019, we created jobs for 21 senior citizens by conducting cleaning the revitalization of the local economy by creating jobs in the commuof the toys in the Onnuri Toy Library two or three times a month and producing nity and fostering social enterprises. In December 2019, we held the baskets that will be used for toy rental. On the other hand, a total of 17 unmarried business agreement signing ceremony with the consortium of Daegu single mothers were taught how to sew, and the toy rental basket and souvenirs Metropolitan City and Nam-gu District of Daegu as well as a social café produced by the trainees were sold to the Toy Library of KOGAS so that they could for a common brand and the launching show of the common brand for have jobs and the groundwork for economic self-reliance could be established. the promotion of the Relief Factory’s shop No. 2. This shop is a common * KOGAS opened the first Onnuri Toy Library in 2014 in the building of the General Welfare Center in Dong-gu, Daegu, and it is operating Toy Libraries in 8 locations regions as of the production facility of the social economy food cluster. Based on the end of 2019. agreement, we created the Apsan Happiness Community Platform with Relief Factory’s shop No. 2 and established a mutual cooperation system for the promotion of the social café common brand and the community business. We will continue to contribute to the revitalization of the local economy and the creation of jobs by strengthening the competitiveness of the social economy enterprises in the community. * The Relief Factory is a project implemented by KOGAS to support the social economy. The project supports the growth of the social economy consortium related to the food business into an upper market (public and large markets) by providing a HACCP-certified Launching ceremony of the Onnuri Senior Academy (July 2019) common workshop. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 60 Strategies for With young people continuing to have a hard time finding jobs, the issue of job creation has become an important part of government policies. KOGAS has set “KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society” as its vision for job creation to realize job creation social values through the creation of good-quality jobs. We are implementing the job creation task in connection with our midand long-term management strategies, aiming to create 90,000 good-quality jobs by 2025. In 2019 in particular, we changed our goal from creating indirect jobs to “direct jobs” in order to encourage the creation of good-quality jobs in the private sector. Job Vision “KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society” Job Goal Creating 90,000 good-quality jobs by 2025 3 strategic Creating a better working Creating a better working Creating more jobs directions environment environment 8 major job ・Creating jobs based on our ・Fair and equal system operation ・Strengthening cooperation with tasks business ・Improving the working SMEs ・Creating jobs in the environmentenvironment ・Expanding the local energy welfare friendly energy field ・Minimizing non-regular workers ・Activating the social economy 12 strategic 1-1 Expand manpower for 3-1 Strengthen fair recruitment 6-1 Mutual growth with small and tasks new facilities and facility 3-2 Expand equal jobs medium partner companies reinforcement 4-1 Secure proper manpower 6-2 Joint advancement into 1-2 Create jobs in the private sector 4-2 Create a flexible, safe working downstream business private related to overseas projects environment enterprises 2-1 Expand manpower for the 5-1 Change non-regular workers 7-1 Community social contribution convergence energy business to regular positions at an activities 2-2 Create jobs in the new appropriate time 7-2 Implement local win-win projects infrastructure business 5-2 Form consensus between labor 8-1 Foster social enterprises and management and improve 8-2 Support the creation of workers’ treatment customized jobs Upgrading the job creation system Establishment of job networks KOGAS is upgrading the job creation system by establishing job networks together with experts, citizens, and cooperation 122 organizations. In particular, we continue to make efforts for job creation by collecting the opinions of the People’s Participation Group composed of the Win-Win Cooperation Committee, Onnuri Committee, and Innovation Group by Citizens’ networks Participation and consulting with the cooperation organizations of the community and the gas industry. In 2019, we did (networks for the creation of jobs in our best to create good-quality jobs by establishing differentiated job creation strategies such as clarifying the concept of the gas industry including production, the working period of employees, providing direct jobs for simple construction laborers, establishing the standard for insupply, overseas projects, etc. of gas) novative jobs by supporting business foundation and SMEs, and creating various types of inclusive jobs. 8 networks (networks for the creation of inclusive Establishing the standard for innovative and inclusive jobs Clarifying the concept of Providing direct jobs for Establishing the standard for Creating various types of community jobs according to the the “working period of “simple construction “innovative jobs” by supporting “inclusive jobs” needs of senior citizens, homeless employees” laborers” business foundation and SMEs people, etc.) • ( Before) Limiting direct jobs • A  chieving the creation of • R eflecting the standard of the • D  iscovering jobs reflecting to those who have worked direct jobs for simple laborers Ministry of SMEs and Startups the needs of beneficiaries for over 6 months and 0% delayed payment for the performance in job related to age, class, and • (After) Converting the of wages for subcontractors creation by business foundation employment type (Senior working period of service using the wage payment (business foundation contest, Academy, Construction workers who have worked register and subscription to attraction of investment by Academy, flexible work hour for over 3 months into “one health insurance supporting the exploration of system, etc.) year” overseas sales channels, result of sales contracts, etc.) Better Energy, Better World 61 Efforts to create Creating an environment for job sharing KOGAS is creating various kinds of jobs using reasonable human resource management methods such as management good-quality jobs of the gap between the quota of employees and number of present personnel and improvement of working methods. We especially continue to create jobs by accurately analyzing the status of the gap between the quota of employees and number of present personnel and actively expanding replacement employment. We are also creating an environment for job sharing by improving working methods with flexible working, the work hour choice system, shift working, etc. In 2019, Expanding intern jobs for we hired 205 experience-type interns through job sharing, and 4 of them entered the company through open recruitment. 205 young people In addition, we provided information about possible job opportunities in a timely manner by holding several explanatory sessions before the job application season, newly participated in the job fair for the handicapped, and expanded participation in the events held by universities to strengthen young people’s employment competitiveness. jobs (80% increase from the previous year Communication efforts in the process of converting non-regular workers into regular workers (114 jobs)) In August 2018, KOGAS finalized the 9 job types that would be converted into regular positions including cleaning, security, and facility maintenance through conflict settlement by the mediation of external experts. In October of the same year, we newly established the prior examination organization with the participation of the labor union in order to prevent excessively employing non-regular workers. In 2019, we Replacement employment for prepared the plan to improve the treatment of workers by collecting their opinions on pending issues in each type of work and conditions of 49 those on long-term leave treatment for 21 times. We are continuing to make efforts to reach an agreement on controversial matters regarding the method of conversion. KOGAS will continue to do its best to come up with an optimal method to convert non-regular workers into regular workers by collecting the overall opinions of stakeholders using various channels with the Labor-Management Experts’ Council and other hands-on meetings. workers (60% increase from the previous year 01 Communication desk Fact-finding survey upon work type ・(Contents of consultation) Opinion collection and reply arrangement (Feb. 2019~, 21 times) ⇨ Improvement feedback referring to the workers opinions (30 workers)) 02 Earnest consideration Founding / operating ‘work-level ・(Work-level council) As a sub-organization of Labor-Management Experts’ on treatment council’ Council, deals with the work level components in priority such as income, improvement (Aug. 2019~, 4 times) improve of treatment, etc. ⇨ Presents the agreements to the experts' council 03 In-depth considration Founding / operating work-level ・mprovement measure in accordance with the characteristics of the work council upon work type (Aug. 2019~, types ⇨ Active dicussion on income, retirement, or contract type 7 times) Creating jobs based on the business of KOGAS Creation of jobs in all KOGAS is actively creating jobs in connection with its business such as the natural gas infrastructure construction business business areas and oil and gas field development projects. In 2019, we created 4,296 direct jobs related to the projects in Mozambique, Prelude of Australia, Zubair and Badra in Iraq, etc. We expect to be able to create 148 direct jobs for the next 8 years by 3,081 jobs (2018) receiving new orders in the overseas LNG bunkering business. Meanwhile, as a result of our efforts to create new jobs in all 6,080 business areas including the domestic production and supply facilities construction areas and execution of new R&D projects, we created 6,080 direct jobs in 2019, a 97% increase compared to the previous year. jobs (2019) Performance in job creation in the private sector Value chain About the jobs Performance in job creation in 2019 Direct Indirect Total jobs jobs Overseas upstream ・Site manpower related to the construction of Mozambique FLNG equipment in Korean shipyards 4,296 1,389 5,685 (development. etc.) ・Insurance contracts for overseas construction projects for FLNG facilities in Australia and Mozambique (KRW 2.6 billion in 5 countries) Overseas ・Designer, manager, and site manpower from subcontractors for the LNG terminal in Kuwait 656 656 downstream (infra) Domestic infra ・Site manpower of original contractor and subcontractors related to the construction of tanks and supply pipelines 542 5,670 6,212 (production, supply) ・Construction and extension work of production and supply facilities Safety ・(Safety) Evaluation of the level of safety culture, establishment of business continuity management 197 708 905 systems (BCMS), etc. ・Separation of terminals in the capital area, open maintenance of LNG tanks, pipeline relocation work, etc. ・(Environment) Consulting and research manpower to respond to the Emission Trading Scheme LNG transport ・Manpower for the operation of two transport ships to Jeju and production of Korean-type cargo tanks (KC-1) 423 633 ・Building 2 small vessels (Jeju 1 & 2) (Applying vessel price*progress rate) R&D, New projects ・Manpower for the operation of 20 hydrogen stations, technical development and research of new 210 2963 3,077 growth businesses, etc. ・Establishment of hydrogen infrastructure, EERS 3D underground exploration, development of drones exclusively for pipeline patrol, etc. Inclusion and ・Senior Academy, Toy Library, Construction Academy support projects, etc. 114 122 187 innovation ・(Inclusion) Heat efficiency improvement project, etc. (Innovation) Supporting business fund for SMEs Total (increase from the previous year) 6,080 8,608 14,688 (2,999↑) (3,537↑) (6,536↑) KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 62 HAPPY ENERGY ENJOYING TOGETHER BUSINESS RELEVANCE OUR APPROACH With the onset of the 2000s, Korea has witnessed the deepening of income We try to ensure that employees can find work-life balance through steps bipolarization and a sharp rise in energy prices, and the conditions for including maternity protection, support for childcare, and flexible work energy consumption by less-privileged individuals worsened. In 2007, the schedules. We also make an effort to hire new employees through a transgovernment started running programs designed to provide such people parent, fair process and foster a desirable corporate culture through fair with energy support in the form of an energy efficiency improvement proevaluation/compensation, improvement in health/working environment, gram, price discount, and energy voucher. We believe that it is necessary to and reinforcement of human resources management. Further, we do our continue to pay attention and provide support by grasping people’s needs best to enhance the level of satisfaction felt by people through service innoto reduce energy blind spots. vations that consider people’s diverse needs and fulfill our social responsiWe are living in a new era -the rigid organizational culture of asking embilities by charging reduced fees for the less-privileged and providing energy ployees for endless sacrifice is long gone. In the current era, a rise in busiwelfare that has no energy blind spots. We are subject to the government’s ness efficiency can be expected when individual employees feel happy and annual management evaluation including organizational/personnel mansatisfied with their daily lives. Businesses strive to attract human resources agement, labor-management relations, communication with people, etc. by offering conditions favored by employees in terms of welfare, work-life We establish performance indicators, objectives, and the like concerning balance, opportunities for self-development, etc. our strategic tasks and continue to manage them diligently. 2019 KEY PERFORMANCES Level of satisfaction with work-life Labor-management commuCustomers have rated “good” balance nication index their level of satisfaction (PCSI) 81.9 Unit: points 71.5 Unit: points with KOGAS as for four years in a row. (93.8 points) OUR TARGET INNOVATION OBJECTIVE IN 2024 ・Making the organizational culture Organizational Number of employees who passed Level of customers’ more efficient; open-minded culture overall index the capability evaluation satisfaction culture taking root ・Communication efforts welcoming customers’ participation; expansion of universal energy 94.6 85 S grade welfare Organizational culture overall index The number above equals the = Level of satisfaction with the organization + Level of percentage of officers who pass the satisfaction with result management + Level of integrity leadership capability evaluation. evaluation + Corporate culture index + Knowledge management result index Better Energy, Better World 63 INFORMATION SECURITY Information Promotion of proactive Information security strategy In connection with the increasing cyber threat including disclosure of personal information, we do our best to enhance our security risk reliability in this field by continuing to upgrade the level of our information security. We are undertaking this in a way that management befits a leading public energy business in an effort to provide safe service. We have established a personal information management system, and we are taking steps to strengthen our relevant infrastructure and capability for proactively coping with any contingency situation. In order to systematically manage our company’s cyber security strategy process, Senior Executive Vice President of Safety Technology among the executives with IT-related experience plays the role of Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) with related departments and divisions put under his direct control. Security Operation of a zero-defect information security system that allows zero cybersecurity objective incidences with 24/7 readiness to proactively cope with any contingency Directions Back to basics in information Full attention to watertight All-out guard against threats protection self-security Promotional Strengthening the personal Strengthening the information Strengthening the capability for coping strategies information management system security infrastructure with information security contingencies Focal points ・Securing safety in each stage of ・Strengthening the omnidirectional ・Strengthening customized feedback protection of the business network personnel security capability ・Removing loopholes ・Sophistication of the control network vulnerability management system Performance Not lower than 90 points in MOI’s Not lower than 90 points in MOTIE’s Rated “good” in MOTIE-initiated indicators diagnosis vulnerability evaluation contingency training Monitoring Meetings to analyze the information Evaluation by vulnerability checking Check of results by the relevant ⇆ ⇆ protection-related major business teams and outside experts managing directors Strengthening the information security infrastructure Time required for coping We block factors that threaten our internal system using an information security system that is updated regularly. We with/taking steps against cyber threats have adopted a physical network separation method -replacing the software-based method -along with the Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (WIPS) in all operation units. We have adopted the watermark system for Digital Restrictions Management (DRM), printed matter-related security, and installed threat detection systems in 15 relevant devices including 8.16 hours in ‘18 mail servers. These are examples of what we do to maintain a 24/7 defense against intrusions and threats. Further, we are strengthening the management of vulnerabilities in the control network. We garnered the highest rating in an evaluation of infrastructure security conducted by outside institutions in recognition of the security measures we have taken in the 5.43 (33% reduction) hours in ‘19 establishment of the control system. Strengthening capability for information security We are training security experts (called white hackers) using in-house education tools and strengthening our cyber security capability, taking part in the MOTIE-initiated exercise against malicious emails. We have employees adopt cybersecurity as part of their business lives and take steps to strengthen the face-to-face education for shift workers. We also have our subcontractors regard cybersecurity as part of their obligations throughout the work period. Thanks to such watertight cybersecurity, we received a prize from the Trade/Industry/Energy Minister for garnering the highest score in the 2019 Cybersecurity Technology Contest. [Strengthening the personal information management system ] With regard to personal information occurring in the course of business, we make it a rule to process them safely with the application of information security technology and proceDiagnosis of personal information management dures throughout the entire process from collection to destruction. We collect personal inlevel formation to the minimum possible extent under the law and keep them in encoded form. In the process of using them, we apply omnidirectional control such as no unauthorized access, preprocessing system of one-way encoding, etc. We operate a system that can destroy unnecessary information immediately upon checking. In 2019, we deleted 880,000 87 points in ‘18 cases of unnecessary personal information. We also held customized cybersecurity education sessions for the relevant employees on a total of 59 occasions. We strive to strengthen our personal information management capability by checking the status from time to time 97.79 points in ‘19 (in the evaluation of 778 and having violators attend a session of additional training. As a result of such efforts, not a institutions nationwide) single case of personal information leaks to unauthorized parties occurred in 2019. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 64 REINFORCING HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Fostering a We strive to foster an organizational culture that encourages work-life balance with the adoption of a flexible work system and by improving our business processes so that the 52-hour workweek can take root. We have adopted a flexible work system along with meacorporate culture sures for maternity protection and baby care-at-work hours. We also strive to realize an organizational culture that makes employees as a great happy, including strengthening education linked to the company’s core values and expansion of opportunities for self-development. workplace Ways of promoting work-life balance Tasks for Strengthening measures for maternity Improvement of the flexible Putting an end to the practice execution in protection and baby care support work system of long work hours the direction of ˙Expansion of support encouraging ˙Adoption of the Core Time system ˙Readjustment of human resources promotion childbirth ˙Expansion/Diversification of flex time types arrangement for balance in work volume ˙Improvement of the childcare leave ˙Setting guidelines for flex time ˙Improvement of the corporate culture system with the CEO encouraging employees ˙Preferential treatment of employees to use the leave they earned and leave seeking transfer to another position to tak work on time care of an infant Performance ˙Result of using childcare leave ˙Percentage of employees using flex time ˙Percentage of employees using their ˙Result of male employees using childcare ˙Level of satisfaction with flex time annual leave indicators leave ˙Level of satisfaction with work-life balance Continued maternity protection and childcare support All employees Male employees using childcare using childcare We are expanding support for childbirth and childcare in compliance with the government’s policy of encouraging childbirth and to estableave leave lish an organizational culture for work-life balance. We have added a leave of absence for checking the status of the fetus (2 days a month), 5.6% 43.8% for treatment of subfertility (3 days a year), and for infant care (10 days a year). Additionally, KOGAS has provided additional daycare facilities y-o-y y-o-y to previous benefits like the reduction of work hours during pregnancy, and payment of childbirth support money to reduce our employees’ increase increase burden as they raise their children. Meanwhile, employees may use childcare leave for up to 3 years regardless of gender and split the leave 75 71 period on and off as they wish, which is a result of improving the relevant system. As for employees returning to work after childcare leave, they may also continue to work at the previous department for at least one year, which is part of our organizational culture that considers 16 23 such employees. The CEO himself -through the in-house PA System or e-bulletin board -also encourages employees to leave work on time on Family Love day (once a month) and use their annual leave as part of the effort to realize work-life balance. 2018 2019 2018 2019 Unit: persons Unit: persons Improvement of the flex time system in a way that enhances employees’ concentration on work We implement flex time, and our employees are allowed to adjust their work hours freely within the scope permitted by the company to meet their specific requirements such as child/family care, self-development, or long commutes to and from work. We have adopted a wide variety of work systems such as the flex time work system, alternative work schedule, compressed work system, smart work Rate of utilizing Level of flex time satisfaction with system, etc. to expand the scope of selection for employees instead of requiring them to follow the designated hours and places of flex time work. In 2019, we adopted the core time system in a bid to foster the work environment for interdepartmental cooperation, along with an alternative work schedule system that allows commuting employees who live far away to leave work at 2:00 PM on Friday. We have 88.3 82.9 found that such flexible work systems help employees manage work hours more efficiently and concentrate on their work. 79.2 80.4 Concentrated time (exiting) Core time (new) (Contents) During a designated time segment of the day, (Contents) Business reports/Inter-departmental meetings should employees are made to refrain from using messenger /phone to be arranged to be conducted at a designated time segment of the 2018 2019 2018 2019 promote concentration on the work day Unit : % Unit : points 8:00 9:30 10:30 12:00 13:00 16:00 19:30 Flexible Time Concentrated Time Core Time Lunch Time Core Time Flexible Time Putting an end to the practice of working long hours We strive to readjust the number of employees at departments where the workload is much heavier or lighter than others to avoid chronic long work hours at some departments. In 2019, we increased the number of employees by 21.4% for 15 departments whose workload is heavier than others in an effort to alleviate their workload. We operate an annual leave saving system that allows employees to save their days of annual leave up to eight days and use their entire annual leave of 15 to 25 days earned altogether toward the year-end. We continue to strive to foster an organizational culture that allows employees to consider KOGAS a great workplace. To that end, we encourage employees to take greater interest in their in-house club activities and take part in cultural sessions like the KOGAS Forum, special lectures, mini-concerts, and programs for building mental health with the help of experts. Better Energy, Better World 65 NonAt KOGAS, our ideal employees are those striving to be an authority in their field, ready to face the challenging future, to lead others through change, to collaborate with colleagues, and to realize success through cooperation. We base our perdiscriminatory sonnel management on such factors. working Transparency and fairness in the recruitment of employees environment In the recruitment of employees, we focus on their potential rather than factors like age, academic background, major, or hometown. In other words, we rely on blind recruitment and stress fairness and transparency, adopting the National Competency Standards (NCS) for customized employment. We operate a system for auditing the entire process of recruitment to thoroughly prevent irregularities. We strive to hire the disabled, those who have provided distinguished service to the country, and locals with special talents. In 2019, the Talented employees from number of disabled we hired increased outside the Greater Seoul Area 7.2-fold year-on-year to 43 (3.97%) in excess of the mandatory obligation that public corporations must meet. We strive to 51.6 lead others in training locals with talents in cooperation with local governments and universities. In 2019, those hired from outside the Greater Seoul Area and locals reached 49.1% and 17.1%, respectively, exceeding the mandatory obligation (35% 49.5 and 21%) placed on public corporations. 47 206 * Rate of employees from Daegu compared to Mandatory recruitment : 26.1% (standard: 21%) 144 Rate of non-capital areas employees:49.1% (standard 35%) 71 Fair evaluation and compensation We try to operate a fair compensation system through the rational allocation of results centered on work value. In 2019, we reestablished the system of organizational structure centered on work and turned our work management system into a more sophisticated one to create an employee evaluation system based on work. Through such new arrangements, the 2017 2018 2019 ratio(%) employees(persons) realm of work value has been reflected more widely in the compensation system. This is evident in the graded payment of allowances to places of work based on the level of difficulty and improvement in work-related compensation for employees with plural assignments. We strive to provide employees with equal opportunities and reasonable remuneration as well as the same welfare benefits regardless of gender and academic background. We make it a rule to observe all the Percentage of high school relevant laws and regulations including the Labor Standards Act and the Act on the Equal Employment for Both Sexes and graduates among those hired pay equal wages for work of equal value for all employees regardless of gender. 18 Improvement in healthcare and the work environment 11 16 We operate a comprehensive healthcare system for employees to realize our goal of being an enjoyable and healthy work48 42 place. Together with SNU Hospital, we conducted a questionnaire-based survey among all employees to help them relieve work-related mental stress in 2019. We also had outside exercise specialists run a 12-week program for building employees’ basic physical strength. Moreover, we checked what our employees wanted concerning the improvement of in-house 27 facilities. We installed Braille signs on stairs/bathrooms and parking spaces for pregnant women in response to employees’ opinions. We will continue to improve the work environment so that employees can work in a safer and more pleasant 2017 2018 2019 workplace. ratio(%) employees(persons) Creation of an organization culture free of discrimination We strive to eliminate factors of unreasonable discrimination against women, high school graduates, indefinite-term contract employees, employees hired for special duties, etc. and provide adequate treatment for them. High school graduate High school graduate employees are given a self-initiated opportunity to apply for a change in assignment and continue their studies in college. employees earning We also pay for their college tuition, assign them to a job that allows them to attend college at the same time, and allow college diplomas them to work under a flextime arrangement. With regard to the need for equal opportunity for both genders, we operate 23 the Gender Equality Committee and personnel system without discrimination. We try to foster a work environment that encourages women to continue working by providing measures like childcare leave, in-house daycare facilities, and pref(in 2019) erential treatment in promotion opportunities. As a result, the ratio of females to both existing and newly hired employees (cf. 6 in ’17; 14 in ’18) and manager-level employees has increased. Beyond that, we continue to improve treatment for female employees, hold leadership education sessions for them, and listen to opinions on improving the relevant system through surveys and informal meetings held at different levels of workplaces. We will continue to work on fostering an organizational culture characterized by equality and zero discrimination. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 66 Strengthening Training female leaders/experts We operate a roadmap for training female managers and experts. We take extraordinary steps to train female candidates human resources for directors by assigning them to core duties, raise the percentage of female members in the promotion committee, and management provide an advantage to women when they compete with men for a higher position to increase the percentage of female managers. As a result, the percentage of women among those promoted to low-level management positions (chajang) increased twofold year-on-year in 2019. Likewise, women in their third year of service for KOGAS were appointed as team leaders under the plan to train them as future managers. The recent rearrangement of our employee education system Percentage of female included the launch of a class of Young Professionals. There were also new female employees promoted to Gr. 1 positions low-level managers (chajang) (cheojang)*, and female managers were assigned to core duties as part of the effort to realize the goal of gender equality in the organization. 5.6 % in 2018 *Percentage of women in Gr. 1 positions (cheojang): 22% Realization of win-win labor-management relations 10.7 % in 2019 We reestablished our strategy for the development of labor-management relations with a focus on the need for win-win cooperation and on putting social values into practice in a bid to build more desirable relations between the two sides. Of particular note is that we designated 2019 as the first year of win-win labor-management relations with an emphasis on workers’ safety and respect for workers. In 2019, representatives of employees and management signed a renewed agreement in recognition of the need to jointly pursue social values. The agreement includes clauses concerning respect for workers, realization of social values, fostering of a safe work environment, enhancement of safety levels in facilities, respect for human rights, work-life balance, etc. Thanks to such efforts, the level of the realization of social values was raised to 78.4 points in 2019 from 76.4 in 2018. We will continue to pursue future values shared by both sides, build more desirable labor-management relations, and foster an energized organizational culture. Better Energy, Better World 67 Programs for training talented employees We formulate strategies for the development of human resources as those who will play a leading role in the energy industry in the future and operate the relevant programs based on our strategic objectives and employees’ needs. We strive to build KOGAS’s business promotion capability by strengthening our capability and expertise as a world-class company and encourage employees to take the initiative to learn. We also foster a desirable organizational culture through the substantiation of our core/social values. Under the annual plans formulated from a mid-term perspective, employees strive to enhance their work capability and improve the educational environment. Employee education carried out in 2019 in each field of capability Strategic direction Results of promotion of education Expected effects Strengthening Future growth ・Launch of Training Programs for Industry 4.0 including Training a pool of human resources designed expertise Hydrogen, LNG Bunkering and Fuel Cells to build the new growth sector infrastructure -3 5 persons for 8 short-term courses and 4 persons for 3 longlinked to the launch of a new organization term courses Overseas ・ELaunch of the E&P/liquefaction expert course Diagnosis of business capability for independent operation -63 employees in 16 resource development courses; operation 36 employees in 5 liquefaction courses 82.3% in ’18 → 86.6% in ‘19 Safety ・Expansion of safety education including a basic course in Enhancement of the safety culture disaster safety and EHSW working-level knowledge of onsite 7.51/10 points in ’18 → 7.63/10 points in ‘19 business -2 29 employees in 31 courses in ’18 → 316 employees in 51 courses in ‘19 Strengthening Short-term ・Launch of a professional language course including the Education of locals engaged in the global Commissioning Class in Kuwait (265 employees in 27 classes) commissioning service in Kuwait (US$2.1 mil.) capability -E xecution of 3 overseas OJT courses including LNG Trading, LNG Plant, etc. Long-term ・Expansion of overseas expert courses like Resource Economy, Equal to TOEIC-S (lv.7), OPic (IH) or higher MBA (Finance; Energy), etc. -155 employees in ’18 → 187 employees in ‘19 ・8 employees in 8 fields in ’18 → 11 employees in 10 fields in ‘19 Sophistication Online course ・Provision of a platform for attending lectures using PC and Increase of people acquiring qualification of the roundmobile device simultaneously certifications ((52%↑) the-clock -2 ,387 courses in ’18 → 2,607 courses including energy -99 employees in ’18 → 150 employees in ‘19 learning management engineer, etc. in ‘19 (8.4% ↑) system Work ・Adoption of full-time lecturers for design/work education (four Provision of systematic education guidelines education selected in May ’19) -29 common courses; 346 professional courses Fostering Ability to cope ・Improvement of the ability to cope with climate change Level of observance of core values (1.5%↑) a desirable with climate through phased education on change management -87.6 points in ’18 → 88.9 points in ‘19 organizational change ・First (all employees) online education (4,066 employees) culture → Second (department-level) core values workshop (2,188 employees) → Third (manager) course for those who were promoted (275 employees) Social values ・Development of a standard education text designed to Improvement in the level of understanding cooperate with LH, K-Water, KRC → Measuring the level of social values substantiation after online education development/execution -4.35/5 points (measured for the first time) (3,812 employees completed the course) Human rights・Education in four courses including Officers’ human rightsIn-house diagnosis of level of human rights friendliness related leadership (7.5%p↑) -9 ,322 employees completed the course in ’18 → 12,100 -82.1% in ’18 → 89.6% in ‘19 employees in ’19 (23%↑) KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 68 STRENGTHENING CRM Promotion of Our customers include all those receiving our service directly and indirectly, including urban gas businesses as well as individuals. As a leading public energy business, we carry out service innovation activities that reflect the diverse needs of the strategies to public. In 2019, we launched the Marketing Planning Department, established two departments in charge of the individual innovate services fee system, and built an integrated structure encompassing raw material procurement, price design, and sales management to provide a customer-centered, one-stop service. for the public System of service innovation for the public KOGAS rated “good” in the Corporate Public-service Customer Better Energy, Better World philosophy Satisfaction Index (PCSI) 4 Vision Next Energy, with KOGAS for years in a row Integrity and Publicness Growth potential Social values efficiency PCSI Innovation Creation of 20,000 direct jobs Lowering supply cost by objectives Integrity level: Grade 1 3.6 tril. won (’19 – ‘23) Development of 200 innovation SMEs 93.8 89.6 88.8 Direction of Playing a leading role in the Social values-centered Enhancement of the promotion goal of an innovative country operation public’s trust that embraces people 1. Strengthening the publicness 3. Playing a leading role in the 6. Positive administration and Top 8 tasks to of our inherent business invigoration of the economy organizational operation KOGAS Energy Average of be promoted / Core and job creation Core 18 tasks to be group all public Tasks Tasks 1-1. Economical and stable supply of natural 3-1. Creating growth engines; increase in 6-1. Dissemination of positive administration average institutions executed gas investment 6-2. Improvement of the business process and 1-2.  Safety first in the operation of the 3-2. Job creation and improvement of job organizational culture Unit: points institution quality 1-3. Improvement of the environment through the new energy industry 1-4. Encouraging people to consume energy 4. Support for innovative growth 7. Strengthening transparent/ethical rationally Core management Tasks 4-1. Establishment of the LNG industry ecosystem 7-1. Putting upright/ethical management into practice 4-2. Development of innovative SMEs 7-2. Realization of social equity in personnel 2. Strengthening the provision of affairs through transparent systems embracing public service 5. Laying the basis for a fair economy 8. P eople’s participation and 2-1 Expansion of energy welfare by eliminating contribution to the local community energy blind spots 2-2. Provision of better service to people using new technologies 5-1. Leading others in fair transactions 8-1. Ensuring people’s real participation 5-2. Strengthening win-win cooperation with 8-2. Contribution to the development of the SMEs local community Finding solutions to joint pending issues for win-win relations with customers We do our best for Customer Satisfaction Management through communication with our customers. We strive to operate channels of communication like workshops, informal meetings, and Customer Service Committee to provide better service to customers including urban gas businesses, power plants, and local governments. We analyze the content of voice of customers (VOC) to check matters that need to be improved. We do our best to realize the satisfaction felt by the people -who are our end users -through joint marketing activities with urban gas businesses. We also promoted the cooperative business of getting access to gas devices and attempted to develop CSV (creating shared value)-type demands by donating dryers to military installations and fuel cells to welfare facilities. We carried out a safety check of 123 tank lorry customers to help small-sized customer businesses use gas more safely. As a result of such efforts, we were rated “good” in the government’s customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2019 as in the preceding three years, befitting a business adopting the slogan “customer-centered management.” Acquiring SQ certification In December 2019, we acquired Service Quality (SQ) certification from the Korea Association for Service (KOAS), a certification institution under the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy (MOTIE), following the one in 2016. Thus, we became the first domestic public energy business to acquire the certification twice. We garnered high scores in seven areas (i.e., leaderCertification as an excellent company ship, service quality management strategy, customer information system, customer contact point service operation manin Standard Service Quality for 2 years in a row (Dec. 2019) agement, human resources and organization management, effective use of resources, and service management result). Better Energy, Better World 69 Active Realization of energy welfare without blind spots We try to find people who fail to benefit from energy welfare in a bid to spread welfare to a wider range of people. We intecommunication grated the government’s welfare database and urban gas businesses’ customer information databases into one. Together with customers with urban gas businesses, we paid a visit to all individual end-users to establish a national welfare network without loopholes. Thus, we set up a one-stop service system, as a result of which welfare facilities benefitting from gas fee reductions and alleviation of increased by 17% year on year to a total of 27,524 in 2019. people’s energy Welfare network without loopholes price burden Urban gas Database of urban Exploration of businesses gas customers 8,000 facilities Integrated management not getting the system concerning the benefit of gas fee Database of welfare reductions Government reduction of gas fees facilities Providing gas fee reductions to households suffering from natural disaster Support for typhoon-stricken We strive to alleviate people’s financial burden concerning energy expenses by operating our business more efficiently. 3,646 areas by fee relief Further, we help households suffering from a natural disaster like an earthquake or typhoon by lowering their gas fees. We accepted the government’s proposal to postpone the collection of urban gas fees for three months, starting in April of this households year, as part of the nationwide effort to overcome COVID-19. We could afford room for such maneuverability thanks to the efficiency of our operations including the lowering of natural (For a household whose house was destroyed completely: reduction of gas import prices based on our world-class purchasing power. KRW 12,400/month; For a household whose house was 50% destroyed: Enhanced level of customer satisfaction through the reflection of people’s opinions reduction of KRW 6,000/month) We provide programs like open exhibitions inviting people’s participation so that a wide range of people’s voices may be reflected in overall management in the hope that they will lead to innovative results. In 2019, we held a session for the selection of new business based on new ideas submitted during an international music festival in Daegu. We decided to consider “the business of providing the right of transportation to less-privileged people through a program for providing 99% environment-friendly vehicles,” which was selected from among a total of 84 ideas submitted. We also hold the Open 270 Contest for KOGAS Publicizing Contents each year to publicize the importance of natural gas and have an opportunity to communicate with the people. The transparency of its judging process was enhanced with the public’s participation. The prize-winning pieces are used for the PR of KOGAS at our PR halls and social media channels. 8.4 [Provision of a round-the-clock consulting service] In the Open Contest for Ideas Suggested for KOGAS’s Innovation, which was held in order to reflect good ideas contributed by the public in our overall management, an entry titled Invigoration of Communication and Participation through 2018 2019 Unpaid gas fee KOGAS’s Chatbot Service won first place. Our chatbot service was started in December 2019 with the name KOBOT (Unit : KRW billion) through our homepage. As a dialog-based system designed to understand the user’s intention with AI, KOBOT is used to provide a round-the-clock consulting service in response to people’s requests for information. At present, it remains at the infancy stage, but we will continue to improve its functions to enhance the level of customers’ satisfaction by enhancing communication with our customers. Background · Request for a customized service in response to people’s frequent requests for information of · Seeking to enhance the efficiency of consulting business and level of customer’s satisfaction with promotion the adoption of an AI-based channel for communication Existing features Hiring-related FAQs Urban gas-related inquiries in Hiring-related FAQs Major regions contents Searching the homepage Phone/Retrieval (average of Homepage for the PR Hall 157.5 cases a month) Improvements Implementation of KOBOT, an interactive chatbot that understands the user's intention to be made Roadmap Dec. ‘19 ’20 – ’21 ’22 – ‘ 25 (period of expansion) (period of deepening) Opening the service for (External) + (Simple internal business Customized service KOBOT people such as business trips) recommended SUSTAINABILITY FACT BOOK AS A LEADING PUBLIC COMPANY, KOGAS IS COMMITTED TO FULFILLING ITS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES BY OPERATING A SOUND CORPORATE G OV E R N A N C E ST R U CT U R E , P R O M OT I N G A DVA N C E D E T H I C A L MANAGEMENT, AND REALIZING HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT THAT PAYS KEEN INTEREST TO THE WELLBEING OF THE SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED. FURTHERMORE, WE ARE STRIVING TO STRENGTHEN OUR COMPETITIVENESS IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT THROUGH PRE-EMPTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT DEALING WITH OUR NON-FINANCIAL ASPECTS AS EFFECTIVELY, TOO. IN A BID TO INCREASE TRUST IN OUR PERFORMANCE, WE WILL CONTINUE TO DISCLOSE ALL THE RELEVANT INFORMATION GENERATED IN THE COURSE OF CARRYING OUT OUR BUSINESS TRANSPARENTLY. • Governance 72 • Integrity & Ethical Management 74 • Human Rights Management 77 • Risk Management 82 • Stakeholder Engagement 84 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 72 GOVERNANCE Composition/ Composition of BoD KOGAS’s BoD is the highest decision-making body in charge of making decisions on major strategies and policies as well as suOperation of a pervision and provision of management support for pending management issues. We operate the BoD under the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and our Articles of Incorporation. Our BoD is composed of not more than seven standing directors sound Board of including the President and not more than eight non-standing directors, with the number of standing directors being less than half Directors (BoD) of the total number of directors. As of the end of 2019, our BoD is composed of a total of twelve directors, i.e., four standing directors including the President and eight non-standing directors. As a market-type public business, we appoint a senior non-standing director selected through deliberation and a decision by the Ownership Steering Committee as Chairperson of the BoD. At present, the number of our non-standing directors comes to twice that of standing directors. For the past 14 years since 2007, we have secured Status of operation of the Board of Directors the independence of our BoD by electing a non-standing director as its Chairperson. Our independent directors are elected among 65 those with sufficient KOGAS business-related knowledge/experience concerning not only economy, management, and law but 62 also the field of energy including gas under the Guidelines pertaining to the Management of Public Enterprises/Quasi-Government Institutions. In the election of independent directors, we disqualify those who were in an important transaction with KOGAS or any 40 director/employee of KOGAS within the past two years or who worked as an employee for a business competing with KOGAS. 18 16 * (Securing directors’ independence) To strengthen the BoD’s function of checking and enhancing the efficiency of the BoD’s operation, etc., KOGAS’s non-standing directors are not allowed to double as director, executive member, or auditor of another business. The following persons shall not be 14 elected as a non-standing director of KOGAS: one holding shares of a corporation whose total amount of transactions with KOGAS comes to 10% or more of its total amount of assets over the past three business years; one holding shares amounting to 1% or more of said enlisted company’s total number of stocks issued. 2017 2018 2019 Efficient BoD operation No. of meetings No. of agenda The term of office of KOGAS’s President and director/auditor is three and two years, respectively. Two months prior to the end of the held (times) agreed (cases) current term, we hold a session of the Executive Member Recommendation Committee. Those recommended by the committee are finally confirmed annually by the Minister of Strategy/Finance based on deliberation and a decision by the Ownership Steering Committee. Our BoD session is held once a month, with the attendance of 70% of the members in office constituting a quorum. The contents of a BoD session are disclosed through our homepage and the Management Information Disclosure System (www.alio.go.kr) unless they Percentage of directors taking include confidential management information. The passage of an agenda item submitted to a BoD session requires consent of the mapart in BoD sessions jority of those in office. A director who has a special interest in the agenda item being discussed is not allowed to take part in the voting to prevent a conflict of interest. 87.6 81 77.7 Securing BoD members’ diversity In the election of a director, we put no restriction whatsoever including gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, country of origin, or cultural background on the candidates in an effort to secure the diversity of the BoD members under our Articles of Incorporation and the Executive Member Recommendation Committee Regulations. We offer equal opportunities to all who possess sufficient capacity and capability. Most notably, to help increase the percentage of our female executives in the short term, we have added the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to our list of job posting sites for female executive candidates and increased female candidates’ accessibility to our hiring information while maintaining at least more than one female executive in our board of directors at all times. In the longer term, we are doing our best to increase the proportion of our female executives to 20% while striking a balance in our executives’ regional 2017 2018 2019 backgrounds as well. The first female non-standing director was elected in 2018, and the status was maintained in 2019. unit: % BoD composition (As of May 2020) Classification Name Gender Status Term of office Field of expertise/Experience Standing Chae HeeBong M President Jul. 09, 2019 ~ (Industry) Former Division chief at MOCIE directors Jul. 08, 2022 Seong Yeonggyu M Standing Nov. 19, 2019 ~ (Industry) Former Chief of LNG Terminal Division, Former directors Nov. 18, 2021 Chief of Busan and Gyeongnam District Division Lim Jongguk M Jul. 26, 2018 ~ (Industry) Former Chief of KOGAS Overseas Business Division, Jul. 25, 2020 Former Chief of KOGAS LNG Terminal Division Nam Yeongju M Member of the Jan. 13, 2020 ~ (Communication, policy) Former Secretary General, Office of Audit Committee Jan. 12, 2022 the Ombudsman Korea NonHeo Namil M Outside director Jul. 30, 2018 ~ (Management) Professor, Kangnam University; standing Jul. 29, 2020 Former President, KAIBA directors Lee Donghun M Aug. 23, 2018 ~ (Accounting) President, LEE Donghun Accounting Office; Aug. 22, 2020 Former Accountant, Sandong Accounting Office Kim Changil M Aug. 23, 2018 ~ (Law) President, Iru Law Firm; Former Senior Legal Adviser to Aug. 22, 2020 MOLIT Lee Byeonghwa M Oct. 29, 2018 ~ (Economy) Former Professor, Chosun University; Former Oct. 28, 2020 Officer at the Planning and Budget Ministry Kim Euihyeon M Oct. 29, 2018 ~ (Policy) Former Policy researcher, Trade, Industry, SMEs, and Oct. 28, 2020 Startups Committee of the National Assembly Kim Jongcheol M Dec. 04, 2018 ~ (Law; human rights) President, SaeSeoul Law Firm; Former Dec. 03, 2020 Chair, Human Rights Committee of the Korean Bar Association Kim Hyeseon F Dec. 04, 2018 ~ (Policy) Professor, Suncheon National University; Former Dec. 03, 2020 member of the Financial Policy Advisory Committee of MOSF Ahn Hongbok M Nov. 21, 2019 ~ (Accounting) Professor, Keimyung University; Former Vice Nov. 20, 2021 President Korean Association of Tax and Accounting Better Energy, Better World 73 Operation of Subcommittees Stricter manage supervision We operate three subcommittees concerning audits, innovative growth, and overseas business in the BoD to secure exof non-standing directors pertise in the BoD’s decision-making. Composed of non-standing directors, the subcommittees check and supervise our overall management in addition to enhancing efficiency in business operation. In 2019, we increased the number of the 3 decisions on modifications concerning management members of the Innovative Growth Committee to three and expanded its business including the sectors of innovative growth and realization of social values. (As of Mar. 2020) supervision Classification Composed of Major functions Audit Committee One standing director ・Reporting directors’ violation of laws/articles of incorporation to the BoD and two non・Carrying out matters entrusted by the BoD; matters stipulated in the law/articles of standing directors incorporation to those to be assumed by the Audit Committee Innovative Growth Three non-standing ・Matters related to the midto long-term management plan; major investment business Committee (formerly directors ・Budget/Operating plan, management evaluation, PR, etc. known as Sustainable ・Safety/Environment business/Operating plan Management ・Matters concerning ethical management and social contribution activities Committee) ・Matters concerning innovative growth and the realization of social values Overseas Business Three non-standing ・Overseas resources exploration, development, and production Committee directors ・Deliberation or consulting on overseas industrial plants or other overseas business Transparent BoD We are equipped with the BoD Management System, which checks the contents of directors’ activities (attendance records, management-related suggestions, expression of opinions, etc.) and their results. Thus, we strive to make fair, transparent compensation for the evaluation and BoD members based on such checks. Every year, we arrange for the BoD members to engage in a self-evaluation through a survey and remuneration have the analyzed results reflected to the operation plan for the following year to allow the BoD to continue to develop. In December 2019, we developed a result management index composed of the number of cases of decisions on modification, attendance records, reports on pending issues, etc. in a bid for a more systematic result management for the BoD. We also carry out periodic result evaluations concerning Under Article 14-5 (7) of the Public members of the BoD and disclose the contents transparently in our sustainable management reports and e-disclosure system. RemuService Ethics Act, where the total amount of shares held by the head, neration for standing directors including the President is composed of basic pay, performance-based pay, and a retirement allowance. deputy director, or standing auditor The amount of remuneration is set per performance index including the financial results of management activities, outside evaluations, of a public enterprise or the relevant stakeholder exceeds 30 mil. won, environmental, social, and governance (ESG), and annual evaluations of management results by the government. The level of execution of they should be sold or left in a trust. the CEO’s management contract is subject to evaluation as per the government’s management evaluation “leadership index” in connecThis is a clause stipulated from a tion with the need to enhance the management results on a midto long-term basis. Remuneration for directors is set and paid over three government’s perspective that puts public interest like anti-corruption years as per the institutional grade and payment ratio based on the result of such evaluation. The “Leadership index” sets objectives like above managerial benefit by letting the result of conversion into environment-friendly energy, result of job creation, and result of putting matters concerning human rights/ a member of the management hold integrity into practice for each year. We continue to manage it to realize social values. We also pay an adequate level of service allowance to treasury stocks. Directors other than those stated above are allowed to non-standing directors. The annual basic pay for the President, standing directors, and auditor is fixed as per the BoD’s decision within the hold said shares. limit approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders (GMoS). Unit: KRW 1,000 Amount of remuneration paid to BoD members in 2019 Position Number of Total amount of Per-person Remarks people remuneration amount Registered directors* (excluding Outside directors and 3 623,239 208,413 members of the Audit Committee) Outside directors (excluding members of the Audit 8 Service allowance: KRW Committee) 2.5 million /month Members of the Audit Committee** 1 175,727 175,727 * KOGAS is a business subject to the Criteria for the Integrated Public Disclosure of Public Institutions set by the Minister of Strategy/Finance. Said amounts of remuneration stated here are the annual amounts calculated per said Criteria. The number of people is stated based on the total quota. As of the day the information is drawn up, the registered directors in office number three (excluding members of the Audit Committee). The amount paid on July 31 based on the management evaluation (based on full attendance) is added here. Thus, the amounts stated here may be different from what was actually paid. ** Lee Donghun and Heo Namil, who are independent directors, doubled as members of the Audit Committee as of the end of 2019. Allowance for doubling is not paid, so they are classified only as independent directors. Thus, the information here on the remuneration of members of the Audit Committee deals with the remuneration for standing members of the Audit Committee only. (2019년 말 기준) Shareholder KOGAS was listed on the Korea Exchange (KRX) on December 15, 1999. Our legal capital amount stands at KRW 461.5 billion as of Shareholders’ equity holdings composition the end of 2019. Public shareholders (the government, KEPCO, 42.0% 26.2% the Government National Pension, etc.) hold 54.6% of equity. The Korean governKEPCO ment, which is the largest shareholder (26.15%), had held this National Pension status for the past four years. 92,313,000주 (100%) Employees' stock 20.5% Other orbinary shareholers 3.4% 7.9% KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 74 INTEGRITY & ETHICAL MANAGEMENT Creating an Implementing strategies for integrity and ethical management For integrity and ethical management, KOGAS is performing the 4 main tasks according to the 2 major execution strategies environment under the vision of “a leader in transparent, fair integrity and ethics.” In 2019, we identified matters that need improvement for integrity and by diagnosing the implementation system of 7 infrastructure items, including systems and education, through consulting with experts in integrity and ethics and redesigned the infrastructure for integrity and ethical management. KOGAS is ethics making efforts to prevent corruption and create a clean corporate atmosphere by establishing the code of ethics to be the standard for value judgment and behavior of its executives and staff members and ensuring that they observe this code. Vision KOGAS will be a leader in transparent, fair integrity and ethics. 2019 Execution Solid system! Clean mind! Directions Realizing an ethical organization Execution Strengthen the institutional framework for Improve and spread a consensus on Strategies compliance and ethics compliance and ethics 4 Main Tasks Establish a corruption Substantialize the report Strengthen the capacity for Create and spread an prevention system system compliance and ethics upright culture Norm System Declarations Regulations for practice ・KOGAS Ethics Charter ・KOGAS Ethics Code ・KOGAS Code of Conduct ・Contract Provisions on Integrity and Upright working Strengthening integrity and anti-corruption leadership Organization for the KOGAS is spreading the culture of upright working throughout the company with activities that enhance the leadership supervision and execution of integrity and ethical of people holding high-ranking positions and deciding the policy directions of the company. In 2019, the heads of the management headquarters and departments spread messages on integrity in relay via the company’s electronic bulletin board to the employees under their leadership, with the company evaluating the degree of integrity of second-grade and higher offiIntegrity and Ethical Management cers and launching a campaign during the Integrity Week led by executives in order to enhance the integrity leadership. In Committee (held 4 times a year) addition, the standing auditor sent letters to external stakeholders to announce the will for integrity widely. The standing The highest deliberation and auditor also conducted “visiting education on integrity” for the employees of partner companies to publicize the power legislative organization on integrity and ethics policy tripping behavior report center and implement education on the prevention of corruption. Meanwhile, KOGAS has newly established the “Anti-corruption Committee” and the “Power Tripping Eradication Committee” to prevent corruption and power tripping. AntiPower Tripping corruption Eradication Committee Committee Strengthening the prevention and control of corrupt acts KOGAS further strengthened the policy of severe punishment for the eradication of the 4 major misconducts including Discover and Discover and receipt of money & valuables or treatment and embezzlement of company money. If a misconduct is discovered, the boss manage tasks for manage antiof the wrongdoer will also be subject to disciplinary measures by collective responsibility and will be marked down in the the eradication of corruption tasks power tripping competency evaluation. The person who commits the misconduct will be punished by demotion, extension of the period of ・Punish serious ・Revise company prohibition of promotion, social service activities, etc. based on the decision on the disciplinary measure. Moreover, intenwrongdoers rules to eliminate severely as a clauses that may sive auditing will be performed on areas susceptible to corruption such as finance, supply, production, and performance for warning to others ・Select the cause unfair power tripping the proactive elimination of the risk of occurrence of corruption and continuous reinforcement of internal control. positions to be ・Link personnel monitored closely evaluation with the for integrity capacity to eradicate Area Main points of the audit No. of auditors ・Greater power tripping (Yearly) transparency in ・Establish a system using company for protecting Finance Settlement of ・Effectiveness in operation of the internal accounting management system 5(200) cards and budgets victims of power accounts ・Status and appropriateness of asset and debt accounting tripping ・Adequacy of examination of financial statements and slips Tax affairs ・Types of occurrence and causes of additional tax and tax investigation 4(60) ・Improvement of problems in internal control procedures related to tax risk Supply Facility ・Appropriateness of working procedures and maintenance of supply 5(50) construction facilities ・Establishment of fair transaction orders with partner companies Production Terminal ・Control of inappropriate increases in project costs for a large-scale 5(50) construction construction project ・Cases of design and construction improvement Performance Personnel ・Fairness and transparency in major areas of personnel management 4(60) Integrity education for partner comoperation including recruitment panies (Sep. 2019) ・Rationality of the regulations on personnel management and compliance Better Energy, Better World 75 Creating an Promoting the reporting system KOGAS is operating the combined online and offline Misconduct Report Center as part of the effort to block unethical beupright, ethical haviors in the early stage and strengthen the company’s ability to autonomously address such issues. If a person reports any misconduct such as reckless management, damage from power tripping, illegal subcontracting, or solicitation, the report is culture automatically relayed to the person in charge in the auditor’s office. We have enabled reporting misconducts easily anytime, anywhere using various methods including the e-People system, anonymous report system (Red Whistle), mobile report center, etc. In 2019, we improved the auditing method by diversifying the methods of on-site inspection and avoiding exposing the reporter during the actual auditing. We did this in order to protect the reporter and paved the way for the activation of a Number of reports reporting culture by arranging the regulations to reward the reporter. In addition, we provided easily accessible, professional communication channels for law observance and ethical working, such as Q&A bulletin board on laws and company rules and (Unit: cases) appointment of a lawyer to create a good environment for working reasonably. 2017 2018 2019 52 82 89* Operating a transparent recruitment test audit system * Have been handled 100%. We are strengthening the monitoring of all processes of recruitment including the recruitment test in order to block fundamentally any irregularity that may occur during the process of recruitment. Notably, we have introduced the established recruitment test audit system (KOHAS) for the first time among Korean public institutions in order to root out recruitment irregularities. The system was selected as a superior case in the workshop hosted by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission and a case for benchmarking by the monthly magazine of the Korea Personnel Improvement Association. It is now being disseminated to other organizations as an exemplary case. Eliminating risks in all processes of recruitment Document screening Interview Decision of successful applicants and disclosing the results ・Make a system of in-depth ・Clarify the interviewer exclusion ・Strengthen the process of identifying consultation between experts and system those whose employment is examiners if necessary ・Strengthen the standard for prohibited prohibition of appointment of ・Opening the recruitment of a relative, external interviewers if any Internalizing ethics and integrity Self-diagnosis of ethics level KOGAS is operating various ethics and integrity internalization programs for not only the executives and staff members of KOGAS but also the employees of partner companies and the general public in order to realize an upright KOGAS and an upright (Unit: points) society. In particular, we designated the Integrity Week for the institutionalization of integrity awareness and eradication of 2017 2018 2019 power tripping. During the Integrity Week, we hold anti-corruption and integrity events such as a play about the eradication of 84.04 85.65 85.90 power tripping, an integrity photo contest, and the distribution of integrity letters to citizens. Moreover, we open a workshop for partner companies’ employees to share good integrity policies with them and explain about the Misconduct Report Center. In addition, we collected letters of promise on integrity from all employees working in overseas subsidiaries and conducted cyber education for them to instill anti-corruption and integrity awareness. The public institutions located in Daegu Innovation City held various joint events on ethics with the participation of citizens to boost the level of ethics. Ethics and integrity spreading program Integrity by participation Integrity by consensus Integrity by sharing Executives & staff ・Operation of Integrity Week ・Visiting integrity talk (16 times) • Integrity photo contest Integrity concert, play on the eradication of ・ Integrity workshop for executives to enhance • Publication of guidelines for the Anti-graft power tripping, etc. leadership (3 times) law ・ Junior Board integrity and ethics workshop ・Lifecycle integrity and ethics education (5 times) • Contest on power tripping cases ・ New communication channel for counseling • Cyber education on integrity and ethics for • Proposal of good integrity policies on law observance and ethics all employees (twice) Partner Workshop for partner companies Education for investment companies company • City gas companies: Share good integrity policies and give information • Collect letters of promise on integrity from the employees of all on the report center overseas subsidiaries and conduct cyber education • Construction companies: Education with plays based on interviews • Self-education by each subsidiary: To be reflected in the managerial with partner companies index of investment companies The public Joint activities of public institutions in Daegu Innovation City Self-activities of KOGAS ・Joint integrity campaign (3 times with the participation of citizens) ・ Present superior integrity and ethics cases of KOGAS at the briefing OX Quiz on the anti-graft law, operation of integrity counseling center, etc. session for citizens ・Operation of Anti-corruption Week with the participation of citizens ・ Launch an integrity and ethics street campaign by cooperating with (integrity play, concert, etc.) the private sector ・ Discover and publicize integrity contents using SNS KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 76 Fostering a Compliance watchers We operate a team of compliance watchers to proactively cope with any possibility of irregularities. Composed of individculture of uals selected from the corporate headquarters and places of business across the country, the team engages in the work fair trade of compliance education for their own employees, participation in system improvement, recommendation of ideas for improvement, etc. in a bid to build consensus for compliance among employees. We operate the compliance system in step with the strategies formulated by the Compliance Council composed of the Chief of the Management Cooperation Promotion system Office and seven others and make compliance part of employees’ business lives. We accomplish this by holding education sessions and distributing materials provided by the Compliance Support Corps, in which in-house lawyers and outside law Compliance firms participate. Compliance Support Council Corps Establishment of a KOGAS-type model of win-win cooperative transactions ・Chief of the ・Inside lawyers Management and those We adopted a KOGAS-type model of win-win cooperative transactions in a bid to lay the groundwork for fair competition. Cooperation from outside Office and law firms First of all, we are establishing a model of win-win cooperative transactions by focusing on the reality of transactions with eight others ・Education and subcontractors to grasp the institutional factors inducing unfair transactions and improve them. In 2019, we focused on ・Formulation production of of strategies materials the execution of 25 tasks in the top 3 fields, i.e., model for transactions with subcontractors, blocking of private businesses’ and operation unfair acts, and internal rules. We were selected by the government as a leading institution engaging in exemplary transacof systems tions and asked to make a presentation at the Blue House. Launch of a body for ・The CEO-led win-win cooperation committee (composed of two subcommittees with 13 people representing SMEs win-win cooperation and experts) Team of compliance watchers ・Need for expansion of scope of application of force majeure clauses applied only to domestic construction ・Two selected from each unit ・Compliance education for Coming up with material procurement employees, participation in matters to be ・Lack of a clause pointing to unfair acts associated with subcontractors and their specific types system improvement, PR, improved voluntarily ・Possibility of unfair screening of contract-related proposals based on negotiations through provision of businessrecommendation of ideas related information for improvement, etc. Top-3 areas 25 issues Models for transactions with A total of 14 items including prohibition of passing on force majeureEstablishment of a subcontractors related expense, etc. model for exemplary transactions Putting an end to unfair acts A total of 6 items including prevention of unfair acts concerning of private businesses subcontracting In-house by-laws A total of 5 items including stipulation of blind evaluation of bidders Dissemination of cases ・KOGAS was selected as a leading institution in dissemination of fair trade culture among public institutions; of fair trade Report of the matter to Cheong Wa Dae (July 2019); Presentation of related cases (Oct. 2019) Establishment of a procurement system that reflects social values ACRC’s evaluation of KOGAS’s We revised the Detailed Criteria for Procurement-related Qualification Screening -which is an internal contracting system overall integrity -in a bid to expand social values in the procurement process. The focal point of the revision is the creation of more jobs in 2017 2018 2019 the private sector by lowering the bar for bidding for startups/small-sized businesses. The revision also offers preferential 7.49 8.14 8.43 treatment in bidding to exemplary businesses that hire women and disabled individuals as well as those that reduce workpoints points points ing hours. Through these efforts, KOGAS supports the economic activities of the socially and economically less-privileged. (Gr. 4) (Gr. 3) (Gr. 3) We revised the relevant guidelines in December 2019, making it a rule to attach an affidavit for the execution of integrity agreements in signing a contract and for a contracting department to draw up a checklist concerning unfair contracts, which was designed to block unfair acts prior to asking for placement of an order. Evaluation of KOGAS’s anticorruption measures [Disclosure of violations of unfairness/anti-corruption requirements] 2017 2018 2019 We disclose violations of requirements pointed out through internal inspections or by outside institutions (such as BAI, 87.77 92.26 92.17 MOTIE, National Assembly, etc.). points points points The contents of disclosure include all specifics like letters asking for the appropriate steps, report on audit results, etc. (Gr. 3) (Gr. 2) (Gr. 2) excluding personal information. The relevant cases pointed out in 2019 include violations of the duty of good faith or integrity, inadequacy in the promotion of a contract, carelessness in procurement management, malpractice in purchasing, and violation of the code of conduct. For more details, please click the following http://www.alio.go.kr/popReportTerm.do?apbaId=C0147&reportFormRootNo=2121 Better Energy, Better World 77 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT Human rights Promotion of human rights management strategy We strive to disseminate a culture of respecting human rights as an institution regarded as an exemplary one in the apmanagement plication of NHRCK’s manual. We enacted the Human Rights Management Charter to announce our relevant vision and strategy and commitment, and we developed systems for the relevant promotion including the formulation of a human rights management-related basic plan, midto long-term roadmaps, and enactment of regulations and detailed enforcement rules. establishment of the relevant Objective Realization of human-centered social values through the adoption/ dissemination of world-class human rights management system Roadmap Introductory stage (’18) Maturation stage (’19) Stabilization stage (’20) of phased Improvement/Sharing/ promotion Establishment of a world-class Adoption/Execution of world-class Dissemination of the human rights human rights management system human rights management management system Major tasks ˙Enactment of human rights-related norms ˙Improvement of norms and systems ˙Improvement of norms and systems (charter, regulations, and detailed rules) based on human rights impact based on human rights impact ˙Establishment of a basic system (system evaluations (review of the manual for evaluations (review of the manual for for infringement remedies, etc. provided each sector) each sector) by the Human Rights Management ˙Expansion of human rights sensitivity ˙Expansion of human rights sensitivity Committee and Human Rights (execution of education for each sector; (execution of education for each sector; Consultation Center) Education for building working-class education for building working-class ˙Education on human rights sensitivity capability) capability) (for employees and stakeholders) ˙Periodic checking of obligations for ˙Periodic checking of obligations for ˙Education for building working-class putting human rights into practice and putting human rights into practice and capability concerning human rights checking the status checking the status (expansion of human management (execution of the secondary operation of rights impact evaluations in major ˙Human rights impact evaluation (related the institution; expansion of human rights businesses) to operation of the institution and major impact evaluations in major businesses) business) System for the promotion of human rights management System of Norm Human Rights Charter Human Rights Management Regulations Detailed enforcement rules of the (specifying the international criteria for (including the purpose of human rights Human Rights Management Regulations human rights to be observed by employees) management, definition of major terms, (specifying remedial procedures concerning department in charge, education, committees human rights infringement and internal/ and remedial procedures, etc.) external stakeholders) Human Rights Committee Human Rights Management Committee Complaints Deliberation Committee (body for deliberation/decisions (body in charge of Human Rights Management) concerning remedies about human rights infringement) Role Role ・ Deliberation on human rights management-related plans ・ Deliberation on cases of human rights infringement ・ Obligation of putting human rights into practice and checking the ・ Recommendation of steps for remedies for the victim status including human rights impact evaluations Role Role ・ Inside members (4): President, Standing members of the Audit ・ Inside members (2): Officer in charge of human rights management Committee, VP in charge of management control, and Chief of the and Chief of the Audit Office Management Support Division ・ Outside members (3): Human rights experts (professor, lawyer; ・ Outside members (3): Human rights experts (professors and those labor attorney) from civic organizations) ・Reflection of the Company’s human rights management strategy ・Strengthening objectivity, expertise, and effectiveness of remedies with the participation of top management including the President with the election of outside members and the Chair, who account for the majority Important tasks in 2019 Substantiation of the human rights Strengthening the effectiveness of the Enhancement of stakeholders’ human management system human rights remedy system through the rights consciousness with a variety of through a day-to-day evaluation system establishment of a system for preventing programs The 3rd Human Rights Management infringements from recurring Committee (May 2019) KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 78 Substantiation of Improvement of norms and systems in a human rights-friendly way We strive to establish a system of human rights-friendly norms and improve the relevant systems/regulations. To that end, the human rights we revised nine major in-house rules based on their evaluation by human rights experts through consultations with 13 relmanagement evant departments. We inserted a new clause in the in-house rules concerning the need for prior consultation on sectors with a high likelihood of human rights infringement – such as supply and production facilities’ construction and operation system -and a new clause recommending the relevant measures like prevention of such infringement as required. Improvement of 9 in-house rules in a human rights-friendly way Check of Conflict management operation In-house rules management in-house rules EHSQ management regulations guidelines regulations human 13 relevant rights + Guidelines for the prevention of sexual Regulations on support businesses concerning Regulations on support businesses concerning experts departments harassment in the workplace supply facilities’ construction work production facilities’ construction/operation Guidelines for the open operation of Employment rules Contract business management guidelines information disclosure ① Revision of regulations in a human We also added a procedure for human rights impact evaluations at the time of enactment/revision of our regulations in a rights-friendly way bid to review in-house rules from a human rights perspective and block potential human rights risks. ・Revision of 9 in-house rules in a human rights-friendly way including a clause on conflict Process for improving the way our in-house regulations are enacted/revised management added to human rights evaluation items Putting the Human Corruption Review by Formulation Day-to-day Asking for plan on public rights impact impact the Legal of a plan audit promulgation notice evaluation evaluation Affairs Team ② Establishment of day-to-day evaluation of in-house rules system ・Removal of potential human rights risks by making it Existing ones Added parts Existing ones mandatory to evaluate the human rights impact at the time of enactment/revision of regulations Improvement of the manual and relevant guidelines for the operation of the Human Rights Consulting Center We improved the manual and relevant guidelines for the operation of the Human Rights Consulting Center based on the results of experts’ diagnosis of our system of remedies for human rights infringement. Major items improved Principle for handling incidents of human rights infringement ・ Ensuring the anonymity of petitioners; providing physical and institutional conditions for consulting that can prevent the victim from experiencing secondary damage · Handling of incidents by an employee with the relevant expertise Trying to settle an incident through an informal procedure via consulting involving the petitioner and the other party Informal procedure Formal procedure Trying to settle an incident Failure to settle Receipt and processing of through consulting petition Improvement of guidelines for human rights infringement consulting ・ Strengthening the function of consulting (Grasping the accurate situation of the alleged human rights infringement; checking whether there are other victims associated with the case submitted and how the other party views the situation, etc.) ・ Making it obligatory to engage in follow-up management to prevent the recurrence of a similar case Better Energy, Better World 79 Human Rights Secondary institution-operated human rights impact evaluation We carry out human rights impact evaluations to diagnose potential human rights risks in the operation of the institution’s Impact and our major business areas and to find ways to prevent and solve the problem. In 2018, we came up with a basic draft for our own human rights impact evaluation checklist* by referring to the manual provided by NHRCK. In 2019, we carried evaluation out secondary institution-operated human rights impact evaluations by making an improved version of the checklist, reflecting the result of the human rights status survey in-depth. A total of 25 departments carried out a self-check using the checklist, and it showed that our human rights level stood at 89.6% or a 7.5% y-o-y increase. Self-diagnosis of our * Our human rights impact evaluation includes not only our employees but also all stakeholders related to our management activities such as locals (inhuman rights management cluding children), migrant workers, and employees of our subcontractors/overseas subsidiaries, etc. level Continued improvement in human rights impact evaluations 82.1 % (2018) NHRCK-provided 2018 2019 manual 89.6 % (2019) Checklist (158 items in 10 sectors) Drafted our own checklist (190 items in 13 sectors) Strengthening our institution-operated checklist (202 items in 13 sectors including employees’ human rights newly added) Human rights impact Document-based evaluation and experts’ evaluation Document (e.g., basic surveys like questionnaireevaluation mostly based on the checklist based survey/in-depth survey, etc.)-based evaluation In-house process for human and experts’ evaluation rights impact evaluation Basic In-depth Improvement/ Expansion of human rights impact evaluations in major business sectors (supply/construction) We expanded the execution of human rights impact evaluations in the construction sector to foster a construction work survey on survey of Strengthening status of vulnerable of checklist human sectors culture wherein workers are respected. In August 2019, we carried out human rights-related due diligence on jobsites in rights Jeondong-Cheongju and Incheon using the checklist for construction developed based on human rights status surveys Relevant Deliberation/ department’s Adoption by the and experts’ advice. We also came up with ways to uphold human rights in design/contractual work sectors through workshop/ self-check Human Rights Management discussion meetings. In addition, we launched a council designed to improve human rights at construction jobsites. In Committe December 2019, we held a session of the Human Rights Management Committee that included the participation of top Analysis/ Review by the management and human rights experts, came up with 23 items required to improve the human rights situation at jobsites, Evaluation by department human rights in charge of and had them reflected in the business plan for 2020. experts human rights management Phases of evaluation Major items to be promoted Status survey of construction ・ Coming up with a construction business checklist (117 items in 4 sectors) and onsite survey (subcontractors’ jobsites (Aug. ‘19) 380 employees) Construction business ✓ Coming up with 12 tasks including human rights impact evaluation procedures, provision of adequate impact evaluation convenience facilities for workers, etc. Human rights-related ・ Holding a discussion meeting to find ways to uphold workers’ human rights discussion meeting ✓ Coming up with 11 tasks including the insertion of human rights in bidding appraisals, establishment of a Diagnosis based on the (Oct. ‘19) safety management monitoring system for work in tunnels, etc. construction sector checklist Council for the ・ Review of tasks for the improvement of human rights at construction jobsites by eight inside/outside Council 117 improvement of human rights members composed (Nov. ‘19) ✓ Enhancement of expertise/objectivity concerning tasks by outside experts’ participation in the deliberation of of items tasks in 4 sectors Human Rights Management Committee (Dec. ‘19) ・ Fixing ways to improve human rights at construction jobsites through deliberation by top management and human rights experts ✓ Adoption of 23 tasks including expanding the locals-related human rights impact evaluation, establishing a safety management monitoring system for work in tunnels, etc. and having them reflected in the business plan for 2020. KOGAS human rights impact evaluation checklist Institution-operated human rights impact evaluation Human rights impact evaluation in major business ・Checklist (202 items in 13 sectors) ・Checklist (117 items in 4 sectors) (1) Establishment of a human rights management system (1) Establishment of a system for upholding human rights (2) No discrimination in hiring ㆍPlanning · Plans for remedial steps · Follow-up evaluations and (3) Guarantee of freedom of association/collective bargaining reports (4) No forced labor ㆍStakeholders’ participation (5) No child labor (2) Adequacy of working conditions (6) Ensuring industrial safety ㆍEmployment contract · Working environment and conditions (7) Responsible supply chain management ㆍRest and recreation (8) Protection of locals’ human rights ㆍForced labor and violence ㆍHealth/Hygiene (9) Ensuring environmental rights (3) Ensuring safety in construction jobsites (10) Protection of consumers’ human rights ㆍStandard work procedure · Safety rules · Safety system (11) Protection of information-related human rights ㆍPrevention of industrial disasters and compensation · Safety (12) Protection of women’s rights/maternity education (13) Protection of employees’ human rights (4) Checking for human rights infringements in sectors ㆍWork/Safety regulations in sectors ㆍSafety facilities/gear ㆍGrasping the risk factors in the types of work/education KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 80 Fostering a Strengthening stakeholders’ human rights management capability We carry out customized/segmented human rights education for both insiders and outsiders working with us in a bid to disseminate culture for respect for human rights. In 2019, we held education sessions for top-level managers and all employees to help them understand the need for human rights management better and disseminate the consensus for upholding human rights. Education sessions upholding for top-level managers focused on the need to strengthen their human rights leadership. Those for employees in charge of human human rights rights impact evaluations focused on the enhancement of their expertise in human rights. We also held such sessions for outside stakeholders including construction businesses, urban gas businesses, and locals. The in-depth education sessions that we held focused on industrial safety, improvement of the way we view the disabled, information security, and sexual harassment. In addition, we disclosed the result of our promotion of human rights management activities and exemplary cases through our homepage, workshops, and report meetings for people in an effort to disseminate the human rights management culture more widely. (Unit: persons) Human rights education sessions held for inside/outside stakeholders Attendees Contents of education Number of attendees 2018 2019 Those Top-level managers Status of promotion of human rights management activities both in 4 232 from and out of the country; need to strengthen human rights leadership inside Departments in charge Need to enhance the expertise of employees in charge of human 12 22 rights impact evaluations All employees To understand the need for human rights management better and 2,104 3,880 disseminate the consensus for upholding human rights Those Employees of construction Need for human rights sensitivity to foster a culture of construction 85 from businesses wherein human rights are respected outside Those from customer businesses Need to disseminate the human rights culture 13 Locals Need to respect workers 500 Sectors where our human rights education were carried out Right for win-win Employees’ Industrial safety rights Rights to equality Information right development human rights Safety education provided Need to improve the way Education on Education on Need to prevent where people require it we view the disabled technologies required information security and The four leading cases of for employees of KOGAS and to prevent child by SMEs and onsite job protection of personal violence including sexual and our subcontractors abuse skills information harassment (947 attendees) (3,995 attendees) (253 attendees) (3,319 attendees) (3,993 attendees) Result of human rights impact assessment in the construction sector (Promotion of improvement of human rights on 23 construction jobsites) Major issues to be improved Improvement in lighting design for administrative Establishment of an integrated safety monitoring Execution of a program for enhancement of offices with no light pollution system workers’ health ・ · Improvement in lighting design ・ Adoption of integrated monitoring system ・ Health enhancement programs carried out in linkage with relevant institutions Health consulting (Quit smoking program, prevention of diseases in cerebrovascular / musculoskeletal system, consulting for management of job stress and working environment Onsite group / individual consulting ・ Bird-eye-view of outside ・Toxic gas detection system ・Use of local health management network In linkage with the outdoor electronic signage Better Energy, Better World 81 Operation of Organizations dedicated to the prevention of human rights infringement We receive reports from both internal and external stakeholders in terms of human rights infringement through the releremedies for vant channels including the Human Rights Consulting Center, Petitions Deliberation Committee, etc. We also strive to find human rights remedies for victims and prevent the recurrence of similar incidents through a relevant system such as deliberating on petitions. The Petitions Deliberation Committee in particular secures its independence and expertise as an organization, with infringement outsiders constituting more than the majority of the members including its Chair. Process of finding remedies for human rights infringement Submittal of request for Classification/Investigation Deliberation/Decision on a consulting or report of a case of a case submitted case (at the Human Rights Consulting (by the officer in charge of (by the Petitions Deliberation Center) human rights management) Committee) ・Submitter/Reporter: Internal/ ・(1st phase) Classification of a case; ・Contents: Deliberation/Decision on External stakeholders including investigation by the relevant a case submitted for a remedial step employees of KOGAS and its department for the petitioner and prevention of subcontractors ・(2nd phase) In case of the petitioner’s ・Contents: Asking for consulting or non-acceptance of the way the a recurrence of a similar case submittal of a report concerning case is handled in the 1st phase or Procedure: Deliberation/Decision unfair treatment, violence, etc. selection of the remedial system, on the report on the investigation the Human Rights Consulting Center should engage in the investigation result ⇨ Recommendation of itself execution [Case of coping with human rights infringement in 2019] In February 2019, an employee of one of our subcontractors submitted a report on a case of human rights infringement to the Human Rights Consulting Center. We investigated the case through interviews with the petitioner, the other party, and the relevant colleagues. The Petitions Deliberation Committee asked the subcontractor to take adequate steps, and the subcontractor finally informed us of the steps they took. In the aftermath of the case, we checked the improvements to be made in the process of coping with such cases and had the results reflected in the relevant manual and the contents of education carried out for employees in a bid to strengthen the effectiveness of human rights management. The step we took came to be recognized as an exemplary case concerning remedies for human rights infringement. Spreading a Dissemination of the results of human rights management obtained in the public sector and of a culture of respecting locals’ human rights culture of We strived to disseminate the execution of human rights management in the public sector by sharing/disrespecting tributing the result of our promotion in this area. We also sought to enhance locals’ human rights sensitivity by holding education and human rights programs. human rights 2019 Human Rights Management Global Sustainable Management 12th Asian Forum for Human Rights Forum (sponsored by NHRCK) Workshop (sponsored by the UN (sponsored by Human Asia) Human rights-related proGlobal Compact) grams executed in the local community 3rd Public Hearing on Businesses’ Workshop on issues and cases related to Transferring know-how on the promotion Gender equality/human rights-related film Human Rights Management Guidelines public institutions’ realization of social values of human rights management to 40-plus festival for locals in Daegu/Gyeongbuk (sponsored by the Justice Department) institutions upon request Education session sponsored by the City of Daegu for spreading a culture of human rights 2019 Human Rights Management Forum UNGC Workshop Public hearing held by the Justice Department management and respect for human rights Education session concerning respect for workers targeting local undergraduates in Daegu/Gyeongbuk Gender equality/ human rights-related stage play participated in by the locals in Daegu/Gyeongbuk KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 82 RISK MANAGEMENT Establishment of Promotion of major financial/non-financial risk management strategies We strive to maintain the soundness and safety of our business through a phased management of risks by identifying, ana risk mana alyzing, evaluating, and coping with them throughout our operations in general. We define risks as a concept consisting of gement system threats and crises and as a factor of uncertainty and lost opportunities that may thwart business strategies and objectives. We are managing 32 risk indicators and 7 crisis management indices* selected for emphatic management. We operate a risk management system to identify potential risks that may thwart the attainment of our business objectives, set the criteria for tolerating them, and have definite key actors cope with them using reasonable countermeasures. * 32 risk indicators in sectors likely to be vulnerable to risks: Management of five financial sectors (debt ratio, exchange rate, interest rate, etc.) and 27 non-financial sectors (15 operation-related risks, 7 demand-supply risks, and 5 overseas operation risks) Risk management activities * Crisis management (where risks have actually occurred): Management of seven non-financial sectors (disaster, labor-management relations, collective civil complaints, domestic operation, overseas operation, and cybersecurity) (Risk management): Activities carried out for effectively preventing/monitoring and coping with a situation wherein loss or Operation of the risk management organization negative impact is likely to occur Our Risk Management Committee is in charge of the overall control of risks and deliberation and decision-making of (Crisis management): Activities agenda items. The Chief of the Management Support Division, who also serves as the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is in charge carried out to cope effectively with/ of company-wide risk management. The Internal Control Department -which reports directly to the CRO -establishes rehabilitate a situation wherein the risk management system and monitors the relevant onsite business. The Investment Risk Committee focuses on the threat or harm is being posed review of risks associated with new investments. The risk management organization is established based on the “3 Lines of Defense” model. In Phase 1, each department carries out ordinary risk management business with support from the department in charge of risks. In Phase 2, the Internal Control Department establishes the risk management system and monitors the relevant onsite business. In Phase 3, the Auditor’s Office supervises the procedural adequacy of risk management activities through periodic internal audits. Risk management organization and system of reporting DemandOverseas Business Financial Crisis CEO supply risks business risks operation risks risks management Risk Management Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Committee President President President President President CRO (Chief of Management General General General General General Support Division) Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager Supervision and internal Department Department Department Department Department Support audit manager manager manager manager manager Members of the Risk management department Audit Committee Demand-supply Overseas business Business operation Financial risks Crisis management risks management risks management risks management management department Summary (Internal Control Department) department department department department (7 types of crisis) Auditor’s Office Risk Crisis management management Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Risk management principles 1. Carrying out independent, Supervision and internal audit company-wide functions 2. Accurate identification, measurement, and evaluation Risk monitoring and reporting system of risks and their adequate management Our system enables the Internal Control Department to manage risks through occasional reports on emergencies and 3. Risk management done within periodic (quarterly) report on risks including plans to cope with them and information on changes in the situation made to the extent that the expense is it in accordance with the risk management process. We can cope with risks effectively and in a timely manner with reports balanced against the effect/ benefit. like these made to the Internal Control Department upon occurrence of a sign of risk, like a change in conditions concern4. Setting and management of risk ing an investment. Under the periodic report system, the relevant departments report the results of their respective risk limit and management target 5. Documentation of risk management activities to the Internal Control Department, which submits an integrated report to the CEO and CRO, which management results; ultimately reports to the Risk Management Committee. At its session, which is to be held at least once a year, the Risk Mandesignation of employees in agement Committee reviews the status of company-wide risk management and makes decisions on the agenda items charge 6. Timely report; establishment of submitted. a reporting system Better Energy, Better World 83 Proactive risk Efforts to strengthen risk management In 2019, we improved the risk management business with changes in management status taken into account, including management coming up with a system for the improvement of risk management in the investment business and setting risk indicators for inventory management associated with a decrease in demand for natural gas. We also strengthened risk management concerning overseas business in linkage with the analysis of onsite risk management results and performance evaluations. We will continue to operate the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system and strengthen the management of new risks through their comprehensive identification. Checklist of risks in different sectors Countries where Laws/ Market we operate Regulations Confiscation/Nationalization, natural Regulations on currency exchange/ Lack of gas to be used as raw material, lack disaster, political/social unrest, inconsistency remittance/export/use of local goods/ of market, drop in prices of goods, sluggish in policy/regulations, country defaults, labor businesses, inadequate laws/systems, labor market shortage, insufficient infrastructure, civil dispute, environmental regulations complaints, border dispute Finance Contract Subcontractors Exchange/Currency risks, Unfavorable business PF and management contracts signed with the capability, accounting/tax/ local government (businesses), insurance-related issues EPC/SPA contracts Technology Participating businesses’ default on contractual obligations, lack of business management capability, communication CAPEX exceeding the plan, facilities’ insufficient performance, problems; customers’ failure to pay delay in work progress, insufficient technical analysis Emerging Risks management We set “future risks” to grasp the risks that may occur in our future management activities and carry out activities to cope with such risks. In 2019, we saw climate and environment changes such as greenhouse gas, dust particles, and cybersecurity risks as major future risks. The shift to the low-carbon economy will reduce the demand for natural gas and weaken our overall competitiveness, and vulnerability in cybersecurity will lead to the loss of external trust and business engines. We are positively coping with the risks through activities designed to create natural gas demand by playing a leading role in the hydrogen economy and promotion of the LNG bunkering business, promotion of business designed to strengthen the level of cybersecurity, management of the relevant indicators, etc. Risks Impact of the risks on our Risk reduction business Risks associated We judge the changes in climate/ We have established a roadmap for the promotion of the hydrogen business, with changes in the environment as emerging risks in step aiming to build 25 hydrogen production facilities and 700 km piping network by climate/environment with the Paris Agreement of 2016 and 2030. This sets the hydrogen business as the centerpiece of the new business for (e.g., greenhouse gas, changes in the energy policy paradigm the promotion of entry into a clean society through the reduction of GHGs and dust particles, etc.) associated with it, intend to increase dust particles. We also plan to continue to build LNG-charging infrastructure in investment in the new energy industry for areas like ports, cargo terminals, and rest areas that are frequented by trucks the reduction of GHGs and improvement by 2022 to enhance the distribution of LNG cargo vehicles to improve the air of air quality, etc. We will also prepare quality. In addition, we are promoting the phased expansion of LNG bunkering ourselves against the reduction of natural infrastructure. We utilize the CERs purchase amount index to evaluate our gas demand amid the government’s operating risk of the environmental sector, monitor it on a quarterly basis, and policy for energy source conversion. arrange for the relevant departments to analyze the cause when the warning is issued and adopt a way to cope with it. Cybersecurity risk Security issues concerning the disclosure We have designated our cybersecurity level index, and we monitor it of our core technology and cyberterror monthly/quarterly, arranging for the relevant departments to analyze the on personal information and their leak cause when the warning is issued and adopt a way to cope with it. We also to outside continue to increase. They manage cybersecurity risks -which are becoming more intellectualized -are also becoming diverse and more proactively and efficiently by strengthening the security system even further. intellectualized. We are under increasing The measures to achieve this include the complete blocking of the possibility pressure to strengthen our reliability and of exposure of internal IP and improvement of the way files are taken in/out, security measures for the protection of along with the reestablishment of the internal network separation system. major information in our custody. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 84 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Definition of Our stakeholders are individuals or organizations that may be influenced significantly by our activities or services. We classify our stakeholders into four types upon their values that our management activities might influence, and they are stakeholders and managed systematically. We strive to communicate with them positively through periodic meetings/workshops, advisory how we committees, and seminars/forums to grasp what their major interests are. We also operate the following customized channels of communication to cope with their demands more effectively by grasping their major interests by region or group: communicate with them 01 02 03 Email-based Irregularity Inquiries in complaints reporting general center Reports on Reports on ・Customers’ suggestions ・Impolite employees ・Reckless business operation ・Questions about gas, invest・Wasting of money ・Cases of illegal subcontracting ment, construction, hiring of ・Inconveniences ・Irregularities employees, etc. ・Asking for the disclosure of ・Dishonesty, matters for the information public good ・Bullying the less powerful We always strive to address stakeholders’ requirements more effectively. We will continue to listen to what stakeholders have to say and have their opinions reflected in our sustainable management activities. Major results of our communication Communication aimed at leading others in values Definition Stakeholders’ Core needs Communication channels Major efforts for communication and group results Key actors Executives Sharing the ・Directors’ Management Meeting; ・Explaining the vision/strategies to in matters and vision of the Management Committee directors/employees concerning employees, organization; ・CEO Meeting (Luncheon Meeting, etc.) ・Sharing information on the people’s labor union improvement ・Junior Board (quarterly), Innovative management environment /plan; convenience in the working Leader Group (semiannually), Sharing Formation of consensus and benefit and environment pending Management-related issues ・Strengthening labor-management growth of the (bimonthly) communication including joint gas industry ・Labor-Management Council (from time workshops to time), Intranet, etc. ・Improvement of the labor ・Integrated Team for Consulting (daycommunication index (70 points in ‘18 to-day) => 71.5 points in ‘19) Communication aimed at cooperating with others in values Definition Stakeholders’ Core needs Communication channels Major efforts for communication and group results Policy-related Individuals, Energy welfare, ・Discussion on pending business issues, ・Session for reporting the win-win collaborative Government, social values, forums, associations, report on midto subcontractor business to the public relations for National information long-term management strategies (6/26/19) the provision of Assembly disclosure, ・Provision of support for the National ・Establishment of the Joint Safety service to the positive Assembly’s activities including Management System for Underground public administration oversight of the executive branch Facilities in cooperation with the local ・Policy Council (day-to-day), government (City of Seoul) (July 2019) Safety Check Corps (day-to-day), ・Exploration of 11 new ideas at the Environmental Measures Committee Dalgubeol IF Innovation Forum 2020 (monthly), Innovation Committee (semiannually), People’s Innovation Corps (day-to-day) ・PR based on social media like blogs, YouTube, etc. Better Energy, Better World 85 Communication aimed at coexisting with others in values Definition Stakeholders’ Core needs Communication channels Major efforts for communication and group results Contribution Urban gas Demand ・CS Promotion Committee ・Meeting between customer businesses to the public’s businesses, development, (semiannually), Customer Council and working-level officials of the local convenience power plant stable supply, (day-to-day) government (20 occasions), Discussion through the gas businesses, improvement ・Onsite Explanatory Session, Business on improving operational strategies supply; Mutually direct of system, Explanatory Session and sharing VOCs involving importers, customer ・Onnuri Win-Win Council ・Understanding customer needs in relationship for local satisfaction (semiannually), Social Contribution advance and finding solutions to joint growth sharing communities Business Deliberation Committee pending issues (annually) ・Listening to opinions on win-win subcontractor business Value-based communication Definition Stakeholders’ Core needs Communication channels Major efforts for communication and group results Support for Subsidiary Win-win ・CSR Committee (semiannually) ・Announcement of methods for wincreating results companies, cooperation, ・Committee for the Eradication win cooperation in the top 5 sectors for the growth of foreign mutual growth, of Bullying of the Less Powerful including hydrogen and discussion the gas industry relevant fair economy, (semiannually) (Aug. ’19) countries, no bullying ・Accompanied Growth Council ・Establishment of an integrated contractors of the less (annually) supply-demand management system powerful ・Korea Fair Trade Commission through cooperation of the private/ (semiannually) public sectors and the government; expansion of areas of supply ・Information exchange and promotion of cooperation between KOGAS and small-sized subcontractors APPENDIX • Sustainability Performances 87 • GRI Standards Index 93 • Global Initiatives 96 • Third-party Assurance Statement 98 • Prizes and Awards/Memberships 100 Better Energy, Better World 87 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCES Economic Performance Key Economic Indicators (based on consolidated financial statements) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Sales KRW 221,722 261,850 249,826 100 million Operating Profit 10,352 12,769 13,345 Net income (loss) (11,917) 5,267 583 Key Financial Indicators (based on consolidated financial statements) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Growth indicators sales growth rate % 5.04 18.10 (4.59) net income growth (94.58) 144.20 (88.94) Profitability indicators return on total assets (3.09) 1.37 0.1 return on total capital (14.03) 6.36 0.7 Stability indicators current ratio 115.05 100.54 103.7 debt ratio 356.24 367 382.6 BIS ratio 21.92 21.41 20.72 Productivity indicators productivity of capital 5.15 10.20 8.67 Summary of Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (based on consolidated financial statements) Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Assets current assets KRW 75,822 99,249 92,328 100 million non-current assets 295,572 297,648 300,791 total assets 371,394 396,897 393,119 Liabilities current liabilities 65,904 98,712 89,005 non-current liabilities 224,086 213,205 222,648 total liabilities 289,990 311,917 311,653 Capital paid-in capital 17,651 17,651 17,651 other 60,482 64,277 60,882 controlling interest (sub-total) 78,133 81,928 78,533 non-controlling interest 3,271 3,052 2,932 total capital 81,404 84,980 81,465 R&D Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 R&D investments KRW 100 million 679 518 568 Technology patents (accumulated) Case 378 373 411 Economic Value Creation & Distribution (based on consolidated financial statements) Calculation Criteria Unit 2017 2018 2019 Sales KRW 221,723 261,850 249,826 100 million Operating profit 10,352 12,768 13,345 Net income (loss) (11,917) 5,267 5,826 Employee wages and benefits 3,848 3,918 4,415 Dividends 1,192 333 Interest 8,295 7,854 8,046 Corporate tax 2,729 Community investment 171 186 182 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 88 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCES Environmental Performance * The environmental performance reporting scope is calculated at 100% based on domestic business sites, such as the Institute of Gas Safety GHG Emissions* Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total GHG emissions tCO2e 911,539 1,051,868 667,156 Direct emissions 551,497 663,206 287,680 (Goal: 529,487) Indirect emissions 360,042 388,662 379,476 (Goal: 346,148) * The reason for a discrepancy in the direct emissions is that whereas the 2015-2017 sustainability report excluded the quantity caused by leaks in the calculation of direct emissions, the current report (2017-2019) includes all in the emission volume for the sake of consistency. The indirect emissions in 2018 includes some minor adjustments as required by the results of the conformity assessment carried out by the Ministry of Environment, Korea. Energy Consumption Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total energy consumption TJ 12,624 14,557 12,775 Direct energy 5,187 6,583 4,972 Indirect energy 7,442 7,980 7,803 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total energy consumption MWh 2,227,225 2,660,610 2,194,691 Total non-renewable energy consumption 2,223,976 2,659,185 2,192,525 (Goal : 2,135,017) Non-renewable fuel consumption 1,440,833 1,813,858 1,368,333 (purchased/consumed as energy sources) Non-renewable electricity purchase 769,532 830,694 811,414 Steam/heating/cooling and other purposes 13,611 14,633 12,778 Total renewable energy purchase or production 3,249 1,425 2,166 Total energy consumption costs KRW 100 million 1,419 1,736 1,547 Water Consumption Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total water consumption ㎥ 1,241,908,454 1,496,757,205 1,392,986,376 Seawater * 1,241,441,822 1,496,226,715 1,392,324,766 Freshwater 459,130 519,919 644,245 Other (Including surface water and groundwater) 7,502 10,571 17,365 * Partial change has occurred as the seawater usage data of Incheon branch's in 2018 had corrected due to minor errors Emissions of Environmental Pollutants Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Natural gas sales 1K tons 32,162 36,219 33,596 Air pollutants* NOx volume kg 212,995 311,538 192,398 intensity kg/1K tons 6.62 8.60 5.73 SOx volume kg 1,175 1,535 1,239 intensity kg/1K tons 0.04 0.04 0.04 먼지 volume kg 3,548 4,606 3,729 intensity kg/1K tons 0.11 0.13 0.11 Water pollutants** BOD volume kg 55.9 73.1 236.3 intensity kg/1K tons 0.002 0.002 0.007 COD volume kg 61.3 52.9 101.1 intensity kg/1K tons 0.002 0.0015 0.003 SS volume kg 124.5 84.2 144.6 intensity kg/1K tons 0.0039 0.0023 0.0043 Waste*** general ton 547 1,892 4,575 designated ton 53 155 289 construction ton 83,679 61,314 129,366 total volume ton 84,279 63,361 134,230 intensity kg/1K tons 2.62 1.75 3.99 * In 2019, air pollutant emissions decreased due to reduced facility uptime due to rising winter temperatures. ** In 2019, we began calculating the total volume from all our sewage discharge facilities, which led to the increase. *** Waste disposal is 100% outsourced. We began calculating the amount of recycled waste in 2019 (70,811 tons recycled in 2019 out of the total of 134,230 tons in 2019). Better Energy, Better World 89 Chemicals Consumption Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Chemicals consumption* 1K tons 87,302 352,288 34,247,570 Natural gas sales kg 32,162 36,219 33,596 Consumption intensity kg/1K ton 2.71 9.73 1,019.36 * The volume increased in 2019 because of the inclusion of odorants and sodium hypochlorite. Regulatory Violations Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Violations of regulatory obligations case 0 0 0 Fine amounts KRW 0 0 0 Social Performance BOD Operations Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Board meetings number 14 18 16 Resolutions case 40 62 65 Deliberations % 86 66 25 Amendments case(%) 0(0) 1(2) 3(4.62) Reports case 21 21 24 Attendance % 81 78 87.6 Non-standing directors’ attendance % 77 72 88.14 Substance of statements / motions delivered by non-executive directors % 68 59 57.32 Employee Status Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total employees person 3,752 4,096 4,225 Employment types Regular males (incl. executive directors) person 3,331 3,570 3,724 females person 411 472 501 Irregular males person 0 27 0 females person 10 27 6 Non-affiliated person person 1,211 1,176 1,278 Contract types Full-time employees person 3,710 4,031 4,222 Part-time employees person 28.35 8.225 3.125 Work location Domestic person 3,644 3,985 4,111 Overseas person 108 111 114 Age Those in their 30s or younger person 1,410 1,705 1,821 Those in their 40s person 1,527 1,397 1,209 Those in their 50s or older person 815 994 1,195 Females Executives person 412 473 501 Managers person 4 7 7 Ratio of executives % 11.0 11.5 11.9 Ratio of managers (total employees) % 0.11 0.17 0.17 Social equity jobs Those with disabilities person 122 128 126 High school graduates person 521 540 552 Persons of distinguished services to the State person 367 385 392 Local talents person 1,756 1,883 2,069 ※ The above figures are based on those posted on ALIO (All Public Information System In One). KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 90 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCES Employee Training Status Parental Leave Status Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Education and training costs KRW 1 million 8,660 8,470 8,820 Applicants for parental leave person 56 71 75 Training hours per person hour 114 104 108.1 Male applicants for parental leave person 9 16 23 Training costs per person KRW 1,000 2,530 2,078 2,087 Return-to-work rate after parental leave % 100 100 100 Retention rate after parental leave % 100 100 100 Employee Performance Evaluation Except for dispatched workers or long-term trainees outside the company, we systematically carry out employees’ performance appraisal self-assessments and supervisors’ evaluations of their performance about not only their work performance but also their career development efforts. Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Performance evaluation application rate % 96.0 96.8 96.8 Employee Satisfaction Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Satisfaction with internal education programs point 83.8 85.9 87.7 Satisfaction with HR system operations pointt 70.6 72.1 74.0 Employee Retirement KOGAS runs a retirement pension plan designed to help retired employees and their family members enjoy more stable later years. We enable our employees to choose from a defined benefit (DB) pension plan and a defined contribution (DC) pension plan. Furthermore, we implement an educational subsidy system to support the post-retirement life of those who have chosen the peak wage system so that they can plan and take appropriate courses offered by external professional institutions. Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Retirement Pension Amount of asset under management KRW 100 million 2,494 3,065 2,985 Number of participants in retirement pension person 3,666 3,561 3,771 Retirees on-time retirement person 0 53 61 early retirement person 18 9 6 Labor Union Membership KOGAS notifies the union in advance in writing of changes in the articles of incorporation and the corporate organization; alteration and abolition of regulations on working conditions; and agenda items and resolutions at general meetings of shareholders and board of directors related to labor union members' interests, as is specified in the collective agreement. Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Number of labor union member person 3,186 3,242 3,650 Labor union membership rate % 86.10 84.70 88.60 Employee and CEO Compensation CEO compensation KRW 233,794,000 Employee compensation median value KRW 78,718,840 average value KRW 86,894,000 CEO -to-worker compensation ratio median value 2.97% average value 2.69% * Source: The Integrated Report 2020 (5. Executive Salary Status and 6. Average Employee Salary Status in the ‘Agency Operations’ chapter). Better Energy, Better World 91 Occupational Safety and Health The Labor-Management Occupational Health and Safety Committee represents 90.1% of the company’s total employees (4,272 persons as of the end of 2019). In accordance with Article 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and Article 25-2 of the Enforcement Decree of the Act, the committee deals with matters related to the formulation of industrial accident prevention plans and the protection of employees’ safety and health ahead of the purchase of any hazardous/ dangerous machinery or equipment. KOGAS conducts health checkups once a year for employees to prevent the occurrence of disease in the workplace, and special health checkups are held once a year for shift employees and registered security guards. Classification Unit 2018 2019 Figure Remarks Figure Remarks Injury incidence rate* % 0.02 1 case (commuting accident) 0.02 1 case Absenteeism rate** % 0 0 Occupational employees person 0 0 fatalities contractors person 0 0 Lost time employees % 0.12 0.11 contractors % 0.43 0.78 * incident rate per 100 people ** 40 working hours per person/week X 52 weeks Security Violations Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Customer security violations case 0 0 0 IT infrastructure security incidents case 0 0 0 Supplier Status Purchase of Suppliers’ Products Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Description Unit 2017 2018 2019 No. of (first-tier) suppliers No. 93 104 131 Product purchases from SMEs KRW 100 million 2,705 3,229 3,522 Self-assessment ratio % 100 100 100 Ratio of SME product purchases % 29.1 34.5 32.0 Support for Suppliers’ Competitiveness Enhancement Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Joint R&D projects cases case 22 17 20 participating companies No. 21 16 20 R&D budget KRW 100 million 17 12 15 Training of SME suppliers’ employees technical/research personnel training person 180 83 52 job training person 16 35 11 online education person 40 151 155 Total person 236 269 218 Customer Satisfaction Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Public-service customer satisfaction index (PCSI) grade(point) A(94.4) A(93.5) 93.8* * In 2019, the organization that manages the PCSI decided not to mark the level of customer satisfaction when reporting the survey results. Product and Service Information and Labeling KOGAS supplies natural gas to customers and provides its customers with material safety data sheets (MSDS) specifying the hazards, dangers, first aid measures, and handling methods for its products as well as posting the information on its website. KOGAS takes the measure in accordance with Article 41 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Article 37 of the Enforcement Decree of the Act, and Article 92 (2)-(10) of the Enforcement Rule. In 2019, KOGAS did not violate any relevant laws or regulations. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 92 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCES Anti-Corruption and Violations KOGAS has built an internal anti-corruption containment system to regularly monitor all its business sites and all its business activities. We also run an internal whistleblowing (reporting) system and engage in various advisory and surveillance activities through the integrity ombudsman and the integrity auditor among others in a bid prevent corruption and business risks. Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Violations of the anti-corruption rule case 3 2 0 person 3 2 0 Anti-corruption Education Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Completion of ethics education person 3,422 3,324 3,514 Completion of online Code of Conduct education person 6,877 7,242 7,662 Education on Human Rights Policies and Procedures Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employee education on human rights (executives and staff members) person 2,104 3,880 Hours of employee education on the company’s human rights policies and procedures hour 1 1 Proportion of employees educated on the company’s human rights policies and procedures % 95 99 Social Contribution Activities Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total community service hours hour 45,093 14,392 10,044 Community service hours per person hour 14.4 3.5 2.4 Discount on gas bills KRW 100 million 835 873 831 Job Creation through Social Contribution Programs (2019) Classification Project Cost Job Creation (person) Remarks (KRW 1 million) Energy welfare (Onnuri Thermal Efficiency Improvement Program) 3,106 40 Indirect job creation included Architecture Academy (Homeless Empowerment Program) 110 17 Direct job creation Relief Factory and In-house Cafe 250 32 Direct job creation Toy Library, Multicultural Family Support Program, Senior Academy 710 35 Direct job creation Total 4,176 124 Contributions Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total donations (industry associations and tax-exempt organizations) KRW 1 million 3,910 4,889 3,879 * No contributions to lobbying, interest representation or political activities Top five source of contributions Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 The Korea Gas Union KRW 1 million 700 700 1,260 Korea Energy Economics Institute 700 1,000 1,000 Korea Energy Agency 700 800 600 Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large & Small Business, Rural Affairs 405 476 310 Keimyung University 250 Foundation for Overseas Resources Development 610 1,366 Total 3,115 4,342 3,420 * KOGAS provides contributions for the development of related associations but does not provide any political contributions directly or indirectly. Better Energy, Better World 93 GRI STANDARDS INDEX GRI – 102: General Disclosures Topic Disclosure Indicators ISO 26000 Page Remarks Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 6.3.10/6.4.1-6.4.5 6 /6.8.5/7.8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 8~11 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 33~34, 38~39 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 33~34, 38~39 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 89~90 102-9 Supply chain 55 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its None supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 45~51, 82~83 102-12 External initiatives 93~97 102-13 Membership of associations 100 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4~5 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 4.4/6.6.3 13, 74 Integrity behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 75 ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 72 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 5.3 84~85 Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 90 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 84~85 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 84~85 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 30~31 Report 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 5.2 / 7.3.2~7.3.4 87 Method Statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30~31 102-47 List of material topics 30~31 102-48 Restatements of information 7.5.3/ 7.6.2 88 See footnotes for detailed data changes 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 None 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 2, 93~95 Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index 93~95 102-56 External assurance 98~99 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 94 GRI STANDARDS INDEX GRI – 103: Management-Approach Topic Disclosure Indicators ISO 26000 Page Remarks Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 6 / 7.3.1 / 7.4.3 / 7.7.3 32, 40, 52, 62 / 7.7.5 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI – 200: Economic Topic Disclosure Indicators ISO 26000 Page Remarks Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1~ 6.8.3/ 6.8.7/ 87 6.8.9 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 90 retirement plans Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 6.3.9/ 6.8.1/ 6.8.2/ 33~39 supported 6.8.7/ 6.8.9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 60~61 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 6.4.3/ 6.6.6/ 6.8.1/ 91 6.8.2/ 6.8.7 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 6.6.1~6.6.3 74~76 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti74~76, 92 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 76, 92 taken Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti6.6.1-6.6.2/ 6.6.5/ 76 trust, and monopoly practices 6.6.7 GRI – 300: Environmental Topic Disclosure Indicators ISO 26000 Page Remarks Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4/ 6.5.5 88 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 47, 88 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 22~23, 36~37 and services Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 88 Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and 6.5.6 48~49 services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 48~49 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.5 47, 88 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 47, 88 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 6.5.3 45, 88 other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 46, 88 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46, 88 306-3 Significant spills 46 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 4.6 89 Compliance regulations Better Energy, Better World 95 GRI – 400: Social Topic Disclosure Indicators ISO 26000 Page Remarks Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 60~61, 89 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 90 Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 6.4.6 41 Safety management–worker health and safety committees Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7/ 6.8.5 90 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 67 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 90 performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.2.3/ 6.3.7/ 6.3.10/ 64~66, 72, 89 Opportunity 6.4.3 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 6.3.6/ 6.3.7/ 6.3.10/ 65 To eliminate actions taken 6.4.3 discrimination against temporary hires and indefinite contract positions, KOGAS applies the same annual pay system and welfare benefits in personnel management, training & education, etc. as its full-time employees. Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 6.3.3/6.3.5 80 procedures Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 6.3.9/ 6.5.1~6.5.3/ 26~27, 56~59, 92 impact assessment, and development programs Customer Health and 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 6.7.1/ 6.7.2/ 6.7.4/ 91 Safety health and safety impacts of products and 6.7.5/ 6.8.8 services Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 6.7.1/ 6.7.2/ 6.7.7 62 of customer privacy and losses of customer data KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 96 GLOBAL INITIATIVES UN SGDs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations are the world’s shared plan to end extreme poverty, reduce inequality, and protect the planet by 2030. KOGAS strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities by linking these UN SGDs with its various social value creation projects. NO POVERTY ZERO HUNGER GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Easing gas cost burdens for low-income families Supply of energy kits including bottled water and ice boxes for Children: Support for welfare improvement in local child centers, support Resolving energy poverty problems through gas utilization slum residents for children with severe disabilities and the visiting R-BANK’s initiatives, efficiency, etc. Priority support for marginalized and vulnerable groups following medical support for severely ill children, and support for children with heart disease in Uzbekistan, etc. Priority support for marginalized and vulnerable citizens the creation of the Onnuri Fund Adolescents: Scholarships for high school and college students, support through the Onnuri Fund Efforts to end hunger at home and abroad through continuous for the Mozambique Technical School, etc. Scholarship support for low-income children support of Korea Food for the Hungry International (KFHI) and Youth & Middle-Aged People: Thermal efficiency improvement project, Empowering people in developing countries through the the Korean Red Cross (KRC), among others hosting start-up conferences, support for social enterprises, Architecture operation of the Mozambique Technical School, etc. Academy, etc. Seniors: Senior Academy, distribution of silver carts QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Free construction skills training for the homeless and shantySupport for women-led companies in bidding and contract Promotion of environmental improvement activities to town residents execution improve water quality Support for single-parent childcare and education Providing jobs to women who experienced career interrupPerformance of environmental preservation efforts such as Education support for unmarried single mothers and improvetions and unmarried single mothers having to care for children stream cleaning activities ment in the educational environment of Mozambique (jobs in toy libraries) Support for residential sanitation improvement by vulnerable Scholarships for low-income families and support for toy Certification as a family-friendly company groups libraries AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION, ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE Promotion of universal energy welfare through gas supply in -S  elf-reliance support for unmarried single mothers, heat wave Laying city gas pipelines (4,908km) across the country includremote mountain/island communities monitoring team ing Jeju; building 52 production bases including 72 storage Realization of renewable energy expansion policy (establishment J ob placement for homeless individuals, shantytown residents tanks; and assisting the installation of city gas distribution and operation of hydrogen fueling stations) and graduates of Senior Academy systems Support for installing fuel cells in social welfare facilities -H  iring operators of Onnuri Toy Libraries Promotion of sustainable industrial development through soThermal efficiency improvement projects for vulnerable groups cial investment in the spread of distributed power generation such as installing cooling and heating devices, LED replacement based on the fuel cell, among others in addition to seasonal support for shantytown residents SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND REDUCED INEQUALITIES COMMUNITIES PRODUCTION [International] Medical support for children in developing [Regional Development] Holding GIF (Start-up Competition), Support for sustainable consumption through the developcountries along with continuing promotion of capacity buildCBC Start-up Competition, local innovation forums, and the ment of new technologies for smart gas meters, among others ing for middle and high school students there Relief Factory, etc. Improvement of efficiency and safety through smart produc[Domestic] Offering scholarships to high-achieving underpriv[Improvement of Residential Conditions] Toy libraries, thermal tion bases ileged children, providing energy kits for vulnerable groups efficiency improvement projects, and construction of soccer Stable supply of natural gas and efficient facility operation by in severe heat, improving residential environments, and fields, tennis courts, jokgu (a combination of football and expanding production and supply infrastructure supporting heating costs volleyball) courts CLIMATE ACTION LIFE BELOW WATER LIFE ON LAND Increased energy efficiency through eco-friendly facilities and Prevention of marine pollution through the operation of the Construction of clean supply control centers without light process improvement Environmental Emergency Response Committee pollution, and minimization of damage to the environment Efforts to create demand for natural gas, which is a clean fossil Improvement of marine environment through the LNG bunwhen laying gas pipelines fuel, corresponds to the prevention of climate change and the kering business Improvement of onshore environments through the supply of implementation of emergency measures Establishment of a marine pollution control network and large LNG vehicles conduct monitoring of environmental impact assessment Environmental improvement by increasing demand for naturecommendations ral gas, a clean fossil fuel PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS Providing opportunities for citizens to apply their ideas to Efforts to strengthen partnerships with developing countries business by holding social contribution project competitions through KOGAS’s overseas projects Selection and implementation of vulnerable group support Securing a driving force for sustainable management through programs based on the preferences reflected by funds raised the operations of the Social Value Committee for win-win by the Employee Fund (the Onnuri Fund Matching Grant cooperation Project) Strengthening partnerships through various consultative bodies such as the Win-Win Cooperation Committee and the Shared Growth Council Better Energy, Better World 97 UNGC Membership and Support KOGAS joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), an international agreement that regulates the social responsibility of global companies, in 2007. We declared that we will steadfastly comply with the ten principles in the four areas including human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Principles Page Human Rights 77~81 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 64~67, 77~81 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses must eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses must ensure the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses must eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 45~51 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses must undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business must encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 74~76 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 98 THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Readers of the KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020: Foreword Korea Management Registrar, Inc. (“KMR”) has been requested by Korea Gas Corporation (“KOGAS”) to verify the contents of its KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 (“the Report”). KOGAS is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report; KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and standard KOGAS describes its efforts and achievements with regard to its corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed type2, moderate-level assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from the KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s assurance team (“the team”) evaluated adherence to the Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness as well as the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices described below. Moreover, we thoroughly reviewed the reliability of related documents and records -energy, water consumption, waste generation, and occupational injury and illness rate. The professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the “Core Option” of GRI Standards, which covers the following: ▪GRI Standards Reporting Principles ▪Universal Standards ▪Topic-specific Standards Management approach of Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-3 Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1, 203-2 Procurement Practices: 204-1 Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Anti-Competitive Behavior: 206-1 Energy: 302-1, 302-4, 302-5 Water and Wastewater: 303-3 Biodiversity: 304-2, 304-3 Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-7 Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2, 306-3 Environmental Compliance: 307-1 Employment: 401-1, 401-3 Occupational Health and Safety: 403-1 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1 Non-Discrimination: 406-1 Human Rights Assessment: 412-2 Local Communities: 413-1 Customer Health and Safety: 416-2 Customer Privacy: 418-1 This Report excludes data and information of joint corporation, contractor etc., outside of the organization, i.e., KOGAS, as the report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within the agreed-upon scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team carried out assurance engagement as follows: ▪Reviewed the overall report ▪Reviewed the materiality test process and methodology ▪Reviewed the sustainability management strategies and targets ▪Reviewed the stakeholder engagement activities ▪Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Better Energy, Better World 99 Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOGAS on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. In reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report with regard to compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that gives us reason to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. ▪Inclusivity Inclusivity refers to the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable, strategic response to sustainability. KOGAS is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels as part of its commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder left out by KOGAS during this procedure. ▪Materiality Materiality involves determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is one that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. KOGAS is determining the materiality of issues found through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. ▪Responsiveness Responsiveness refers to the response of an organization to stakeholder issues affecting its sustainability performance; it is realized through decisions, actions, and performance as well as communication with stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOGAS’s countermeasures for critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence that the Report was not prepared in accordance with the “Core Option” of GRI standards. Recommendation for improvement We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for continuous improvements: ▪Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) reconstructed key topics identified through materiality assessment and its strategies in a harmonious way to provide clear description of key achievements. As part of the effort to realize social value -which is a hot issue among public organizations -it set midto long-term goals and reported annual quantitative performance. It also created a special page in the report to present key achievements. KOGAS is advised to develop midto long-term sustainability strategies and make continuous effort to achieve KPIs for the enhancement of its sustainability. Our independence With the exception of providing third-party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any of KOGAS’s profit-oriented business operations in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain its independence. July 7, 2020 CEO KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 100 PRIZES AND AWARDS/MEMBERSHIPS Prizes and Awards Name of Award Host Year Selected as an excellent public corporation in the securities market Korea Exchange 2019 Won the grand prize at the Korea Innovation Grand Awards in the field of Social Innovation The Dong-A Ilbo 2019 Won the designation of the best institute in disaster management evaluation and the presidential Ministry of the Interior and Safety 2019 commendation Won an excellence award at the Public Institution Social Value Creation Contest in the field of social Ministry of Employment and Labor, Korea Social 2019 economy friendly city Enterprise Promotion Agency Won the designation of the best institute in disaster management evaluation and the presidential Ministry of the Interior and Safety 2018 commendation Won the grand prize at the Management Grand Awards in the field of reliable management KMA Consultants Inc. 2018 Won the top prize at the Retirement Pension Grand Prizes Maeil Business Newspaper 2018 Won the grand prize at the Korea Innovation Frontier Awards in the field of social innovation The Dong-A Ilbo 2018 Won the prime minister’s award for the early supply of natural gas to Saemangeum District (Jeonbuk Office for Government Policy Coordination 2017 Regional Headquarters) Won the prime minister’s award at the Korea Energy Efficiency Awards (Pyeongtaek Terminal Division) Korea Energy Agency 2017 Won the Social Contribution Grand Prize Daegu Metropolitan City 2017 Won the MOTIE Minister’s award at the Korea CSR Film Festival Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE) 2016 Designated as the best contractor for construction disaster prevention Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency 2016 Won the highest rank in the national infrastructure disaster management evaluation Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2016 Won the 1st Place recognition among the country’s Best Companies to Work for GWP KOREA 2016 Certification as an excellent company in Standard Service Quality MOTIE 2016 Won the MOTIE minister’s award for contributions to the energy voucher project MOTIE 2016 Won the Prime Minister’s commendation on World Standards Day 2016 The Ministry of Environment 2016 Won the Prime Minister’s award at the Korea Safety Fair Ministry of Government Administration and Home 2016 Affairs Won the integrated ISO certification (ISO 8001, ISO 14001, ISO 29001, OHSAS 18001) Korea Gas Safety Corporation, British Standard 2016 Institution (BSI) Memberships Name of Association Joining Year Korea Gas Union 1985 WEC Korean Member Committee 1985 GIIGNL (International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers) 1985 SIGTTO (the Society of International Gas Tanker and Terminal Operators) 1990 The Korean Environment Preservation Association (KOGAS Pyeongtaek Terminal Division) 1997 UN Global Compact 2007 Energy and Mineral Resources Development Association of Korea 2008 Korea-Japan Economic Association 2013 Green Company Association (KOGAS Incheon Terminal Division) 2013 Korean-American Association 2014 Korea-Indonesia Partnership Council 2014 IGU (International Gas Union) 2014 BETTER ENERGY, BETTER WORLD KOGAS Sustainability Report 2020 Representative Hee-Bong Chae Publisher Korea Gas Corporation address 120 Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea (41062) Tel +82-053-670-0114 Website www.kogas.or.kr 본 보고서는 환경을 생각하여 FSCⓇ 인증 종이를 사용하고 있으며 콩기름 잉크로 인쇄되었습니다.
