2020 Corporate Citizenship Report Introduction 2 OpenText aims to make the world Introduction • About this report a better place. • About OpenText • CEO message What we value • Our approach • Stakeholders In an age of information disruption, we see opportunity to use • E  xternal partnerships and commitments technology for the greater good—and we aspire to unlock its How we manage potential to advance societal goals and accelerate positive change. • Business conduct • Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community • Environment • Awards Appendix Introduction > About this report 3 About this report Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message Our 2020 Corporate Citizenship Report covers our 2020 fiscal year What we value • Our approach (July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020). This report is intended to outline our • Stakeholders priorities, practices and ambitions as we embark on a new Technology for Good corporate citizenship program. Having signed on to the • E  xternal partnerships and commitments How we manage United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2018, we have included • Business conduct • Data privacy, our UNGC Communication on Progress in the Appendix. information security, and cyber resiliency Unless otherwise noted, the information presented here is at June 30, 2020. • Our people Performance data is enterprise-wide and all dollar amounts are in U.S. funds. • Community • Environment • Awards Appendix Introduction > About OpenText 4 About OpenText Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message Incorporated in 1991, OpenText, The Information Company, enables organizations to What we value gain insight through market-leading information management solutions, on-premises • Our approach or in the cloud. The comprehensive OpenText Information Management platform and • Stakeholders suite of software products and services provide secure and scalable solutions for • E  xternal partnerships and commitments global companies and governments around the world. How we manage Information is made more valuable through our software. By connecting information to digital business processes, it is enriched with • Business conduct analytics. Information is protected and secure throughout its entire lifecycle. Information captivates customers. Information connects and fuels some of the world’s largest digital supply chains in manufacturing, retail and financial services. • Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency See our 2020 Annual Report to learn more > • Our people • Community By the numbers • Environment • Awards $3.11B FY20 revenue Appendix 100,000+ customers AMERICAS EMEA APAC Global headquarters Regional headquarters Regional headquarters Waterloo, Canada Munich (Grasbrunn), Sydney, Australia 100M end users Germany 6,600 2,800 5,000 14,400 employees employees employees employees in 35 countries $ 1.904B $ 942M $ 264M FY20 revenue FY20 revenue FY20 revenue Introduction > CEO message 5 CEO message Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message The coronavirus pandemic has challenged all of us to do better and to be more. What we value What started as a health crisis has evolved into a financial and social crisis, as the • Our approach inequalities in our society have been made more visible. Successfully dealing with • Stakeholders these crises will require leadership, courage, compassion, and collective action. • E  xternal partnerships and commitments We all have a role to play – and when we succeed, these values need to continue to inform our ongoing efforts against poverty, racism, and climate change. How we manage • Business conduct I am pleased to introduce our first Corporate Citizenship Report. Opportunity and responsibility • Data privacy, OpenText has always upheld high standards of ethics, integrity As a software company, OpenText is at the forefront of change. information security, and corporate citizenship, and this report gives us an opportunity Market-disrupting technologies are transforming how we live and the and cyber resiliency to discuss our contributions to build a better world. As the current way the world works. Business data and applications are migrating • Our people situation makes clear, there is a significant role for companies to the cloud. Through the Internet of Things (IoT), endpoints and to play in addressing social, economic, and environmental robotics are becoming increasingly intelligent and connected, • Community challenges that threaten our collective future. adding a huge amount of available information to businesses and • Environment The COVID-19 pandemic, the economic instability it has caused, creating opportunity for massive improvements to supply chains • Awards and the Black Lives Matter movement have highlighted how much and customer experiences. work we have to do as a society. At the same time, over the past Artificial intelligence (AI) and Appendix few months, we have also seen humanity coming together – to machine learning are making data share life-saving information, to attempt to produce vaccines capture, discovery, and analytics in record time, and to begin to acknowledge and confront more efficient while promising a systematic racism. new era of autonomous things. Technology is the connective fabric of humanity, and the scientific advancements of the past several decades allow us to better deal with these crises than at any point in our history. However, technology, like any other tool, needs to be coupled with ethics, integrity and strong commitments around privacy and security, in order to accomplish these goals. At OpenText, we believe that information has the power to create a more equitable, just and democratic world. This report contains our commitments and aspirations to making that a reality. Introduction > CEO message 6 Introduction OpenText is in the business of helping customers harness the COVID-19 power of these and other technologies to unlock the Information This year, companies around the world have had to navigate the • About this report Advantage, so they can grow sustainably and solve the world’s uncertainty of COVID-19. At OpenText, we moved our employees • About OpenText biggest challenges. to remote work to ensure the safety of our employees, • CEO message The nature of our business gives us tremendous opportunity to customers and partners. While working remotely, we have What we value create long-term value for our customers, employees, and society continued to provide the same 24x7 support to our customers, as a whole. Along with that opportunity comes responsibility—and fully leveraging the OpenText Cloud, our investments in digital • Our approach both are important to us. infrastructure and our software and global expertise. • Stakeholders One of our key responsibilities is data privacy and security. Many of our customers have been on the front lines of the • E  xternal partnerships The more the world goes digital, the more data is produced, pandemic, and we have helped ensure supply chains and retailers and commitments increasing data security and privacy risks. We make a commitment are delivering essential goods, pharmaceutical companies are to our customers that when they entrust their data to us, our conducting research, hospitals are managing resources, doctors How we manage number one priority is to defend and protect it. and patients are connected, airlines are safe, banks are providing • Business conduct funds, cyber criminals are stopped and transportation systems We also take very seriously our responsibilities to: • Data privacy, are moving goods, along with many other critical functions. • A  ct ethically and with integrity in every situation, information security, We also launched a number of programs to help our employees and cyber resiliency and to support an ethical supply chain and communities with the additional challenges brought on • Our people • E  mbrace diversity, inclusion, and respect in our workplace, by the pandemic. This includes the OpenText Relief Fund, to and to empower our employees support any employees with COVID-19, as well as our 100 Acts of • Community • W  ork with local organizations to support the communities Kindness campaign, which supported almost 200 local charities • Environment in which we operate around the world. As we look to return to the workplace, we will • Awards continue to be guided by the overarching principle of ensuring • M  itigate our environmental impact and help our customers employee, customer and partner safety. do the same Appendix Diversity In this report, we discuss our policies and practices in these areas. They include signing on to the United Nations Global Compact With over 14,000 employees in 35 countries around the world, (UNGC), by which we affirm our support of its Ten Principles. In the OpenText believes in the power of diversity, and the ability of Appendix of this report, you will find our annual Communication multiple backgrounds and points of view to contribute to a on Progress, which demonstrates our commitment to continually stronger whole. We have worked diligently to improve gender improve the integration of the UNGC and its principles into our diversity within OpenText, and to remove biases from our business strategy, culture and daily operations. recruitment, hiring and training programs. We are committed to maintaining a working environment that is inclusive of everyone, Upholding our responsibilities helps us build the foundation of trust regardless of culture, national origin, race, color, gender, gender that is vital to growing our business. It also opens doors to partner identification, sexual orientation, family status, age, veteran with customers and others on opportunities to use technology to status, disability, or religion. promote and accelerate positive change in the world. Introduction > CEO message 7 Introduction However, we also know there is more that we can do. The Black “At OpenText, we believe that information Lives Matter protests have been a rallying cry to look more • About this report has the power to create a more equitable, closely at our performance, learn from the experiences of our • About OpenText Black and under-represented employee communities, and just and democratic world.” • CEO message commit to fighting systematic racism both within and outside of OpenText. The first step in this process is listening and learning, For example, a leading international humanitarian organization What we value and I have just completed a listening tour with Black employees is using OpenText products to connect more than 10,000 • Our approach at OpenText to better understand their experiences, and to learn employees across 90 countries and enable its rapid response • Stakeholders from them. Coming out of these meetings, we have committed to team to share information on the ground in the first 24 hours of a an action plan for the next year, which is detailed in this report. crisis. Critical information is fed back into the organization in real • E  xternal partnerships Technology for Good time to help them efficiently develop collaborative solutions and and commitments refocus on better serving their key beneficiaries. Few things have the power to transform our world as rapidly How we manage The world’s top manufacturer of braking systems for rail and and radically as digital technology. Today, technology is being • Business conduct used to fight crime. It is bringing digital agriculture to the world, commercial vehicles is using the OpenText Analytics Suite to combatting fraud, improving livelihoods, and helping to eliminate help ensure safety for millions of trains and vehicles across the • Data privacy, information security, poverty. It is fast-tracking medical advancements and finding globe. Wireless sensors on trains are connected to a back-office, and cyber resiliency innovative ways to reduce waste. At OpenText, this inspires us to cloud-based network using an IoT model. The platform transmits think about how we can use our unique products and capabilities detailed information that can help predict repair and replacement • Our people for the greater good. Already today, various customer needs, aiding in fleet management and ultimately, reducing the • Community deployments of our Information Management solutions are likelihood of component failures and accidents. • Environment advancing this concept. We are in the early stages of our Technology for Good corporate citizenship program. Over the coming months, we • Awards will be developing a robust strategy and roadmap, and putting Appendix in place the necessary governance and operating models. Ultimately, we want to amplify our contribution to creating a better future for all—and we will do it through technology, inclusion and innovation. I look forward to reporting back to you on our progress. Sincerely, Mark Barrenechea CEO and CTO What we value 8 What we value Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message OpenText has been a strong and ethical corporate citizen over our 29 years of What we value existence. In the past few years, we have accelerated our corporate citizenship • Our approach program with a focus on impact, recognizing that to operate globally for the long • Stakeholders term, we need to ensure that our local communities are thriving and that the natural • E  xternal partnerships and commitments environment is healthy. How we manage We view corporate citizenship as an important aspect of being a responsible business, along with having effective enterprise risk • Business conduct management practices and giving due consideration to environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors that can affect our company’s long-term performance. When these three aspects are aligned, we not only do better as a business, we are also better positioned to face • Data privacy, information security, the challenges ahead and make a greater social contribution. Our actions are guided by our overarching Purpose, Promise and People and cyber resiliency commitments, which inspire us to higher levels of performance. • Our people Purpose • Community We are The Information Company, enabling • Environment intelligent and connected enterprises while • Awards inspiring a new way to work. Appendix Promise 1. Be deserving of trust 2. We sweat the details 3. Aim high 4. The best teams win 5. The unexpected wow People Impact Diversity and inclusion Volunteerism What we value > Our approach 9 Introduction • About this report Our approach Corporate Citizenship Governance Framework Corporate Governance • Oversight and authority to consider matters regarding • About OpenText and Nominating sustainability and Corporate Citizenship • CEO message Our approach to corporate citizenship Committee • Stays informed of ESG trends, risks, and opportunities is evolving to meet the needs and Executive Sponsor • General oversight responsibility with respect to What we value matters of sustainability and Corporate Citizenship • Our approach opportunities of the world around us. Executive Vice • Recommends on strategy and significant issues President, Chief • Stakeholders We are leaning into the strength and Legal Officer and to Executive Leadership Team • E  xternal partnerships foundation of our values and culture, Corporate Development • Responsible for reviewing and approving the OpenText Corporate Citizenship Report and commitments combined with an understanding of what Corporate • Leads development and implementation How we manage is most important to our internal and Citizenship Team of Corporate Citizenship strategy • Measures program progress • Business conduct external partners, to move us forward. • Produces Corporate Citizenship reporting • Data privacy, information security, Our newly adopted corporate citizenship and oversees communications and cyber resiliency governance framework sets out a Corporate Citizenship Steering Committee • Operationalizes Corporate Citizenship strategy at the business unit level • Our people structured approach to pursuing and • Identifies Corporate Citizenship opportunities • Community managing activities across the company. in the business • Comprised of cross-functional senior leaders from • Environment across the business who meet on a quarterly basis • Awards As part of our corporate citizenship program we are in the early stages of developing a Technology for Good strategy aimed at Appendix unlocking the potential of technology to help solve some of the world’s biggest problems. In this report, we discuss our approach to managing specific topics that are important to our business and our stakeholders who help to move our business forward — that is, customers, investors, employees, channel partners, suppliers and local communities, who increasingly want assurance that our corporate values and operations align with their priorities. In selecting these topics, we were informed by global best practices and frameworks including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Materiality Map: Technology and Communications Gordon A. Davies Julie Millard Sector, the Global Reporting Initiative, and the United Nations Executive Vice President, Vice President, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Chief Legal Officer Corporate Citizenship and Corporate Development What we value > Stakeholders 10 Introduction • About this report Stakeholders Stakeholder Employees How we engage • Biannual global employee pulse survey • About OpenText • Regular team meetings and 1:1s • CEO message Understanding and addressing • Career Days • Quarterly live-streamed Q&A with CEO & CTO expectations of our stakeholders What we value Customers • Annual engagement conference • Our approach is an integral part of our approach • Innovation labs • Stakeholders to corporate citizenship. Feedback • • Product advisory councils and forums Customer meetings with Executives • E  xternal partnerships and insight have always been • Monthly e-newsletter, alerts, and advisories fundamental to building successful and commitments • Relationship survey net promoter score program Channel Partners • Enablement sessions How we manage relationships based on trust. We • Annual engagement conference • Business conduct seek to establish relationships that • • Biannual progress touchpoints Quarterly e-newsletters and surveys • Data privacy, information security, build trust and mutual respect and Investors • Strong commitment to regular, transparent and active and cyber resiliency support our efforts to create communication with shareholders • Regular meetings between members of management • Our people shared value. and shareholders, including large institutional shareholders • Community • Regular quarterly earnings conference calls that any • Environment As we continue to evolve our corporate citizenship program, shareholder may access and which are available on we will advance our level of engagement with key internal the Company website • Awards and external stakeholders on corporate citizenship related • Annual investor days Appendix issues. Whether it is through meetings, surveys, industry • Annual Meeting of Shareholders presentations, digital events or other interactive initiatives, • Investor Relations website we actively gather feedback and collaborate with internal and • Annual Report and Management Information Circular external audiences. By listening to all our stakeholders, we Communities • Site Leaders empowered to engage and understand are better equipped to meet or exceed expectations, which the needs of the local community fuels our growth. • Ongoing dialogue with local charities to ensure impact • Corporate Citizenship Champions drive volunteer and fundraising initiatives Suppliers • Dialogue promoting fair agreements • Best practice engagement supporting supply chain efficacy Industry Analysts • Annual summit event to educate on product strategy • 1:1 meetings with Executives • Meetings, inquiry calls, surveys, briefings What we value > External partnerships and commitments 11 Introduction • About this report External partnerships and commitments • About OpenText • CEO message Tackling the world’s sustainability challenges requires collaboration across companies, What we value sectors and borders. OpenText has joined various industry initiatives to help accelerate • Our approach progress and impact. • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships and commitments How we manage • Business conduct UN Global Compact EcoVadis Catalyst • Data privacy, OpenText signed on to the EcoVadis is a trusted third-party OpenText is a global supporter of information security, Global Compact Network Canada provider of business Corporate Social Catalyst, an organization whose mission and cyber resiliency as a Participant in November 2018 Responsibility (CSR) ratings and many of is to accelerate progress for women to demonstrate our commitment our customers use EcoVadis to assess through workplace inclusion. Catalyst is a • Our people to sustainability and the UNGC’s their suppliers. OpenText currently has global non-profit partnering with leading • Community Ten Principles. a bronze rating and is above industry companies to build workplaces that • Environment average in all four scoring categories. work for women by providing pioneering The 17 Sustainable Development Goals research, practical tools, and solutions to • Awards (SDGs) set by the United Nations are a remove barriers and drive change. universal call for action to end poverty, Appendix protect the planet and ensure that all people are able to enjoy peace and 30% Club prosperity. We are starting to think about DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION how innovative technologies can disrupt CEO Mark J. Barrenechea was appointed CDP climate change and how using technology to the 30% Club Advisory Committee. The 30% Club Canada enlists board OpenText reports annually to the CDP. for good can help accelerate progress on chairs and CEOs to work towards CDP Global is an international nonall of the Sustainable Development Goals. achieving better gender balance at profit organization which runs the global the board and senior management environmental disclosure system. Our levels. The goal is for 30% of board seats CDP submission describes how OpenText and executive roles to be held by manages the risks and opportunities women by 2022. presented by climate change and our key environmental impacts. How we manage 12 How we manage Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message We commit to doing business responsibly and taking strategic actions to advance What we value societal goals. • Our approach • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships and commitments How we manage • Business conduct • Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community • Environment • Awards Appendix How we manage > Business conduct 13 Introduction • About this report Business conduct • About OpenText • CEO message Our business is built on the foundation of trust. To maintain our company’s position What we value as a market leader, it is crucial for us to earn the trust of our customers, employees, • Our approach investors, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Gaining that trust • Stakeholders starts with conducting our business to high standards of ethics and integrity. • E  xternal partnerships and commitments Doing what’s right Respect for human rights We are committed to conducting our business ethically and in Respect for human rights is embedded in our Code of Business How we manage compliance with the letter and spirit of all applicable laws and Conduct and Ethics and reflected in our labor policies which • Business conduct regulations. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines address the fundamental conventions of the International Labour • Data privacy, our expectations, and all employees, officers, directors, vendors, Organization (ILO). Specific commitments include taking action information security, contractors and partners are expected to comply with them. against human trafficking, child labor, and forced labor in our and cyber resiliency operations and supply chain. We also have a robust background We review the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics annually to • Our people check policy and recruitment process to ensure that people ensure that it remains robust and addresses evolving risks and working for us are of legal age and have legal status. • Community circumstances. Employees are also trained on the Code annually, and must sign off that they understand and are compliant with In the workplace, OpenText is dedicated to creating an environment • Environment these organizational expectations. Other initiatives in support of our where every employee is safe, treated with dignity and respect, • Awards ethics framework include risk assessments focusing on topics such and afforded equal opportunities to succeed. Our annual Code of as fraud, corruption and tax evasion laws. Business Conduct and Ethics training covers human rights issues Appendix and additional training is provided in specific regions or countries OpenText has implemented a number of programs and activities where legally required. See our People section on pages 18 to 24, to identify potential corruption and fraud. In 2018, our internal audit to learn more about our labor practices. team conducted both a country risk assessment and an anti-corruption audit, which resulted in improvements to our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program in high-risk regions, including increased resourcing, monitoring and training on corporate policies. We have an active Whistleblower We have an active Whistleblower Policy and whistleblowing line, Policy and whistleblowing line, and the policy and process are proactively communicated to employees. The Whistleblowing Policy is committed to maintaining and the policy and process are a workplace in which employees, officers, and directors can proactively communicated raise concerns on a confidential basis, free from discrimination, retaliation, or harassment, anonymously or otherwise. to employees. How we manage > Business conduct 14 Introduction Ethical supply chain OpenText products digitize the supply chain • About this report We hold our suppliers to the same high standards to which we Visibility and transparency, from organizations’ partners and hold ourselves. In keeping with our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers, are important to develop a trusted network. To achieve • About OpenText we expect our suppliers to behave responsibly, ethically supply chain visibility, and to set the foundation for collaboration • CEO message and sustainably. between supply chain partners, it is essential for the supply chain What we value to be digitized. OpenText Business Network helps companies Our expectations, which are outlined in The OpenText digitize their supply chain-related information flows, and we • Our approach Sustainable and Ethical Procurement Policy, also apply to also help companies establish a centralized repository or supplier environmental responsibility, integrity, and fair and • Stakeholders directory of partners/suppliers and any associated information honest dealings. • E  xternal partnerships relating to their ethical and sustainable practices. We help our Sustainable procurement is an area in which we are progressing. customers access supplier information, including provenance of and commitments We engage with our internal buying teams on social and materials, environmental performance, and the ability to share How we manage environmental issues within our supply chain. this information with their own customers to ensure a level of • Business conduct Diverse suppliers have the opportunity to participate in providing accountability. products or services to our company. We purchase products • Data privacy, and services from minority-owned, women-owned, veteran and information security, and cyber resiliency service disabled veteran-owned and small business companies. • Our people • Community • Environment • Awards Related OpenText Policies Appendix Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainable and Ethical Procurement Policy Whistleblower Policy Employment Equity and Diversity Policy Workplace Harassment and Discrimination Policy How we manage > Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency 15 Introduction • About this report Data privacy, information security, • About OpenText • CEO message and cyber resiliency What we value Data is at the center of everything we do, and one of our top priorities is to protect • Our approach it. Our customers count on us to be in front of, and actively managing, all information • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships security and data privacy risks—our business depends on it. and commitments Upholding best practice How we manage OpenText has long maintained industry best practices for • Business conduct incorporating data protection and privacy into our day-to-day • Data privacy, activities as defined by our ISO 27001:2013 global Information information security, Security Management System. We also help customers implement and cyber resiliency OpenText solutions to build strong programs of their own. • Our people We have a dedicated team of security professionals. The Vice • Community President, Information Security, Compliance and Chief Information Security Officer oversees the company’s information security • Environment program. The Vice President, Data Privacy and Compliance is the • Awards OpenText Chief Data Privacy Officer, appointed to oversee our privacy program. We have also appointed a Data Protection Officer Appendix and a Global Privacy & Compliance Office to manage and oversee data requests. We have implemented a range of technical and organizational measures to ensure the availability, integrity and confidentiality of data. All OpenText employees complete mandatory security awareness and privacy training upon joining the company and annually thereafter, or as required by law or to meet customerrequired compliance obligations. How we manage > Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency 16 Introduction Privacy as a fundamental right Cyber resiliency • About this report OpenText is fully committed to protecting the personal information Digital transformation has changed the world, spurring the rise of customers, employees, channel partners, suppliers and other of new technologies, new cultural paradigms and new business • About OpenText stakeholders. We have initiated a variety of methods and controls models. In this information age, data is constantly flowing into and • CEO message to ensure we know what data we are collecting and processing, out of the enterprise from every imaginable source. Endpoints are What we value and we protect that data appropriately. multiplying. Employees are working on-site, at home and in the coffee shop. Supply chains are global. Everything is connected. • Our approach We maintain one global privacy management program and control framework which meets the most stringent requirements in the As the world is becoming increasingly connected, cyberattacks • Stakeholders world as applicable to our company and our industry, including are becoming more dynamic, difficult to predict, and on the • E  xternal partnerships the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). As mandated by rise. In the face of rising cyber risks, our customers depend on and commitments data protection legislation, all processing activities are recorded us to continuously deliver the intended operational outcomes. and risk assessments are performed for all high-risk activities. For We provide a full range of cyber resilience solutions to keep our How we manage more information on our commitment to GDPR, visit: https://www. customers secure and their data protected. This is our number • Business conduct opentext.com/about/copyright-information/gdpr-commitment. one priority so they can focus on serving their users, employees, • Data privacy, and investors, regardless of the cyber challenges they may face. information security, and cyber resiliency • Our people The OpenText Privacy Policy applies to • Community OpenText Corporation and all its global • Environment subsidiaries. Information about our • Awards commitment to human privacy rights Appendix is available on the OpenText website: https://www.opentext.com/about/ copyright-information/site-privacy How we manage > Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency 17 Introduction Information Security • E  nsuring the integration of the information security management system requirements into the organization’s processes • About this report Management approach, methodology, and certifications • E  nsuring that the resources needed for the information security • About OpenText The OpenText Information Security Risk Management management system are available Methodology is part of the company’s overall risk management • CEO message strategy. It supports our ISO 27001:2013 Information Security • C  ommunicating the importance of effective information security What we value Management System (ISMS) and other compliance requirements. management and of conforming to the information security • Our approach The information security risk strategy applies to both corporate management system requirements and commercial data. As well, information security risk must be • E  nsuring that the information security management system • Stakeholders applied and evaluated when OpenText data assets are hosted achieves its intended outcome(s) • E  xternal partnerships or transacted by a third party. and commitments • D  irecting and supporting persons to contribute to the The risk framework and methodology follow these steps: effectiveness of the information security management system How we manage 1. Define information security policy • Promoting continual improvement • Business conduct 2. Identify primary and secondary data assets • S  upporting other relevant management roles to demonstrate • Data privacy, 3. Select security controls their leadership as it applies to their areas of responsibility information security, and cyber resiliency 4. Implement security controls OpenText’s Information Security program is based on ISO 27001 and NIST standards. OpenText is ISO 27001 certified for particular • Our people 5. A  ssess the effectiveness of security controls commercial services and platforms. OpenText has detailed technical (based on threats/vulnerabilities) • Community and organizational security measures in place which are used in the 6. Determine risk treatment/complete risk acceptance as required provision of services. • Environment 7. Implement risk treatment and reassess as required Incident management • Awards 8. Monitor security controls for changes that would change We have sophisticated incident response processes in place, Appendix risk exposure which are tested annually including through consultation with The OpenText Information Security Management System (ISMS) third parties to help ensure industry best practices. The incident executive steering committee is composed of the OpenText CEO management process is fully measured and documented. & CTO, Chief Information Officer, and Chief Information Security Employee training and awareness Officer. They, in turn, report on information security matters to the Internally, OpenText runs a continuous cybersecurity awareness Board of Directors and/or the Audit Committee of the Board on campaign with employees. Employee training and awareness is a quarterly basis, including in relation to cybersecurity strategy, disseminated through emails, videos, posters, and internal social current risks, and any current cybersecurity issues. media platforms. Training is mandatory, and employee accounts On an ongoing basis, senior management demonstrates are disabled if training is not completed. All contractors with leadership and commitment with respect to the information access to our data must also complete the training. The OpenText security management system by: global information security team also routinely runs mock exercises • Follow-up actions from previous management reviews to further pressure-test internal awareness and adherence. How we manage > Our people 18 Introduction • About this report Our people • About OpenText • CEO message We believe in hiring and developing the best talent because we know that having the What we value right people—and helping them realize their full potential—drives innovation and • Our approach continued growth and success. • Stakeholders Diversity and inclusion • E  xternal partnerships and commitments With over 14,000 employees spread across 35 countries, working value diversity of opinion and respect differences. The answers across teams and cultures to innovate and deliver solutions to our to these questions were among the highest scoring items on our How we manage clients, is part of who we are. Our culture is embraced in the day last survey. • Business conduct to-day and reinforced through the design of our talent programs. We also recognize the importance of increasing female From flexibility in how we work to a commitment to ensuring representation in the technology industry, and created the • Data privacy, information security, fairness in our recruiting and development processes, our goal is Women in Technology (WIT) program to advance gender equality. and cyber resiliency to harness the power of diversity. Each year, we send delegates to the Grace Hopper Celebration, Our Employment Equity and Diversity Policy provides direction on the world’s largest gathering of women in technology. The women • Our people maintaining a working environment that is inclusive of everyone, we send are trailblazers at OpenText, inspiring and emerging • Community leaders who will drive change in our company and beyond. regardless of culture, national origin, race, color, gender, gender • Environment identification, sexual orientation, family status, age, veteran status, disability, religion, or other basis protected by applicable laws. We • Awards believe that a diverse workforce betters our ability to innovate. Appendix Also, our Accommodation Policy ensures that employees with a need for accommodation are recognized, and barriers to their performance are removed wherever possible. We strive to present diverse slates of candidates for all our roles and mandate it for our senior leader positions. A key benefit of embracing a more flexible and remote return-to-work, as a result of COVID-19, is the opportunity to access a broader and deeper talent pool. Twice per year, we reach out to employees through a global opinion pulse survey to find out how we are doing on a range of topics, from articulating the company vision to supporting their career development. We include questions about how well we 2019 OpenText Grace Hopper Delegation India How we manage > Our people 19 Introduction Achieving a more balanced proportion of men and women As of the writing of this report, we have begun to form an action plan in our workforce reflects our fundamental belief that to deliver long term change and advancement: • About this report inclusion and diversity leads to more innovation and better • Awareness and education • About OpenText business outcomes. With 29% female representation • Recruiting and hiring • CEO message in our global workforce, OpenText is comparable to the • Career advancement and development What we value tech industry’s largest companies. Across our largest • Mentorship global centers, we have a 46% female representation • Our approach in Waterloo, 34% in Reading (UK), 42% in Makati City • Internal and external engagement • Stakeholders (Philippines) and 25% in India. There are currently three • Transparency and accountability • E  xternal partnerships women on the Board which represents approximately 27% We are committed to progress, and to creating a more just world for and commitments of the current Board, and 33% of the current independent everyone. How we manage Board members. OpenText has 26% women on the senior Responsive and responsible leadership leadership team (SLT), while approximately 25% of global • Business conduct Engaged managers and leadership make OpenText a great place leaders, manager or above roles, are held by women. • Data privacy, to work. That leadership is reflected in our open-door policy—with information security, leaders at all levels being readily accessible to employees. We and cyber resiliency 29% expect our leaders to set the tone at the top as role models for our values and overarching people promise: do the right things, the 33% Women in • Our people the workforce right way, together. Women as independent Board members • Community Our focus is on creating tools to support managers’ success in • Environment bringing our values to life. In FY19, a new Management Training 25% Program was launched to develop our leaders’ abilities to coach • Awards Women in management roles employees, manage their teams for maximum effectiveness, and deliver on company priorities. The program is required for all Appendix people-leaders at all levels in the organization including those who are newly hired, recently promoted, or who have joined OpenText through an acquisition. Program content includes: Action for underrepresented minorities • Interviewing and talent selection We are a global organization interested in global advancement and • Diversity and inclusion sustained change for all marginalized communities (Black, Indigenous, People of Color, LGBTQ+, and others). Making progress for the • Compensation planning Black Community, and other underrepresented minorities, is making • Performance management progress for all. We are taking important steps to benchmark our• Employee career development planning selves against our industry and communities, and to actively listen to our employees through a series of CEO Townhalls and other forums. • Creating a culture of recognition How we manage > Our people 20 Introduction Continuous learning To inspire young women to pursue careers in • About this report Employees join OpenText for continuous learning, experience STEM (science, technology, engineering and and credentials that shape their impact on our industry. Chart Your • About OpenText Course is our commitment to current and prospective employees mathematics) fields, OpenText sponsored the • CEO message to provide them with opportunities to explore, learn and chart Northeast Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition exciting career paths. To support a culture of continuous learning What we value (NECCDC) in March 2019. Our offices around the and development across our global organization, OpenText offers • Our approach an annual education reimbursement program which is available world also hosted Hour of Code events, which • Stakeholders to all employees, including part-time workers. This program is teach coding basics through fun and interactive renewable each fiscal year. We provide up to $3,000 per employee • E  xternal partnerships computer games designed to stimulate early and commitments in Canada and the United States, adjusted in other countries based on cost of living. This program aligns to our commitment to interest in STEM fields. Last year, we reached How we manage internal development and mobility across all of our geographies, more than 400 children through events at • Business conduct as we provide equal opportunity to this benefit, regardless of role, function or location. We have designed the education our Gaithersburg (U.S.), Waterloo (Canada), • Data privacy, information security, reimbursement program to ensure that it will meet the needs of Grasbrunn (Germany), Reading (U.K.), São Paulo all personalized development goals. We do this by supporting and cyber resiliency (Brazil), and Hyderabad (India) offices. a vast range of programs from technical to business skills. Past • Our people recipients of this program have leveraged this support to obtain • Community their MBA, then have gone on to be promoted to our Senior Leadership Team. • Environment We also offer programs designed to enhance the way we develop • Awards strong managers and leaders and a great place to work where Appendix quality relationships are built, team members are inspired to excel, and outstanding business results are achieved. This past year we held OpenText Career Days around the globe. The goals of these events were to spark local networking, increase visibility to the tools and resources available to support employees in their career planning, and ignite career path conversations. Leader Q&A panels were held to showcase personal career experiences, a career expo was delivered where employees could visit functional booths to learn more about the various roles in the company, and leader sessions were held for managers to explore how to support employee career development. OpenText offices around the world celebrate Hour of Code with families. How we manage > Our people 21 Introduction • About this report Our benefits • About OpenText • CEO message Across the company, we offer a wide variety of group benefits including medical, What we value life and disability benefits, which are designed to protect employees and their • Our approach dependents against financial hardship due to illness or injury. We also have regional • Stakeholders Employee Assistance Programs in many countries which provide 24/7 confidential • E  xternal partnerships counselling, support and access to resources for employees and their families. and commitments How we manage Benefit programs are customized to support employees and their families based on the market practices in the country of employment. Our benefits include, but are not limited to: • Business conduct • Data privacy, information security, • Medical, dental and vision coverage • Global employee assistance program • Home and auto insurance and cyber resiliency discounts • Education and professional • Patent incentive program • Our people membership assistance • Life insurance • Out of country emergency • Community • Fitness and wellness reimbursement medical expenses • Short and long-term disability benefits • Employee stock purchase plan • Transportation benefits • Environment • Flexible spending plans • Referral bonus programs • Childcare assistance programs • Awards • Lunch vouchers • Accidental death and • Group retirement savings plan Appendix dismemberment benefits • 3 paid volunteer days per year • Pension contributions We build programs through an inclusion and diversity lens. We design our programs and challenge our benefits vendors to insure all family types and offer coverage for same sex partners. Our time-off policies recognize that employees can only bring their best selves to work when they take the time they need. We remind our employees to take their vacation time, to recharge and re-energize. And we ensure our time-off policies provide flexible time off for religious observation and volunteer activities. As we look to the future, we know how critical issues related to well-being, including mental health, will continue to be for our industry and our communities. We want to ensure that employee wellness is a top priority and that our plans help make life a little easier and help balance work and personal life so our employees can focus on what’s important. We plan to continue to evolve our benefits programs to address these needs. How we manage > Our people 22 Introduction • About this report Rewards and recognition • About OpenText Our variable compensation programs are tied to quantitative Our compensation philosophy is based on a set of principles: • CEO message metrics and deliberately avoid individual discretion. As we foster a • Aligned with business strategy What we value culture of recognition, we ensure there are mechanisms to shine a clear spotlight on who is recognized and why. We offer recognition • Affected by business and Individual performance levels • Our approach for service milestones as well as quarterly CEO excellence awards • Reflects market conditions/changes to ensure competitiveness • Stakeholders and a patent incentive program. • Reflects internal pay equity for similar roles • E  xternal partnerships Our employee recognition program is an important part of our and commitments • Built on disclosure so employees understand broader OpenText Voyager initiative. It encourages employees to explore and develop their careers, chart their course for success, • Ability to grant compensation adjustments can be limited by How we manage and to do the right things the right way—together. Built into the economic conditions • Business conduct Voyager program is the opportunity to celebrate employees who The OpenText Employee Stock Purchase Plan is a program that • Data privacy, model our values. There are multiple levels of engagement where allows all eligible employees to purchase OpenText shares at a 15% information security, employees, managers and directors can nominate each other for discount, with 4 enrollment periods every year. This benefit, as part and cyber resiliency going the extra mile. Employees can be recognized on a range of of employees’ total reward package, provides the opportunity for • Our people levels from having a “let’s make it happen” attitude to delivering on employees to strengthen their ownership in the company and enjoy project results or making a lasting impact on the company. Points the benefits of share price appreciation. • Community can be earned by employees to put towards something meaningful In response to the unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 crisis, • Environment to them. we established the OpenText Employee Relief Fund to support • Awards In addition to recognition, compensation plays an important role in employees in the event of financial hardship incurred as a result of achieving short and long-term business objectives that ultimately the pandemic. We recognize that working together and supporting Appendix drives business success in alignment with long-term shareholder each other will make us stronger. goals. A market-anchored compensation system provides an innovative and proactive approach that offers flexibility in review of employees’ compensation, relative to external labour markets and in response to market pay changes. How we manage > Our people 23 Introduction • About this report Voyager • About OpenText • CEO message Our extended OpenText Voyager community of practitioners are dedicated to What we value Information Management. Our customers, partners, and developers can become • Our approach a part of our Voyager program, an accessible learning program, that leads not only • Stakeholders to career-advancing certifications but inspires Technology for Good initiatives to • E  xternal partnerships strengthen our world. and commitments How we manage OpenText Voyager is a program that strengthens our ecosystem and offers a • Business conduct clear path to delivering incredible customer • Data privacy, experiences through events, learning information security, modules, forums, and certifications. and cyber resiliency Connecting a community of customer • Our people experts, employees, and developers is an • Community important way we are charting the course for the next generation of OpenText. Our • Environment growing team of Voyagers are redefining the • Awards market and mapping the future of enterprise software. The Voyager program seeks to build Appendix a community and network through customer success programs, free training and support, market recognized certifications, and access to OpenText executives. An OpenText Voyager is an explorer, a seeker, a person with endless curiosity. They are innovators, lifelong learners, and leaders who create paths for others. In this age of information disruption, engaging with our Voyager ecosystem is another way we aspire to unlock the potential of technology for the greater good. How we manage > Our people 24 Introduction • About this report Health and safety Business continuity • About OpenText OpenText is committed to providing a safe and healthy working OpenText engages in business continuity planning to prepare • CEO message environment for all employees and contractors. Our Occupational for, prevent, and recover from potential threats to our company. What we value Health and Safety Policy ensures that employees are provided Through our Business Continuity program, we have developed a with a safe and healthy work environment. We make every effort plan to ensure our ability to meet the following goals: • Our approach to ensure the health and safety of our employees by protecting 1. Ensuring the safety and well-being of employees • Stakeholders them from injury and occupational disease. Safety is an integral and inseparable part of our business operations, and as such, continuous 2. Reducing operational downtime during an incident • E  xternal partnerships and commitments awareness, prevention, risk reduction and improvement are actively 3. P rioritizing function recovery order within promoted and encouraged. predefined timeframes How we manage There are benefits to supporting the health and wellness of employees. 4. M anaging and facilitating resource allocation before, during • Business conduct OpenText recognizes this by providing a work environment that and after an incident/event • Data privacy, supports employee health and well-being. Employees are empowered 5. M inimizing financial, operational, employee, reputational, information security, to take control over their well-being by becoming actively involved in legal and contractual impacts and cyber resiliency improving their personal health. We encourage and support wellness / health / fitness programs and provide financial support towards 6. Delivering organizational resiliency • Our people fitness participation. OpenText has established a Business Continuity Committee to • Community OpenText provides dependable working conditions for all employees support our goals and to ensure the sustained advancement of • Environment and has adopted a “zero tolerance” position on workplace violence. business continuity management and program oversight. Local All acts of or threats of physical violence, including intimidation, offices have a representative on the Core Emergency Response • Awards harassment, and/or coercion between employees in the workplace Team who is responsible to provide localized knowledge of the Appendix will not be tolerated and are subject to full investigation and employees, facility and events at their location. appropriate response, including termination. Our program and plans follow an all hazards approach which focuses on identifying single-point failures and the resources required to ensure continued operations, regardless of the incident or event. This enables OpenText to maintain operations during various events. Project Shield was created as a specific business continuity plan to respond to the employee, customer, facility, and technology challenges related to COVID-19. This plan addressed daily situational awareness, HR case management, global and local team communications, customer continuity inquiries, physical security of facilities, and VPN coverage for telework. How we manage > Community 25 Introduction • About this report Community • About OpenText • CEO message Community involvement promotes a culture of caring and citizenship that fosters What we value trust, improves our high-performance work environment, and strengthens the • Our approach cities and neighborhoods in which we work. When communities thrive, customers, • Stakeholders businesses and citizens do as well. • E  xternal partnerships and commitments Strengthening communities Global disaster relief—We give to organizations such as the Red Cross to help them save lives and lessen the devastating impact for How we manage Being a good corporate citizen and investing in the communities people affected by disasters. we serve is an important part of the way we do business. • Business conduct An outline of our corporate giving eligibility criteria can be found Our charitable support activities include: • Data privacy, online here. information security, • C  orporate Matching—OpenText matches employee donations and cyber resiliency to select community campaigns • Our people • D  isaster Relief—We take action when natural disasters impact locations where our employees work and live • Community • C  ommunity Partnerships + Sponsorships—We support • Environment community projects that advance our citizenship efforts • Awards • V  olunteering—We provide employees with three paid days off Appendix per year to make an impact in their community We currently focus our giving in three areas: Education and innovation for global change—Innovation is core to our business success and central to the advancement of people and their communities. We foster education and innovation, and strive to promote the transformative power of technology. Children and family—We support community programs that promote the health and welfare of children and families, including those that provide a safe haven and nurturing environment. OpenText also supports research to find a cure for cancer and other Team OpenText in Philippines supporting the Red Cross Taal Volcano catastrophic illnesses. Relief efforts How we manage > Community 26 Introduction • About this report Giving and volunteering • About OpenText Incredible engagement in charitable initiatives happens across OpenText, around • CEO message the world. In addition to global disaster relief efforts at the corporate level, our What we value regional sites are empowered to support initiatives that are important to them, • Our approach in their local communities. • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships OpenText supports many local employee-led efforts as well. Here are some highlights of the activities they are involved in. and commitments How we manage Global COVID-19 relief efforts—The unprecedented situation Manila, Philippines—We hosted quarterly blood donation drives • Business conduct caused by COVID-19 inspired OpenText to launch a global and supported several local organizations with donations such campaign called 100 Acts of Kindness. It involved supporting as toys and books. During the Taal volcano eruption, employees • Data privacy, causes focused on rebuilding resilient communities and families. pulled together by donating hygiene kits, blankets, and cash for information security, OpenText would match donations made by employees up to those in need. OpenText also made a contribution to the Red Cross and cyber resiliency $1 million, for a $2 million combined contribution by the company to help provide relief. • Our people and employees. OpenText sites chose causes they felt were most important to their community, with a focus on COVID-19 Waterloo, Canada—Employees volunteered and raised over • Community emergency response, foodbanks, and children and family services. $23,000 for Habitat for Humanity and Waterloo Wayside Center, • Environment which provides safe places and free opportunities to share The employee response was tremendous and people gave with • Awards compassion and generosity. and connect. Appendix North America—We raised $57,000, in fiscal year 2019, including Reading and London, UK—Our offices take part in Red Trouser corporate and employee donations, for The Leukemia & Lymphoma Day in support of the Royal Marsden Cancer Charity, which raises Society in Canada and the U.S.. Employees in San Mateo, Waterloo, awareness and funds for bowel cancer research. They also Toronto, Richmond Hill, Gaithersburg, and Montreal also fundraised for Sadaka, Macmillan Cancer Support, Me2 Club, participated in local Light the Night walks. and Passage 2000 to help vulnerable groups. . Australia—In response to the devastation caused by the wildfires, Cork, Ireland—Employees raised funds throughout the year for OpenText launched an Australia Wildfire Relief campaign in Feed Cork and Irish Guide Dogs for the Blind. partnership with the Canadian and Australian Red Cross. We raised Hyderabad and Bengaluru, India—Colleagues participate in over $63,000 through corporate and employee donations which several local community activities, including mobile healthcare, helped to support relief efforts on the ground to deliver food and supporting schools for the underprivileged and student mentoring, water, arrange emergency accommodation and help locate missing and tree planting. loved ones How we manage > Community 27 Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message What we value • Our approach • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships and commitments How we manage • Business conduct • Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community • Environment • Awards Team OpenText in San Mateo tree planting and doing a beach clean-up. Appendix Sao Paulo, Brazil—We made a donation to FUMCAD, the Brook Park, Ohio—Local fundraising campaigns included Toys Municipal Fund for Children and Adolescents. Our team visits for Tots and the Salvation Army. group homes, nursing homes and orphanages to spend time with residents and donate food and clothing. San Mateo, California—Our team did a Pacifica Beach clean-up and also enjoyed boxing classes led by an OpenText employee Grasbrunn, Germany—Employees donated to a local orphanage where all class fees went to a local charity. and provided them with furniture and supplies. In addition to supporting charitable causes, we encourage our Tinton Falls, New Jersey—Employees supported many local employees to become active members in our communities causes including a food bank, beach clean-up, Blessing Bag through volunteering. Every employee is supported with three Brigade, healthcare organizations, and Toys for Tots. workdays to make an impact where and how they choose. How we manage > Environment 28 Introduction • About this report Environment • About OpenText • CEO message Addressing climate change is a global challenge that’s becoming increasingly What we value urgent, public and connected. As a tech industry leader, OpenText has both an • Our approach obligation and an opportunity to take action that will improve the well-being of • Stakeholders our customers, our planet and our society as a whole. • E  xternal partnerships and commitments Reducing our footprint How we manage We are committed to mitigating the adverse environmental impacts of our business activities, which at a minimum means meeting all • Business conduct environmental laws, regulations and standards that apply to us. • Data privacy, As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we have information security, also pledged to uphold certain environmental principles, which and cyber resiliency include undertaking initiatives that promote greater environmental • Our people responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Community Our Environmental Policy articulates our commitment to • Environment measuring and managing our environmental impact. We integrate • Awards the consideration of environmental concerns and impacts into our decision making and activities. We promote sustainable Appendix consumption by developing and promoting environmentally-sound technology to support our customers’ digital transformations. We are committed to the ongoing development and management of company-wide environmental initiatives. How we manage > Environment 29 Introduction Key activities include the following: Waste reduction—We have implemented programs across our global offices to recycle paper, printer cartridges, batteries, plastics • About this report Energy management—In addition to upgrading lighting and building and metals. E-waste programs in all major offices ensure that retired management systems at our owned facilities, we collaborate with • About OpenText computing assets do not go to landfill. In addition, we provide landlords and other partners on environmental projects in leased • CEO message reusable glasses and mugs in our offices and have begun a global spaces. This includes, for example, installing solar panels in India initiative of replacing plastic cutlery with reusable cutlery in all What we value and replacing fluorescent lighting with energy-efficient LED lighting. serveries. Waste audits are conducted at select sites. Energy-efficient servers are used in our company-owned and • Our approach operated data centers, and we are constantly investing in more Water—Water filtration systems have been installed in our offices • Stakeholders energy-efficient, high-density equipment. We are also beginning to and we have discontinued providing bottled water for employees. • E  xternal partnerships monitor our co-location vendors’ energy efficiency and renewable In our international offices, in water-stressed regions, we’ve and commitments energy usage. implemented water conservation awareness programs offered by Greenpeace. Data life cycle management practices include standardizing times How we manage for data retention to improve data storage efficiency and minimize Employee education and engagement—Employees are • Business conduct the servers required. At our data centers in Grasbrunn (Germany), encouraged to take action on their own to help protect the • Data privacy, Hyderabad (India), Helsinki (Finland), Montreal (Canada), Waterloo environment. For example, during Earth Week, they are challenged to information security, (Canada), and Brook Park (U.S.), we’ve deployed cold and hot aisle do one thing for the environment and post and share achievements and cyber resiliency containment systems to reduce power consumption. We also on our internal social network. This year we celebrated Earth Day prioritize decommissioning end-of-life systems that use outdated, by encouraging at-home and online activities to support social • Our people inefficient technologies that consume more energy. distancing and still recognize the challenges of climate change. • Community Real estate—We consider green attributes when leasing or • Environment purchasing property and selecting co-located data centers. • Awards Our use of sophisticated space management tools enables us to maximize space utilization and, where possible, defer expansions. Appendix As a result of COVID-19, OpenText has adopted a hybrid return to work strategy and consolidated certain real estate facilities to streamline operations and accelerate work from home initiatives that reduce our overall global footprint. Travel—OpenText technology enables collaboration across the globe, thereby reducing the need for business travel. We have more than 50 full-fledged video conferencing rooms in our offices around the world. Our employees also have access to electric vehicle charging stations and shuttle services between our offices. At our Waterloo headquarters, our partnership with TravelWise provides travel services for individuals wanting to rideshare to work, discount bus fares, and emergency rides home. OpenText employees recognize and celebrate Earth Day annually. How we manage > Environment 30 Introduction Enabling customers • About this report By enabling our customers’ digital transformations, OpenText also • S olutions for automating paper-based processes using helps them reduce their environmental impacts. workflows, which greatly reduces cost as well as paper waste • About OpenText in the enterprise. We are focused on accelerating the growth of our cloud services, • CEO message scaling up to meet customer demands and helping them ease • R ecords management, which ensures records are disposed What we value their IT burden. Our information management products support of when policy dictates and not retained forever. • Our approach climate solutions by virtualizing servers and condensing storage • Imaging solutions that convert paper documents to electronic, requirements. In addition, we offer: thereby reducing real estate for paper storage and • Stakeholders • C ollaboration tools and shared content repositories, which allow energy expenditure. • E  xternal partnerships geographically dispersed teams to work together in electronic • S ecure file sharing tools such as managed file transfer and and commitments workspaces, reducing or eliminating the need for travel. electronic fax, which eliminate the need to ship documents. How we manage • E mail management technology that allows for lifecycle • Business conduct management of emails without the need to print and file • Data privacy, these records. information security, Customer Story and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community “When an organization • Environment is able to track everything • Awards from beginning to the end, then they have much Appendix Agility moves goods that underpin global commerce. Its services include better control over how freight and shipping via land, air and they can contribute back sea for more than 60,000 customers in to improving sustainability, 100 countries. Agility speeds shipment updates and payments, increases to reducing carbon customer satisfaction, and enhances emissions.” sustainability with integrated information management supported by OpenText. Deepak Sharma Global IT Director, Read the full customer success story. Business Solutions & Support, Agility How we manage > Environment 31 Introduction Minimizing our Environmental Impact • About this report Measuring the environmental impact of our operations helps us to identify the most critical areas of our operation to focus on. • About OpenText We have quantified the environmental impact of our operations by measuring energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. We are continually working to enhance our data collection processes using best practice standards and systems to improve the • CEO message accuracy, consistency, and comprehensiveness of our data so we can focus on the areas of our operations where we believe we What we value can initiate the most positive change. • Our approach Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions on an absolute and intensity basis • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships FY195 FY206 and commitments Energy Consumption (MWh)1 60,715 65,527 How we manage • Business conduct Absolute Scope 1 emissions (tonnes CO2e)2 2,345 2,590 • Data privacy, Absolute Scope 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e)3 24,067 20,048 information security, Location-based Location-based and cyber resiliency 17,791 • Our people Market-based • Community Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 26,411 22,638 • Environment Location-based Location-based • Awards 20,381 Market-based Appendix Absolute Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e)4 7,078 12,481 Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & 2 tonnes CO2e per revenue 11.97 7.28 in million USD Location-based) 1 Energy consumption includes electricity, natural gas, diesel fuel and fuel from fleet vehicles 2 Scope 1: emissions from direct onsite sources (natural gas, diesel fuel and fuel from fleet vehicles) 3 Scope 2: emissions from purchased energy/utilities (electricity from office facilities and corporate data centers) 4 Scope 3: indirect emissions from supply chain or services (scope 3 detail below) 5 F Y19 energy consumption and emissions were calculated using data from 72.5% of global facilities’ square footage, in addition to 13 core colocation partners. FY19 Scope 3 emissions included: employee travel data where available (air and train travel, hotels, rental cars), interoffice shuttles, and taxis (India only). Emissions intensity was extrapolated to represent 100% of facilities. 6 F Y20 emissions were calculated using data from 81.6% of global facilities’ square footage and the remaining facilities were estimated to represent 100%. FY20 Scope 3 emissions included: employee travel data where available (airline flights, train rides, hotels, rental cars), interoffice shuttles, and taxis (India only), colocation data centers representing 70% of rack space, gas cards for employee vehicles and courier data. I n certain cases where data was unavailable, estimations were made based on accepted industry standards. We improved our methodology in FY20 and moved emissions from colocation data centers and gas cards for employee vehicles to scope 3. We used ISO 14064-1 and The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) to collect data and calculate our emissions. How we manage > Environment 32 Introduction Energy conservation in action Environmental Goals • About this report • A  t our Waterloo data center, we installed a chilled watercooling In order to minimize our environmental impact we are seeking system that uses outside ambient air for cooling for half the year, a deeper understanding of our energy consumption, waste • About OpenText saving about 40% of the energy needed to cool the data center. diversion, and our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have set • CEO message This closed-loop system also saves on water consumption short-term environmental goals relative to these efforts. As we What we value compared to evaporative cooling systems. move forward and continue our efforts to measure and manage • V  irtual servers comprise 80% of the servers deployed across these environmental impacts, we expect to explore and evaluate • Our approach all environments and are the baseline used wherever possible new solutions for our operations. • Stakeholders to minimize energy consumption globally. • E  xternal partnerships • E ach year, our Brook Park data center in Ohio shuts down all and commitments unnecessary power on select days as part of a loadshedding How we manage initiative with local energy providers during peak periods. Energy goal • Business conduct • C old/hot aisle containment systems in OpenText data centers OpenText plans to reduce its energy help conserve energy and lower cooling costs by managing air consumption per dollar revenue by • Data privacy, 5% by June 30, 2023. flow. Server racks are configured so that all heat is transmitted information security, and cyber resiliency into an aisle towards the back of the units and then contained by screens. The system distributes cold and hot air in a more • Our people energy-efficient way and reduces air conditioning requirements • Community by 10 to 20%. Waste goal • Environment OpenText plans to work toward • Awards a goal of 65% diversion rate in Appendix our regional headquarters by June 30, 2023. Carbon goal OpenText plans to reduce its greenhouse emissions per dollar revenue by 5% by June 30, 2023. How we manage > Awards 33 Introduction • About this report Awards • About OpenText • CEO message We are proud to be recognized for our ability to excel in all facets of our business from What we value product innovation, to employer best practice, to industry partnerships and worldwide • Our approach communications. Our commitment to excellence is engrained in what we do. • Stakeholders • E  xternal partnerships and commitments How we manage • Business conduct • Data privacy, information security, and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community • Environment 2019 • Awards SUPPLY CHAIN Appendix 12 th Annual Appendix 34 Appendix Introduction • About this report • About OpenText • CEO message UN Global Compact Communication on Progress What we value June 2020 • Our approach • Stakeholders To our stakeholders: • E  xternal partnerships and commitments I am pleased to confirm that OpenText reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In this annual Communication on Progress, we demonstrate our commitment to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact How we manage and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders • Business conduct using our primary channels of communication. • Data privacy, information security, Sincerely, and cyber resiliency • Our people • Community • Environment Mark J. Barrenechea • Awards CEO and CTO Appendix Appendix 35 Introduction UN Global Compact Index • About this report HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES RELEVANT SECTIONS • About OpenText Principle 1: Businesses should support • Code of Business Conduct & Ethics Business conduct • CEO message and respect the protection of internationally • Privacy Policy/Notice Data privacy and security proclaimed human rights What we value • Accommodation Policy People Principle 2: Make sure that they are not • Our approach • Employment Equity and Diversity complicit in human rights abuses • Stakeholders • Workplace Violence Prevention • E  xternal partnerships • Health and Safety Corporate Statement and commitments • Whistleblower Policy How we manage • OpenText Supplier Code of Conduct • Business conduct LABOUR POLICIES RELEVANT SECTIONS • Data privacy, information security, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold • Code of Business Conduct & Ethics Business conduct and cyber resiliency the freedom of association and the • Compensation Philosophy (and Level People effective recognition of the right to • Our people Guides & Role Codes) collective bargaining • Community • Employment Equity and Diversity Policy Principle 4: Uphold the elimination of all • Environment forms of forced and compulsory labor • Accommodation Policy • Awards Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition • Workplace Harassment & of child labor Discrimination Policy Appendix Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in • Background Checks Policy respect of employment and occupation • Health and Safety Corporate Statement • Workplace Violence Prevention • Working Conditions Policies • OpenText Supplier Code of Conduct Appendix 36 Introduction ENVIRONMENT POLICIES RELEVANT SECTIONS • About this report Principle 7: Businesses should • Environmental Policy Business conduct • About OpenText support a precautionary approach to Environment • Sustainable & Ethical Procurement Policy environmental challenges • CEO message Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote What we value greater environmental responsibility • Our approach Principle 9: Encourage the development • Stakeholders and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • E  xternal partnerships and commitments ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES RELEVANT SECTIONS How we manage Principle 10: Businesses should work • Code of Business Conduct & Ethics Business conduct • Business conduct against all forms of corruption, including • Anti-Corruption Policy extortion and bribery • Data privacy, • OpenText Supplier Code of Conduct information security, • Gifts and Hospitality Policy and cyber resiliency • Insider Trading Policy • Our people • Global Travel and Expense Policy • Community • Whistleblower Policy • Environment • Awards Appendix Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Securities Act (Ontario) and Canadian securities legislation in each of the provinces of Canada. All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. When we use words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “may,” “could,” “would”, “will” and variations of these words or similar expressions, we do so to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, performance or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements, and are based on our current expectations, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. Forward-looking statements reflect our current estimates, beliefs and assumptions, which are based on management’s perception of historic trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and involve known and unknown risks as well as uncertainties, which include actual and potential risks and uncertainties relating to the ultimate geographic spread of COVID-19, the severity of the disease and the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. The actual results that we achieve may differ materially from any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s current expectations and projections about future results only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. A number of factors may materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. For additional information with respect to risks and other factors which could occur, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other securities filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other securities regulators. Any one of these factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. opentext.com/contact Copyright © 2020 Open Text. All Rights Reserved. Trademarks owned by Open Text. For more information, visit: https://www.opentext.com/about/copyright-information • SKU 15033 (08.2020)
