RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Sustainability Report 2019 Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 2 2019 highlights Joining the international CDP Tokmanni climate evaluation Tokmanni’s revenue Finnish Red Cross grew by 8.5% to For the first time, we are reporting our climate 944.3 million euros and its comparable work to the CDP, or We started Carbon Disclosure comprehensive coprofit grew by 35.7% to 70.4 million euros Project. operation with the Finnish Red Cross compared to 2018. to reduce loneliness To thank our and social exclusion. employees for their 3 659 good work, we paid The 2018 Tokmanni Corporate them 1.4 million Responsibility Report was awarded euros in sales the “Riser of the Year” award rewards. in Finland’s leading corporate s responsibility reporting competition. Tokmanni’s employee Tokmanni’s staff grew by 101 persons last year. At the end of 2019, a total 3 659 people We introduced gender neutral job titles worked at Tokmanni. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 3 52 own factory audit s 96 % * In addition to of factories in high risk the BSCI audits, our countries BSCI audited own experts also We saved over audited 52 partner We source our private label products a million plastic factories, or 12.4% of produced in, for example China, bags worth of all our suppliers. Bangladesh and India, from factories film plastics which have been inspected and evaluated Compared to the year 2018, via a BSCI audit by a third party*. we reduced the use of clear film plastics in our trolleys by 32%. In total, 21 000 kilograms of plastic were Emissions We changed the electricity supply in our stores saved, which is the equivalent -14.5% ** to renewable electricity and made our energy of over one million plastic usage more efficient by, for example, making bags. In the same time frame, the number of delivered even more investments in LED lighting. The trolleys grew by 7%. emissions of our properties decreased by 46,3% compared to 2018. *Amfori BSCI is an international system, which inspects and evaluates, among others, the realisation of workers’ rights, the quality of working conditions and safety matters in the factory. We require that factories have a valid BSCI audit at the time of ordering and the time of delivery. Some products being sold come from factories whose audits, which were expiring, were not renewed for whatever reason, and therefore it is difficult to reach 100% coverage in practice. **Emissions calculations include real estate energy usage and waste, product shipments domestically and internationally, as well as air and rail travel. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 4 Table of contents DIRECTION Finland’s leading discount retail chain........... 6 The Finnish Red Cross and Tokmanni Key high-risk raw materials and A strategy of profitable growth.......................7 to join up to increase communality...............30 product certification.........................................49 CEO’s foreword: Combining low Minding animal welfare....................................50 prices with corporate responsibility................8 FAIR TREATMENT Certificate guide............................................... 51 Values as ​​ the basis for corporate Achievements and targets............................32 Product safety is tested meticulously............. 52 responsibility work..........................................9 Committed employees................................. 33 A Brücke drill goes through several Megatrends opportunities and Equal treatment at work...............................35 quality checks before arriving in store............ 53 risks for Tokmanni........................................ 10 Sustainability in the daily work of Recall of LED decoration lights due to Engaging with our stakeholders...................13 Tokmanni employees: quick safety risks...................................................... 54 Main themes of corporate responsibility reactions and saved kilometres....................37 work..............................................................16 Opportunities for training and EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Managing sustainability throughout development.................................................38 Achievements and targets................................56 our business operations.............................. 17 Occupational health and safety....................40 Systematic reduction of climate impacts Human rights as a guiding principle of – reporting according to TCFD........................ 57 corporate responsibility............................... 19 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND Transportation emissions at 2015 Managing sustainability throughout PRODUCTS level in relation to revenue................................61 our business operations................................21 Achievements and targets............................43 Using waste and materials efficiently..............62 UN Sustainable Development Goals............23 Responsible sourcing requires Preventing food waste..................................... 64 systematic work............................................44 BUSINESS INTEGRITY The thesis that challenges the media GRI Achievements and targets............................26 conversation on the textile industry in Reporting principles......................................... 66 Privacy protection at Tokmanni....................27 Bangladesh...................................................47 Information used in calculations......................67 Responsible marketing is fair and clear.......28 Case: A T-shirt’s journey to a Data..................................................................69 Generating added financial value.................29 Tokmanni store............................................. 48 GRI-index.........................................................75 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 5 Direction We work hard for smart shopping and develop more sustainable discount retailing. Corporate responsibility is a prerequisite for our success and a strategic focus area that we always focus on from the Executive Group level all the way to the stores and the supply chain. Our vision and strategy define the direction we are heading towards. IN THIS SECTION Finland’s leading discount retail chain....6 Main themes of our corporate A strategy of profitable growth..................7 responsibility work..................................... 16 CEO’s foreword: Combining low Managing sustainability throughout prices with corporate responsibility........ 8 our business operations...........................17 Values ​​as the basis for corporate Human rights as a guiding principle responsibility work.........................................9 of corporate responsibility....................... 19 Megatrends – opportunities and risks The Code of Conduct guides for Tokmanni..................................................10 everyone’s daily work at Tokmanni....... 21 Engaging with our stakeholders............. 13 UN Sustainable Development Goals....23 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 6 Key Performance Indicators Finland’s leading discount Revenue Full-time employees retail chain 944.3 MEUR 35% 36% (2018) 870.4 (2018) Tokmanni is the largest and only nationwide general discount retail chain in Finland. Purchases from Comparable BSCI audited factories** Operating profit* DURING 2019, Tokmanni expanded by opening Perfekt+, Pisara, Kotikulta, Priima, Brücke, Iisi, (Comparable EBIT) 96% 15 new stores and at the end of the year, Tokmanni had 191 stores located throughout Finland. Our corporate administration and Pola and Tok Garden, among others. Tokmanni does not own production facilities, as we purchase the products we sell directly 70.4 MEUR 98% (2018) logistics centre is located in Mäntsälä. In from domestic and international producers, 51.9 (2018) addition to its operations in Finland, together importers and agents. We buy about 73 per Waste recovery 100% with the Norwegian company Europris ASA, cent of our products from Finnish suppliers, Tokmanni jointly owns one half of a sourcing 16 per cent from Asia and 11 per cent from Employees 3 659 company located in Shanghai. elsewhere in Europe. We are committed to 100% (2018) Tokmanni offers a wide assortment of responsible sourcing practices. Of the factories products that offer great value for money in in high-risk countries, 96 per cent are BSCI3 558 (2018) e.g. the home renovation and cleaning, clothing audited, so working conditions are audited by a Total energy and leisure, and interior decoration and garden third party and strictly evaluated. consumption 114 335 categories. Tokmanni’s product range consists Tokmanni’s shares are listed on the main Permanent of its own private label and exclusive products list of the Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange. At employees 78% as well as unlabelled products and leading the end of December 2019, there were 16,199 international brands. Our private labels include registered shareholders. l MWh 117 374 MWh (2018) 76% (2018) Carbon footprint *IFRS 16 impact. **We only purchase from factories, which have a valid BSCI audit. For some of the products we have on sale, audit due to expire was not renewed after we placed the product order, and therefore a 100% coverage is very difficult to achieve. Growth from previous year Decrease from previous year -14.5% 6.2% (2018) RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 7 A strategy of profitable growth Our goal is to continue to reinforce Tokmanni’s position as the leading general discount retailer in Finland by making the most out of our key competitive advantages, which are our low prices, wide and attractive product range and good shopping experience. We want our customers to be able to trust in the safety and responsibility of Tokmanni’s products. THE MAIN FOCUS during 2019 was on delivery process from the goods supplier improving profitability. Actions were taken all the way to the customer more efficient, particularly to boost the efficiency of processes creating cost-efficiency without forgetting in order to reduce the relative share of fixed customer satisfaction. expenses. Additionally, we focused on improving the gross margin by growing the Strengthen customer confidence sales of private-label products and increasing We continued to strengthen customer trust. direct imports. We renewed and expanded the product range in several different product categories. Increase direct imports and sales of Likewise, new stores were opened and private-label products existing stores were expanded and renovated The measures to improve the gross margin successfully. Supported by the various involved increasing sourcing through the measures implemented, online store sales also sourcing company in Shanghai and boosting developed favourably. the efficiency of such sourcing, as well as growing the sales of stock lots. The best place to work in retail Our motivated and satisfied employees work Reduce the relative share of fixed together to serve our customers, enabling us expenses to reach our goals. Measures aimed at reducing the relative share For this reason, it is paramount to ensure of rents and maintenance costs at premises that our employees possess the right kind of were carried out according to plan. competence and are committed to achieving Additionally, we focused on making our the common goals. retail functions more efficient and improving the We reward our personnel for good and tasks of our store personnel and the allocation productive work. l of their time. Our goal is to make the entire RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 8 Combining low prices with corporate responsibility TOKMANNI is all about low prices and smart work with Finnish and global initiatives to shopping. Tokmanni has an influence on advance corporate responsibility. To name a people’s behaviour while shopping so that they few, we participate in amfori BSCI, FIBS and both make and demand responsible choices. the UN Global Compact. Additionally, in 2019, By ensuring that our products and services are Tokmanni joined the amfori BEPI programme. both delightfully inexpensive and responsibly Through this programme, we encourage sourced, we can make responsible choices factories to be more heavily involved in the available for all. joint efforts to combat climate change. Corporate responsibility is one of We are proud to be a significant employer Tokmanni’s strategic focus areas and part of of very skilled and customer-oriented the daily work of our personnel. Tokmanni’s employees on the Finnish commerce sector. key corporate responsibility focus areas are At the end of 2019, Tokmanni had 3 659 Business integrity, Fair treatment, Responsible employees. We are also well-known for sourcing and products and Efficient use of employing young people in particular. We resources. seek to build and maintain a diverse work In order to keep our prices low, meet community and to ensure the equal treatment demands and reach our goals, we invest in of personnel from the recruitment phase direct imports of our private label products, onwards. build long-term supplier relationships, make With this, we would like to note that all our processes more efficient and cooperate our customers and other stakeholders are with different stakeholders. always invited to help us improve Tokmanni’s To make sure our products are responsibly sustainability efforts. Together, we want sourced and safe to use, we develop product and will continue to make Tokmanni a truly safety, responsibility and due diligence by responsible discount retailer. l conducting in-house quality assurance, our own and third-party factory audits and by Mika Rautiainen carrying out product testing ourselves or CEO commissioning this from third parties. We Mäntsälä, 11 March 2020 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 9 Values ​​as the basis for corporate responsibility work In 2018, we created new values ​​for Tokmanni. The values ​​were generated by different teams of our employees across Finland. Our corporate values ​​refer to the direction of doing everything even when making choices might otherwise be difficult. Pride in low prices Dare to renew Do it together • We are proud to offer our • We dare to renew ourselves customers good quality products and to stand out. • We build our culture on at the lowest possible price. • We learn, take initiative and mutual trust and respect. • Our procurement is both act sustainably without • We are open, honest and sustainable and effective. fearing failure. fair to everyone. • We care about people and • Our success is measured • We succeed together. nature, hence we act responsibly through both customer and in everything we do. employee satisfaction. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 10 Megatrends – opportunities and risks for Tokmanni The most important megatrends for Tokmanni are related to (1) demographic development and changes in society, (2) climate change and the scarcity of resources, and (3) the development of technology and digitalisation. Megatrends are assessed as part of the company’s strategic planning and corporate risk management process and are updated annually. 1. Demographic changes affect consumer habits RELEVANT DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES for smaller families and an increase in the number Tokmanni include, in particular, an ageing of nationalities and religions in Finland, as well population and the emergence of the elderly as as a reduction in the importance of ownership, an important consumer group. Other factors particularly in younger age groups. affecting consumer habits include urbanisation, Opportunity Challenge Response Store ● Taking urbanisation and ● Continued urbanisation and ● Online commerce and an location population ageing into a decrease in the number of extensive network of stores account in network planning residents in small municipalities in Finland Customers ● Diversification of the ● The effect of smaller families, ● Diverse personnel in stores and customer base diversification of the customer and diversified product consumer ● The smart shopping trend base and population ageing on selection trends/­ ● The establishment of priceproduct ranges and package ● Development of products habits conscious elderly people as a sizes and services in response to significant consumer group ● Polarisation of young people’s changing customer groups attitudes toward consumption and needs ● Changing health patterns: ● Business models based on Increased dementia among the the circular economy elderly and increased mental health challenges among youth* *Sitra, Megatrends 2020 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 11 Opportunity Challenge Response 2. Climate change calls for a reduction Stores ● Competitive advantage based on ● Increased energy consumption ● Reduction of energy consumption in all in emissions and and the entire value chain sustainability ● Reduction of environmental effects caused by new stores and storage facilities, emissions from logistics operations ● More efficient use of resources, reduction of preparedness for new throughout the value chain ● Installation of energy-efficient and costand growing waste volumes, as well as the related costs waste, reuse and recycling ● Energy efficient upgrades for any new stores types of conditions efficient solutions in the store network TO STOP CLIMATE change, emissions must Sourcing ● Cost control and flexibility ● Interruptions in factory operations, ● Taking the monsoon season into account in be reduced by reducing energy consumption, ● Local in low-cost employment, training and particularly in coastal areas order schedules improving energy efficiency and using countries contribution to economic development and emerging markets, due to ● Selection of suppliers and supplier renewable energy, for example. As a result of in sourcing countries floods, storms and other natural requirements (BSCI system) phenomena, for example ● Human rights assessments and increased climate change, extreme weather (e.g. torrential ● Shortcomings in the responsibility of intervention in human rights violations rain and storms) will increase, which will affect the supply chain and other partners ● Eco-friendlier alternatives for logistics: route Tokmanni’s own operations and its supply and load optimisation, alternative fuels chain and logistics. Scarcity of resources may lead to challenges in product and raw material availability, which may cause prices to rise. Product ● Environmentally sound product range ● The long-term effect of the limited ● Paying attention to raw materials for The sustainability of the company’s entire value ● Competitive range and advantage based on product availability of raw materials for products, the use of renewable raw materials, chain is an increasingly important selection services safety management, quality assurance products and packaging on the recycling and the sale of recycled products, criteria for consumers. Requirements for the and a strong price-to-quality image range and prices of Tokmanni’s the modularity and maintainability of products ● New business based on the circular products ● Products that reduce environmental effects transparency of product selections, supply ● Shortcomings in product safety and economy, for example, services instead (e.g. solar panels) chains, product origins and pricing are growing of or in addition to products quality control ● Further development of packaging materials alongside the demand for product safety and and methods and the recycling of packaging ● Development of business models based on quality. the circular economy ● Focusing on meeting needs and finding solutions (e.g. rental products and shared use) instead of products Demands ● Strengthening consumers’ trust by ● Reputation risks and their effect on ● Stronger emphasis on the transparency of for increasing openness and transparency reduced sales, weaker employer the supply chain and on communications sustainability throughout the value chain brand and reduced ability to attract towards customers and personnel about and ● The necessity for products and services competent employees responsible manufacturing and production transparency as an aspect of assessing companies’ ● Provision of everyday products and services total impact and corporate responsibility that are regarded as necessary ● Increase in stakeholder cooperation RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 12 3. Digitalisation is Opportunity Challenge Response changing the value Automation ● Use of automation, robotics ● Excessive pace of change ● Making business processes chain and customers’ in buildings and artificial intelligence in, ● Failure to meet information more efficient and using expectations and the for example, supply chain security requirements artificial intelligence in all supply chain management, warehouse and ● Inability to fully meet business operations logistics operations and the consumers’ requirements ● Continuous increase in TECHNOLOGICAL developments makes it processing of masses of data for transparency transparency in the value possible to further automate production. The ● RFID identifiers and ● Tools and employees’ chain ● Investment in personnel Internet of Things and sensors in buildings blockchain technology knowledge and skills are make access control and lagging behind the pace of training enable optimised energy consumption. At management easier within the change ● Recruitment and the same time, requirements for information supply chain development of new types ● Telecommuting and other security and transparency are increasing. of ­competence ways of working independent Automation and robotics make it possible of time and place to increase production efficiency without ● Access to software hiring new employees. Skillset requirements interfaces and development opportunities in the retail sector are changing, and the need for labour is decreasing. Work is becoming independent of time and place. Digitalisation ● Using digitalisation in ● Tougher competition in ● Development of digital Purchasing is quicker than before, with at the marketing and new products a more global and less marketing and the everything consumers need being available consumer and services, for example transparent arena use of digitalisation in ● Using digitalisation to online around the clock. Store purchases can interface communication within the further develop corporate organisation be made without a card or cash, and mobile responsibility (e.g. reducing ● Varied ordering and delivery purchasing enables quicker transactions. the consumption of materials methods and channels; and Internet and social media make it easier for and energy, reducing waste increased communications and ensuring transparency in focus on the transparency consumers to compare products and services the sourcing chain) of the supply chain with those provided by competitors. This ● New business models, such increases service expectations. Consumption as the sharing economy and circular economy patterns are changing: consumers are willing to pay for good service and ease and for saving time. Customers expect to be served via all channels. All of these determine the customer experience. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 13 Engaging with our stakeholders We promote corporate responsibility and sustainability issues together with our stakeholders. WE ENGAGE WITH our most important stakeholders such as our customers, personnel, owners, investors and suppliers through various channels on a daily basis. Active involvement in associations and initiatives to promote Finnish commerce We participate actively in the operations of various national organisations including the Finnish Commerce Federation, the Finnish Grocery Trade Association (PTY), the Finnish Cosmetic, Toiletry and Detergent Association and the Finnish Council of Shopping Centers. In the Finnish Commerce Federation, Tokmanni is represented in the chemical group, the training committee, the legal affairs committee, the means of payment committee, the safety committee, the working life committee, the corporate responsibility group, the communications committee, the product safety group and the self-control group. At PTY, Tokmanni’s representatives RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 14 ­ articipate­in the Board of Directors, the p as the Director of the Board of Recser Oy, retail group, the material efficiency group, the the Finnish producer organisation for battery communications group, the product safety recycling, and as a board member of SELT ry, In 2019, we group, and the self-monitoring group. the producer organisation for electrical and started a We also participate in the operations of electronic equipment. long-term the Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce in In 2019, we conducted a consumer survey collaboration the training and labour force committee and (n>1000) to better understand the importance with the Finnish the medal of merit committee of the Finland of and perspectives on sustainability from our Red Cross. Chamber of Commerce. The HR director customers’ viewpoint. We also engaged and serves on the board of the Helsinki Region met with selected institutional investors and Chamber of Commerce. Tokmanni is also banks on ESG issues and our sustainability closely involved in many local communities at goals. However, we chose to cease operating its store locations and in Mäntsälä, where its our Sustainability Advisory Board (established administration and logistics centre is located. in 2017) for the time being. The advisory board consisted of external experts as well Engaging with customers, investors and as, among others, the CEO of the company other stakeholders on sustainability issues and several members of the Executive Group We work with authorities on various projects and was one way for us to obtain important right from the start. We are part of the Ministry information about the expectations of our of Environment’s and Finnish Commerce stakeholders. Federation’s Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development’s Green Deal Supporting the young and the vulnerable initiative, which has the purpose of reducing In 2019, we started long-term collaboration exclusion was put on hold due to prioritising the consumption of plastic bags. with the Finnish Red Cross with the aim of the similar aims of Ohjaamo Helsinki, which We are a Pro member of the corporate contributing to their work against loneliness operates under the Youth Department of the responsibility network FIBS and have been and discrimination through supporting the city of Helsinki. active in its diversity, human rights and C-level Finnish Red Cross’ friend volunteers activities. We offered a total of approximately a groups and networks. We have committed We also continued to support Veikko and thousand short-term summer jobs around ourselves to the ten principles of the UN Lahja Hursti’s charity association together Finland for adults and young people who Global Compact and are part of UN Global with Unilever Finland, and started to support participated the summer work experience Compact Finland network. On a global mental health work of the Finnish Association programme ’Tutustu työelämään ja tienaa’. level, our Head of Corporate Responsibility of Mental Health through their Mielinauha We were also involved in the nationwide serves on the technical working group of the campaign in addition to local charity efforts. Vastuullinen kesäduuni campaign, which aims Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative (SSCI) of Piloted in 2018, the collaboration with the to ensure that young people are offered highthe Consumer Goods Forum. Our Security Children and Youth Foundation on the quality summer jobs and employers, likewise, and Real Estate Department Manager serves employability skills of young people at risk of are offered skilled labour for the future. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 15 Constant dialogue with stakeholders Tokmanni’s answer: Diverse selection of affordable products, ensuring quality Main concerns: and safety independently Product selection, and using external help, availability and amfori BSCI membership and price of products, Tokmanni’s answer: Main concerns: requirements for suppliers’ product safety and Main concerns: Compliance with laws and Obtaining factories, own audits, quality, responsibilLabour rights, regulations, ethical guidelines information, communications and dialogue ity of sourcing training incl. Code of Conduct, labour responsiveness of opportunities policies, principles and communications instructions, training, Tokmanni’s answer: communications and dialogue Social media, websites, Customers prompt response to queries Main concerns: Media Main concerns: Responsibility in the Personnel Financial Tokmanni’s answer: entire value chain, performance, Performing according to vision transparency, responsible and strategy, ethical guidelines, Tokmanni’s answer: investor relations distribution of Non-governmental Owners and business Ethical quidelines, amfori information organisations investors operations BSCI membership and supplier requirements, factory audits, meetings, Tokmanni replies to inquiries Academia Suppliers Tokmanni’s answer: Main concerns: Contracts, amfori BSCI Main concerns: Matters related to requirements, communications, Tokmanni’s answer: Cooperation, Industry Authorities sourcing, supplier dialogue and meetings (incl. Recruitment, internships and obtaining associations requirements, fair factory visits) other joint projects, lectures information treatment Decision makers Tokmanni’s answer: Main concerns: Tokmanni employees in Active Main concerns: Tokmanni’s answer: different working groups, participation Compliance Compliance with laws and joint statements in operations, with regulations regulations, ethical guidelines, Main concerns: distribution of meetings Obtaining information, information opportunities to influence Tokmanni’s answer: Websites, dialogue and meetings RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 16 Main themes of our sustainability Business integrity Fair treatment work • Economic performance • Occupational health • Employment and safety OUR MAIN sustainability and corporate • Anti-corruption • Employee training responsibility themes are business integrity, the fair • Privacy protection and development treatment of personnel, responsible sourcing and products, and the efficient use of resources. • Ethical marketing • Equality in work and These themes were defined in a materiality remuneration analysis carried out in 2015. In the materiality • Non-discrimination analysis, the impact of Tokmanni’s operations was reflected in stakeholder expectations, megatrends and management’s perspective on business. The themes remain topical today and the choice of themes still follows the reporting principles defined by the GRI 101 Foundation standard. Tokmanni’s own operations have a direct Responsible Efficient impact on business integrity, fair treatment and sourcing and use of the efficient use of resources. In the case of products resources responsible sourcing and products, the effects are mainly indirect and more directed at the supply • Responsible sourcing • Efficient use of materials chains, Tokmanni’s business partners and the • Responsible products • Energy efficiency customers who use the products we sell. and packaging • Efficient logistics In 2018, sustainability was selected as one • Product safety • Efficient recycling of of the five business drivers in Tokmanni’s new • Appropriate marking of waste strategy. To continue this work, we launched several strategic projects including must-win products battles within our sustainability work. These projects will be ongoing until the end of 2020. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 17 Managing sustainability throughout our business operations Sustainability is one of Tokmanni’s five business drivers and forms an integral part of the company’s daily business operations. Tokmanni’s sustainability goals are related to minimising business risks, maximising opportunities, and producing added value for our stakeholders. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY work at Group, is responsible for the operative T­okmanni is based on the company’s values management of sustainability work. The Head and its ethical guidelines. These consist of of Corporate Responsibility reports to the CFO. the ­Tokmanni Code of Conduct and related principles, policies and guidelines. The Board The Head of Corporate Responsibility of Directors has approved Tokmanni’s Code of drives the sustainability strategy and Conduct and related ethical principles. Policies agenda forward are approved by the Executive Group and Yearly sustainability targets are approved by guidelines by Heads of Department. the Executive Group. The Head of Corporate Responsibility works actively with different The CEO is responsible for the big picture business units and departments, and the In matters of Tokmanni’s sustainability and Managing Director of the Shanghai sourcing corporate responsibility*, ultimate responsibility office to drive forward sustainability work lies with the CEO, who reports to the Board of within the company. Her task is to ensure Directors regularly on the topic. that the set sustainability targets are met. The The Board approves the corporate strategy, sustainability goals will be covered separately which includes a sustainability strategy and within this report, in the sections covering each deals with corporate responsibility matters as of the four sustainability areas. necessary. In its annual reporting, the Board In 2019, Tokmanni established its also approves the statement of non-financial Sustainability Steering Group, which is headed information required by chapter 3a of the by the CFO. The group members include the Accounting Act (1336/1997). HR Director, the Sales and Marketing Director, The CFO, who is a member of the Executive the Sourcing Director, the Store Network and * In this report, the terms corporate responsibility and sustainability are used to describe the same topic. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 18 Managing material topics Concept Director, the Quality Manager, and the Head of Corporate Responsibility. The Material topic Main steering principles and policies Targets and measures 2019 steering group discusses acute sustainability and corporate responsibility topics, policies and Business integrity targets and meets at least every two months. Economic performance: 201-1 Accounting principles, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Financial targets The CFO makes the decision on whether a Governance specific topic requires a separate discussion Anti-corruption: 205-2, 205-3, 206-1, 415-1 Code of Conduct, Anti-bribery principles, Governance Targets of Business integrity and decision by the Executive Group of the Anti-competitive behaviour: 206-1 Code of Conduct, Competition law principles Targets of Business integrity company. Sustainability and climate change risk Marketing and labelling: 417-3 Code of Conduct Targets of Responsible products management is part of the company’s risk management process. Its management is Customer privacy: 418-1 Code of Conduct, Data protection principles, Human rights principles Targets of Fair treatment monitored on a yearly basis and it is led by the Fair treatment CFO. Employment: 401-1, 401-2 Personnel policy Targets of Fair treatment Sourcing and transport included in Occupational health and safety: 403-1, 403-2 Code of Conduct, Personnel policy, Operating plan for occupational health Targets of Fair treatment reporting care cooperation, Human rights principles Tokmanni’s sustainability report focuses Training and education: 404-3 Training plan Targets of Fair treatment solely on those topics which are fully under Tokmanni’s control, with the exception of Labor-management relations: 402-1 Code of Conduct, Personnel plan, Personnel policy, Equality plan, Human Targets of Fair treatment rights principles transportation and sourcing. Diversity and equal opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 Code of Conduct, Equality plan, Human rights principles Targets of Fair treatment Together with the Norwegian company Europris ASA, Tokmanni jointly owns a sourcing Non-discrimination: 406-1 Code of Conduct, Equality plan, Human rights principles Targets of Fair treatment company in Shanghai, Tokmanni-Europris (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd., which reports Responsible sourcing and products on sustainability issues related to sourcing Responsible sourcing: 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, Code of Conduct, amfori BSCI’s Code of Conduct, Principles of responsible Targets of Responsible sourcing and product liability. Otherwise the sourcing 409-1, 414-1, 414-2 sourcing, Guidelines for responsible sourcing, Human rights principles company’s role in Tokmanni’s sustainability Customer health and safety: 416-1, 416-2 Instructions of quality and packaging, Human rights principles Targets of Responsible sourcing work is marginal, as the number of the joint Socio-economic compliance: 417-1, 419-1 Instructions of quality and packaging Targets of Responsible sourcing venture’s employees makes up less than one per cent of Tokmanni’s total number of Efficient use of resources employees, and its environmental impact is Efficient use of materials: 301-1 Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources limited to the effects of travel and the physical office itself. Energy efficiency and emissions: 302-1, 302-3, Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources Information on emissions relating to 305-1 – 305-4 Tokmanni’s product transport was obtained Efficient waste recycling: 306-2 Code of Conduct, Environmental policy, Plastic bag commitment Targets of Efficient use of resources from transport service providers, while our Efficient logistics: 305-3 Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources travel agency provided air traffic data. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 19 Human rights as a guiding principle of corporate responsibility Tokmanni’s business and operations are based on the United Nation’s International Bill of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact, among others. TOKMANNI HAS committed itself to advancing companies have an ongoing responsibility to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals respect human rights, even where government (SDG) in its operations. SDGs are the blueprint actions and regulatory frameworks are to achieve a better and more sustainable future inadequate. Compliance with these principles for all. They address the global challenges requires companies to conduct human rights we face, including those related to poverty, due diligence procedures to identify, prevent, inequality, climate change, environmental mitigate and account for how they address degradation, peace and justice. impacts on human rights in their operations, In 2018, Tokmanni set out to redefine products, and services. We seek to advance our estimates of the most essential in this area, yet we recognise that many of Sustainable Development Goals from the the human rights challenges we face are perspective of Tokmanni’s operations. The deeply rooted in local society and can only relationship between the selected Sustainable be effectively addressed through a long-term Development Goals and Tokmanni’s commitment and close cooperation with sustainability goals is described in a chart on global and local stakeholders. pages 23–24. We assessed human rights risks in our highest risk countries in 2017 and continue Guided by the principle of human rights to monitor the human rights impacts of our due diligence operations and supply chain. We require Regarding human rights, our operations are our suppliers to respect human rights, and, more specifically guided by the UN Guiding if needed, we take corrective actions. In Principles on Business and Human Rights. 2017, we carried out separate human rights These Guiding Principles emphasise that assessments at our suppliers’ factories in RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 20 Bangladesh (garments), China (household collective labour agreements. This is just appliances), Myanmar (garments, 2) and example of how to promote adequate wages in Turkey (cosmetics), which included and to prevent excessive overtime. interviews with employees outside of the The most important measures for factories. These audits were carried out by eliminating or mitigating human rights third parties, and the goal was to ensure impacts in Tokmanni’s own operations the accuracy of the potential human rights include improvements in occupational health impacts we had recognised based on BSCI and safety, increasing the flexibility of work, audits and additional information. As such, the ensuring non-discrimination, and encouraging assessments provided us with a more detailed actions towards a more diverse workforce understanding of human rights issues within (p. 35–41). the selected industries and countries, and we have used them in the further development of We carry out long-term work to increase our responsible sourcing risk management. We the transparency of our supply chain also re-visited the two factories in Myanmar Within our supply chain, we work together ourselves in 2019 to verify the results and their with our suppliers to further advance their latest BSCI score (A). social compliance. In 2019, our CEO was We communicate the potential human among seven other CEOs in Finland to sign rights impacts of our operations based on our the Finnish version of WBCSD’s CEO Guide to involvement, our possibilities and our power Human Rights. We also updated our general of influence. This an area where we seek purchasing terms to include stricter terms to improve in the future. Our human rights relating to potential human rights violations. We principles and the summary of our human also worked on a summarised guidance note rights report written in 2016 can be found on for responsible purchasing, including sanctions the Tokmanni website. The most significant and corruption guidance, and started a pilot potential human rights impacts of Tokmanni are of a simple supplier management system related to health and safety, the safety of our in our Shanghai office. The transparency buildings, excessive overtime, inadequate living and traceability requirements of responsible wages and the use of child and forced labour. sourcing play a key role in developing this These can affect a multitude of human rights, system. We learnt and discussed specific such as the rights to life, work, health, and the human rights topics such as the grievance and right to a family life. remedy process best practices with a FIBS The human rights impacts correspond to Pro group that met four times in 2019. We performance areas assessed in BSCI audits started to delve deeper into the supply chain, (p. 44–46). Several considerable human particularly with regard to critical raw materials rights impacts could be resolved in high-risk (see p. 49), by requiring suppliers to provide countries if employees were guaranteed the certificates and information on their suppliers. * The factory in Bangladesh also scored an A, and the factories in freedom to form trade unions and to negotiate This work is also still under way. l both China and Turkey a C in their latest (2019) BSCI rating. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 21 The Code of Conduct guides everyone’s daily work at Tokmanni At Tokmanni, we act according to clear and shared rules. Our ethical Code of Conduct directs each Tokmanni employee in their daily work and in decision-making. CENTRAL POINTS OF of the Code of Conduct Due to a delay in the update, the have been deepened with principles, such training was only completed by part of our as our anti-bribery principles and our headquarter’s staff in 2019. The e-learning is human rights principles. Tokmanni also has mandatory for all, and the staff working in our department-specific instructions on how to stores and in the warehouse will complete the work on daily issues. updated e-learning in Q1 2020. The course This three-tiered set of instructions can will also become a compulsory part of the be found in full on Tokmanni intranet in both introduction of new employees. Finnish and English. The Code of Conduct Tokmanni Board Members and the which governs daily work is printed out for employees of the sourcing company located employees, and it can also be found on in Shanghai will also undergo the training and Tokmanni’s website. sign up to comply with our shared rules. The Executive Group and crucial employees have Regular trainings on updated ethical received additional training on anti-corruption, guidelines trade sanctions and competition law in 2017 In 2018, the Code of Conduct, the associated and in 2018. intranet course (e-learning) and policies were In 2019, we updated our sanctions updated to reflect the newly set values and and corruption guidance and will train our principles. In 2019, we further modified the purchasing and sourcing professionals on the e-learning. updates in 2020. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 22 Suppliers to adhere to amfori BSCI’s Code are therefore also available to stakeholders of Conduct outside Tokmanni. We require our product and service suppliers to adhere to the Business Social Compliance The Compliance Unit treats reports Initiative’s (amfori BSCI) ethical principles. confidentially We monitor our product suppliers’ operations Tokmanni’s Compliance Unit makes sure both via our own and third-party audits. Our that the ethical guidelines and instructions relationships with our suppliers are based on are followed. The unit handles reports, which honesty, fairness and mutual trust. can arrive via the whistleblowing channel With regard to business partners, Tokmanni or through other channels, about financial carries out checks related to anti-corruption malpractice or actions against the Tokmanni and the adherence to trade sanctions. ethical guidelines and makes decisions about any possible consequences. Reports Anyone can report violations anonymously received through these channels are treated Each Tokmanni employee has the obligation confidentially, according to data protection to act according to ethical guidelines, to legislation. ask questions, report violations against The Compliance Unit meets every two Our Code of Conduct includes the guidelines and to report best practices to their months, but urgent matters are dealt with following rules, for example: managers or to the compliance unit through without delay. The Compliance Unit is headed the whistleblowing channel. The channel is by the Chief Compliance Officer, who reports • We treat all people equally and in a nonpresented as part of the training on the ethical directly to the CEO and who also keeps discriminative manner Code of Conduct, and the channel is also the Board informed at regular intervals. In • We minimise occupational accidents brought up on the intranet and via email. addition to the Chief Compliance Officer, the • We comply with laws and regulations Anyone can report violations of the Compliance Unit also includes four compliance • We do not bribe Code of Conduct and the ethical guidelines officers, who each have their own remits. The anonymously through the Tokmanni compliance officers ensure that principles • We safeguard sensitive business information and whistleblowing channel (ilmoituskanava(at) and guidelines that fall under their purview are the company’s assets tokmanni.fi), by calling a member of the kept up-to-date. In 2019, we communicated • We respect the right to privacy Compliance Unit or by sending a letter about the whistleblowing channel often to • We support fair competition to Tokmanni Oy / Compliance-yksikkö, our employees highlighting the anonymous • We minimise environmental impacts Isolammintie 1, 04600 Mäntsälä. Suspected nature of the channel and the importance of • We demand that our products are made responsibly abuse must be reported immediately. filing complaints. This was done due to the low We also have a web form launched in 2018 number of complaints received. Tokmanni did • We communicate reliably and transparently for irresponsible actions or products, on both not face any corruption nor competition law • We follow best marketing practices, while taking our the Finnish and English websites, and these infringements in 2019. l different target audiences into consideration. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 23 UN Sustainable Development Goals We are committed to advancing the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals in our business. These goals aim to guide UN member states’ operations until 2030. We have chosen nine of the most important goals for our work and our stakeholders. Tokmanni’s Relevant UN Relevant Tokmanni How Tokmanni’s goals sustainability Sustainable corporate responsibility and support the UN Sustainable theme Development Goals sustainability goals Development Goals Business Decent work ● All Tokmanni employees have completed the ● Business integrity shown by our employees towards our Read Integrity and economic company’s Code of Conduct e-learning stakeholders supports justice and strong institutions, and more growth ● Messages received through the contributes to economic growth in Finland as well as in p. 26 whistleblowing channel are processed countries from which we purchase our products from. Peace, justice appropriately ● Tokmanni follows good corporate governance principles. and strong ● No privacy violations found at Tokmanni ● Our Code of Conduct directs each Tokmanni employee in institutions ● Tokmanni receives no remarks from the their daily work and in decision making. authorities related to marketing ● Tokmanni requires its suppliers to act in compliance with the ● No cases of corruption found at Tokmanni amfori BSCI Code of Conduct. ● Tokmanni has completed a human rights impact assessment in compliance with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and published its Human Rights Principles. Fair Good ● Introduce the occupational safety system ● We treat all employees equally, seek to employ a diverse Read Treatment health and introduced by Q2 2020 workforce and promote employee well-being by means of more well-being ● Mandatory online training on workplace different benefits. We promote fair treatment in Finland and in p. 32 skills for employees and launch of a our global supply chain through the whistleblowing channel. Gender coaching program for the extended ● Gender equality is part of Tokmanni’s HR policy and Equality management team Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct. ● eNPS = 50 (excellent) ● Yearly appraisal discussions level: 85% Decent work ● Diversity taken into account more and economic systematically in all recruitment decisions growth RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 24 Tokmanni’s Relevant UN Relevant Tokmanni How Tokmanni’s goals sustainability Sustainable corporate responsibility and support the UN Sustainable theme Development Goals sustainability goals Development Goals Read Responsible Good ● Definition of a supplier sustainability indicator ● Our purchasing practices help job creation and economic more sourcing and health and ● Updated sanctions guidelines, updated growth, and promote decent work and working conditions p. 43 well-being general purchasing terms and conditions, and in our sourcing countries. products ● We co-operate with different organizations (e.g. amfori BSCI) responsible sourcing guidance taken into use Decent work ● 70 of our own audits in addition to third-party to reduce our human rights risks and to further advance sustainable and economic BSCI audits and audit management guidance production and consumption. growth updated ● Tokmanni’s own audits in addition to BSCI audits minimise the risk of ● Development of contract management human rights violations in our supply chain. Responsible process ● We develop sustainable product ranges and related communications, consumption ● No serious product safety flaws in the and offer our customers certified options in select products and production products sold by Tokmanni or accidents ● We set targets for certificates for high-risk raw materials. caused by them Partnerships for ● Overall assessment and updating of the goals procurement quality processes ● Defining certification objectives and measurement systems for high-risk raw materials Efficient use Affordable ● Reduction of location-based carbon dioxide ● We strive for the efficient use of resources, such as energy Read of resources and clean emissions at the properties (scope 1 and 2) and waste, and increase the share of renewable energy more energy by 3% compared to 2019 including solar power. p. 56 ● Maintaining greenhouse gas emissions ● Raising awareness on environmentally friendly operations Industry, from transport at the 2015 level in relation among our risk country suppliers (e.g. amfori BEPI). Innovation and to revenue ● In 2019 all electricity purchased and consumed by Tokmanni was Infrastructure ● Comparable power consumption: -4% renewable. ● Power consumption (total): -3% ● We will increase the range of sustainable products and seek to pay Responsible ● Waste recycling rate: 35% (of total waste) stronger attention to raw materials, recycling and sales of recyclable consumption ● Reuse rate: 50% (of total waste) products; sales of products that reduce environmental impacts and production ● CDP reporting completed for 2019 (e.g. LED lights); and development of more sustainable packaging materials, and business models based on circular economy principles. Climate ● Emphasis on sustainability-related communications and marketing Action towards our customers. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 25 Business integrity We take our customers, our employees, our investors and the society around us into consideration in our business. IN THIS SECTION Achievements and targets......................................................26 Privacy protection at Tokmanni............................................ 27 Responsible marketing is fair and clear.............................28 Generating added financial value.........................................29 The Finnish Red Cross and Tokmanni to join up to increase communality...................................................30 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 26 Business integrity Targets for 2020 Responsibility towards customers, employees, investors and other • All Tokmanni employees have stakeholders is a key tenet of Tokmanni’s business. We observe the completed the company’s Code of relevant legislative requirements and the principles of good governance in Conduct e-learning everything we do. In addition, the company is guided by an ethical Code of Conduct, which consists of the Code of Conduct and supplementary principles, policies and instructions. • Messages received through the whistleblowing channel are processed appropriately Achievements and challenges in 2019 • No privacy violations found at Tokmanni Achieved Partially achieved Challenges • Tokmanni receives no remarks from Messages No cases of Tokmanni All Tokmanni N/A the authorities related to marketing received corruption found receives no employees have through the at Tokmanni notice from completed the whistleblowing the authorities company’s Code channel are related to of Conduct processed marketing e-learning • No cases of corruption found at No privacy Tokmanni appropriately violations found at Tokmanni RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 27 Privacy protection at Tokmanni TOKMANNI COMPLIES with all legislative • to manage our customer relationships requirements for privacy protection. To ensure ­(including investor relations) that nobody’s right to privacy is violated, • to organise events Tokmanni monitors compliance with data • to analyse and segment the behaviour of protection principles, and technical systems are customers and other registered persons also monitored to ensure that they are up-to(hereinafter “data subjects”) date from an information security perspective • to engage in electronic and direct marketing as well. Our aim is for the systems and • to target the advertising carried out by the registers under our control to have no actual online services of our own company and or suspected cases of privacy protection other parties. breaches. We achieved this goal in 2019. The data file contains information disclosed All new employees are trained by customers on the website. The data on the All new employees are required to complete data file have been appropriately protected. online training on information security which Any data breaches will be announced in is a part of the required introductory training. accordance with the General Data Protection During 2019, we continued to comply with Regulation. Only employees authorised to Tokmanni’s information security management process customer data in order to perform their model and Tokmanni’s information security duties have the right to use systems containing policy. All personal data is processed on personal data. We retain personal data for as the grounds of legitimate interest based on long as is necessary considering the purpose of employee or customer relationships, or other its use. This period is kept as short as possible. appropriate connections or the implementation Customers have the right to inspect their of agreements. personal data stored in the register. If there are errors in a customer’s data, the customer may The purpose of processing the personal request that the controller rectify the errors. data of our customers is: Customers have the right to prohibit the use of • to deliver and develop our products and their data for direct marketing purposes or for services in ways that provide customers with market and opinion surveys by notifying the a stress-free shopping experience data controller. Customers who have registered • to meet our contractual obligations and to with the tokmanni.fi online store may also issue honour our promises and obligations prohibitions on the online store. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 28 Responsible marketing is fair and clear IN 2019, as in previous years, we paid a lot than 40 plastic bags will be used per person of attention to responsible marketing. Our in Finland. In December 2019, we introduced aim is to be ethical, honest and clear in our a more sustainable plastic bag to our stores. marketing, and to comply with legislative The new plastic bag is produced from at least requirements. Among other things, we invested 60 per cent recycled plastic and reduces the in ensuring that the product information and need for virgin plastic. We also encourage our prices in our marketing material gave a realistic customers to reuse the plastic bag several impression of the products and helped to times and to ultimately dispose of the bag in a make purchasing decisions. Examples include responsible manner. reporting the country of origin and various Additionally, we communicated our sustainability certificates on the product labels. sustainability and corporate responsibility work on our website, on our social media channels More communication and less plastic and on our store radio, among others. We We are committed to reducing the use of also invested in improving the availability plastic bags, as a part of the national Plastic of campaign products by developing our Carrier Bag Agreement*. The goal of the systems. agreement is that by the end of 2025, no more Zero complaint goal In 2019, Tokmanni continued its clean slate with the Council of Ethics in Advertising. Our goal is to avoid receiving any marketingrelated notices from the Council of Ethics in Advertising in 2020. During the period under review, our The new plastic bag stores received a total of 16 notices from the is produced from authorities. Of these notices, one was related at least 60 percent to the display of products, four to the display recycled plastic. of licences, three to the display of prices, and four for the display of self-monitoring plans. Four notices regarded the taring of scales. In particular, we focused on the price markings and placement of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, and on the monitoring of * The national Plastic Bag Agreement the sales of age-restricted products. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 29 Generating added financial value We are committed to profitable growth and to developing our competitiveness. We develop our business responsibly so that growth supports our ability to take care of our personnel, assets 44.9 and the needs of our customers. We report transparently on our MEUR business operations, our financial development, and our direct Tax footprint and indirect financial impact. 84.4 for 2019 MEUR €142.6 million 13.3 We generate added financial value for different stakeholders (MEUR)* MEUR 2019 Revenue (Customers) 944 Withholding and employer contributions Remitted withholdings from salaries 17.1 Purchasing (Suppliers of goods and services) 619 Employer pension insurance payments 27.1 Employer social security payments 0.7 Gross profit 325 Income and property taxes Corporate income tax 12.2 Wages and benefits (Personnel) 114 Property tax 1.2 Taxes (Public sector) 12 Indirect taxes Value added tax 74.5 Financial expenses (Creditors) 10 Excise duty 3.2 Import customs duties 5.0 Electricity tax 1.6 Other expenses (Operations and business development) 142 Insurance premium tax 0.1 Retained earnings 47 * Calculated according to IFRS standard. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 30 The Finnish Red Cross and Tokmanni to join up to increase communality Tokmanni and the Finnish Red Cross started working together in the autumn of 2019 with the aim of increasing wellbeing for individuals and communities and to reduce loneliness. TOKMANNI’S YEARLY donation supports the choice to act as our collaborative partner, given relief and health projects,” Tokmanni’s Head of Finnish Red Cross’ national friend volunteer the organisation’s reliability and wide scope of Corporate Responsibility Emilia Koski says. activities and the company will also plan local activities. The Finnish Red Cross has district On Hunger Day, the entire Executive Group collaborative efforts in towns and cities with departments in almost all of the localities and many other Tokmanni team members Tokmanni stores, in order to reduce loneliness where Tokmanni has stores, and it’s wonderful raised money for the Finnish Red Cross’ and social exclusion. This collaboration will last that many Tokmanni team members can take Disaster Fund all over Finland. The fund allows at least two years. part in such important corporate responsibility help to be sent rapidly to wherever the need is work against loneliness and social exclusion,” greatest, both nationally and internationally. Collaboration started in 22 localities Tokmanni’s CEO Mika Rautiainen notes. Tokmanni’s first friend volunteer related A bucket where one is needed collaborative project with the Finnish Red Installation to highlight the lack of After Hunger Day, the buckets were reused Cross took place during the Christmas holiday clean water in the Red Cross Pisara 2019 preparedness period in Red Cross Christmas cafes. The collaboration between the Finnish Red exercise held in October in different localities Christmas cafes offer small bites of food, a Cross and Tokmanni started off with a bang in in Finland. Christmassy atmosphere, and most importantly September, with an installation created for the Residents were given useful information of all, companionship to those in need of it. Hunger Day fundraiser. The Finnish Red Cross about preparing for a water crisis during With Tokmanni’s support, the number of had selected clean water as the theme. the preparedness exercise and buckets, these cafes almost quadrupled and in 2019, This, in turn, led to the creation of an of course. In Finland, an unexpected water they were held in 22 localities. installation of Tokmanni buckets, shaped like crisis can be caused for example, by water Christmas cafes are a part of the Finnish a red cross in Helsinki’s Narinkkatori. 800 food contamination or a water outage caused by an Red Cross’ friend volunteer activities, whose grade buckets reminded how big a problem electrical outage. aim is to act as an intermediary between friend the lack of clean water is worldwide. A disturbance to water distribution can not volunteers and those who are looking for the “A lack of clean water causes the deaths only affect the availability of drinking water presence of other humans in their lives. of 33 children per hour and 800 children per at home, but also cooking, bathing, washing Volunteers are in great demand, as over one day. Contaminated water spreads illnesses, dishes and doing laundry. For example, a water half of Finns have felt lonely at some stage in which can be deadly when left untreated. closet can only be flushed once during a water their lives. Funds collected on Hunger Day finance the outage. A bucket will be a most worthy thing to “The Finnish Red Cross was a natural Red Cross’ development cooperation, disaster have in those situations. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 31 Fair treatment An open and fair company culture, where everyone is respected, is the key to success and sustainable business. IN THIS SECTION Achievements and targets.........................................................................32 Committed employees............................................................................... 33 Equal treatment at work.............................................................................35 Sustainability in the daily work of Tokmanni employees: quick reactions and saved kilometres....................................................37 Opportunities for training and development........................................38 Occupational health and safety...............................................................40 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 32 Fair treatment Targets for 2020 At Tokmanni, our target is to become the preferred employer in the • All new employees will be trained Finnish retail sector. It is important for us to offer our employees in customer service and all store possibilities to develop in their work and to maintain a good managers will manage the training using a new tool. The service level will be work-life balance. For us, it is also essential that our employees measured with a “Happy or Not” tool in are content at work and that our teams have a good team spirit. the stores and with a yearly customer satisfaction survey (cNPS target >60) • Workplace skills online training must be Achievements and challenges in 2019 completed as a mandatory induction course for all Tokmanni employees Achieved Partially achieved Challenges • A coaching program will be launched for the extended management team We continued to integrate our Yearly appraisal A system for Long-term • The occupational safety system will be corporate values into everyday discussions reporting safety periods of sick introduced by Q2 2020 life: level: 80% observations is leave among • All store managers to receive • Everyone at Tokmanni’s office, in place our employees occupational safety training store and warehouse functions began to rise • Further increase in safety is trained in customer service perceptions to develop Employee Net occupational safety culture and • Purchasing skills in our Promoter Score More active reduce accidents purchasing department and We didn’t (eNPS*) = 36 reporting on leadership and work community succeed in (good) safety issues • eNPS = 50 (excellent) skills for selected groups offering flexible trained *eNPS is a and a safer working measure of and healthier • Yearly appraisal discussions level: 85% arrangements how likely the working employees are to to all our environment in • Diversity taken more systematically into recommend the employees place** account in all recruitment decisions company as a during long-term place to work. sick leave ** Warehouse 2019:200, target 2020: 500; all stores start from 0 and the target is to start making safety observations and to investigate all accidents RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 33 Committed employees OUR COMMITTED and motivated employees are the basis of Tokmanni’s success. In 2019, our personnel grew by more than 2 per cent; at the end of 2019 there were 3,659 Tokmanni employees, 101 more employees than at the end of 2018. On average, there were 3,647 Tokmanni employees in 2019. The reported employee numbers also include those employees who were on a leave of absence, such as maternity, paternity, parental, parenting, study or job alternation leave. High numbers of permanent employees At the end of 2019, 78 per cent of Tokmanni employees held permanent employment contracts and 22 per cent held temporary employment contracts. The share of full-time employees was 35 per cent and part-time employees made up 65 per cent of employees. In the retail sector, peak seasons have an effect on the number of employees required, and the majority of part-time employees were cashiers. During 2019, new permanent employment relationships numbered 393, and correspondingly, 324 permanent employment relationships came to an end. The turnover of permanent employee arrivals during the reporting period was 14.5 per cent, and the corresponding departure turn­over RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 34 was 12.0 per cent*. The turnover figures do Covered by collective agreements extended management team members, are not include employees leaving the company Tokmanni follows all the provisions of the covered by the Finnish retail sector collective because of retirement. codetermination legislation (the Act on ­Coagreement. Tokmanni’s Executive Group The employees’ commitment is welloperation within Undertakings) and those and extended management team members reflected in the fact that at 2019’s medal of set out in collective agreements (the Finnish accounted for 1.7 percent of the company’s merit party, 134 employees received awards retail sector collective agreement), including personnel at the end of 2019. As a rule, these for 10, 20, 30 and as much as 40 years of the legal provisions and notification times two personnel groups also follow the terms of service at Tokmanni. 2019 was the first time in concerning reorganisations. All personnel the retail sector collective agreement. l the company’s history, when an employee was groups, except for the Executive Group and rewarded for 40 years of service at Tokmanni. Juha Alavilo, who works in the Sastamala store, was the first Tokmanni employee to be rewarded for his 40-year career. According to Juha, the secret of his long career is a good work community. At the end of the year, the average 78% Permanent 65% Part-time number of years of service among permanent employees was 8.7 and the proportion of employees employees employees who had reached 10 years of service was 38.9 per cent. Limited use of temporary workers 22 Only a small number of temporary workers 35 work at Tokmanni. According to statutory requirements, Tokmanni always offers extra work to the company’s own part-time % % employees first. In addition to this, we employ around 1,000 fixed-term seasonal helpers, who 65 hold different positions in the stores. 78 In 2019, we continued our cooperation with Barona Logistiikkaratkaisut Oy and some of the employees within our logistics organisation are employed by Barona. Permanent employees Part-time employees Fixed-term employees Full-time employees *Turnover of permanent employee arrivals measures the rate of new permanent employees and departure turnover measures the rate of finished permanent employments compared to the total number of staff at the end of 2019. All employments at the end of year included. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 35 Equal treatment at work WE SEEK TO ENSURE EQUALITY in all job roles for all employees, with the exception of and in remuneration, as well as guaranteeing the warehouse staff, who have their own non-discrimination to everyone within the productivity bonus system. In 2019, the basis company. of this incentive scheme was like-for-like sales development, depending on the employee’s Equitable and versatile benefits role. For 2019, a total amount of EUR 1.4 In Finland, all personnel are subject to statutory million was paid in sales bonuses, which cover pension security and benefits concerning all personnel and pays out bonuses quarterly. parental leaves. In addition, both the permanent Key personnel are covered by an incentive and temporary personnel have statutory system that is based on the company’s insurance against occupational injuries and success and the system includes a monetary occupational diseases. reward and share-based reward. Our employees enjoy versatile supplementary staff benefits. The Executive Equal opportunities for all Group determines these staff benefits yearly. Our goal is to create operational practices and In addition to statutory benefits, other benefits conditions, where each employee feels like at Tokmanni include a wide array of purchasing they are equal to, and in a comparable position benefits and recreational activities, and fitness with their co-workers. The vast majority, about and culture vouchers, which are partially paid 98 percent, of Tokmanni’s employees are for by the employer. directly covered by the Finnish retail sector’s Occupational health services are also collective agreement’s pay scale. provided beyond the statutory minimum, as they include a general practitioner service. Improving job satisfaction None of these benefits require a full-time work We monitor our employees’ workplace contract. satisfaction using a yearly survey. The survey focuses on how factors such as equality, Incentives for work working atmosphere, management and the Tokmanni operates an incentive pay scheme development of fair management are realised RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 36 and develop at Tokmanni. After the survey, we choose yearly development targets for the Majority of employees women, as is Average age of personnel entirety of Tokmanni. typical in the commerce sector 38 years A diverse workplace Our goal is to create a diverse workplace 19 22 community and to ensure the equal treatment 33 of all our employees from the moment they are recruited. At Tokmanni, diversity means equal opportunities, regardless of descent or % % gender, for example. In 2019, we introduced gender neutral job titles. In order to survey our employees’ diversity regarding language, we started to gather information about our 81 employees’ mother tongues in 2019, now 45 over 83 per cent of the information has been gathered. At Tokmanni, our employees represent over 20 different mother tongues. Female Male –30 years 30-50 years 50 years– The top 4 languages are Finnish, Swedish, Russian and Estonian. In 2019, job applicants One woman in the Executive Group* Two women in the Board of Directors** spoke 36 different mother tongues. We see diversity as a competitive advantage. Indeed, Tokmanni is part of 12,5 the FIBS diversity network and has its own diversity steering group and project group, 33 the members of which represent Tokmanni employees extensively. The group’s goal is to ensure that Tokmanni hires different kinds of % % people in order to broaden and better serve its diversifying customer base. 67 By involving employees and by developing a coaching style of management, we want to 87,5 encourage people to bring forth their ideas for improvement and to increase employees’ abilities to make an impact. Tokmanni has Female Male Female Male established clear procedures for handling cases of inappropriate treatment and for *The Executive Group has 8 members in total. **The Board of Directors has 6 members in total. preventing such occurrences. l All effective employments at the end of 2019 are included in the calculation. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 37 Sustainability in the daily work of Tokmanni employees: quick reactions and saved kilometres Sales Process Manager Sami Purhonen and Customer Service Manager Kirsi Kuisma promote Tokmanni’s sustainability work in their daily working lives. Current and complicated questions are addressed separately in the Corporate Responsibility Team. “SOME OF THE FEEDBACK we receive every Steering Group, which decides if even the nonThe resources saved by this can be used day is always related to sustainability,” says alcoholic versions of alcoholic beverages can for something else. On headsets, for example. Tokmanni’s Customer Service Manager Kirsi be sold to underaged customers,” Kirsi states. It is easy to walk over 10 kilometres in Kuisma. a large store in a day. Being able to send The customer feedback phone rings off Trimming the superfluous the same message about products arriving the hook almost daily and messages arrive at Kirsi has worked in Customer Service since the on shelves to up to 15 peoples’ headsets almost the same rate – a few hundred each end of 2018, but she has walked through many means that kilometres of useless trudging are day. Tokmanni aisles during her long career with the avoided. Sustainability is linked to everything at company. Tokmanni and the customers ask questions Her journey began in 2001. At the time Kirsi Everyone’s point of views about anything and everything, from the origins designed enticing ways to arrange products on is appreciated of materials to what products are used for. shelves. Later, Kirsi moved into the marketing Sami also thinks about how the excess can department, while also completing Tokmanni’s be reduced in things like waste, plastics and Discussing the feedback own managerial training programme. energy usage. Wasteful kilometres can also be Kirsi’s team considers feedback carefully, “I did my diploma work on offer posters, as avoided at the cashier’s till. when figuring out which feedback is taken I had noticed piles of the posters going unused “Just stopping the automatic printing of further and how that is done. Ready-made in break rooms. It launched a reform, which receipts has saved thousands of kilometres of answers are not always available. In those ended up saving us 50 000 euros per month paper,” Sami says. situations, feedback is referred to the on unnecessary print outs,” Kirsi explains. At the same time, the change was corporate responsibility team for discussion The same philosophy is also familiar to viewed from a slightly different point of view separately. Sales Process Manager Sami Purhonen, elsewhere. “A customer sent us some feedback whose history at Tokmanni began in 2006, “An employee working in marketing regarding how some 10-year-old boys had when he was a store manager at the then pointed out that using paper as a medium to been seen in front of a store, with non­Tarjoustalo in Hämeenlinna. talk about reducing paper usage was not the alcoholic beer in their hands. The feedback These days, his job consists of developing responsible choice, and so we decided to send was referred to the corporate responsibility stores’ working processes and ensure that the message out on the in-store radio and team, and in this case, the Sustainability anything superfluous is eliminated. digitally,” Kirsi Kuisma adds. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 38 Opportunities for training and development TOKMANNI’S GOAL IS to have enthusiastic and committed employees who value their customers, colleagues, their own work and their employer. Our objective is to give everyone a chance to do their best at work. Everyone’s work is valuable and important from a holistic perspective. Effective collaboration between different in-house teams is essential to our success. New leadership principles and work community principles In 2019, we continued to implement our new values. At the start of the year, we introduced new values which had been communicated to every employee. Our target is for the values guide everyone’s daily work. We wanted to take a step further and therefore, we created new leadership and work community principles. The leadership principles have been examined together with our supervisors and they are included into the orientation. The work community principles were also updated and every employee will complete a new online course which helps them to understand better the personal conduct we expect from everyone at work. The course will be completed during spring 2020 by all our employees and it will be included in the orientation of new employees. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 39 Competence development development through apprenticeship training. Annual personal appraisal discussions Continuous learning is important in a rapidly Nearly 100 apprenticeship training programmes Appraisals are held once a year for all changing world. At Tokmanni, we support in various fields are completed at Tokmanni employees at Tokmanni whose employment our employees’ training and development, each year. relationship lasts for more than one year. but each employee is also responsible for In autumn 2019, we piloted a new Through discussions we make sure that maintaining and further developing their apprenticeship. The training provides new skills everyone knows their goals and value of their professional knowledge and skills also for staff working in the garden section of our work for the company. Giving feedback on themselves. stores. During 2019, Tokmanni’s office staff both sides and skills development are also Professional expertise is further developed was provided with quarterly opportunities to mandatory topics. through conventional and online training. learn more about topical issues in their own Around 80 per cent of Tokmanni’s Tokmanni’s in-house experts participate in workplace. We also provided customer service employees attended a personal appraisal with providing training for employees and improving training to all Tokmanni employees. 20 in-house their supervisor in 2019.The employees that their knowledge and skills in cooperation with trainers were trained to further train over 3,300 attended personal appraisal discussions are external training partners. Coaching-based people to better serve both internal and external more satisfied with their work at Tokmanni than supervisory work skills have been developed customers. This successful project will continue the employees who did not attend an appraisal at Tokmanni in recent years. next year. discussion. l We also provide training for our supervisors on labour laws and collective agreements, recruitment and the role of supervisors in building the company’s employer brand, Tokmanni’s youth employment programmes induction and working capacity and wellbeing at work, which play a significant role in TOKMANNI AIMS to foster youth service and work at the store. by conducting their practical training employees’ coping at work, motivation and employment. Therefore, in 2019, Tokmanni provided an opportunity at Tokmanni stores. So far, the results commitment. Tokmanni participated in a pilot for a work trial for 10 participants of the pilot project are promising. project in which a group of young during 2019. After the work trial Tokmanni also offered 38 supervisors rewarded adults between the ages of 18 and period, three participants were offered approximately one thousand Employees evaluated their supervisors’ work in 29 were given coaching in working a job at Tokmanni. In addition, two summer jobs and work experience a survey carried out in early 2019. life competencies. The participants participants continued their work positions (Tutustu työelämään ja The overall score for leadership skills at conducted a work trial of three trial at Tokmanni and one participant tienaa) for young people. Some Tokmanni was 3.9 on a scale of 1 to 5. A total months in the retail stores. The project decided to apply for higher education. of the participants in the ”Tutustu of 38 supervisors who received exceptionally was carried out in collaboration In order to enhance youth työelämään ja tienaa” work experience good results in the employee pulse survey with the Finnish Commerce employment, Tokmanni has also taken project have been hired as a part of were rewarded in 2019. At Tokmanni, training Federation, Ohjaamo Helsinki, Stadin part in a collaborative project with an immigrant collaboration project leading to a vocational qualification is a ammattiopisto vocational college and Hyria Education. In this programme, with Plan International. Tokmanni also popular way to develop expertise in retail, other retail companies. a group of first year students at participated in a campaign called logistics and management. For this reason, During the project the participants Hyria became acquainted with the ”Vastuullinen kesäduuni”. Tokmanni continuously supports vocational were given an introduction to the retail commerce sector by completing sector and orientation for customer coursework relating to Tokmanni and RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 40 Occupational health and safety TOKMANNI SUCCEEDS, when its healthy from Tokmanni and Tokmanni’s key partners shall be regularly updated as agreed. To and satisfied employees conduct their work in this field; an occupational health provider enhance the employee’s return to work, the tasks safely. Employees’ health, work ability (Mehiläinen), a pension insurance company employee and their supervisor, Tokmanni’s and safety are ensured with work ability (Varma), and an accident insurance company work ability coordinator and a doctor meet for management. (LähiTapiola). an occupational health negotiation. This is a The goal of Tokmanni’s work ability requirement when the duration of an absence management is to anticipate the occupational Flexible work for personnel with partial exceeds 60 days. health risks of employees, maintain job work ability At Tokmanni we have a designated work satisfaction and lengthen careers. The average In collaboration with insurance companies ability coordinator whose role is to monitor age of Tokmanni employees is 37.9 years and Tokmanni’s occupational health care, the aforementioned plan and to participate in and the average retirement age is 63 years. Tokmanni has defined clear procedures, occupational health discussions to evaluate Industrial safety at Tokmanni is organised in targets and more accurate indicators to the provisions for returning to work at the compliance with legislation. reduce absences due to illness and premature right time. During 2019 more than 300 such The mandatory occupational wellbeing pensions. The aim of this cooperation is to discussions were arranged. group represents all Tokmanni’s personnel refer our employees with partial work ability groups. The group meets at least 4 times to rehabilitation as soon as possible to ensure Supervisors play a key role in work ability a year and aims to improve Tokmanni’s their prompt return to work and to avoid management occupational safety culture. In 2019, the injury premature applications for disability pensions. Tokmanni has trained all its new supervisors rate at Tokmanni was 29.4 (situation as of At Tokmanni, short periods of sick leave in work ability management. The training also 6.1.2020, including pain induced by work(less than 10 days) have decreased while long includes risk assessment related to work ability related motion), while the corresponding 2018 periods (more than 30 days) have increased. and models for supporting employees in their injury rate was 30.6. Due to an increased number of long-term return to work. In 2019, Tokmanni launched a threesick leaves in 2019, Tokmanni’s “Flexible Supervisors and managers use an online year development programme to enhance Work Model” was reintroduced to Tokmanni’s work ability management system known occupational safety culture. Tokmanni’s work supervisors and this model in particular was as Kompassi, which helps improve the ability management’s operating models are highlighted to Mehiläinen’s doctors as an identification of employees’ work ability risks, based on risk assessments and relevant data alternative to sick leave. the planning of well-timed treatment and covering e.g. absences due to work-related In November 2019, we implemented rehabilitation measures, and the monitoring sicknesses and accidents. Operating models a model (Work Ability Plan) in which the of employees returning to work. Last year we and their effectiveness and cost-efficiency are occupational health care provider prepares organised a Varma day in cooperation with under constant evaluation by the Work Ability a work ability plan for each employee after the Varma pension insurance company and Steering Group, which has representatives 30 days of sick leave. Thereafter, the plan occupational health provider focusing on work RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 41 ability management. All Tokmanni’s regional management. In 2020, official occupational the radar sends a health questionnaire to the managers were involved in this action day. safety card training will be provided to employee and invites the employee to attend warehouse employees, as well as store and the occupational health service. Occupational ergonomics and warehouse supervisors. In 2019, we also introduced digitally occupational safety are developed on a supported training programmes to support long-term basis Models promoting employee well-being employees in their lifestyle and stress At Tokmanni, most of the long-term sickness The occupational health provider’s “Wellbeing management and a “worry chat”, which is absences and applications for premature Radar” system anticipates a potential a low-threshold occupational health service disability pensions are due to musculoskeletal decrease in an employee’s work ability based where employees can chat about mental disorders. For that matter, we prepared on occupational health data. If necessary, health issues with a mental coach. l educational videos on ergonomics in 2019. These videos will be available for employee guidance in early 2020. We also implemented a practice where employee suffering from musculoskeletal disorders can be referred directly to an occupational physiotherapist. In addition, Accidents at work (No.) occupational physiotherapists have carried 200 190* Accidents at work out targeted workplace visits and ergonomic 176 161 40* guidance as needed. 30 Accidents while commuting 150 32 Tokmanni’s goal in developing occupational safety and preventing accidents is learning from 100 accidents and close calls, actively making and 146 150* * Accidents include all refunded reporting on safety observations, organising 129 cases. For 2019, the accidents 50 include accidents refunded by safety walks and developing our own risk 6 January 2020. Therefore, the assessment skills. We also need to develop 0 number is liable to change. supervisors’ occupational safety management 2017 2018 2019 skills and occupational safety communication. In 2019, we described key occupational safety processes and acquired an occupational Accidents at work and absences due to illness safety system to facilitate the reporting of safety observations, findings and close calls and to 2017 2018 2019 support occupational safety management. The system deployment project began back in Injury rate (IR)* 31.5 30.6 29.4** * workplace accidents *1 000 000 / December 2018 and deployment is scheduled hours worked, incl. pain induced by Occupational diseases 0 0 0 for early 2020. work-related motion Absence rate*** 4.59 4.36 4.54** ** 6.1.2020 In 2019, we organised occupational safety *** Absences due to illness (hours) / management training for sales and warehouse Work related fatalities 1 0 0 theoretical working hours (EK) RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 42 Responsible sourcing and products We work systematically to ensure accountability in our supply chain, especially in risk countries. IN THIS SECTION Achievements and targets................... 43 Minding animal welfare...................... 50 Responsible sourcing requires Certificate guide................................... 51 systematic work...................................... 44 Product safety is tested The thesis that challenges the meticulously.......................................... 52 media conversation on the textile A Brücke drill goes through industry in Bangladesh......................... 47 several quality checks before Case: A T-shirt’s journey to a arriving in store.................................... 53 Tokmanni store........................................ 48 Recall of LED decoration Key high-risk raw materials and lights due to safety risks................... 54 product certification.............................. 49 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 43 Responsible sourcing Targets for 2020 and products • Definition of a supplier sustainability indicator Responsible sourcing means to us, in particular, ensuring that employees’ fundamental human rights are respected in the supply chain. These • Updated sanctions guidelines, fundamental rights are based on, for example, the United Nation’s updated general purchasing terms and International Bill of Human Rights and Convention on the Rights of the conditions, and responsible sourcing guidance taken into use Child, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. • Development of the contract management process Achievements and challenges in 2019 • No serious product safety flaws in the products sold by Tokmanni or accidents Achieved Partially achieved Challenges caused by them Further Further Setting targets No serious Verifying amfori • Overall assessment and updating of development of development for the number faults related to BSCI audit procurement quality processes risk management of quality of certified product safety results with at in responsible assurance products have been found least 100 of our sourcing with processes and products in products sold own audits. At • Definition of certification objectives and regard to the for the mostmanufactured by Tokmanni, least 25% of measurement systems for high-risk raw most-sold sold products from recycled and none have new sourcing materials private-label in different raw materials caused any factories in products in product in each product accidents risk countries different product categories category will be audited • 70 own audits in addition to third party categories and by Tokmanni, BSCI audits, and audits management to the biggest in addition to guidance updated human rights amfori BSCI risks RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 44 Responsible sourcing requires systematic work SUSTAINABILITY IS an integral part of Tokmanni’s sourcing process. The process is supported by Tokmanni’s responsible sourcing principles and guidelines, which in turn, Tokmanni’s sourcing per continent promote the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals within Tokmanni’s supply chain. Finland, 72.89% As a member of amfori BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) Tokmanni is committed to adhering to its ethical principles North-America, 0.01% (the BSCI Code of Conduct). Tokmanni Europe, 11.18% also requires that its suppliers and their subcontractors adhere to amfori BSCI’s Asia, 15.92% ethical principles*. In its sourcing agreements, (China 12.21%) Tokmanni retains the right to examine a supplier’s entire subcontracting chain if necessary. Work on responsible sourcing focuses on risk countries Social compliance risk management focuses on risk countries, which according to the World Bank’s classification have the greatest risk of labour and human rights violations. Out of all of Tokmanni’s direct sourcing in 2019, a considerable portion was imported Largest sourcing countries after Finland and China (each with <2% of purchases) by Tokmanni itself. Of the products imported Denmark, Holland, Bangladesh, Sweden, Germany, Estonia, Poland, Hong Kong directly by Tokmanni, about 64 per cent are acquired from countries which belong to risk countries according to the World Bank *Fair remuneration is one of these principles. BSCI members observe this principle when they respect the right of workers to receive fair remuneration that is sufficient to provide classification. The vast majority of Tokmanni’s them with a decent living for themselves and their families, as well as the social benefits risk country suppliers are in China. Other legally granted, without prejudice to the specific expectations set out hereunder. Local living wage estimates are calculated based on the Anker methodology. important sourcing countries in the risk country **Each representing less than 2% of total direct imports. category include Bangladesh, Turkey, India and Vietnam**. Amfori BSCI Fair Remuneration Living Wages around the World RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 45 The primary focus of social and contain a commitment stating that production but as a rule, factories are given a time window environmental compliance efforts is on complies with amfori BSCI requirements. of about 4 weeks during which the audit will suppliers within Tokmanni’s more immediate take place. This way, a factory can prepare sphere of influence, i.e. private-label and 96 per cent of purchases from high-risk for an audit by ensuring, for example, that the exclusive distribution product suppliers. countries from audited factories managers responsible for BSCI implementation Tokmanni requires factories that produce BSCI audits are carried out by an independent are present or by gathering the necessary these products in risk countries to have a valid third party. An auditing company approved documents and certifications. Amfori BSCI amfori BSCI or SA8000 audit, and based on by amfori BSCI will scrutinise factories in audit results are assessed on a five-step scale, case-by-case judgement, the SMETA audits risk countries and compile a report, which using the grades A, B, C, D or E. If the result is and the toy business’ ICTI Care audits can will be analysed by a sustainability expert in a D or E (or a C with significant shortcomings), also be accepted. Sourcing agreements with Tokmanni’s purchasing organisation. Audits are Tokmanni will report the issues found with a the factories of brand suppliers must also not carried out at completely random times, request to the supplier to remediate them. Amfori BSCI full audit results 1.1.2018-31.12.2019 The average BSCI audit grade is C Social Management System and Cascade Effect 8 1 3 21 Workers Involvement and Protection The rights of Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 46 No Discrimination Fair Remuneration* A Decent Working Hours B Occupational Health and Safety Total 965 C No Child Labour audits Special protection for young workers D No Precarious Employment E No Bonded Labour SA8000 Protection of the Environment 886 Ethical Business Behaviour 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Audits with graded A or B are valid for 2 years. A B C D E Amfori BSCI CoC 2.0 audits Audits graded C, D or E result require a follow-up audit within 12 months. * Fair Remuneration: The Anker methodology is used to calculate living wage in BSCI audits RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 46 SA8000-audited factories automatically receive BSCI audits were to do with management potential new suppliers, and at factories where a good overall assessment using the amfori systems, working times and in increasing the assessed risks of human rights violations BSCI system. employee participation and awareness-building. are the highest. Particular focus is placed on In 2019, 96 (98) per cent of direct Most factories received a C (acceptable) overall work safety and quality control. We check purchases from risk countries took place score. This is not an average number of the 13 against BSCI reports, discuss and see whether from factories with a valid audit. The drop performance areas, rather, scoring a D in two non-compliance issues have been corrected. was mainly due to a modified calculation will bring down the overall grade to a C. From In 2019, Tokmanni carried out 52 (100) of methodology used for calculating audit validity a risk management perspective, a C grade is its own audits in Bangladesh, Myanmar, and in 2019. Full, 100-per-cent coverage is difficult preferred as it requires the factory to be audited China. This corresponds to 12.4% of active to attain in BSCI audits, as BSCI audits are within the BSCI system on a yearly basis. The suppliers in risk countries. reported per calendar year, and there may be higher grades A and B allow for a two-year reIn further developing responsible sourcing a short time (typically a month or two) between auditing period. In 2019, 965 (914) amfori BSCI practices in 2019, the focus was shifted to two valid audits. For example, if we purchase audits were carried out on factories linked to updating our general purchasing terms and products at the beginning of the year from a Tokmanni in the BSCI system.*** conditions with stronger social compliances factory, which decides not to re-audit at the If serious problems are observed with clauses and in updating our sanctions policy end of the year, the factory is automatically suppliers under Tokmanni’s RSP, Tokmanni and responsible sourcing guidelines. deemed as non-audited in our reporting, even also asks them to provide concrete remediation We also started more in-depth work on though the audit was still valid at the time of plans including schedules for resolving our reporting systems to integrate factorythe order. In these cases, no new orders are observed problems. These typically relate to level data and social compliance issues into submitted to the factory until the BSCI audit is OHS. Remediation plans are also requested our business reporting, and to work more renewed. from and followed up with factories where closely with our purchasing office in Shanghai, In addition, within the amfori BSCI system, significant problems are found, even if the e.g. through planning the pilot of a supplier some of the factories are under Tokmanni’s suppliers aren’t Tokmanni’s responsibility. management system to be implemented there responsibility, making Tokmanni a so called We also continuously provide all our in 2020. RSP (responsible company for the supplier). suppliers’ factories with information on amfori We began development on a supplier The RSP role brings with it the responsibility to BSCI principles, trainings and audits. Our sustainability index and finally, continued to book third-party audits for the factory. goal is to enable our suppliers to build more participate actively in training and other events Concerning the non-compliance of BSCI sustainable operational cultures and to promote arranged by amfori BSCI and other partners, audits in 2019, many cases were simply due to responsible practices in the Tokmanni value such as FIBS and the TMA responsibility late re-audit bookings by other RSP holders, chain together. working group, and the Sustainable Supply thus resulting in a 1–2 month gap between Chain Initiative of the Consumer Goods Forum. audit validity. It is not possible to be an RSP We carry out our own audits of potential This stakeholder co-operation helps us to holder for all factories, as the factory’s biggest new factories and high-risk factories keep up to date with the developments of customer usually prefers to take on the role. Tokmanni also carries out its own product responsible sourcing on a global level. l quality and social compliance audits at The most common BSCI audit grade is a C factories in risk countries and other countries The most common problems found in amfori of manufacture, particularly at the factories of ***Some factories were audited multiple times in 2019. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 47 The thesis that challenges the media conversation on the textile industry in Bangladesh Like a lot of good things, Tiia Hiltunen’s thesis on the development of Bangladesh was also born out of irritation. “I WAS TIRED of the one-sided media To describe the development, Tiia shows Overtime is a challenge conversation of how everything that comes a diagram that describes economic growth in There are still many things to improve on, of from Bangladesh is horrible,” sighs Tiia Bangladesh. It rises like a tidal wave – the gross course. For example, overtime is common in Hiltunen, who has worked at Tokmanni as a national product has multiplied since 2013. Tokmanni’s partner factories. “Employees often clothing designer for 8 years. do overtime out of their own will, in order to She has become well acquainted with 2013 as a turning point make more money. Raising wages might reduce Bangladesh over the years, as several of the In many ways, the year 2013 was a turning overtime, but the raises should be carried out on clothes that Tiia has designed for the Pola point in recent history in Bangladesh. That is a national level. If a single factory raises wages, and Peuhu brands, among others, have been the year that the Rana Plaza factory building riots will typically break out in surrounding manufactured there. collapsed, and 1,134 people died. areas. Therefore, many factories tend to offer “People have a perception that factories in The accident was a wakeup call. Many employees other benefits, such as free lunches Bangladesh are gloomy sweatshops. Those things had to change. or day care for employees’ children”, Tiia says. are no longer needed, and they have no International NGOs and companies In Bangladesh, the national minimum wage international clients. All the factories we use began to advocate for change in the country. was most recently raised in 2018 and amfori are clean and modern, and the majority of them Building security was improved and dangerous BSCI continues to advocate for it being raised have their own social compliance experts,” Tiia basement factories were weeded out. further, with the support of thousands of its clarifies. These days over 63 per cent of the factories member companies. Additionally, amfori is in the country are a part of the amfori BSCI developing its own amfori BEPI environmental Research encouraged by contradiction auditing system, which monitors workers’ system, of which Tokmanni is also a member. The contradiction between personal experience rights and working conditions. Tokmanni also and the media conversation encouraged Tiia requires this. If a factory is not a part of amfori Long-standing relationships to research the topic in depth in her thesis BSCI, it will likely have a valid audit from Tiia perceives that moving manufacturing for the International Business and Corporate another third-party monitoring system, such as away from Bangladesh is not a responsible Responsibility programme at Haaga-Helia SMETA or WRAP, which is common in the USA. alternative. Instead, it is important to take care University of Applied Sciences. “The textile industry has lifted millions of of long-standing relationships with partners Based on earlier research and interviews Bangladeshis out of poverty and employs and to support them in their development. from representatives at the Tokmanni factories 4,000,000 employees, most of whom are “And to avoid fast fashion. Designing durable she is finding out how European companies uneducated, with limited access to a stable everyday clothes that can be worn for years is have influenced development in Bangladesh. income otherwise,” Tiia points out. important in my own work,” Tiia adds. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 48 A T-shirt’s journey to a Tokmanni store Intensely monitored working conditions 3. Production in Products are only purchased from BSCI audited factories and 1. Designed for Finland Bangladesh Tokmanni audits the majority of clothing factories itself as well. everyday use Our partners’ factories in risk countries undergo BSCI audits, Tokmanni’s own designers where a third party inspects create clothing for everyday workers’ rights and working use, which is sized to fit conditions regularly. 4. Diligent Finnish people of all ages. quality control Our seasonal collections are designed six times a year, to Before production, a factory Cotton has been fit each time of year. will send several material designated as a risk and product samples to Bangladesh material, so Tokmanni’s Mäntsälä. Before shipping, aim is to increase the use a third party will inspect that of certified and recycled quality demands have been cotton in our products. met in production. 2. Supplier selection Factors affecting Shipping to The majority of Tokmanni’s factory selection Finland takes cotton clothing is ­manu­factured in Bangladesh. Buyers visit Quality 6–8 weeks. 5. Instore factories regularly and they have Price Clothes sold at Tokmanni follow Orders known many of the contracting parties for years. current trends and stand the test are made Supply reliability of time. T-shirts are sold until the well in Production capacity batch is sold out and all the clothes advance. end up being used by customers. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 49 Key high-risk raw materials and product certification WE HAVE DEFINED cotton, palm oil, wood and Tokmanni’s Animal Welfare Principles fish as our key high-risk materials. We require are based on the universally accepted our suppliers to report the country of origin of Five Freedoms of the UK Department for high-risk raw materials and any sustainability Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra): certifications the related products might have, freedom from hunger and thirst; freedom and, to provide additional information on the from discomfort; freedom from pain, injury or origin of the raw materials, if necessary. To disease; freedom to express normal behaviour ensure the origin and responsible production of and freedom from fear and distress. raw materials, we strive to increase the number We require that our products of animal of certified products. We prioritise the following origin come from animals that have been certificates: Nordic Swan Ecolabel, organic, raised for food production or are derived of MSC, FSC, Fairtrade, UTZ and Oeko-Tex. fish or mollusc origin (such as raw materials for One of our sustainability goals for 2019 was cosmetics). Animals may not be slaughtered to set more specific goals for products with primarily for the sale of their skin, fur, horns, sustainability labels, with a focus on private feathers or other parts. labels. This target was not fully reached due In 2019, we updated our animal welfare to other priorities in responsible sourcing (see principles based on customer feedback, and in p. 46), and, thus, in 2020 we seek to set these line with these principles, we ceased the sales certification targets, and will start with the highof toys such as nets with which children could risk raw materials. The most important highcatch e.g. insects or fish. risk material is cotton based on sales and the human rights and environmental risks related No animal testing or painful measures to it. Compliance with our animal welfare policy is controlled by our sourcing and sustainability with the Responsible Down Standard and We are committed to animal welfare teams through documentary checks and used as material in Tokmanni’s private label We consider animal welfare particularly contracts. These include, among others, down jackets. In cosmetics, the ban on animal important, and we are committed to promoting verification of documents relating to the testing also applies to the raw materials used it in our supply chain. We require that all origin of wool or entering into a non-mulesing in cosmetics (Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 products sold by Tokmanni which contain agreement (mulesing being painful for sheep). of the European Parliament and of the Council raw materials of animal origin and the In addition, in some products, the policy on cosmetic products). In our private label manufacturing of these products complies compliance can be verified, for example, on cosmetic products, we only use European with laws and regulations throughout the entire the basis of certifications given. An example of manufacturers that comply with EU legislation supply chain. this is down which is produced in accordance in their own activities. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 50 Minding animal welfare Animal hair high-risk raw materials and we ● We do not accept cow, calf or ● We only accept hair from living seek to increase the number ox leather from India. farm animals. of certified fish products in our ● We do not accept leather from ● We do not accept rabbit hair product range in 2020. Bangladesh because of the (including Angora rabbit hair), or poor conditions in its leather the hair of caged or endangered factories. species. Down and feathers ● We do not accept leather from ● We seek to ensure full ● We do not accept down or fetal (aborted) animals (including traceability of the origin of the feathers plucked from live birds caracul lamb or Persian lamb) hair all the way back to the farm. or from farms where this is practiced. ● We do not accept down or Exotic skin Wool feathers from farms where ● We do not accept real exotic ● We do not accept the mulesing animals are force-fed. animal skins (including snakes, method for wool from Australia. ● We only accept down or lizards and alligators). In accordance with the National feathers from slaughtered Wool Declaration, we require the birds bred for meat production wool to be non-mulesed. (excluding foie gras production). Animal testing ● We do not accept mohair wool ● We do not accept the down or ● We do not accept the animal in our new products. Mohair will feathers of endangered species. testing of any cosmetic be fully excluded in the 2020 ● All down and feathers intended products during any stage of product range. for our company’s use must be production (production or on sterilised. finished ­products). ● We do not allow the use of Farm animals Fur cosmetic ingredients that have ● We do not accept products from ● We do not accept real fur. Leather been tested on animals in the farms that do not observe the ● We only accept leather from products we import ourselves Five Freedoms in their supply cows, sheep, buffalos, goats or or in our own private-label chain (entire chain, including Fish pigs, or skin from fish that have cosmetics. l transportation and slaughter). ● Fish is listed as one of our key been used in food production. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 51 CERTIFICATE GUIDE What do the certificates say about the responsibility of a product in Tokmanni’s assortment? Organic Farmers paid a fair price From well-managed Cotton from educated PRODUCTS LABELLED WITH THE THE FAIR TRADE logo shows that the forests only producers ORGANIC logo are made from at producers of a product’s ingredients FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) BCI OR THE BETTER COTTON least 95% organically produced in developing countries receive a labelled wood and paper products INITIATIVE is the most extensive ingredients. Organic products guaranteed price, with a fair trade come from traceably well-managed responsibility system in the cannot contain colourings or flavour bonus on top of that. Fair Trade also forests. An FSC certified forest owner production of cotton. BCI is an enhancers such as monosodium promotes environmentally sustainable must, among others, uphold the educational programme, which glutamate (MSG). farming. diversity of their forest and the rights guides farmers towards good The EU’s leaf shaped logo is a of their workers and indigenous practices. Farmers are guided requirement for all organic products Fish from wild, peoples. There are three FSC labels. and supported on the sustainable produced within the EU. The sustainable stocks A product will be labelled according use of water, pesticides, fertilisers requirements for the Finnish organic THE MSC (Marine Stewardship to if the raw materials are recycled, and the soil, respecting nature’s logo are the same but its use is Council) logo shows that the fish and or 100% or at least 70% from FSC diversity and improving working voluntary and states that a product seafood in a product can be traced sources. conditions. A BCI branded product is under the supervision of Finnish back to certified fishing vessels and means that a company has bought authorities. are caught from sustainable wild Responsible wood a certain percentage of cotton from stock, using methods that protect THE PEFC CERTIFICATE promotes BCI educated producers and has Most environmentally local ecosystems. The impacts of all the same things as the international pledged to increase the use of BCI friendly in its product MSC certified fisheries businesses FSC certificate, but the rights to use cotton by five percent per year. category have been assessed independently. a PEFC logo in Finland are granted THE NORDIC ECOLABEL, or the by PEFC Finland. The criteria are Nordic swan, is awarded to products Textiles without also drafted from a European, rather and services, which are the best harmful chemicals than tropical, standpoint and taking in their product category from an THE OEKO-TEX CERTIFICATE small scale forest owners in mind. environmental perspective. The restricts the use of chemicals in Independent certifying institutions criteria consider the most salient textiles. If a product is marked with an ensure that the demands are met environmental impacts of a specific Oeko-Tex certificate, it means that an from forest to factory and from product category throughout its equivalent product has been tested in factory to consumer. entire life cycle. A product or service a laboratory to ensure that it does not may, for example, have requirements contain, for example, allergy inducing on energy or water usage and the or carcinogenic dyes, harmful decomposition of materials. pesticides or heavy metal residues. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 52 Product safety is tested meticulously HERE AT TOKMANNI, we want to make sure We need to ensure that these products Quality throughout the supply chain that all the products we sell are safe to use. We are produced in accordance with laws and Tokmanni reviewed or renewed the labelling ensure product safety, corporate responsibility standards applicable in Finland and EU. of 2,501 private-label products in 2019 (2,169 and due diligence through self-monitoring, This is conducted mainly through document in 2018). In 2019, a total of 100 (66) products by visiting suppliers, by testing products management to ensure that all required tests were inspected as part of self-monitoring, and ourselves and by having products tested by and approvals for imported items have been the number of third-party product tests mainly third parties at various steps throughout the carried out. As an importer, Tokmanni is also run at the factories increased to 3,001 (2,067 sourcing process. responsible for ensuring the correct texts and in 2018). Self-monitoring has been reduced packaging markings in Finnish and Swedish. in recent years due to the effects of improved We are responsible for the safety and This same obligation also applies to all goods quality guidelines, which have decreased quality of our products that we sell, even the ones we just distribute. the number of defective products identified We serve as the distributor, importer or Of course, the main responsibility for these during warehouse inspections. The focus of manufacturer of the products we sell. We items lies with the manufacturer or importer, quality assurance has been shifted to factory also serve as the manufacturer of privatebut as a responsible Finnish distributor, we inspections instead. l label products manufactured for us by other help our partners to put the mandatory texts companies. on the packaging. We have the ultimate responsibility over the safety of our private-label products and Safe, high-quality products other goods where we act as an importer to In 2019, our goal was to maintain a high level the EU. We monitor product safety by checking of product safety, product quality and quality 33% of 2019 purchases were classified as high risk documentation, controlling quality during of experience with regard to our private-label production and inspecting consignments prior products, licensed products and imported to delivery to stores. We also have products products in particular. We measure product Risk classification of Tokmanni’s in-house tested by third parties, and we carry out selfsafety and the quality of experience in terms of quality assurance supervision inspections for all our products the number of product types that do not meet 33 practices is based on based on their risk level. all of our requirements. In 2019, we identified productor product-typebased risk assessment. 10 such cases (20 in 2018), most of which These are based on the Responsibility for our imported and were due to the quality of experience deviating % 46 amount of applicable distributed products from the product specification. A typical special legal requirements, safety standards, In addition to private-label products, we example of inadequate quality of experience is packaging or labeling import goods and brand products from various underwear losing its colour in the wash. At the requirements, previous manufacturers outside the EU. As an importer, end of 2018, we put out a wide product recall product safety exceptions 21 or other special demands we are responsible for the safety of these for Christmas seasonal lightning due a possible for a given product or products together with the manufacturer. The risk of electric shock. This recall was extended product type. importer role includes various requirements in spring 2019 to cover all transformers types comparable to the manufacturer’s obligations. from this same supplier. Medium risk Low risk High risk RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 53 A Brücke drill goes through several quality checks before arriving in store 3. Pre-production 5. Arriving in An external company carries out perfect condition extensive testing, where, among Before shipment to Finland others, the product’s usability is a third party inspects the Quality and safety assessed by 3rd party company. loading of containers and requirements and EU Tokmanni only accepts products Tokmanni’s packaging specialists that the shipment contains legislation are taken into rated as better or best quality for design the packaging, including the necessary desiccants. Do account thoroughly production. Selected production the required notes and operating they contain the necessary during the design sample is shipped to Mäntsälä instructions together with the dryers and are the products phase. for approval. producer. packaged properly? 1. Designed in Mäntsälä The product Tokmanni supplier is receives a selected based on A Tokmanni report of the the best qualityrepresentative usually inspection. visits the factory at list’s 6. Quality specia d price ratio. this stage. an 4. Product batch inspection in Finl complete When the drills arrive at the 2. Test units An independent quality control Tokmanni central warehouse in company (such as SGS) will from factories inspect each production batch Finland, a quality specialist inspects them. Each new batch to arrive Test units of the new at the factory in China before undergoes basic checks. product are ordered transport. Randomly selected drills from a few factories are opened and their construction that fulfill responsibility is checked to ensure that the A drill has a two year warranty. If a requirements*. The quality, such as the build quality components comply with quality number of customers were to return and the battery charging time of the several drills to stores, they would and safety requirements. test unit drills are tested in the testing be inspected thoroughly. If a safety laboratory of an independent quality risk is discovered, a recall will be control company (e.g. SGS). carried out. *The factory agrees to produce products that adhere to criteria in EU legislation. Additionally, the factory must be in possession of a valid BSCI audit, which assesses and monitors workers’ rights and production conditions. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 54 Recall of decorative LED lights due to safety risks On December 18, 2018, Tokmanni announced a recall of the indoor and outdoor decorative LED lights series. Despite wide-ranging product and transformer safety inspections and certifications carried by third parties, Tokmanni discovered safety risks associated with transformers in its own product safety inspection. Marko Eerola, Tokmanni’s Quality checked the quality of each product model. Coordinator, what happened and where In spite of the quality process, the quality did it go wrong? issues were only discovered through self“As a result, we We carried out a recall of several models of monitoring based on customer feedback. currently carry out decorative LED lights. We did not hesitate, Thus, the products had gone through more extensive tests even momentarily, to initiate a nationwide the entire quality control process, including at three different product recall on some decorative lights after external quality control by third parties. stages of production: self-monitoring and customer feedback led us However, it was only through self-monitoring to discover faulty transformers. that the problems with the products were before, during and As some of the transformers were cracked discovered. after production.” and this could cause an electric shock or even In addition, it is important to note that the a fire, we had no choice but to recall the faulty products were not so-called “cheap and lowproducts from the market. quality” products. Instead, we had obtained the highest possible quality certifications for them. How did the defective product make it to Decorative lights have been tested more the store shelf despite testing? How did the incident affect your safety than in previous years. The decorative The decorative lights had been purchased requirements? lights are FI-certified, and the required tests from the same supplier for many years, and Nowadays, the decorative lights feature a new are performed by the SGS certification the quality had previously been excellent. type of transformer with a safer design and facility before, during and after production. The supplier provided Tokmanni with an FI materials. The safety of decorative lights is In addition, we voluntarily carry out more certificate in advance, according to which ensured through several tests. In addition, we extensive tests at three different stages the products complied with the highest have changed the supplier of the raw material of production; before, during and after FI standards and requirements approved for the transformer shell, and the assembly production. in Finland. In addition, before the product process has been developed based on more Nowadays, the decorative lights come with batches were shipped to Finland, Tokmanni thorough and rigorous testing. a two-year warranty. l RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 55 Efficient use of resources Resource efficiency means for Tokmanni, for example, reducing energy consumption and emissions, and, better recycling of waste. IN THIS SECTION Targets and achievements.................................................56 Systematic reduction of climate impacts – reporting according to TCFD ........................................ 57 Transportation emissions at 2015 level in relation to revenue.................................................................61 Using waste and materials efficiently..............................62 Preventing food waste......................................................... 64 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 56 Efficient use of resources We strive to use resources efficiently in our business. We are Targets for 2020 constantly exploring new opportunities to utilise alternative sources • Reduction of location-based carbon of energy and energy-saving equipment, and we aim to make our dioxide emissions at the properties logistics system more environmentally friendly. We closely monitor (scope 1 and 2) by 3% compared to 2019 the amount of waste generated at our warehouse and in our stores, and actively improve the reuse and recycling of waste. • Maintaining greenhouse gas emissions from transport at the 2015 level in relation to revenue Achievements and challenges in 2019 Achieved Partially achieved Challenges • Comparable power consumption: -4% Reduction of Maintaining Comparable Waste Feasible data • Power consumption (total): -3% location-based greenhouse gas power recycling rate storage and carbon dioxide emissions from consumption: at 36% (of management emissions at transport at -5% total waste) systems for • Reuse rate: 50% (of total waste) the properties the 2015 level environmental (scope 1 and in relation to reporting 2) by 3% revenue Power consumption • Waste recycling rate: 35% compared to (total): -2% (of total waste) 2018 • CDP reporting completed for 2019 Reuse rate at 50% CDP reporting completed (of total waste) for the first time (rating: C) RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 57 Systematic reduction of climate impacts – reporting according to TCFD SYSTEMATICALLY reducing our climate impacts The board reviews the group’s main risk is constantly examining new opportunities is one of the most important areas of our areas and internal control systems annually, to cut energy consumption and make use of sustainability work. We take climate change including the group’s values, code of conduct renewable energy sources at its properties, to seriously and we want to do our part to limit. In and corporate responsibility. The Board make its logistics system more environmentally In 2019, our 2019, our CO₂ emissions decreased by 14.5%. reports yearly as part of the Board of Directors’ friendly, and, to offer its customers a wider Co₂ emissions 2019 is the first year for which we report our report and financial statements in the nonrange of sustainable goods and services. Part climate risks and opportunities in accordance financial information section the climate of our value proposition is to make quality decreased by with the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related impacts and risks that the company faces. products and everyday sustainable choices 14.5%. Financial Disclosures), which outlines and From and inclusive of 2019 the company risk accessible to everyone. develops ways in which companies should register, which is updated annually by the Tokmanni’s concrete climate goals relate to report on the economic impact of climate management and reviewed by the board, energy efficiency, renewable energy, emissions change. includes climate-related risks. The CEO has reduction, transportation, sustainable sourcing, The TCFD framework instructs companies the highest operational level responsibility for and increased use of sustainable materials, and to report on the risks and opportunities climate-related issues, risks and opportunities. waste management and recovery. of climate change in a consistent manner. The Executive Group reports the progress of Most of the climate impacts during the According to the recommendation, the sustainability strategy and targets to the Board lifecycle of Tokmanni’s products arise during reporting company should describe how of Directors (p.17–18). the manufacture and use of the products. climate issues are reflected in the corporate The process for managing climate-related The company has limited opportunities to governance model, what strategies the opportunities often occurs in tandem with affect these impacts and their measurement company has for climate change and the climate-related risk management. The Head is challenging. Thus, the main emphasis of transition to a low carbon economy, what of Corporate Responsibility is responsible for Tokmanni’s climate strategy is the climate risks or opportunities climate change brings proposing, implementing and following up impacts of its own operations, especially the to the company, and what climate goals and climate-related opportunity initiatives. She also reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and the measures are in place. reports progress on these to the CFO (deputy energy usage of its properties. CEO), the sustainability steering committee As Tokmanni does not own its properties or Governance around climate-related risks and the Executive Group. The findings are its transportation fleet, improvements on ecoand opportunities used to plan further opportunity management efficiency and emissions constantly require Tokmanni’s Board approves the corporate action and to set targets and objectives. These careful negotiations with its partners. Even strategy, part of which covers sustainability targets are approved by the Board (p.17–18). so, the target is to achieve carbon neutrality and climate-related issues, and is responsible regarding Tokmanni’s properties, air travel for ensuring that the group’s risk management Climate-related issues in Tokmanni’s and leased vehicles by 2030. The target and internal control systems are adequate strategy can be achieved through reducing energy in relation to the regulations governing the Sustainability is one of the five business drivers consumption, improving energy efficiency, business. of Tokmanni’s corporate strategy. Tokmanni using renewable energy, purchasing renewable RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 58 energy certificates and offsetting the emissions We are increasing our share of organic cotton. We are currently increasing the range of caused by air and rail travel. At the same time, demand is increasing but sustainable products (e.g. through setting In spite of its growth and the expansion of supply is limited, and this causes an increase in certification targets for high-risk materials, its store network, Tokmanni aims to keep the the cost of cotton. p. 49), and seek to pay stronger attention to greenhouse gas emissions from transport at A major transition risk covers mandates raw materials in general, recycling and sales the 2015 level in relation to revenue. In 2019, on and regulation of existing products and of recyclable products; sales of products that we started the process of validating SBTs services which may also incur increased costs reduce environmental impacts (e.g. LED lights); (Science-Based Targets) and seek to update and/or reduced demand for products and and the development of more sustainable our climate targets and actions once the SBTs services resulting from fines and judgments. An packaging materials, as well as business are validated. example of regulatory issues is the upcoming models based on the principles of the circular legislation on single-use plastics. As a economy. We also place heightened emphasis Description of climate-related risks response, we are currently investigating a wide on sustainability-related communications Climate change poses both physical and range of alternative products and materials and marketing to our customers. We seek transition risks that affect the business and to replace disposable plastic products. For to respond to increased requirements for value of investments. Physical risks are example, we have introduced biodegradable information and the transparency of our divided into acute and chronic and refer to plastic cups, cutlery made of birch, and cotton supply chain, better inform our customers the challenges that climate change poses swabs made of Swan-labelled paper. about responsible production, operations and to businesses and society, such as sudden products, and to continue to sell everyday destruction caused by extreme weather Opportunities in the shift in consumer products and services that are regarded as conditions or, for example, longer term preferences necessary. depletion of natural resources. Reduced demand for goods and/or services Transition risks mean that the transition due to shifts in consumer preferences is Collaborating with our suppliers to meet to a low-carbon economy involves changes another transition risk, but on the other the targets in regulation, technology and consumer hand, selling low carbon goods and services It is also critical for Tokmanni to collaborate behaviour, among other things. On the other and improving the competitive position to with and have strict requirements for our hand, climate change also brings opportunities reflect shifting consumer preferences forms a suppliers in accordance with the changing to businesses and for investors such as those corresponding opportunity. market as a result of new policies and related to the development of technologies to Based on our customer study conducted consumer trends towards a low-carbon mitigate climate change and facilitation of the in 2019, our customers in Finland increasingly economy. We engage with our suppliers to transition to a low-carbon economy. prioritise a broader set of criteria for the goods improve the efficiency and productivity of our For Tokmanni, the main physical risks are they purchase. Their purchasing decisions partnerships, and seek, for example, to find related to the increased severity of extreme are not only about price and safety, but about ways to reduce packaging, reduce emissions weather events such as cyclones and floods the materials used, the carbon/human rights from transportation (p. 60), and to make in our supply chain. We mitigate this by e.g. footprint the product has, the perceived conscious choices concerning resources taking the monsoon season into account when sustainability and corporate responsibility and materials with climate change and the ordering from Asia, particularly Bangladesh. stance the retailer takes, as well as the environment in mind. Certain critical raw materials such as cotton, durability and sustainability effect of the Overall, we seek to increase the proportion are particularly vulnerable to climate change. product. of environmentally certified products in all RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 59 categories. Since our ability to affect suppliers’ economic risks and opportunities posed Carbon footprint, ton CO₂ operations is limited, we work to improve by climate change, and we are constantly supply chain transparency together with others developing our reporting on climate risks in through initiatives such as amfori BSCI (pp. accordance with TCFD recommendations. 35,000 44–46) and the environmental programme We also constantly monitor the effects of new amfori BEPI. The latter in particular is an area technologies on costs and energy usage. We where we recognise that there is room for are looking at how to scale an employee-driven 30,000 improvement. In 2020, we seek to incentivise initiative on environmentally friendly work 27,638 more of our risk country suppliers to join practices to our stores. amfori’s environmental assessment programme (BEPI) and complete the amfori BEPI A view on properties’ energy usage 25,000 assessment as the first step. The most significant climate impacts of our 8,818 21,647 In 2019, for the first time, we reported to own operations arise from the electricity usage 20,314 20,385 the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), which and heating of the properties we rent (scope 20,000 18,503 includes a more detailed description of our 1 & 2). Therefore, we particularly focus on climate-related risks and opportunities, properties where we can directly affect the 10,144 8,955 9,528 governance, strategies and targets. We plan to energy solutions. Lighting, ventilation and 15,000 continue reporting to CDP on a yearly basis to cooling of the properties we rent consume the increase transparency. biggest share of electricity. We focus on the 12,328 Tokmanni is constantly analysing the remote management of automation systems in 10,000 18,474 11,044 10,475 10,681 Aiming to maintain total energy consumption (MWh) at the 2015 level 5,000 5,388 118,411 115,697 117,374 114,335 120,000 250 kWh/m² 346 315 382 821 788 107,039 0 100,000 85,389 84,003 75,703 75,083 73,051 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 80,000 60,000 200 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 40,000 Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 20,000 41,670 Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 31,956 33,022 31,693 41,284 0 150 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 2 includes market based greenhouse gas emissions Heating Electricity Energy efficiency (mostly heating and electricity). Scope 3 includes domestic and international transportation of goods postal The figures include both measured and estimated consumption. Total energy consumption: Scope 1 & 2. services, air travel, and in 2019 rail travel and waste additionally. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 60 properties, monitoring optimum use levels, and A large increase in solar power in 2019 100% renewable electricity we also have an action plan to extend the use During 2019, we installed solar panels at CO2 emissions of electricity were also covered of LED lighting in our store network. eighteen new stores, and used 1,609 MWh of by renewable energy certificates. In 2019, we In 2019, location-based emissions solar power in 2019, produced at our current purchased renewable energy certificates for 100 from Tokmanni’s properties decreased by 25 solar plants. To date, we have reduced our (77) per cent of electricity consumed, equalling approximately 9% (1%). In 2020, especially CO₂ impact by 297 tons of CO₂ through our 71,753 (53,590) MWh. In 2018, all air travel towards the end of the year, the need for solar panels. In the coming years, we aim to emissions (scope 3) were offset by investing in heat was lower than in the previous year, increase the use of solar power in our stores renewable energy projects. Similarly to previous and Finland’s average emission factor also throughout Finland. In 2020, the target is to years, we offset emissions with Gold Standard decreased from the previous year. LED lighting install 10 new solar plants on the roofs of our projects implemented in Bangladesh. l was replaced or installed at 36 sites. stores. Market based energy consumption Heat, MWh decreased slightly, most of it 40,000 38,165 37,969 renewable energy* 35,000 30,236 31,557 29,885 13,739 13,669 30,000 8,880 8,432 10,161 25,000 120,000 116,946 113,889 113,868 111,020 15,000 8,848 22,677 24,425 24,300 105,319 9,455 7,417 21,804 19,724 10,000 100,000 5,000 27,107 0 80,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 77,133 74,822 86,720 60,000 74,418 35,932 Electricity, MWh 40,000 100,000 85,389 84,003 75,083 8,848 75,703 73,051 80,000 9,455 7,417 20,000 42,280 30,965 30,016 31,629 60,000 27,107 24,300 68,253 64,257 61, 083 The figures include both 0 40,000 measured and estimated 27,500 73,051 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 consumption of 20,000 purchased energy (scope 20,476 2). Electricity includes 0 8,288 10,292 7,204 self-produced solar*Purchased energy (scope 2) Non-renewable Renewable Nuclear power 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 electricity (1,609 MWh). RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 61 Transportation emissions at 2015 level in relation to revenue We have concentrated our transportation to ten long-standing partners. That provides Up to 50% opportunities to combine consignments, to greater better utilise load capacity and to optimise +30% capacity transport routes. The emissions from transportation in 2019 equal 10,858t of CO₂ in container shipments on short 9x A single HCT vehicle uses 14% more fuel, but its capacity which is a little more than half of our total 2018 2019 sea voyages standard routes is 20–50% greater than a regular sized emissions*. In 2019, Tokmanni also increased In the autumn of 2019 Tokmanni lorry. This has not yet short sea shipments by 30 percent as increased the use of longer HCT vehicles been considered in well in order to reduce emissions. domestically, and by the end of 2019, the 2019 emissions Europe Domestic nine long lorries had standard routes. calculations. 24 28 Ratio of shipping emissions, In the last quarter of 2019, % The number of almost 4% of containers lorries running on arriving in Vuosaari were Estonia Most liquefied natural transported to the central 48 Poland shipments gas (LNG) will be warehouse in Mäntsälä on Netherlands Germany a lorry running on liquefied Asia and other from these increased countries natural gas (LNG). Bulgaria countries Majority of products The journey China from Asia transported can last up Bangladesh Tokmanni has replaced almost all of its air transports All the largest on ships to 50 days. India from China** with trains. partners have Vietnam New sulphur regulations that came Tokmanni increased rail ISO 14001 into effect at the beginning of and container shipments environmental 2019 in China only allows ships to Shipping companies use several different routes from Asia. Ocean vessel travel to Finland via in Europe in order to cut certificates. use fuel with a maximum sulphur the Suez Canal, into the Mediterranean and from there to, for example, Rotterdam or Hamburg, emissions and costs. content of 0.5%. where products are transferred onto the feeders, which take them to Finland. * Emissions calculations include real estate energy usage and waste, plus postage and travelling by train and air. ** Single shipments have had to be transported from Asia to Finland byair plane. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 62 Using waste and materials efficiently TOKMANNI SEEKS to minimise the amount improving the recycling of waste continuously. of waste transferred to incinerator plants by During 2019, we reduced the amount of plastic Out of the waste reducing, by reusing and by recycling waste. used by 21 tons by reducing and optimising generated, we In 2019, we were able to reuse 50 per cent the wrapping of trolleys heading to our stores. and recycle 31 per cent of our waste. The rest As a part of our producer responsibilities, reused 50% and of our waste was recovered, for uses such as we report the packaging materials we use to recycled 31%. recycled fuels to replace fossil fuels. the Rinki producer collective. Often, Rinki’s eco For 2020, our aim is to keep our reuse take-back points can be found in our stores, level at over 50 per cent and to increase our so our customers can use them too. recycling level to 35 per cent. Our waste We use paper fibres, plastic, glass, metals recycling can be made even more efficient with and wood in our packaging. The use of PVC careful sorting at stores, at the logistics centre plastic is forbidden in our products, unless and in the offices, and by monitoring the use of it’s required for a particular reason (i.e. being waste components and providing guidance for resistant to UV light). We have also sought to employees. reduce the use of plastics in both products and The amount of food waste in the stores will operations. For example, we reduced plastic be reduced especially by issuing instructions use by 21 tons by optimising the wrapping of and monitoring results, as well as by retail trolleys and by another 16 tons by switching sector campaigns and by donating unsold from plastic-stemmed cotton buds to paperfood to charity. stemmed ones. Tokmanni engages in electrical and Recycling packaging materials electronic equipment recycling via SELT Tokmanni is responsible for the recycling Association and Stena Oy. For portable and and other waste management of the devices storage batteries Tokmanni has an agreement and packaging it places on the market. We with Recser Ltd. and Akkukierrätys Pb Oy. fulfil our producer responsibility through Recser has a nationwide collection network various producer communities and by actively for portable and storage batteries, and developing ways to ensure sustainable Akkukierrätys is a producer organisation that development with them. specialises in recycling lead-based batteries. Most of Tokmanni’s waste consists of packaging materials. We aim to reduce the Digital platforms grow alongside print amounts of packaging materials, monitor advertising the amounts of waste being produced in our The role of digital marketing communications warehouse and at our stores and to keep has increased significantly over recent years. In RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 63 2019, we invested more in digital marketing by, We take the environmental impacts of paper for example, creating several digital marketing seriously and only use certifiably responsible campaigns, developing our e-commerce and paper ingredients in our direct marketing social media channels and by engaging in leaflets.* influencer collaboration with several operators. In 2019, we used 4,657 tons of paper to We also advertised on the radio, on television, print our direct marketing advertisements, online and in several other channels. In 2020, which is about 7 per cent less than in the our aim is to continue developing our digital previous year due to optimised paper use**. marketing and communications. The leaflet spread is linked to the number In addition to our digital channels, we invest of stores and also to the widening of the *The paper holds the following certificates: EMAS, EU Ecolabel, FSC strongly in print media, as it is one of the distribution areas for the advertisements. l Chain-of-Custody, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and PEFC Chain-of-Custody. most important ways to reach our customers. **According to the print provider. Out of waste, 81% reused or recycled Waste by type, % 0.2 100 6 Reuse Biowaste 7 7.6 9 4.1% Recycling Energy waste 8.4% 22 13 13.1 10 37 Recovery Paper 0.6% 80 Incineration Metals 0.8% Plastic 0.6% 34 35.1 31 Landfill waste Total 60 Carton 24.5% 30 16787,7 tn Burnable waste 8.0% 30 Total 2015: 13,527 tn Total 2016: 12,924 tn WEEE* 0.7% 40 Total 2017: 14,379 tn Hazardous waste 0.6% Total 2018: 15,106 tn 50 Total 2019: 16,787 tn Reusable pallets 50.2% 47 44 20 43 Other waste 1.6% 33 Reuse consists of reused pallets at the logistic centre. The data has been obtained from the service 0 The data has been obtained from the service providers, and it covers stores and logistics centre. providers. Service provider has 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 changed 2019. *Waste electrical and electronic equipment RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 64 Preventing food waste IN FINLAND, the annual amount of food waste cent discount. In addition to this, in 2019, 21 is approximately 400 million kilos, which stores were included in an evening discounts equates to 10–15 per cent of all the food fit pilot project. In this project, food products for consumption. Roughly 18 per cent of the approaching their best-before date are sold wasted food is accounted for by the retail at a 50-per-cent discount during the last two sector. In addition to being a burden on the opening hours. environment, expired food is always also a loss The project saw encouraging results as for the retail sector. the sales volume of discounted products Our aim is to achieve a 13-percent approaching their best-before date has risen reduction in expired food waste from 2016 by 29 per cent compared to the same time till the end of 2021.* This means reaching a period last year. In the participating stores, the level where the total weight of food waste amount of food waste was reduced by 16 per is below 1.75 per cent of the weight of food cent as compared to the same time period last products sold. These targets are in accordance year. We aim to expand the evening discounts with the food industry’s materials efficiency practice to all stores during 2020. commitment. In addition, a total of 103 Tokmanni stores Food waste has been one of the key have given away food to charities by the end indicators in our sales unit since the start of of 2019. Local stores draft written agreements 2015, and the company has actively sought with local charitable organisations in order to reduce it. The right selection of food to ensure correct use and handling of the products, appropriate order and delivery food products. Our aim is that in the future, quantities, correct delivery dates, storeTokmanni will be able to give away all unsold specific monitoring of supply and demand, and food products from stores to local charity reduced prices for products near their expiry operators. l date are all effective measures to prevent food waste. Discounts for products approaching their expiry date One common practice is to sell food items nearing their best-before date at a 30-per*According to the food industry’s material efficiency commitment. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 65 GRI We report on corporate responsibility and sustainability in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. In this section, you will find more detailed information on the coverage and principles of our reporting and a summary of the GRI indicators. IN THIS SECTION Reporting principles................................... 66 Information used in calculations............ 67 Data................................................................. 69 GRI-index...................................................... 75 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 66 Reporting principles TOKMANNI’S sustainability report concentrates its annual reporting. The previous corporate on matters that are completely within responsibility report was published in March Tokmanni’s sphere of influence and control, 2019. The information in this report has not apart from logistics and sourcing. been assured externally. In the area of sourcing and product This report has been prepared in responsibility, the Shanghai office is included accordance with the GRI Standards: Core in the reporting, while for transport the option. At least one indicator is reported for emissions figures are from transport services every material topic. The indicators have been providers and air travel emission data from our selected to form as complete and balanced travel agency. picture of Tokmanni’s corporate responsibility The Shanghai sourcing office is a joint matters as possible. venture in which Tokmanni and the Norwegian company Europris ASA each have a fifty per cent holding. With the exception of responsible sourcing and product safety, the joint company’s impact on corporate responsibility matters is marginal, because its personnel amounts to less than one percent of Tokmanni’s total workforce, and its environmental impact is generated only by the Further information office and staff travel. The Shanghai office size https://ir.tokmanni.fi/en/sustainability is less than 0,1% of the total size of Tokmanni premises in Finland. The information in the Contact information report is for 2019, although some indicators Emilia Koski also present historical data where this is Head of Corporate Responsibility available. corporate.responsibility@tokmanni.fi Tokmanni plans to publish sustainability emilia.koski@tokmanni.fi information annually, either in a separate corporate responsibility report or as part of RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 67 Information used in calculations The company’s calculation of the > The information concerning the division per cent (35) of the transport consignments environmental profile, of the electricity it of district heating into renewable and nonof purchases. Its reporting covers 99.95% consumes, is based on the following: renewable fuels is from Finnish Energy’s district (99.51) of the import consignments transported > The electricity is purchased from the power heating statistics ³. under its own agreements and 100% of the market. The electricity purchased for the stores > The primary energy coefficient used in the transport consignments from the warehouse controlled by Tokmanni, for the logistics centre calculation is 0.9 .⁴ to the stores. All of Posti’s services in Finland in Mäntsälä and the consumption of electricity > The fuel emissions coefficients published are carbon neutral Posti Green services that not controlled by Tokmanni is covered by by Statistics Finland have been used as the generate no emissions for customers. The renewable energy certificates. For these emissions coefficients for gas and oil.⁵ emissions of the services provided by Posti sites, the market-based specific emissions were 24 ton CO₂ before offsetting in 2019.⁶ coefficient is 0 g CO₂ per kWh. The calculations for transport in Finland use Waste and rail travel have been added > The location-based emissions coefficient an average consignment size (based on the to scope 3 emission calculations in 2019. used for electricity is the average CO₂ number and weight of consignments), distance Waste emissions have been calculated also emissions coefficient published by Motiva travelled by consignments (invoiced kilometres, for recovery waste which are used as fuel for Finland, calculated as a five-year rolling as opposed to actual kilometres that the or to fuel production. Emissions have been average, which is 158 g CO₂ per kWh.¹ cargo has been in load space), and average estimated on the basis of the waste CO₂ consumption and average emissions values emissions coefficients published by Statistics The calculation of the environmental per vehicle type as compiled by the transport Finland. Waste is incinerated (Municipal / mixed profile for heating is based on the operators. The limit for consigments sent via waste: 144 kg CO₂ per MWh), bio-waste is following: terminals in statistics was before 2018 2,500 kg converted into biogas (Biomethane: 196.6 kg > The market-based CO₂ emissions coefficient and after 3,000 kg. CO₂ per MWh), part of the construction waste for district heating calculated for the Tokmanni The year used for comparison is 2015. is incinerated (Demolition wood: 41 kg CO₂ per sites is 142 g CO₂ per kWh. Tokmanni has collected information about the MWh), part of energy waste is used in industry > The location-based emissions coefficient emissions of transport outside Finland from as recycled fuel (Recovered fuels: 145 kg CO₂ used is the average CO₂ coefficient of 164 various operators. The basis for emissions per MWh) and some of the hazardous waste is g CO₂ per kWh calculated using the benefit calculations and the energy consumption of incinerated (Other mixed fuel: 360 kg CO₂ per sharing method for Finnish district heating the transport operation are not known. Through MWh). CHP areas ². its own agreements, Tokmanni manages 36 An emissions report for air and rail travel ¹ , ² Motiva. 2018. CO2 emissions coefficient ⁵ Statistics Finland, Fuel Classification 2019. ³ Finnish Energy. 2018. District heating statistics 2018. ⁶ www.posti.com/vastuullisuus/ymparistovastuu/posti-green--palvelut ⁴ Matias Keto. Energy factor. General principles and factors of realised electricity and heat production, Report for the Ministry of the Environment RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 68 has been obtained from the service provider. the market-based coefficients, they are energy per kWh⁵. Energy consumption is not known. The year company-specific and take renewable energy The data on waste amounts, processing used for comparison is 2015. certificates into account. The location-based methods and definition of the hazardous coefficients are national averages and do nature of the waste is from the statistics Calculation basis and accuracy of data not take renewable energy certificates into compiled by Encore Ympäristöpalvelut Oy, not The recorded consumption data obtained account. In this report, only CO₂ emission including the data on electrical and electronic in consumption monitoring is the primary are reported. Regarding the properties other waste, which was obtained from figures information used for ascertaining the emission components’ (CH₄, N₂O) CO₂-eq gathered by Stena Oy. consumption of power and heating by impact would be approximately 4,7% of total Tokmanni’s logistics centre and its stores. emissions. Examining energy consumption However, such data is not available for all Calculation of the market-based information stores, and so the consumption by active environmental effects of district heating At the end of 2019, Tokmanni had 191 (176) stores outside the monitoring system is takes the following factors into account: For active stores and one logistics centre. Active estimated on the basis of the consumption by sites where district heating consumption is stores are those which are in normal use. stores that are covered by the consumption recorded, the heating production emissions Active stores do not include new stores that monitoring. In other words, specific coefficient reported by energy producer is are not yet in operation, or stores that have consumption (kWh/m² gross floor area) used. Using this information, the weighted been discontinued by the month in question. has been calculated for the stores covered average has been calculated for the emissions During the year, 10 new stores were opened by consumption monitoring. The specific coefficients, which indicates the average CO₂ and 4 stores closed. consumption figure obtained is assumed to coefficient for the Tokmanni sites. For sites At the end of 2019, in terms of the total equate to the average consumption level of the where the consumption and supplier of district surface area, 76% (76) of the active stores were stores and has been used to calculate the total heating are not known, the market-based covered by electricity consumption monitoring, consumption for those stores not covered by emissions coefficient is 142 g CO₂ per kWh. and 44% (49) were covered by heating the monitoring. The base year for the energy The calculations are based on the latest consumption monitoring (district heating, gas consumption and emissions is 2015. information available. The information from the and oil). If the logistics centre is also taken If the property’s heating method is not Energy Authority, Motiva and Energy Finland is into account in the consumption monitoring, known, it is assumed to be district heating. updated annually, and the information for 2019 79% (79) of the total surface area is covered This is because most sites whose heating was not yet available when the calculations by electricity consumption monitoring and consumption is not measured are located in were being made. The environmental figures 51% (56) by heating consumption monitoring. shopping centres, the majority of which are for previous years have not been recalculated. Consumption by the properties not included included in local district heating networks. The total greenhouse gas emissions for in the monitoring has been estimated on The 2015 update of the GHG Protocol the company’s own heating production are the basis of the specific consumption of the advises that emissions from purchased estimated on the basis of the fuel emissions monitored properties. In the energy intensity electricity and heating should be reported coefficients published by Statistics Finland. table for 2019, total area is used for electricity in accordance with both market-based and The emissions coefficient for gas is 199.08 g calculation and for district heating, sites with location-based coefficients. With regard to CO₂ per kWh, and that for oil is 264.6 g CO₂ comparable data has been used. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 69 Data 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization A. Total energy consumption, MWh At the end of 2019, in terms of the total surface area, (56) by heating consumption monitoring. Consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Change % 76% of the active stores (76) were covered by electricity by the properties not included in the monitoring has been consumption monitoring, and 44% (48) were covered by estimated on the basis of the specific consumption of heating consumption monitoring (district heating, gas and the monitored properties. Own electricity production with Electricity, total 75,083 85,389 84,003 75,703 73,051 -3.5 oil). If the logistics centre is also ­taken into account in the solar panels included to the total electricity consumption consumption monitoring, 79% (79) of the total surface area was 1,3 GWh. During 2019, LED lighting was changed to Includes solarpower 193 1,298 571.9 is covered by electricity consumption monitoring and 51% several stores. District heat, total 30,236 31,557 29,885 38,165 37,969 -0.5 Gas 1,623 1,104 1,484 1,661 1,468 -11.7 Oil 96 360 324 1,844 1,848 0.2 Heating, total 31,956 33,022 31,693 41,670 41,284 -0.9 Total energy consumption 107,038 118,411 115,697 117,374 114,335 -2.6 B. Consumption of purchased energy, MWh 2016 Change % 2017 Change % 2018 Change % 2019 Change % ElecElecElecElecElecElecElecElecHeat Total Heat Total Heat Total Heat Total Heat Total Heat Total Heat Total Heat Total tricity tricity tricity tricity tricity tricity tricity tricity Purchased 85,389 31,557 116,946 13.73 4.37 11.04 84,003 29,885 113,889 -1.62 -5.30 -2.61 75,703 38,165 113,868 -9.88 27.70 -0.02 73,051 37,969 111,020 -3.50 -0.51 -2.50 energy Non-renewable 8,288 22,677 30,965 -59.52 4.00 -26.76 10,292 19,724 30,016 24.18 -13.02 -3.06 7,204 24,425 31,629 -30.00 23.83 5.38 0 24,300 24,300 -100.00 -0.51 -23.17 Renewable 68,253 8,880 77,133 148.19 5.31 114.66 64,257 10,161 74,418 -5.86 14.43 -3.52 61,083 13,739 74,822 -4.94 35.22 0.54 73,051 13,669 86,720 19.59 -0.51 15.90 Nuclear power 8,848 0 8,848 -67.36 0.00 -67.36 9,455 9,455 6.86 0.00 6.86 7,417 7,417 -21.56 0.00 -21.56 0 0 0 -100.00 0 -100,00 C. Consumption of own energy production, MWh In Tokmanni’s GRI report, electricity and district heating from various sources, as well as the amount of natural 2016 Change % 2017 Change % 2018 Change % 2019 Change % consumption are given in terms of usable secondary resources used as such sources and the effect this has on energy and consumption of own energy prodiction in the natural resource. Transforming energy from one form to primary energy. Primary energy refers to energy contained another inevitably results in waste, and thus the amount of Non-renewable (oil) 360 275.00 324 -9.87 1,844 468.77 1,848 0.17 within energy sources in their unprocessed form, prior to primary energy is always higher than the secondary. 2019 the transformation process into usable secondary energy. four stores using oil heating (not measured) have been Non-renewable (gas) 1,104 -31.98 1484 34.35 1,661 11.98 1,468 -11.65 Primary energy is used to describe the energy available included to oil consumption with calculated values. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 70 302-3 Energy intensity Energy intensity by energy type 2016 Con2017 Con2018 Con2019 ConIntensity Intensity Intensity Intensity sumption sumption sumption sumption change change change change Conchange Conchange Conchange Conchange % % % % sumption Total KWh/ % sumption Total KWh/ % sumption Total KWh/ % sumption Total KWh/ % Stores MWh area m² m² MWh area m² m² MWh area m² m² MWh area m² m² Electricity 66,065 457,928 144 7.7 11.0 77,693 520,409 149 3.5 17.6 70,651 518,103 136 -8.7 -9.1 67,827 564,847 120 -11.9 -4.0 District heating 10,688 201,656 53 6.3 0.7 12,322 220,342 56 5.5 15.3 16,281 218,312 75 33.4 32.1 14,581 204,325 71 -4.3 -10.4 Gas 1,104 17,880 62 -28.0 -32.0 1,484 22,565 66 6.4 34.3 1,661 22,565 74 12.0 12.0 1,468 22,565 65 -11.7 -11.7 Oil 360 4,034 89 44.1 274.8 324 4,034 80 -9.9 -9.9 1,844 20,215 91 13.5 468.8 1,848 18,990 97 6.6 0.2 The specific consumption is calculated from comparable items. Electricity: total area. District heating: the area of comparable measured objects. In 2018, five stores using oil heating (not measured) have been added to oil consumption with calculated values. 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) Consumption of own energy production and CO₂-emissions Change Change Unit 2016 Change % 2017 Change % 2018 2019 (2017-2018) % (2018-2019) % Non-renewable MWh 359.8 275.00 324 -9.87 1,844 468.77 1,848 0.17 (oil) Non-renewable MWh 1,104.4 -31.98 1,484 34.35 1,661 11.98 1,468 -11.65 (gas) Greenhouse ton CO₂ 315 -8.94 382 21.13 821 115.21 788 -4.06 gas emissions RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 71 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) Consumption of purchased energy and CO₂-emissions Change Change Change 2016 Change % 2017 2018 2019 (2016-2017)% (2017-2018)% (2018-2019)% ElectricElectricElectricElectricElectricElectricElectricElectricUnit ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total ity Heat Total Purchased energy MWh 85,389 31,557 116,946 13.73 4.37 11.04 84,003 29,885 113,889 -1.62 -5.30 -2.61 75,703 38,165 113,868 -9.88 27.70 -0.02 73,051 37,969 111,020 -3.50 -0.51 -2.50 (G4-EN3: Purchase) NonMWh 8,288 22,677 30,965 -59.52 4.00 -26.76 10,292 19,724 30,016 24.18 -13.02 -3.06 7,204 24,425 31,629 -30.00 23.83 5.38 0 24,300 24300 -100.00 -0.51 -23.17 renewable RenewMWh 68,253 8,880 77,133 148.19 5.31 114.66 64,257 10,161 74,418 -5.86 14.43 -3.52 61,083 13,739 74,822 -4.94 35.22 0.54 73,051 13,669 86,720 19.59 -0.51 15.90 able Nuclear MWh 8,848 0 8,848 -67.36 0 -67.36 9,455 9,455 6.86 6.86 7,417 7,417 -21.56 -21.56 0 0 0 -100.00 -100.00 power Environmental impacts Greenhouse gas ton emissions 5,368 5,676 11,044 -59.67 9.90 -40.22 5,802 4,673 10,475 8.10 -17.68 -5.15 4,454 6,228 10,681 -23.24 33.28 1.97 0 5,388 5,388 -100.00 -13.49 -49.56 CO₂ (market based) Greenhouse gas ton emissions 17,846 5,775 23,621 1.67 4.00 2.23 15,205 5,260 20,464 -14.80 -8.92 -13.36 12,415 7,175 19,590 -18.34 36.41 -4.27 11,542 6,227 17,769 -7.03 -13.21 -9.30 CO₂ (location based) Radioactonnes 0.05 0.05 -51.41 -51.41 0.02 0.02 -50.40 -50.40 0.02 0.02 -11.35 -11.35 0 0 0,02 -7.45 -7.45 tive waste RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 72 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) CO₂-emissions of transportations and air travel, ton CO₂ Change Change Change 2016 Change % 2017 2018 2019 (2016-2017) % (2017-2018) % (2018-2019) % Transportation 8,760 0.7 9,269 5.8 9,967 7.5 10,858 8.9 Postal Services 22 100.0 15 100.0 24 60.0 Air travel 195 68.1 237 21.6 162 -31.7 270 66.5 Rail travel 4 100.0 Waste 1,172 100.0 Greenhouse gas emissions 8,955 1.6 9,528 6.4 10,144 6.5 12,328 21.5 Key figures in 305-3 take into account freight transport in Finland and abroad, air travel and waste emissions. The data has been received directly from the service providers. For international transport, the data for 2019 corresponds to 99.55% of suppliers (99.91% in 2018, 99.99% in 2017, 99% in 2016, 93% in 2015) in proportion to paid freight payments. CO₂ emissions from transport have increased due to increased import volumes and the increase in the number of small consignments delivered to our stores. Emissions from e-commerce delivered by Posti in 2019 were 24 ton CO₂. Posti has offset 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity all CO₂ emissions from its customers. Waste emissions have been calculated also for recovery wastes which are used as fuel or to fuel production. Greenhouse gas emission intensity in proportion to net sales and number on employees Change Change Change Unit 2016 Change % 2017 2018 2019 (2016-2017) % (2017-2018) % (2018-2019) % Greenhouse gas ton CO₂ 11,359 -39.64 10,857 -4.4 11,503 5.9 6,176 -46.3 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Net sales MEUR 776 2.78 796.6 2.7 870.4 9.3 944 8.5 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO₂/MEUR 14.64 -41.28 13.3 -9.0 13.2 -0.8 7 -50.5 intensity Employees empl 3,224 -2.1 3,255 1.0 3,558 9.3 3,659 2.8 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO₂/empl 3.52 -38.46 3.3 -7.4 3.2 -0.8 1.7 -47.8 intensity RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 73 306-2 Total weight of waste by type A. Waste by waste type, tn Waste type 2016 2016 (%) Change % 2017 2017 (%) Change % 2018 2018 (%) Change % 2019 2019 (%) Change % Hazardous waste 295 2.3 -7.25 310 2.2 5.18 157 1.0 -49.47 98 0.6 -37.31 Other waste 12,629 97.7 -4.71 14,068 97.8 11.39 14,949 99.0 6.26 16,689 99.4 11.64 Total 12,924 100 -4.77 14,379 100 11.25 15,106 100 5.05 16,787 100 11.13 a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown b. Total weight of other waste, with a breakdown by by the following disposal methods, tn the following disposal methods, tn Method 2017 2017 (%) 2018 2018 (%) 2019 2019 (%) Method 2017 2017 (%) 2018 2018 (%) 2019 2019 (%) Recovery 5 1.5 2 1.1 0 0 Recovery 1,804 12.8 1,978 13.2 1,654 9.9 Recycling 292 94.1 134 85.6 98 100.00 Recycling 4,578 32.5 5,161 34.5 5,271 31.6 Incineration 14 4.4 21 13.3 0 0 Incineration 965 6.9 1,121 7.5 1,342 8.0 Landfill waste 0 0 Landfill waste 0 Reuse 0 0 Reuse 6,722 47.8 6,689 44.7 8,422 50.5 Total 310 100 157 100 98 100 Total 14,069 100 14,949 100 16,689 100 Information on waste disposal methods has been provided by the waste disposal contractor. Waste disposal contractor has changed 2017. Reuse consists of reused pallets at the logistic centre. Reused pallets consist of repaired, returned to supplier, reused, purchased by recycle service provider, as well as returned rental pallets. RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 74 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover a. New permanent employments 2019 b. Terminated permanent employments 2019 –30 years 30–50 years 50– years Total –30 years 30–50 years 50– years Total Female 147 105 22 274 Female 97 117 30 244 Male 71 46 2 119 Male 33 42 5 80 Total 218 151 24 393 Total 130 159 35 324 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Age and gender distribution by employee category –30 years 30–50 years 50– years Total Management, female 0 0 1 1 Management, male 0 2 5 7 Senior salaried personnel, female 0 15 11 26 Senior salaried personnel, male 0 16 13 29 Office personnel, female 14 93 41 148 Office personnel, male 11 42 13 66 Employees, female 869 984 601 2,454 Employees, male 311 222 73 606 Total 1,205 1,374 758 3,337 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 75 GRI-index . UN Global Location, comments and omissions Compact SDG GRI 100 Universal Standards GRI 102: General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 7 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, Financial Statements 2019 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6, 33–36 principle 6 8 102-9 Supply chain 6, 43–54 6, Financial Statements 2019. Tokmanni increased the Significant changes to the organization and its 102-10 coverage of its store network with the acquisition of nine Alesupply chain Makasiini stores and, in addition, by opening two new stores. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 19–20 102-12 External initiatives 13–14, 44, 58–59, 62 102-13 Membership of associations 15–16, 62–63 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 76 Strategy Commitment to UN 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8 Global compact 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10–12, Financial Statements 2019 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9, 21–22, Ethical Guidelines principles 1, 4, 5, 10 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 21–22, Ethical Guidelines principles 1, 4, 5, 10 16 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure 17–18, Corporate Governance Statement 2019 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 34 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13– 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13– 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 7, Financial Statements 2019 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 67–68 102-47 List of material topics 16 102-48 Restatements of information 66 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 77 102-49 Changes in reporting 67–68 102-50 Reporting period 66 102-51 Date of most recent report 66 102-52 Reporting cycle 66 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 66 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 66, This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 102-54 ­Standards Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index 75 102-56 External assurance 66 GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18 GRI 200 Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 29 5, 7, 8, 9 GRI 205: Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 17–18, 21, Ethical Guidelines principle 10 16 ­policies and procedures 26, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and Tokmanni 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken principle 10 16 ­audits GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 22, There were no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 206-1 16 and monopoly practices anti-trust, and monopoly practices in Tokmanni in 2019 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 78 GRI 300 Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials Reporting is currently under further development. Tokmanni will 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume publish packaging information online on its homepage during principles 7, 8 8, 12 March 2020. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6, 57–60, 69 principles 7, 8, 9 7, 8, 12, 13 302-3 Energy intensity 59, 70 principle 8 7, 8, 12, 13 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 59, 70 principles 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 59–60, 71 principles 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 59, 61, 72 principles 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 72 principle 8 13, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 3, 56, 57–60, 61 principles 8, 9 13, 14, 15 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 63, 73 principle 8 3, 6, 12, 13, 14, 15 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment New suppliers that were screened using environmental 3, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 308-1 principle 8 criteria, % Tokmanni audits Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 45, 58–59, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 308-2 principle 8 actions taken Tokmanni ­audits GRI 400 Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6, 33, 74 principle 6 5, 8 RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 79 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 35 8 provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labor/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 17, 34 principle 3 8 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety Workers representation in formal joint management– 403-1 17, 40–41 8 worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 41 3, 8 fatalities GRI 404: Training and education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 17, 32, 39 principle 6 5 and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 17, 36, 74, Corporate Governance Statement 2019 principle 6 5, 8 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men principle 6 5, 8, 10 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 18, 35, zero cases of discrimination. principle 6 5, 8, 16 GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 19–20, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 407-1 principles 2, 3 8 of association and collective bargainin may be at risk ­Tokmanni audits GRI 408: Child labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 19–20, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 408-1 principles 2, 5 8, 16 of child labor ­Tokmanni audits GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 19–20, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 409-1 principles 2, 4 8 of forced or compulsory labor ­Tokmanni audits RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES Direction Business integrity Fair treatment Responsible sourcing and products Efficient use of resources GRI 80 GRI 412: Human rights assessment Operations that have been subject to human rights 19–20, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 412-1 principle 2 ­reviews or impact assessments Tokmanni audits Employee training on human rights policies or 412-2 32, 21–22, Ethical Guidelines principle 1 ­procedures GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 3, 20, 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria principle 2 5, 8, 16 Tokmanni audits Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 44–46, amfori BSCI, SA8000, other third party and Tokmanni 414-2 principle 2 5, 8, 16 taken ­audits GRI 415: Public policy 17–18, 21–22, Ethical Guidelines, Tokmanni does not financially 415-1 Political contributions ­support political parties, groups or individual politicians, nor principle 10 16 does it make art or other purchases from them. GRI 416: Customer health and safety Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 416-1 52–53, 54 and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 43, 54 16 safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling Requirements for product and service information and 417-1 52–53 12, 16 labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 28 service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 28 16 ­communications GRI 418: Customer privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 418-1 27 16 ­customer privacy and losses of customer data Report produced by Partner for Sustainability Communications. enneconsulting.fi RESPONSIBLE WITH LOW PRICES For smart shopping
