SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 2019 Here for good Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity Standard Chartered is a leading international banking group OVERVIEW Standard Chartered is a leading international banking group and the largest international bank in Kenya. Established in 1911, Standard Chartered, Kenya is one of the oldest banks servicing this market. Sustainable Finance Our heritage and values are expressed in our brand promise, Here for good. Our operations reflect Our Purpose, which is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. We offer banking services that help people and companies to succeed, creating wealth and growth across our market. We are committed to promoting economic and social development in Kenya Responsible Company by focusing on three sustainability pillars – contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company and investing in communities. About this report Inclusive Communities For more information about our sustainability performance, visit sc.com/sustainability Sustainability reporting is embedded throughout our 2019 Annual Report. Visit sc.com/annualreport Sustainability data @StanChart linkedin.com/company/standard-chartered-bank facebook.com/standardchartered Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Introduction OVERVIEW Progressing sustainability 2019 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS Microfinance Institutions Reduced water use since 2018 Sustainable Finance Kshs.12bn 57% Women in senior roles Invested in communities 41% Kshs. +40m Responsible Company Committed to cut emissions Girls reached through Goal from our operations by 2030* since 2015 Net zero +16,000 Read more about our 2019 performance *Net zero: In aggregate, we do not produce any emissions from our operations (Scope 1 & 2) Inclusive Communities “We work with our clients and peers, directly and through our participation in the UN Global Compact, to deliver sustainable development. Anchored in our Sustainability Aspirations, we ensure our actions are aligned to our strategy and the UN Sustainability data Sustainable Development Goals.” Kariuki Ngari Chief Executive Officer 01 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 What we deliver OVERVIEW Through our three business segments and five product groups, we deliver an extensive set of solutions, products and services, adapted to the needs of our clients. The value we create Products and services We aim to create long-term value for a broad range of Wealth Management Corporate Finance Sustainable Finance stakeholders, in a sustainable manner: Investments Structured and project Portfolio management financing Clients Insurance and advice Strategic advice We enable individuals to grow and protect their wealth. Planning services We help businesses to trade, transact, invest and expand. We also help a variety of financial institutions – Transaction Banking Financial Markets including banks, public sector clients and development Cash management Investments organizations – with their banking needs. Payments and transactions Risk management Securities services Debt capital markets Regulators and Governments Trade finance products We engage with relevant authorities to play our part in supporting the effective functioning of the financial Retail products Responsible Company system and the broader economy. Deposits Savings Investors Mortgages Credit cards We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term Personal loans sustainable value for our investors. Colleagues We offer colleagues opportunities to learn and progress. We encourage them to improve, innovate, take ownership of their careers and succeed together. Society Inclusive Communities We strive to operate as a responsible and sustainable business, collaborating with local partners to promote social and economic development. Suppliers We work with suppliers to ensure they can provide the right goods and services for our business efficiently and sustainably. Our Award Winning SC Mobile app allows our clients to open an Sustainability data account, invest, protect their wealth and access over 70 banking services 24/7 on the go! 02 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW Guiding and supporting our businesses FUNCTIONS VALUED BEHAVIOURS Our client facing business are supported by our Our valued behaviours demand that we do things Sustainable Finance functions which work together to ensure operations differently, in order for us to succeed. Only then will we run smoothly and consistently with our legal and realise our potential and truly be Here for good. regulatory obligations, our purpose and our risk appetite. Human Resources Finance Never settle Maximises the value of Comprises seven support investment in people through functions: Finance, Treasury,  Continuously improve and innovate recruitment, development Strategy, Investor Relations,  Simplify and employee engagement. Corporate Development,  Learn from your successes and failures Supply Chain and Property. The leaders of these functions report directly to the Responsible Company Legal Chief Financial Officer. Enables sustainable business and protects the bank from legal-related risk. Corporate Affairs & Brand and Marketing Manages communications Technology & and engagement with Innovation stakeholders in order Responsible for systems to protect and promote development and technology the bank’s reputation, infrastructure. brand and services. Better together  See more in others  “How can I help?”  Build for the long term Inclusive Communities Risk Internal Audit Responsible for the An independent function sustainability of our business whose primary role is to help through good management the executive committee to of risk and ensuring that protect the assets, reputation business is conducted in line and sustainability of the bank. lwith regulatory expectations. Operations Conduct, Financial Responsible for all client Crime and Compliance operations, end-to-end, Enables sustainable Do the right thing and ensures the needs of business by delivering the right  Live with integrity Sustainability data our clients are at the centre outcomes for our clients of our operational framework. and our markets by driving  Think client The function’s strategy is the highest standards in  Be brave, be the change supported by consistent conduct, compliance and performance metrics, fighting financial crime. standards and practices that are aligned to client outcomes. 03 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Where we operate We are present in 59 markets and serve clients in a further 85 We make the most of our deep roots in rapidly developing Asian, African and Middle Eastern local markets to seek out opportunities at every turn. We have been operating in these markets for more than 160 years, supporting better lives by providing banking where and when it matters the most. We place a particular focus on supporting customers who trade, operate or invest across our unique footprint. What sets us apart is our diversity – of people, cultures and networks. Europe & Americas The Group supports clients in Europe & Americas through hubs in London and New York as well as a presence in several European and Latin American markets. Argentina Ireland Brazil Jersey Colombia Sweden Falkland Islands Turkey France UK Germany US Guernsey 04 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW ASEAN & South Asia Greater China We are the only international bank present & North Asia in all 10 ASEAN countries. With meaningful operations across many key South Asian Greater China & North Asia generated markets, we are in a strong position to be the largest share of the Group’s income the ‘go-to’ banking partner for our clients. in 2019, at 40 per cent. Mainland China Korea Australia Myanmar Hong Kong Macau Bangladesh Nepal Japan Taiwan Brunei Philippines Cambodia Singapore India Sri Lanka Sustainable Finance Indonesia Thailand Laos Vietnam Malaysia Responsible Company Inclusive Communities Africa & Middle East We have a deep-rooted heritage of over 160 years in Africa & Middle East and are present in 25 markets. We are present in the largest number of sub-Saharan African markets of any international banking group. Sustainability data Angola Jordan Sierra Leone Bahrain Kenya South Africa Botswana Lebanon Tanzania Cameroon Mauritius UAE Cote d’Ivoire Nigeria Uganda Egypt Oman Zambia The Gambia Pakistan Zimbabwe Ghana Qatar Iraq Saudi Arabia 05 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW Creating sustainable prosperity “We are committed to working together for sustainable prosperity that benefits everyone for the long-term.” Sustainable Finance The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) give an urgent call of action to tackle global issues that affect the wellbeing of people and the planet. Five years since 193 countries globally, including Kenya, adopted the SDGs, we are behind our targets to deliver by 2030, and with each passing year, the cost and impact of inaction will rise significantly. Today, business have the responsibility to take bold steps that will lead to sustainable economies that work for our country and its people. We are committed to achieving sustainable outcomes across our business, which are outlined in our Sustainability Responsible Company Aspirations, focused on three core pillars: • Contributing to sustainable economic growth • Being a responsible company • Investing in communities We are proud to work with our clients to promote sustainable economic growth, and as a responsible company we have commitments to manage our own performance including reducing our environmental impact and fighting financial crime. In 2019, we launched our new community investment strategy, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered to tackle inequality and promote greater financial inclusion in our communities between 2019 – 2023. Futuremakers will support young Inclusive Communities people from low income households to take part in programmes focused on education, employability and entrepreneurship, empowering the next generation to learn, earn and grow. Our staff also play an important role supporting Futuremakers and other community projects through volunteering. This report summarises our progress in 2019. Communicating our progress to our stakeholders is an integral part of our sustainability journey to ensure we are learning, evolving and perhaps most of all, keeping our promise to be Here for good. Susan Njoroge Sustainability data Head, Sustainability and Commmunity engagement 06 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW OUR STRATEGY – what we have achieved since 2015 Since our last strategy review in 2015, we have focused on People, Risk, Innovation, Digital and Execution to enable us to secure a strong foundation, build a lean and focused business, and capture growth opportunities. People Risk Innovate & Digitise Why we have focused on this Why we have focused on this Why we have focused on this To develop the next generation of To ensure that we have a diverse To deliver a better client experience Sustainable Finance leaders as well as to drive producand resilient balance sheet, as well and drive growth. tivity. as a sustainable approach to risk. We remain focused on delivering our strategy by continuously improving our service, delivering a differentiated proposition to our clients and stakeholders, and becoming a future-ready bank. Building on our purpose of driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity, we will have a particular focus on the following areas for the next three years to improve our growth. SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Innovating finance grows the tea sector Responsible Company We believe sustainable financing is vital to drive Kenya’s economy and sustainable development. We provided Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) with financing worth Sh3.5 billion for the purchase 95,000 tonnes of fertiliser for over 650,000 farmers spread across the country to boost yields and green leaf quality. Tea is a key sector to our country’s economy. Inclusive Communities Sustainability data Left: Lerionka Tiampati, CEO KTDA and Kariuki Ngari during a deal sign off to finance importation of fertilizers for tea farmers. 07 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Our approach to sustainability OVERVIEW Our approach This approach is framed around a SustainOur purpose is to drive commerce and Sustainable ability Philosophy that informs our prosperity through our unique diversity. Our Finance decision-making, Position Statements that sustainability vision is to become the most set out our environmental and social client sustainable and responsible bank, and the standards, and a list of Prohibited Activities leading private sector catalyser of finance for Sustainable Finance Here (sc.com/prohibitedactivities) that sets out the for good the SDGs. activities that the Bank will not finance. Responsible Inclusive We embed sustainability across our Company Communities It is underpinned by our Sustainability business, operations and communities Aspirations, which provide tangible targets through our sustainability framework. By for sustainable business outcomes aligned to focusing on three sustainability pillars – the SDGs. Sustainable Finance, Responsible Company and Inclusive Communities – we believe we can deliver sustainable prosperity in line with our valued behaviours and our promise to be Here for good. Responsible Company RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Tackling the illegal wildlife trade as a financial crime The illicit poaching of wildlife is driving many species to the edge of extinction. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) estimates that on average more than 20,000 African elephants and more than 1,000 rhinos are killed each year. But the illegal wildlife trade (IWT) is not just a Inclusive Communities conservation issue. A report by the United Nations Environmental Programme estimates that it is worth between $7 billion and $23 billion annually, making it the fourth most significant trafficking crime behind arms, human and narcotics trafficking. Many countries within our unique footprint are vulnerable to IWT either as source, transit or destination markets. This puts us on the frontline of the challenge to do our part to disrupt Estimated number of and prevent this illicit activity. We have included IWT-specific content in the anti-money elephants poached each laundering training completed by all employees and delivered targeted awareness sessions year (WWF) in key markets. We have also made IWT a focus for our financial crime investigators, enabling those efforts through new artificial intelligence and machine-learning tools. 20,000 We believe that partnering to lead in the fight against financial crime is the best way to protect our business, clients and communities. That’s because we recognise that no single company, law enforcement or sovereign acting alone can eradicate financial crime. We will only succeed if we collaborate with each other. As a member of The Royal Foundation’s United for Wildlife (UfW) IWT Financial Taskforce, Sustainability data we are working with other financial institutions around the world, as well as government bodies and NGOs, to raise awareness of the importance of tackling IWT as a financial crime and to build IWT into members’ business-as-usual compliance operations. We are sharing what we have learned with our clients by integrating IWT into our correspondent banking academies in countries such as Brazil, Cambodia, South Africa and Vietnam in 2019. We also contributed to the delivery of UfW training workshops on IWT during 2019, including workshops in Beijing, Hong Kong and Nairobi. 08 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 In 2019, we signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking, supporting our progress and that of the industry as we demonstrate our contribuOVERVIEW tion to achieving society’s goals. As part our commitment, we are embarking on third-party, limited assurance on a selection of our Sustainability Aspirations as they represent our most significant impacts. Our focus on good governance extends to the development of new sustainable finance products. In 2019, we developed a Green and Sustainable Product Framework and a Green and Sustainable Bond Framework that set out all eligible and excluded activities and themes for future sustainable products that help fund the SDGs. The frameworks were developed in collaboration with leading environmental, social and governance research provider Sustainalytics and will be subject to internal review annually. Engaging Stakeholders We believe that our stakeholders are an integral part of our long-term prosperity and sustainability. We are committed to regular and constructive engagement and dialogue with our stakeholders to guide our strategic and operational direction. Stakeholder feedback helps inform our responses to issues and maintain good relationships. Clients Sustainable Finance How we serve and engage Clients are at the heart of everything we do. By building and fostering long-term relationships with our clients, we can serve them better, deepen our relationships, uphold our reputation and attract new customers to grow our business. Delivering fair outcomes for clients is a priority, starting with products and services that are well designed, fairly and reasonably priced, and supported by clear and concise information. Client interests are factored into our business strategies, including how we set and monitor revenue targets, govern new product development, review and assess existing products and discontinue products. Good business conduct remains central in all our client interactions. Across our business segments, we aim to ensure that client-facing colleagues are trained and certified, provide the right information about products and deliver on service level promises. In Commercial and Corporate & Institutional Banking, colleagues must be open and honest in identifying and managing conflicts of interest with clients, Responsible Company and carry out all client orders in a way that treats all clients fairly. Regulators and Government How we serve and engage We engage with relevant authorities to play our part in supporting the effective functioning of the financial system and the broader economy. Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited maintains a Government & Regulatory Relations Plan which evidences the Company’s efforts to maintain transparent relations in its engagements with regulators and government agencies. We actively engage with relevant government bodies, regulators and policymakers to share insights and technical expertise on key issues. In 2019, we engaged to exchange information on topics such as implementation of the Banking Sector Charter, supporting Inclusive Communities credit growth in the small and medium size enterprises (SME) sector, fintech, cloud strategy, cyber security, fighting financial crime and sustainable finance, in addition to participating in industry working groups. This engagement supports the development of best practice. Standard Chartered COO, Peter Gitau (left) giving CBK Governor, Investors Dr. Patrick Njoroge (centre) a tour of Standard Chartered Women How we serve and engage in Tech Stand during the inaugural INUA Biashara event. We aim to deliver robust returns and long-term sustainable value for our investors. Our operating footprint, along with a commitment to sustainable and responsible banking, uniquely connects investors in established capital markets with opportunities in emerging markets. In this context we believe that an integrated approach to Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) issues and a strong risk and compliance culture provide a competitive advantage. Using the capital that we Sustainability data receive from investors, we execute our business model with a focus on delivering sustainable value for all shareholders. Whether they have a short or long-term investment horizon, we provide all investors with information about all aspects of our financial and sustainability performance. During 2019, we engaged with investors and market analysts through the annual general meeting as well as briefing events to guide them through our performance and business strategy. In 2020 we will continue to engage on how we will sustainably improve our returns to create value over the long term. For more information about Board engagement with shareholders in 2019, please see page 59 in the corporate governance section of the Shareholder arrives for the Annual General Meeting annual report. 09 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW Supply Partners How we serve and engage We work with local and global suppliers to ensure they can provide the right goods and services for our business, efficiently and sustainably. Engagement with suppliers is guided by our Supplier Charter, which sets out what we expect of vendors on issues such as ethics, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, human rights and environmental performance. Suppliers must recommit to the charter annually, and regular engagement to monitor Sustainable Finance performance is built into our procurement practices and Second left, Gladys Warirah, Financial Controller awarding standards. supply partners during the ‘Ride for the Future’ event. In 2019, our global innovation arm SC Ventures set up an Africa hub in Kenya and held engagement sessions with strategic suppliers and finfech suppliers in Nairobi to strengthen collaboration and innovation around digital transformation. In recognition of International Anti-Corruption Day, we held a dialogue session with our strategic vendors to discuss the importance of Anti Bribery and Corruption. In 2020, we will work closely with our vendors to build their knowledge in responsible business in line with our ESG commitments. Our Supplier Charter can be downloaded at sc.com/suppliercharter Responsible Company Colleagues How we serve and engage We believe that great client experience is driven by great colleague experience. We want our people to pursue their ambitions, to deliver with purpose, and have a rewarding career enabled by great people leaders. Purpose-led cultural change Our culture is the foundation for delivering on our purpose to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity. We continue to embed our culture through our valued behaviours (Never Settle, Do the Right Thing and Better Together), which describe a culture that balances innovation, client focus, ethics and inclusion. We have integrated these valued behaviours into the way we hire, recognise, reward and develop our people. Inclusive Communities In 2019, we introduced our leadership standard PA2CE –which focuses on People, Accountability, Agility, Clients and Execution as clear building blocks of transforming the Company through building new skills and capabilities required today and into the future of banking. Our commitment to wellbeing We are committed to bringing out the best in colleagues by establishing and maintaining a work environment that promotes positive wellbeing and healthy lifestyle choices. Our vision is to create a culture where employees have access to a range of wellbeing resources to help them remain healthy and productive, and can seek help when they need it. We recognise that every employee has different needs and our four wellbeing pillars mental, physical, social and financial allow us to provide support to employees at every stage of their lives. Building a future ready workforce Sustainability data There is a rising need to focus on continuous skills development and embed our learning culture as part of being future ready. The future is now, therefore employees are to be empowered to take learning into their own hands and be responsible for their own career paths by building confidence in skilling themselves around emerging technologies and being open to further skilling requirements. In 2019, the Company invested in technology to make learning accessible to everyone through free access to online learning platforms of Skillsoft, Percipio and Intuition. Percipio has 408 active users, representing 29 per cent of our staff and Intuition has 63 per cent of staff enrolled. 10 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 OVERVIEW Through our Inclusive Leadership programme aimed at strengthening a culture of inclusion, we reached 86 per cent of our people leaders. A further 93 per cent of first-time leaders went through a leadership programme that introduces the fundamental skills required to succeed as a leader. Sustainable Embracing diversity to achieve our purpose Finance Unique diversity underpins our purpose. We can only drive commerce and prosperity by embracing the power of our diversity and unleashing its full potential. An inclusive culture is Here central to enabling our diversity, prompting innovation and driving performance. for good Sustainable Finance The company focuses on diversity and inclusion pillars of Nationality & Ethnicity, Disability, Responsible Inclusive Company Communities Gender and Generations. Gender equality Our goal is to engage and support all genders, and progress towards gender equality. We subscribe to the UN principles that underpin our commitment to support women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Our overall gender split stands at 52% women and 48% men. In 2019, the female representation in senior leadership roles stood at 41% and continues to shift closer to our intended goal of Responsible Company having a fair split of 50:50 between male and female leaders. This was recognised by the market and the Company was feted by various bodies including the Kenya Bankers Association, Federation of Kenya Employers and the Nairobi Securities Exchange. We understand that gender equality can only be reached by a focus on all genders. Our Flexible Working Policy, Parental Leave Policy, Fair Pay Charter, mentoring and leadership programmes continue to support all our colleagues. Inclusive Communities Sustainability data Staff members during the International Women’s Day event. 11 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Understanding our sustainability themes OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS Sustainable Finance Responsible Company Inclusive Communities 1. Infrastructure 7. People 11. Futuremakers; Education Employability Entrepreneurship SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Finance 2. Climate 8. Environment 3. Entrepreneurs 9. Conduct ASPIRATIONS 4. Digital 10. Financial Crime Compliance 5. Commerce/Trade 6. Impact & sustainable finance By delivering against our three sustainability pillars – Sustainable Finance, Responsible Company and Inclusive Communities Responsible Company – and 11 Sustainability Aspirations as shown above, we can achieve our purpose and be Here for good. Environmental Responses and social issues (www.sc.com) Climate change  Position Statements  2019 Climate Change (sc.com/tcfd)  Climate Change Aspiration  Group Chief Risk Officer’s review (2019 Annual Report & Accounts p38) Inclusive Communities Conduct, values  Group Code of Conduct (sc.com/codeofconduct) and ethics  Conduct Aspiration Environmental  Environmental and Social Risk Management and social risk (sc.com/positionstatements) management  Our standards and policies (sc.com/sustainability) Human rights  2019 Modern Slavery Statement (sc.com/modernslavery) Sustainability data  Position Statements (sc.com/positionstatements) Talent attraction  People Aspiration (p13) and engagement 12 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Pillar 1: Business Overview Sustainable Finance Objective Sustainable finance We use our core business Recognising that our most significant environmental and social impact comes from the businesses we to promote sustainable finance, we have set out how we balance economic, development in our markets, environmental and social needs in our decision SUSTAINABLE FINANCE while managing the making through our Sustainability Philosophy. Our environmental and social purpose and valued behaviours are the foundation for our Sustainability Philosophy. risks associated with our Economic and social growth is leading to rapid financing activities. urbanisation and creating increased need for infrastructure, power and technology. We believe finance plays a key role in meeting these needs. It Panel discussion on Sustainable Finance during the 2019 enables individuals to build a positive future for Sustainable Africa Summit hosted for policy makers, industry leaders themselves and their families, for businesses to thrive Finance and Standard Chartered clients. and grow, and governments to deliver economic prosperity for the wider community. Supporting sustainable and responsible growth, including delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’), represents a significant opportunity for us. In pursuing this opportunity, we are guided by our Responsible Company brand promise, Here for good. Our 2020 Sustainability Aspirations can be found at the back of this document Managing environmental and social 2019 SUSTAINABILITY ASPIRATIONS: SUSTAINABLE FINANCE risks Aspirations Our Environmental Risk Management Framework is a Infrastructure Climate change Inclusive Communities critical tool we use to assess the risks of our lending Everyone should have access to safe, Climate change is one of today’s activities. We apply the framework to our Corporate reliable and affordable power and greatest challenges and addressing clients, and embed our framework directly into our infrastructure which transforms lives it is essential to promote sustainable credit approvals process. It is the role of our relationship and strengthens economies economic growth managers to carry out an Environmental & Social Risk Assessment (Client ESRA). This allows us to evaluate client performance against our Environmental & Social (E&S) criteria. In 2019, we reviewed 40 high impact lending activities Entrepreneurs Digital: against our Environmental and Social Risk ManageEntrepreneurs are the heart of local Everyone should have access to digital ment (ESRM) framework versus 70 in 2018, and 16 in economies, creating jobs and banking products enabling safe, 2017. empowering people efficient and inclusive banking We are active participants in Kenya Bankers AssociaSustainability data tion Sustainable Finance Initiative and also members of the UN Global Compact Network in Kenya, whose four principles on human rights, labour, environment and Commerce Impact and anti corruption we are committed to embedding in our business strategy and operations. Trade creates jobs and contributes to sustainable finance economies by enabling people to Innovative financial products and connect across borders Kenya Bankers Association awarded the bank the Best partnerships can help us solve global development challenges and improve Sustainable Finance Bank 2019 for our positive the lives of millions in our markets socio-economic impact in Kenya. 13 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Pillar 2: Operations Overview Responsible Company Promoting good conduct In 2019, we signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking, supporting our progress and that of the industry as we demonstrate our contribution to achieving society’s goals. Board Credit Committee Executive Risk Committee Non-Financial Risk Financial Crime Risk (ERC) Committee (NFRC) Committee (FCRC) Board Risk Board of directors Sustainable Finance Committee Asset and Liability Committee Credit Issues Committee (ALCO) Board Audit Committee Fighting financial crime We maintain sound defences against money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions compliance breaches, bribery and other forms of corruption. A dedicated Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) team leads our risk management activities, which include adhering to anti-money laundering (AML) and sanctions policies and applying core controls such as client due-diligence screening and monitoring. Anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policies aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties working on our behalf, from participating in active or passive bribery or corruption, or from making facilitation payments. In 2019, 100 per cent of our staff completed ABC, AML and sanctions training. Managing our environmental footprint RESPONSIBLE COMPANY We aim to reduce the direct environmental impact of our operations, namely our branches and offices, which use paper, water and energy. In 2018, we surpassed our Energy Use Intensity (EUI) target of 230 Kwh/m²/yr by 2019 achieving 216 Kwh/m²/yr through measures including LED lighting and grid-tiered solar panels. This year our EUI was 211 Kwh/m²/yr, a further 2.3 per cent reduction from the prior year, as a result of a revamp of the fresh air-cooling system at the Chiromo Head Office. Our Water Use Intensity (WUI) was at 0.30 kl/m²/yr against a target of 0.50 kl/ m²/yr by end of 2019, representing a drop of 31.8 per cent compared to 2018. This significant reduction was achieved through the elimination of water dispensers and installation of a water filtration system at the Chiromo Head Office. The use of the waste water treatment plant which was commissioned in November 2018, also made a great impact on the reduction. We aim to minimise waste and continued to reduce single use plastic at our Chiromo Head Office and continue to identify ways to improve our environmental performance. In 2020, we will review the methodology used to measure our energy, water and waste, and increase monitoring of plastic usage to set more robust reduction targets. Inclusive Communities Energy Use Intensity Water Use Intensity Kwh/m2/yr Kl/m2/yr 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 2017 248 2017 0.51 Year 2018 216 Year 2018 0.44 2019 211 2019 0.30 2019 SUSTAINABILITY ASPIRATIONS: RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Sustainability data Aspirations People Environment Conduct Financial crime Our people are our greatest asset, Reducing our own impact on the Good conduct and high ethical compliance and our diversity drives our business environment will protect our planet standards are essential in achieving fair Financial crime has serious social and success for the benefit of our communities outcomes for our clients economic consequences, harming individuals and communities 14 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Pillar 3: Communities OVERVIEW Inclusive Communities We aim to create a more inclusive economy by sharing our skills and expertise, working closely with local partners to deliver programmes that promote empowered communities, in line with our Purpose and Valued Behaviours. Our investments in communities are governed by our Sponsorship and Donations Policy to foster credible partnerships and relevant outcomes. In 2019, we invested +40 million for our communities. In addition, our staff contributed more than 1,000 volunteering days in service to communities. Sustainable Finance Girls and young women supported with life skills Young women : Training & entrepreneurship Youth offered financial literacy training +16,000 +460 28,000 Financial Literacy training Women led start ups incubated in 2019 + 270 MSMES 20 Futuremakers by Standard Chartered In 2019, we launched and began to roll out our 2019 – 2023 community investment approach, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered. Futuremakers by Standard Chartered is our global initiative to tackle inequality and promote greater economic Responsible Company inclusion in our market. We will do this by supporting disadvantaged young people from low-income households, particularly girls and people with visual disability, to take part in programmes focused on education, employability and entrepreneurship. Our ambition is to raise USD50 million between 2019 and 2023 to empower the next generation to learn, earn and grow. We have three core pillars to our Futuremakers by Standard Chartered community engagement: Education The Gates Foundation published their 2019 Goal Keepers report – Examining Inequality. How Geography and Gender Stack The Deck For (Or Against) You. A key highlight from this report was that ‘no matter where you are born, your life will be harder if you are born a girl. If you are born in a poor country or district, it will be even harder.’ It also highlighted that adolescence is when girls’ and boys’ futures really start to diverge – with boys’ futures expanding, and that for girls’ contracting. This is a key reason why we focus on empowering adolescent girls (12 – 19 years old) with life skills. We are primarily doing this INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES through our Goal programme where we work to empower young women through education and sports. In 2019, we reached over 4,400 girls through our programme. Since 2015 our Goal programme has supported over 16,000 girls and young women with life skills training. THE GENDER GAP Sustainability data 15 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Inclusive Communities (continued) OVERVIEW We also deliver financial education training to young people through our staff who volunteer their time and skills to influence behavioural change and engrain financial responsibility at a young age. Since we began in 2016, we have reached 28,000 youth across the country and worked to build their financial education capabilities. Employability The Employability pillar focuses on work readiness and vocational training schemes for youth aged between 16 to 30 years and encourages prioritising women and people with visual impairments and/or disability. We expanded our Goal Sustainable Finance programme to include employability and entrepreneurship capability building for our Goal beneficiaries. Since 2015, more than 460 young women have received vocational training and entrepreneurship skills training to support their future pathways. We recognised the 2019 World Youth Skills Day by hosting a skills café for over 200 Form 4 students from five high schools across Nairobi. Over 50 staff volunteered to share their experience and coach the youth on communication skills, career and planning, youth and peer pressure. In 2020, we will launch a new employability programme that Responsible Company will focus on increasing employability opportunities for young people (16 – 25 years) including youth with Center: Sunil Kaushal, Standard Chartered AME Regional CEO, Eva disabilities. Muraya, Entrepreneur and CEO, Kariuki Ngari interact with Tech Company Founders who are beneficiaries of the Women in Tech Incubator programme. Entrepreneurship For this community investment focus area, we provide training, capacity building and financing for micro and small business owners, prioritising women. We continued our commitment to supporting women-led enterprises leveraging technology to grow their business, under our Women in Technology programme. The ten businesses selected in late 2018 to the incubator programme successfully completed the programme in early 2019. In April 2019, we awarded five companies with a monetary award of KShs 1 million each to grow their businesses. INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES Since 2017, 30 companies have participated in our programme and we have invested KShs 27 million to support women-led micro and small businessthrough the Women in Technology programme. Our third cohort launched in September 2019 and received 700 applications. A final 10 companies were shortlisted and are currently participating in the incubation programme. In 2019, the Kenya Women in Technology programme was recognised by the Standard Chartered Group’s Global Recognition Awards under the category: Do the right thing Women In Tech Incubator Empowering female entrepreneurs across Africa & Middle East. Following its successful launch in Kenya, the Women in Technology programme has been rolled out across our Africa & Middle East region. From Kenya, the programme has now expanded to Nigeria, Pakistan and United Arab Emirates. We also run a financial education for entrepreneurs programme targeting non-client micro and small businesses in our Sustainability data communities. This is delivered by employee volunteers. Since we began in 2016, we have trained over 270 micro and small businesses. Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon The Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon moved back to Nyayo Stadium for the 17th Edition which was held on 27 October 2019. The Nairobi Marathon is a key platform to nurture upcoming Kenyan athletes and celebrates Kenya as the home of long-distance international athletes. It is Kenya’s only marathon that has the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and Association of International Marathons and Distance Races (AIMS) recognitions, and the only marathon held in our capital city and with international prestige. 16 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Inclusive Communities (continued) OVERVIEW Key achievements: Kshs + 30 million was raised towards Futuremakers by Standard Chartered; +17,000 registered participants; +240 corporate teams took part; +400 staff volunteered; and Sustainable Finance 450 external (non-staff) volunteers. The event features six race categories; 42km male and female, 21km male and female, 21km wheelchair male and female, 10km male and female, 5km Family Fun Run race and the Corporate Challenge. The winners take home prize money totalling KShs 10 million up from KShs 8 million in 2018. Marathon enthusiasts taking part at the 2019 Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon. We sincerely thank our partners: Nairobi County Government, Athletics Kenya, AAR, All Terrain Services, AUA Industria, Coca-Cola, Internet Solutions, Radio Africa Group, Subaru Kenya and the Kenya International Convention Centre; for support to the 2019 Nairobi Marathon. Responsible Company Seeing is Believing (2003 – 2018) In 2018, after achieving our global goal of raising USD 100 million to fight against avoidable blindness and visual impairment, we concluded our Seeing is Believing (SiB) community investment programme. Our fundraising goal was achieved two years ahead of target. 2019, saw the start of our new community investment approach, Futuremakers by Standard Chartered. There were existing SiB programmes which were concluding in 2019, and we ensured that we kept our commitments to these partners and programmes from INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES start to end. As a result, in 2019, we achieved some very positive outcomes in supporting avoidable blindness and visual impairment as we wrapped up our programmatic Seeing is Believing beneficiary after undergoing a successful eye surgery. commitments. In 2019, we screened over 102,000 people, performed more than 22,500 eye treatments and surgeries, and provided eye health education to more than 170,000 Kenyans. Our eye health programme on diabetic retinopathy, which concluded in December 2019, focused efforts on the links between diabetes and eye health. Non-communicable illnesses, like diabetes, are on the rise in Kenya particularly in urban areas. Sustainability data Through our support we have partnered with public hospitals, like Mbagathi Hospital in Nairobi County, to introduce diabetic retinopathy screening. Together with our partners, we screened over 4,600 people for diabetic retinopathy, about 140 received eye treatments related to diabetic retinopathy, and we trained 70 eye health workers and peer educators in diabetic retinopathy. We extend our sincere gratitude to all our eye health community partners for their support in delivering Seeing is Believing impact country-wide and reaching nearly 20 million Kenyans since 2003. 17 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 2020 Sustainability Aspirations Overview Standard Chartered PLC Sustainability Aspirations build on our three sustainability pillars with measurable targets to show how we are achieving sustainable outcomes across our business. These also allow us to demonstrate how we support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Pillar one: Sustainable Finance Aspirations Targets: We will work with our clients to: Target date Infrastructure  Provide project financing services for $40 billion of infrastructure Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Everyone should have access to safe, reliable projects that promote sustainable development that align to our and affordable power and infrastructure which verified Green and Sustainable Product Framework transforms lives and strengthens economies Sustainable Finance  Catalyse $5 billion of finance via blended finance transactions Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Climate change  Provide $35 billion worth of project financing services, M&A Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Climate change is one of today’s greatest advisory, debt structuring, transaction banking and lending challenges and addressing it is essential to services for renewable energy that align to our verified Green promote sustainable economic growth and Sustainable Product Framework  Develop a methodology to measure, manage and ultimately Jan 2019 – Dec 2020 reduce the CO2 emissions from the activities we finance  Only provide financial services to clients who are: Jan 2020 – Jan 2030 – By Jan 2021, less than 100% dependent on earnings from thermal coal (based on % EBITDA at group level) Responsible Company – By Jan 2025, less than 60% dependent on earnings from thermal coal (based on % EBITDA at group level) – By Jan 2027, less than 40% dependent on earnings from thermal coal (based on % EBITDA at group level) – By Jan 2030, less than 10% dependent on earnings from thermal coal (based on % EBITDA at group level) Entrepreneurs  Provide $15 billion of financing to small business clients Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Entrepreneurs are the heart of local economies, (Business Banking) creating jobs and empowering people  Provide $3 billion of financing to microfinance institutions Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Commerce  Bank 10,000 of our clients’ international and domestic Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 Inclusive Communities Trade creates jobs and contributes to economies networks of suppliers and buyers through banking the by enabling people to connect across borders ecosystem programmes Digital  Roll out digital-only bank in a total of 12 markets and Jan 2020 – Dec 2021 Everyone should have access to digital double the number of clients we bank in Africa to 3.2 million banking products enabling safe, efficient and inclusive banking Impact finance Introduce ESG scores for equity investments for Private Jan 2020 – Dec 2020 SUSTAINABILIT Y DATA  Innovative financial products and partnerships Banking clients allowing them to tailor their investment choices can help us solve global development challenges in a sustainable manner and improve the lives of millions in our markets  Develop a tailored Impact Profile for all Private Bank clients providing Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 a framework that enables them to understand their passions and harness capital market solutions to support the SDGs  Increase the proportion of Private Bank investment solutions Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 (across funds, bonds, structured products and discretionary mandates) with a sustainability lens from below 10% to 50% 18 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Pillar 2: Responsible Company Aspirations Targets: We will: Target date Overview People  Conduct a feasibility analysis to incorporate a Living Wage into Jan 2019 – Dec 2020 Our people are our greatest asset, and our agreements for all non-employed workers diversity drives our business success  Complete disability confidence assessments for 44 of our Jan 2020 – Dec 2020 larger markets  Embed an integrated health and wellbeing strategy to support Jan 2020 – Dec 2021 building and re-skilling a future-ready, diverse workforce  Support all employees to develop a personalised growth plan to Jan 2020 – Dec 2021 reflect the future skills needed to respond to the changing and digitised nature of work  Increase gender representation: 35% women in senior roles with Sept 2016 – Dec 2024 an interim target: – Dec 2020: 30% Sustainable Finance  Increase our ‘Culture of Inclusion’ score to 84.5% with an interim Jan 2020 – Dec 2024 target: – Dec 2021: 80% Environment  Reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) to Jan 2019 – Dec 2030 Reducing our own impact on the environment net zero by 2030 with an interim target: will protect our planet for the benefit of our – Dec 2025: 60,000 tCO2e communities  Source all energy from renewable sources Jan 2020 – Dec 2030  Join the Climate Group ‘RE100’ Jan 2020 – Dec 2020  Reduce our Scope 3 value chain emissions from business travel Jan 2020 – Dec 2020  Introduce an emissions offset programme for Scope 3 travel Jan 2020 – Dec 2020 Responsible Company emissions  Reduce annual office paper use by 57% to 10kg/headcount/year Jan 2012 – Dec 2020  Reduce waste per colleague to 40kg Jan 2020 – Dec 2025  Recycle 90% of waste Jan 2020 – Dec 2025 Conduct  Learn from risks identified through concerns raised via our Ongoing Good conduct and high ethical standards Speaking Up programme and conduct plans and publish an are essential in achieving fair outcomes for annual Threats and Themes Report our clients  Develop enhanced internal policies and guidelines on privacy, Jan 2020 – Dec 2021 data ethics and algorithmic fairness, and embed a new governance framework for all data-related risks Inclusive Communities Financial crime compliance  Tackle financial crimes such as illegal wildlife trade (IWT) by Ongoing Financial crime has serious social and developing red flags for financial flows, training frontline staff to economic consequences, harming identify potential suspicious transactions and participating in individuals and communities public-private partnerships to share intelligence and good practices  Deliver at least 18 correspondent banking academies Jan 2020 – Dec 2020 Pillar 3: Inclusive Communities Aspirations Targets: We will: Target dates Community engagement  Invest 0.75% of prior year operating profit (PYOP) Jan 2006 – Dec 2020 in our communities SUSTAINABILITY DATA Health and education are vital for thriving and prosperous communities  Raise $50m for Futuremakers by Standard Chartered Jan 2019 – Dec 2023  Education: Reach one million girls and young women through Goal Jan 2006 – Dec 2023  Employability: Reach 100,000 young people Jan 2019 – Dec 2023  Entrepreneurship: Reach 50,000 young people, and micro and Jan 2019 – Dec 2023  Support the development of the Vision Catalyst Fund Jan 2019 – Dec 2020  Increase participation for employee volunteering to 55% Jan 2020 – Dec 2023 19 Standard Chartered Sustainability Summary 2019 Further information Our online resources provide further information to support this document. Annual Report For a full review of our performance during 2019 visit https://av.sc.com/ke/content/docs/ke-2019-annual-report.pdf Approach to sustainability You can learn more about our sustainability philosophy and our approach at https://www.sc.com/ke/sustainability/ Position Statements For details of our environmental and social standards and how we apply these in our work with clients, visit https://www.sc.com/ke/sustainability/responsible-company/ Code of Conduct You can download our Code of Conduct at https://www.sc.com/global/av/ke-code-of-conduct.pdf Contact us If you have any comments or questions about the information in this report, contact us at https://www.sc.com/ke/help/contact-us/
