OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS GENDER DIVERSITY FUEL EFFICIENCY 34% WOMEN IN THE SHORE-BASED IMPROVEMENT WORKFORCE 22% WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS RESULTS 9.3% 93 SCHOLARS SUPPORTED BY TORM AND OUR compared to 2015 baseline EDUCATION FOUNDATION TORM remains committed to taking an active role in caring for communities and our environment. It is not just our shared duty, but our shared responsibility. Therefore, TORM continues the work to combat LOST TIME 0.42 carbon, sulfur and other emissions and remains TARGET 1% committed to enabling quality education, as this is a matter of concern for TORM and its employees. We ACCIDENT believe that by having all involved stakeholders FREQUENCY working together on this, great results can be achieved. IN 2019 Additional savings TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2 STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TORM regards responsible behavior as a central part of the Company, of how we do business and of the mindset of our employees. TORM remains committed to protecting employees, environment, reputation and assets by maintaining the highest possible standards. Mr. Jacob Meldgaard, Executive Director ONE TORM SAFETY CULTURE In September 2019, TORM signed up for the Getting to In line with the Company’s strategic focus on safety Zero Coalition. TORM has decided to be an active performance, TORM continued to promote the safety member supporting the efforts to make commercially culture program One TORM Safety Culture – driving viable zero-emission vessels a scalable reality by resilience in 2019. The purpose of the program is to 2030. The initiative is supported by leading continuously strengthen TORM’s safety culture stakeholders from the maritime industry and the fuel beyond mere compliance. value chain in addition to other large international corporations within sectors spanning wider than CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS shipping. Our support to the coalition also enables us In 2009, TORM signed the UN Global Compact as the to be agile if changes are made to the climate and first shipping company in Denmark to commit to the environmental regulation in the future. internationally recognized set of principles regarding health, safety, labor rights, environmental protection TORM’s management is committed to responsible and anti-corruption. TORM has decided to have behavior and continues its support of the principles of specific focus on Sustainable Development Goal the UN Global Compact. Our sustainability Mr. Jacob Meldgaard (SDG) no. 4 Quality Education and on SDG no. 13 performance is important to our stakeholders and our Executive Director Climate Action, as these directly link to the Company’s company. We confirm the performance stated in this current corporate activities. These two areas are not report. only material to the Company and its stakeholders, the efforts and initiatives also make good business sense to TORM. As such, TORM sees its commitment to contributing to and reporting on the SDGs as a natural progression of its commitment to the UN Global Compact. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES As an active member of Danish Shipping and a As part of the Company’s commitment to the UN Transparency and accountability are central parts of number of committees within that organization and as Global Compact, TORM submits its communication on TORM’s way of doing business, and these values play co-founder and member of the Maritime Antiprogress every year. a central role in the Company’s corporate social Corruption Network, TORM strives to increase responsibility (CSR) approach. transparency and accountability and to minimize corruption. TORM’s approach to responsible behavior is further rooted in the Company’s Business Principles which This report, Our Responsibility, constitutes TORM’s have the following five objectives: CSR reporting according to the requirements of UK law. Read more about TORM and the CSR efforts at • Maintaining a good and safe workplace www.torm.com/csr-at-torm. • Reducing environmental impact • Respecting people • Doing business responsibly • Ensuring transparency For further information on TORM’s Business Principles, please visit: www.torm.com/uploads/media_items/torm-businesspriciples.original.pdf. TORM’s CSR commitment is not limited to the Company’s own business practices, as real impact often requires industry collaboration. Thus, TORM cooperates with peers and stakeholders to increase responsibility in the shipping industry and the supply chain and to mitigate protectionism and support progressive trade agreements. This is performed via TORM’s cooperation with Danish Shipping and companies all over the world to support global trade and economic growth. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 4 Our responsibility 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS TORM supports SDG no. 13 Climate efforts made within this area generated a positive Investing in and implementing well-proven Action, as marine pollution constitutes result as can be seen in the Green House Gas technologies will allow TORM to concentrate its the largest environmental risk within Emissions table on page 8. efforts on achieving the potential that lies outside the the shipping industry. boundaries of behavioral activities. TORM is also TORM’s Operational Performance Team continues to testing a number of innovative projects with regard to share the performance of each vessel with the optimizing machinery and use of the latest technology It is therefore a key priority for TORM as a Reference respective vessel managers and vessels on a monthly is prioritized in our effort to reduce energy Company to minimize pollution of the seas and the basis. consumption in our fleet. atmosphere. TORM continues to focus on continuously improving In 2019, TORM continued to refine an initiative the hull condition of its vessels. During 2019, two To actively contribute to the industry emissions introduced in 2017 and 2018 to engage the vessels on vessels were taken out of service between scheduled reduction plans, TORM stepped up our involvement in a daily basis to encourage best practice behavior with dry-dockings for short four-to-six-day dockings. industry collaborations such as the innovation regard to power and fuel consumption. The efforts in During these dockings, the hull coatings were partnership, ShippingLab. A non-profit platform for this area ensure that corrective actions can be taken renewed, resulting in significant fuel consumption maritime research, development and innovation with swiftly, when needed. In 2019, TORM added human reductions. 30 partners from across the maritime industry to drive resources to this function, and consequently we have smart shipping of the future. seen a tremendous improvement. TORM maintains a constant focus on fuel efficiency across the fleet. This serves the dual purpose of In 2019, TORM joined the Getting to Zero Coalition Fuel consumption for cargo operations is a focus area minimizing environmental impact and making good along with other powerful industry leaders. The that has developed during 2019, and we therefore business sense. By maintaining the strong focus on purpose of this alliance is to lead the push for strive to implement meaningful KPIs. It has become fuel consumption reductions in 2019, TORM achieved shipping's decarbonization with the mutual goal of clear that the subject is very complex, and deeper fuel efficiency improvements of 9.3% compared to the having commercially viable zero-emission vessels studies are necessary to obtain meaningful KPIs in this 2015 baseline. The target for 2020 is to improve fuel operating along deep-sea trade routes by 2030. The field. efficiency by another 1%. coalition is a partnership between the Global Maritime Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action and the World In 2019, TORM added resources to put additional 9.3% Economic Forum. The coalition is supported by more focus on energy-efficient voyage execution by than 100 public and private organizations. including weather and timing of arrival in a more holistic evaluation. This is progressing within the FUEL CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY Operations team. In 2019, TORM has continued to have a strong and dedicated focus on reducing fuel consumption. The Fuel efficiency improvement TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 5 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS Efforts to reduce the Company’s carbon footprint also ENGAGED EMPLOYEES MAKING A DIFFERENCE TORM employees organized this activity, and 50 cover emissions from air travel by the shore-based In 2019, TORM Philippines, in partnership with the City volunteers signed up for the event. The participants, organization. TORM strives to minimize this by using Environment & Natural Resources Office (CENRO), composed of TORM employees and their families, left available technologies such as video conferencing to organized a mangrove tree planting activity on the the office early in the morning to coincide with the low the extent possible, e.g. in connection with meetings coast of Calatagan. tides on the day. To reach the planting site, the team across the Company’s eight offices. walked approximately 500 meters out into the open The goal of the activity was to spread awareness of sea. With much enthusiasm and perseverance, the BALLAST WATER the importance of mangroves. Mangrove forests serve team was able to plant 2,200 mangrove propagules. Ballast water is taken on by the vessel to stabilize trim as nature's barrier to protect coastal communities and optimize operational efficiency. The discharge of from storm surges and shoreline erosion. ballast water may introduce non-native species into the recipient marine ecosystem, thereby disturbing the local maritime ecosystem and endangering indigenous species. To alleviate this threat and to prevent the invasion of non-indigenous species in alien waters, TORM complies with the stipulations of the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. OFFICE EMMISSIONS Office emissions are included from TORM’s offices in Copenhagen, Mumbai, New Delhi, Singapore, Manila, Cebu and Houston. Emissions from TORM’s office in London are not included as data is currently unavailable. Emissions from air travel are included for all office staff and crew. Data from vessels is collected according to a specific reporting routine, mainly on a monthly basis but for certain data with less frequency. Other environmental data is collected on an annual basis. Safety data is based on reporting made to TORM’s Safety, Quality and Environmental Department whenever an incident occurs. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 6 ENVIRONMENT REPORTING Environmental and social data is based on all vessels • Scope 2 under TORM’s technical management (vessels for Emissions from heating (district heating) in the which TORM holds the Document of Compliance). Copenhagen and US offices are calculated using Having the technical management of a vessel implies Danish and World Resources Institute emission having control over the vessel in terms of factors. environmental performance and crew. As of end December 2019, TORM had 73 vessels under technical • Scope 3 management compared to 72 vessels as of end Emissions from air travel are provided by TORM's December 2018. travel agent. REPORTING GUIDELINES • Other principles The 2019 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reporting 2019 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated for covers scope 1 (direct emissions from own vessels in technical management (vessels for which production), scope 2 (emissions from own production TORM holds the Document of Compliance) in but others’ emissions) of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol TORM, amounting to a total of 891 vessel months except for the activities listed below and selected of operation. aspects of scope 3 (others' production and emissions services) activities. Cargo transport work (ton-nm) is calculated using the actual cargo multiplied by the distance with actual • Scope 1 cargo; thus, a ballast voyage will give 0 (zero) in tonConsumption of bunker oil has been calculated to nm. CO2 emission per ton-nm is the full CO2 emissions CO2 emissions using IMO’s factors for heavy fuel oil on board all vessels divided by the ton-nm for all and marine gas oil. Emissions are calculated for voyages; thus, it includes emissions from ballast each single vessel and then consolidated. Numbers voyages, electricity production, inserting, cargo under the scope 1 data sheet have been collected operations, etc. on board the vessels or at the offices. The collection is based on actual usage or disposals. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 7 GREEN HOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA 2019 2018 VESSEL EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Number of vessels in operation at the end of the year (in technical management) 73 72 Number of vessel months (one vessel one year equals 12 vessel months) 891 932 Used heavy fuel oil (ton) 348,972 375,196* Used low-sulfur heavy fuel oil (ton) 12,174 152 Used marine gas oil (ton) 55,374 64,255* Generated CO2 emissions from vessels (ton) 1,301,722 1,374,835* Distance sailed (nautical miles) 4,045,457 4,129,589* Average cargo on board (ton) 36,628 36,914* Cargo transport work (ton-nautical miles) 114,715,104,800 112,462,924,810* CO2 emissions in grams per ton-nautical miles (one ton of cargo transported one nautical mile) 11.35 12.22* OFFICE EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS (ELECTRICITY AND HEATING) Electricity used in office locations (kWh) 702,850 823,844 District heating (Gj) 1,423 1,326 Generated CO2 emissions from office locations (ton) 488 525 Number of office employees at the end of the year 341 309 CO2 emissions per employee (ton) 1.4 1.7 FLIGHT EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Air mileage (km) 56,173,910 80,192,490 Number of travels 10,263 13,401 * Numbers adjusted due to increased data quality and verification process. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 8 SUPPORTING QUALITY EDUCATION TORM is a long-standing supporter of EDUCATION FOUNDATION and more. This was funded by employees of TORM in maritime education in Denmark, India TORM Philippines runs educational development Denmark as part of a Christmas donation initiative. and the Philippines, and it is therefore actions through the TORM Philippines Education natural for the Company to support Foundation which has been helping Philippine Scholars’ Community Outreach Project in Magabta, SDG no. 4 Quality Education. communities since 2007. In 2019, 25 students Kabugao, Apayao, provided provisions such as school supported by the TORM Philippines Education kits to 60 daycare and elementary students, and also This commitment reflects the Company’s ties to local Foundation graduated from scholarships. the repainting of the daycare center, handout of communities and has a positive effect on the needs of medicine kits and learning resources. Additionally, the societies in which TORM operates and where For the school year 2019/2020, the foundation former students supported by the foundation decided many of the Company’s seafarers come from. supports 58 scholars across the Philippines with half at to donate a water tank to Addang Elementary School, various colleges and universities and the other half Paracelis, as the school only had access to water via a In addition, TORM believes that supporting education with apprentices within maritime courses. hosepipe from a water source uphill from the school has positive effects on its core business in terms of site. developing the pipeline of competences in the Thanks to a close collaboration between TORM, our industry and in terms of higher employee retention education foundation and Department of Education Essential computer training was also conducted to 40 and a positive brand recognition. Division Office of Mountain Province, a new classroom teachers and staff of Santos E. Conag National High with toilet was constructed and inaugurated under the School in Esperanza, Masbate. TORM is therefore dedicated to supporting SDG no. 4 Adopt-A-School Program. 45 students from Quality Education and cooperates with several kindergarten to Grade six can now receive school educational institutions and universities internationally. training. In Denmark and Singapore, the efforts include offering In addition to the scholarships, the education trainee positions in TORM’s offices to students from foundation ran a number of social development Copenhagen Business School, the Copenhagen School initiatives in 2019. ‘Trainers of scholars’graduates of Marine Engineering & Technology Management and trained in Training of Trainers and Facilitators was the Nanyang Technological University Singapore. conducted to 33 Grade 78 students of San Roque National High School of Bulalacao, Oriental Mindoro. The majority of TORM’s seafarers are of Indian or Filipino nationality, and the Company’s activities in Another social development initiative was the these areas are thus supporting potential future TORM construction of a basketball court and donation of employees and strengthening the overall competence sport equipment for basketball, volleyball, taekwondo level among seafarers in these regions. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 9 SUPPORTING QUALITY EDUCATION In India, TORM has funded specific projects towards With BAIF, an organization dedicated to upgrading migration of people who moved to the cities in search local social challenges. Starting in 2018, TORM India and providing rural infrastructure, TORM India has of jobs due to financial needs. SWADESH upgrades engaged with SMPARC, BAIF Development Research constructed a water tank for regular use by school their skills, provides opportunities to create Foundation and Akshayshakti towards various CSR kids and villagers. sustainable financial models and migrates people back initiatives. to villages. This creates a good eco-balance and, in TORM India is also looking to partner with SWADESH turn, upgrades villages to become more selfSince 2016, TORM India has supported the building of Foundation, which is aimed at focusing on reverse sustainable. the ZP Prathmik School in Zadgewadi, near Pune, India. The school was constructed, and the facilities were furnished with donations from the Company. Through SAMPARC, TORM India is sponsoring 35 students to attend the school. In addition to education fees, TORM India assists them with their regular needs. TORM India is also actively considering renovation of the town hall for SAMPARC Bhaje. This will enhance the extra-curricular activities for girls staying there and augment the infrastructure for multi-use. In 2018, in coordination with Akshayshakti and with TORM India’s support, construction of an additional toilet and bathing block for the female students of 'Swami Vivekananda School Girls' hostel' was carried out. This will greatly encourage more girls to attend school. As a continued project, TORM supported the 'V Promote Education' project with the distribution of 100,000 notebooks to nearly 350 schools in 2019. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 10 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Approximately 90% of TORM’s employees work at significant difference was the change in the inspection track and monitor the safety culture on board the sea, and providing healthy, safe and secure working methodology from system verification to knowledge individual vessels. The safety delta concept supports conditions for them is an essential part of TORM’s verification of ship’s crew. Specific familiarization and processes and activities and helps to build and business. In addition, it is TORM’s belief that a safe training of ship’s crew was implemented in order to maintain a proactive safety culture based on and secure working environment supports the overall cater to this change. continuous crew evaluation, dialogue, reflection and performance level and employee retention. development. All vessels have conducted minimum ONE TORM SAFETY CULTURE three safety delta cycles in 2019. Respecting employees’ human rights is pivotal to the In line with the Company’s strategic focus on safety Company. TORM's policies that support this are performance, TORM continued the safety culture In addition, TORM’s revised performance development outlined in TORM’s Business Principles. The program One TORM Safety Culture – driving resilience program from 2018 continues to be used. This concept Company’s safety policy is rooted in the rules and in 2019. The purpose of the program is to continuously is TORM’s way of systematically enhancing work regulations issued by the Danish Maritime strengthen TORM’s safety culture beyond mere behavior and leadership to ensure excellent Occupational Health Service. compliance. performance. INSPECTION AND AUDITS In 2019, TORM continued conducting Safety In order to maintain Company standards and exceed Leadership courses for Senior Officers on board the the targets set by its customers, TORM has enhanced Company’s vessels. A total of eight courses were the vetting preparations and increased the number of conducted, including three in India, three in the internal audits on its vessels carried out by Safety Philippines, one in Denmark and one in Croatia with a Quality and Environment (SQE) officers. On average, total of 148 officers attending in 2019. In total, 582 each vessel is subject to 10 inspections per year. officers have completed the course since it was Inspections are carried out by customers, terminals, introduced in 2017. Safety Leadership courses are internal auditors, ports and classification societies. mandatory, two-and-a-half-day workshops for all TORM is committed to meeting the ever-increasing Senior Officers and key marine shore staff. The focus standards set both internally and by its customers. of these courses is on how to be a good leader when it comes to safety and how to positively influence and The main body responsible for managing the support colleagues on TORM’s journey to be the overarching processes and requirements of these Reference Company in the product tanker market. vessel inspections is OCIMF (Oil Companies International Marine Forum). In 2019, a new OCMIF SAFETY DELTA SIRE (Ship Inspection Report Programme) inspection We also continue with the Safety Delta tool, which regime (vessel inspection questionnaire 7th edition) was launched in 2018 and used across the fleet to was fully implemented and took effect. The most TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 11 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Through the One TORM Safety Culture – driving Near-miss reports provide TORM with an opportunity resilience program, TORM has defined standards and to analyze conditions that might lead to accidents and expectations for excellent performance. A key element ultimately prevent potential future accidents. A high in leadership is to evaluate employees’ performance number of near-miss reports indicate that the with a view to manage development and motivate organization is proactively monitoring and responding employees to develop. TORM believes this will to risks. In 2019, TORM exceeded the target of 6.0 facilitate the best possible means for developing near-miss reports per month per vessel on average by performance as an individual and as a company. reaching 6.96 (2018: 7.1) due to continued focus on this area. TORM will continue promoting the One TORM Safety Culture – driving resilience program in 2020. Focus will SECURITY be on supporting and ensuring that TORM’s safety TORM’s response to piracy is founded on the Best culture is anchored across the organization, ashore as Management Practice, which is the industry guideline well as on board the vessels. for companies and vessels sailing in areas with increased risk. In 2019, TORM experienced six In 2020, TORM will introduce a new induction situations where thieves came on board and three framework for its seafarers. The purpose is to ensure that new employees at sea are introduced to the cases of stowaways found on board the Company’s safety culture in TORM as soon as possible when vessels. Throughout the year, the security situation joining the Company. and developments in the various risk areas have been monitored closely, and actions have been taken to LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY AND NEAR-MISS safeguard TORM’s seafarers and vessels. The Lost Time Accident Frequency (LTAF) is an indicator Company will continue to monitor the risk situation of serious work-related personal injuries that result in and pre-empt hijacking and robbery attempts by more than one day off work per million hours of work. following security procedures and industry guidelines. The definition of LTAF follows standard practice among shipping companies. During 2019, TORM continued to improve its LTAF with the result of 0.42 (2017: 0.67, 2018: 0.47). Each injury has been investigated and corrective measures have been taken as required. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 12 OUR PEOPLE AT SEA In 2019, TORM continued its strategy to employ As part of TORM’s continued focus on the promotion of experience among Senior Officers per vessel across seafarers with different nationalities, as the Company process for its employees, seafarers completed the sothe fleet (the so-called officer matrix compliance). believes that diversity on board is an important called ‘promotion assessment training’ prior to being foundation for cooperation, high performance and a promoted to the highest ranks on board the During 2019, TORM initiated a pilot project on 14 safe working environment. Company’s vessels in 2018. During this training, vessels – a project focusing on well-being by officers visit one of TORM’s offices for an introduction increased engagement, mental resilience, physical and training with key stakeholders. health and embracing socialization among crew members. Initial findings show a decrease in smoking, TORM maintains an ongoing focus on seafarer hypertension and obesity. We expect to introduce this commitment and engagement. In 2019, the retention concept to the entire fleet in 2020. rate for Senior Officers remained above 90%, and TORM demonstrated 100% compliance with customer At the end of 2019, TORM employed a total of 3,050 requirements when it comes to ensuring the right level seafarers of which 141 were permanently employed, with the remaining seafarers on time-bound contracts. Throughout the year, TORM continued its efforts to relieve seafarers on time and to build strong teams that rotate back to the same vessels whenever possible. This will reinforce vessel-specific knowledge and the foundation for a safe working environment. TORM also continued its efforts to strengthen the relations between seafarers and the shore-based organization. This included seminars and other opportunities where colleagues can share best practice regarding the operation of TORM’s vessels. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 13 OUR PEOPLE ASHORE In 2019, 95% of all shore-based employees At the end of 2019, the shore-based organization had responded to the employee motivation and 341 employees: 141 in Hellerup, 132 in Mumbai, 4 in New satisfaction survey. This is an increase on the Delhi, 36 in Manila, 2 in Cebu, 16 in Singapore, 9 in previous year’s response rate of 93%. Houston and 1 at the Company’s office in London. In 2019, a new engagement survey providing real time data was introduced across shore staff. The outcome of the One TORM Engagement Survey showed the continuous high engagement among our employees across categories ranging from engagement, freedom of opinions, management support, work environment and safety. The high scores were evenly spread across divisions which is a testament to the strength of the unified One TORM approach. The overall outcome of the survey is an engagement score of 8.3, which is in the top 10% of the companies across all industries using the same platform. TORM’s ambition with this new engagement survey together with such a high response rate is to help the Company improve, build the culture needed to fulfill the Company’s strategy and make initiatives that matter to the employees. By the end of 2019, the retention rate for all shore-based employees was 92%, which is slightly higher than the 90% in 2018. TORM aims to attract and retain the best employees by exemplifying the four values in the TORM Leadership Philosophy and by ensuring that the Company’s leaders motivate their employees. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 14 DIVERSITY Our people constitute the true quality of TORM and has resulted in a Danish Shipping charter driving for At the end of 2019, the Board of Directors consisted of are the Company’s most valuable assets. TORM more women at sea, which TORM has signed up to. five male members elected at the Annual General continues to grow and thrive due to the efforts and Furthermore, 10 recommendations have been Meeting. dedication of its staff both at sea and ashore. produced, which will be incorporated in our processes and procedures as best practice. In 2020, the Board of Directors met its target of 20% TORM has an obligation to its customers, female Board members (1 out of 5) following Annette shareholders, employees and other stakeholders to TORM actively monitors the representation of females Malm Justad’s electionat the Annual General Meeting develop the Company’s talent pool irrespective of in the workforce and in leadership positions. At the in April 2020. attributes such as gender, religion, sexuality, end of 2019, the proportion of females in the shorenationality, ethnicity or disabilities. As stated in based workforce was 34.5%, while females in TORM’s Business Principles under Respecting leadership positions, defined as having one or more People , the Company does not accept discrimination direct reports, constituted 21.7%. with respect to any of the above. TORM works towards a diverse workplace, in which everyone is By 2020, the Company aims at having 35% women in included and respected, and in which well-being at the shore-based workforce in line with industry work is regarded as a shared responsibility. average, and with 25% females in leadership positions. TORM aims at a gender diverse workforce and an inclusive environment that respects and supports all EMPLOYEE GENDER DIVERSITY our people and helps improve our business Permanently employed performance. Male Female Directors of the Company¹⁾ 4 1 TORM’s gender diversity approach focuses on talent Employees in other senior executive positions 3 attraction, promotion and retention. The Company’s leaders aim at assuming accountability for continuous Total management other than directors of the Company (VPs, GMs, Marine Officers) 162 8 progress. TORM believes that gender diverse teams, Other permanent employees of the Group 175 110 led by gender diverse leaders, deliver better business Total permanent employees of the Group 344 119 performance. The Company provides equal ¹⁾ The four Non-Executive Directors are not included as employees of the Group. opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and rewards for all employees. In 2019, TORM participated in Danish Shipping´s workgroup concerning more women at sea. This work TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 15 OUR PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS With the TORM Leadership Philosophy, TORM’s Business Principles and commitment to the UN Global Compact, TORM is committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights as outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. TORM recognizes that implementing the necessary policies and respective processes to be in line with the requirements of the UN Global Principles is part of an ongoing effort. Going forward, TORM will continue to promote its human rights-related policies and processes. TORM complies with the International Labor Organization’s Maritime Labor Convention, an international set of standards on labor conditions at sea, which was ratified by 30 countries in 2012. All vessels under TORM’s technical management were audited and certified as required under the Maritime Labor Convention of 2006 when it took effect in August 2013. TORM respects employees’ right to associate freely, to join – or not join – unions and to bargain collectively. TORM offers equal opportunities for its employees as stated in TORM’s Business Principles. No claims or offenses have been reported regarding human rights in 2019. TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 16 OUR PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY joint stand within the industry towards the request for corruption policies in 2019 to mitigate the risk of Corruption and bribery impede global trade and can facilitation payments that exists in many parts of the bribery and corruption. TORM has continued its antirestrict non-corrupt companies’ access to world where TORM conducts business. Best practice is corruption training program, which includes international markets. In this way, corruption and shared between members of the network, and mandatory anti-corruption courses for all shore-based bribery have a negative impact on economic and members align their approach to minimizing staff and all officers on board TORM’s vessels. The social development. For TORM, the risk of corruption facilitation payments. training targets new hires as well as existing does not mean increased costs alone. Corruption also employees and must be repeated annually. TORM will exposes TORM’s seafarers to safety and security risks The MACN seeks support from government bodies continue these efforts in 2020. and poses a potential risk to the Company’s legal and international organizations to eliminate the root standing and reputation. causes of corruption. TORM is committed to Since 2006, TORM’s Board of Directors has provided a addressing corrupt business practices among whistleblower facility with an independent lawyer as TORM does not accept corrupt business practices, stakeholders by supporting this cross-sector part of the internal control system. In 2019, the and as part of its compliance program TORM has a approach. whistleblower facility received two notifications, which policy on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, which were investigated and closed without any critique or supports the Company’s Business Principles. In addition to its efforts within MACN, TORM requirements for new measures. continued to strengthen its companywide antiIt is TORM’s policy to conduct all business in an honest and ethical manner. TORM has a “zero tolerance” approach to bribery and corruption, and the Company is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships, wherever the Company operates. TORM will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. To continue a high level of transparency and accountability, due diligence, monitoring and control as well as training of TORM’s staff are central parts of implementing the anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. Since 2011 when TORM co-founded the Maritime AntiCorruption Network (MACN), TORM has been taking a TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 17 TORM OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2019 18
