Sustainability Report 2019 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contents FOREWORD 04-05 04 Foreword by Chris Vogelzang BUSINESS AND STRATEGY 06-13 About this report This report covers activities in Danske Bank Group for the financial year 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. Our reporting approach is to provide an overview of our Societal Impact & Sustainability Strategy and the issues that are material to our stakeholders and our business. We aim to provide a fair and balanced representation of our activities and progress, as outlined in our reporting principles. This report represents our statutory statement on corporate social responsibility and gender diversity at management level, in accordance with sections 135a and b of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. Our annual reporting suite includes Danske Bank Group’s Annual Report 2019, Risk Management 2019 and this report. We present segmented and detailed data in our Sustainability Fact Book 2019, and we issue a Statement on Modern 06 Our business Slavery Act 2019 and a Statement 08 Our role in society on Carbon Neutrality 2019 – all of which are available at 10 Our strategic direction danskebank.com/societal-impact. 12 Governance and stakeholder dialogue SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 SOCIETAL IMPACT 14-21 14 Climate and environment 18 Innovation and entrepreneurship 20 Financial confidence and security SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 22-31 22 Compliance culture 24 Customer engagement 26 Fighting financial crime 28 Sustainable finance 31 Responsible sourcing SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE 32-35 32 Our employees and culture 34 Diversity and inclusion 35 Our environmental footprint We welcome any comments, DATA AND ASSURANCE suggestions or questions you may have regarding this report or our performance. Please send an email 36-39 to societalimpact@danskebank.com You can stay up to date on the most recent developments at 36 ESG performance data danskebank.com/societal-impact, 37 Independent auditor’s assurance report and you can follow Danske Bank on 38 Reporting principles Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOREWORD BY CHRIS VOGELZANG “We need to change, and we are committed to becoming a better bank for all our stakeholders – customers, employees, society and shareholders.” CHRIS VOGELZANG CEO DANSKE BANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Dear reader, I firmly believe that a company requires having a focus that Strategy – a strategy that is a community within a wider extends beyond pure financial supports the UN’s Sustainable society. Companies recognise results and involves looking Development Goals (SDGs). that to be sucessful they must at the broader impact we are create value for society as making. We specifically focus on three profitable businesses – and they of the 17 SDGs. We contribute know they can only achieve this Having a balanced approach to these three goals by helping if they change and adapt in line is key, as is realising that we society transition to a net-zero with the general evolution of the cannot deliver value to our carbon economy through world. shareholders unless we deliver green financing, by helping value to customers, employees people and businesses become As the largest financial services and society in equal measure. financially confident and secure provider in Denmark, and one All of these things are part of in a digital age and by helping of the largest financial the same equation. social entrepreneurs grow their institutions in the Nordic positive impact on society. We countries, Danske Bank has Shareholders and other also continue to support and a special responsibility to stakeholders benefit from run a responsible business in create long-term value for all strong financial results. alignment with the UN Global stakeholders and to con­tribute Financial results are a function Compact principles. to the sustainability of the of commercial success, and societies we are part of. commercial success depends The journey that we have on delivering superior value to ahead of us requires ambition, Since 1871, Danske Bank has customers, being an attractive persistent dedication and the been creating opportunities workplace and contributing to courage to set progressively and helping individuals and societal progress. ambitious targets over time. businesses realise their We have a new and committed ambitions, and we have evolved To ensure that we keep this Executive Leadership Team in in tandem with the societies balanced focus, we have place, and we are increasing our around us. announced a new set of investments in 2020 across a concrete ambitions and focus number of areas to promote and I took on the role as CEO of areas. These ambitions cover develop our accountability and Danske Bank in June 2019. societal impact, customer leadership and also to embrace Being a new CEO in a longsatisfaction, em­ployee sustainability in everything we established bank requires engagement and financial do and deliver positive societal striking a careful balance results. impact. between respecting tradition on the one hand and Another significant signpost Ultimately, it is all about undertaking the change for the future has been our contributing to the long-term necessary for meeting the endorsement of the UN success and sustainability evolving demands of our Responsible Banking Principles of Danske Bank and of the stakeholders on the other. in September 2019. These societies we are part of. six principles help banks Danske Bank is a solid bank align their business strategy with a strong platform, but it is with society’s goals, and they clear to me that we have the provide a framework for a potential to become a much sustainable banking system. better bank and that we need to This is a natural next step in change in order to realise this the continuation of our Nordic Chris Vogelzang potential. And it is also clear to Integrator Strategy and our Chief Executive Officer me that becoming a better bank Societal Impact & Sustainability Danske Bank 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Our business Danske Bank is a Nordic bank with strong Core values local roots and close ties to the rest of the We deliver expertise – make knowledge relevant world. Our 22,000 employees serve more than five million customers, helping them We act with integrity to build their lives and businesses on a – be responsible solid financial foundation. We create value – make a difference Danske Bank is one of the largest Nordic financial institutions, and we are deeply engrained in our Nordic home We progress through agility markets. In these markets, we are in a strong position – embrace change and be responsive to help our customers meet their financial objectives by providing banking services based on our financial compeWe believe in collaboration tencies and through our dedicated focus on developing – engage, listen and act leading and innovative solutions. Becoming a better bank With our Nordic Integrator Strategy launched in In support of our corporate strategy, we in 2019 2018, we take a more active role in making our introduced four promises and ambitions towards customers financially confident and in contributing to 2023 that will guide us in becoming a better bank societal growth and stability. for all our stakeholders: customers, employees, society and our shareholders. Besides getting costs We aim to become integral to our customers lives under control, this entails investing significantly in by offering coherent solutions tailored to their needs. our ways of working, in our capabilities and in techWe aim to integrate more closely with the Nordic nologies. societies using our assets and competencies to drive sustainable progress and create a positive impact. Our Executive Leadership Team is committed to And internally, we aim to integrate more by organisdelivering on specific shortand long-term priorities, ing ourselves around our customers, harmonising and each member has taken charge of specific initiaour ways of working and living our core values. tives to ensure we achieve our 2023 ambitions. Promises 2023 ambitions We put We want to be among the top two on customer satisfaction in customers first everything we do. We care about More than 90% of employees should be engaged and develop our (as measured in our Employee Engagement Index). employees We contribute to We operate sustainably, ethically and transparently – and we have a society positive impact on the societies we are a part of. We will measure progress across seven identified focus areas: Sustainable investing, Sustainable financing, Governance, Diversity & Inclusion,​Environmental footprint, ​Entrepreneurship and Financial literacy. We deliver strong We must achieve a return on shareholders’ equity of 9-10% and returns to our a cost/income ratio in the low 50s by continuously improving the investors profitability level – thereby leveraging our full potential. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Norway Group key figures 2019 6% Sweden Market share 5.3 million customers* Lending 6% 22,006 employees Market share Lending DKK 13.8 billion profit before tax 64.8% cost/income ratio 9.6% return on avg. shareholders’ equity *excluding non-core Serving our customers Northern Ireland We serve our customers at our 221 branches and through a wide range of self-service and digital trans19% action solutions. We deliver services to customMarket share Personal ers in 13 countries, with Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland being our core markets. Our offices outside the Nordic countries offer Finland gateways to the rest of world for Nordic customers and serve as points of entry to our region 10% for international customers whose activities are anMarket share chored in our core markets. We have a separate business Denmark Lending unit in Northern Ireland, and we have support functions in Lithuania and India. 26% Market share Lending Read more For more details, please see our Annual Report 2019. Danske Bank is listed on NASDAQ Copenhagen’s OMX C25 index. Customer services operate through five business units. In addition to banking services, we offer our customers life insurance and pension products, mortgage credit, wealth management, real estate, and leasing products and services. Banking DK Banking Nordic Corporates Wealth Northern Ireland 4,588 employees serve 1.7 2,599 employees serve 1.1 & Institutions Management 1,285 employees serve million personal customers million personal customers 1,665 employees serve 1,563 employees provide 441,000 personal and and small and medium-sized and small and medium-sized 2,060 corporate and pension savings, private banking, business customers through businesses in Denmark. businesses in Finland, Norway institutional clients and asset management services digital channels, branches and Sweden. across the entire Group. across the entire Group. and business centres. DKK 6.5 billion DKK 3.8 billion DKK 1.7 billion DKK 3.0 billion DKK 0.8 billion profit before tax profit before tax profit before tax profit before tax profit before tax 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Our role in society At Danske Bank, we recognise our role and responsibility in providing financial infrastructure for a prosperous, stable and sustainable economy. Banks are of great significance to the economy and the financial It is essential to the overall economy that the financial system is infrastructure of society. In addition to being the cornerstone of robust. If a company in the financial sector experiences problems, most people’s personal finances, banks are also central providers it is important that these problems do not spread and prevent of capital, financial services and advice for businesses and instithe financial system from functioning. At Danske Bank, we fully tutions. Banks also contribute to value creation and employment recognise our responsibility and role in upholding financial stability and play an important role in ensuring a responsible transition to a and a well-functioning financial infrastructure, and we report on our digital and greener society. 2019 performance. Contributing to a prosperous economy Contributing to financial stability Danske Bank contributes to economic growth by converting short-term deposits to Danske Bank is one of Denmark’s systemically important financial long-term loans by managing financial assets, by spreading risks and by facilitating institutions. Operating a solid, balanced and predictable business is a prerequisite payments between counterparties. for financial stability. Through our mortgage credit institutions, we provide stable DKK 963 billion in deposits and sustainable financing of real estate in all our core markets. DKK 1,821 billion loans to customers DKK 803 billion net lending in Realkredit Danmark DKK 1,651 billion assets under management (AuM) DKK 238 billion net lending via rest of Group Creating local jobs and growth Financing public housing We contribute to job creation and an employable workforce in local communities In Denmark, Danske Bank plays a key role in the financing of public housing. This by offering direct employment and development opportunities in 13 countries. system dates back to 1850 and has gradually been expanded to the current level Through our business activities, we also indirectly create jobs at our suppliers’ where about 1,000,000 people live in such accommodation. companies and for our customers when we help them grow their business. DKK 83.1 billion in net lending financing public housing via DKK 13 billion in salary and pension payments Realkredit Danmark to our 22,006 employees DKK 9 billion in payments to our 11,035 suppliers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Innovating the financial infrastructure By providing innovative financial solutions that make daily banking easy and secure, Danske Bank is contributing to a digital transformation of the financial infrastructure. One such example is MobilePay, which we launched in Combatting financial crime Denmark and Finland in 2013 as Financial crime has major adverse implications for societies across the world, the first app in both markets to offer and we are working closely with authorities and the financial sector to establish mobile payments and which today is a the most effective possible defence against the criminal networks. We contribute company in its own right. to combatting financial crime by developing and implementing effective measures 47.6 million with regard to anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and financial eBanking transactions sanctions. 55.6 million 2,400 employees working to combat financial crime mobile and tablet banking 15,889 reports on suspicious matters sent to authorities transactions Accelerating the green transition We are supporting the transition to a greener economy by developing green financial offerings and integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) perspectives into our investment and lending processes. DKK 104 billion green bonds arranged for customers* DKK 7 billion green loans granted to customers* DKK 10 billion of Danica Pension’s pension savings invested in green transition *Danske Bank and Realkredit Danmark Providing accessible finance for everyone Facilitating healthy financial decisions At Danske Bank, we aim to provide accessible finance for everyone by offering By sharing our expertise on core financial literary, we enable individuals and customised solutions for people with special requirements. For customers who are businesses to make healthy financial decisions and achieve their ambitions. Since less comfortable with digitalisation, our services include ordinary mail and mail 2008, our financial literacy programmes have targeted the younger generation, and payment, Easy Banking, cash cards and cash deposits. To help visually impaired we share knowledge and tools to help individuals and businesses prevent fraud people, many of our ATMs have braille keyboards and synthetic speech. and keep their data safe. 221 local branches 20,739 children and young people participated in 30 million ATM transactions educational programmes 25,400 unique visits to our Keep It Safe platform 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Our strategic direction In 2019, we diligently executed on our Societal Impact & Sustainability Strategy to integrate societal impact into our business model. At the same time, we took steps to further accelerate and drive sustainable progress in the societies where we operate. Since 2018, our Societal prevention of financial crime. Goals (SDGs). The first theme The third theme is Financial Impact & Sustainability Strategy Engaging our employees, fosteis Climate & environment, wheconfidence & security, where has guided our work at Danske ring an inclu­sive and diverse re we see a significant impact we can leverage our strongBank. Having a responsible culture, reducing our environpotential by offering green hold in financial confidence, IT and sustainable business mental footprint and ensuring financing and by encouraging security and fraud prevention to and workplace that live up to presence and positive impact customers and portfolio comeducate our customers, thereby societal expectations and our in national and local communipanies to take climate action, contributing to SDG 4 – Quality international commitments is ties are also key foundational thereby contri­buting to SDG 13 education. the foundation of this strategy. elements. – Climate action. Through our strategic efforts, In addition to integrating Building upon this foundation, The second theme is Innovation we contribute both directly and environmental, social and goverwe have three strategic themes. & entrepreneurship, where we indirectly to several of the 17 nance (ESG) factors into investThrough these themes, we can generate significant societal SDGs, and we report on sub-tarment, lending and procurement apply our skills and expertise, impact by helping entrepregets where we have supporting decisions, foundational eleand we develop tools and serneurs drive employment and metrics. ments also include maintaining vices to contribute to a positive economic growth, thereby a strong focus on compliance, impact on society and to the 17 contributing to SDG 8 – Decent customer satisfaction and the UN Sustainable Development work and economic growth. Societal Impact & Sustainability Strategy AMBITION We want to drive sustainable progress and positive impact in the societies we are part of Climate & environment Innovation & entrepreneurship Financial confidence & security STRATEGIC THEMES GOALS Helping society transition to a netHelping 1,000 social entrepreneurs Helping 5 million people and FOR 2025 zero carbon economy through green grow their positive impact in society businesses to become financially financing confident and secure in a digital age FOUNDATIONAL Accelerate Run a sustainable Foster a sustainable Partner with FACTORS sustainable finance operation workplace and culture communities The way forward In the financial sector, three The third initiative is the Princiin place, we are accelerating our As the sustainability field initiatives in particular define the ples for Responsible Banking forfocus on societal impact and is constantly evolving and future. The first of these is the mulated by the UN Environment sustainability even further. expectations for businesses to European Commission action Programme Finance Initiative integrate sustainability into their plan on sustainable finance, (UNEP FI) that we endorsed in New metrics and targets core business are accelerating, which will entail major changes September 2019, and which In view of Danske Bank’s remaining agile and ambitious for the banking sector. Secondly will contribute to future-proofing promises and 2023 ambitions is key. The SDGs and the Paris is the Task Force on ClimateDanske Bank. More specifically, to become a better bank, we will Agreement on Climate Change related Financial Disclosures these principles involve further in 2020 calibrate our Societal continue to be the most signif(TCFD) initiative, which Danske alignment of our business Impact & Sustainability Strategy icant global initiatives driving Bank signed up to in 2018, and strategy with society’s goals and and adjust our existing metrics the sustainability agenda, and which provide a framework for continuously working to map, and our strategic 2025 goals. society’s emphasis on these companies to measure and disact on and disclose both positive We will do this in line with the frameworks is increasing. close climate change risks and and negative impact. With our seven focus areas (see p. 6) and opportunities. new Executive Leadership Team our commitment to the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Principles for Responsible report on Danica Pension’s of employees who have passed Entrepreneurship will be measBanking. As an initial part of this 100 billion green pledge mandatory tests in relation ured as the number of start-ups strategic review, we introduce towards 2030, see p. 15. to their risk and compliance and scale-ups supported with new supporting KPIs and Within the area of sustainable training. Within diversity and ingrowth and impact tools, servictargets related to these focus financing, we will measure the clusion, we will also monitor the es and expertise. Finally, we will areas, with the aim of setting total volume (DKK) of sustainshare of women in senior leadermonitor the number of people climate-related targets aligned able financing, including green ship positions. We will continue supported with financial literacy with the Paris Agreement on loans granted and sustainable to measure our CO2 emissions tools and expertise. Status and Climate Change. Within the area bond facilitation. Governance across scopes 1, 2 and 3. 2023 targets are presented on of sustainable investing, we will will be measured as the share p. 36. “During the past few years, we have increased our focus on how to use our financing capabilities to drive societal change. We expect the Principles for Responsible Banking to become a benchmark for the conduct of banks, and we see them as an important framework for stepping up our efforts.” Berit Behring, Member of the Executive Leadership Team and Head of Wealth Management. Principles for Responsible Banking Current state The slider indicates our status from no alignment, far left, to full alignment with the principles, far right. 1. Alignment We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Our Societal Impact and Sustainability Strategy integrates the societal goals where we have Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional significant impact. We will focus on integrating sustainability even further into our business frameworks. model and key business decision-making processes. 2. Impact & Target Setting We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products We have increased our focus on the identification of sustainability-related risks and and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where opportunities. We will map and analyse our positive and negative impact and set KPIs to we can have the most significant impacts. increase our positive and decrease our negative impact accordingly. 3. Clients & Customers We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations. Over the last year, we have started to build our sustainability-related product offerings. We have also accelerated our efforts on our financial confidence programmes for retail customers. We will focus on further developing our solutions and advisory services to ensure that we, as a financial adviser, can fully support our clients’ sustainability transition. 4. Stakeholders We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals. We are entering into partnerships and engaging stakeholders as part of our ongoing strategy work across the Group. 5. Governance & Culture We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking. Over the last years, we have integrated sustainability into our governance and policies, and we have trained key parts of the organisation in sustainability. We will focus on further training activities, and we will integrate sustainability measures into our performance assessments and remuneration. 6. Transparency & Accountability We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our We have started to integrate the Responsible Banking Principles and our sustainability targets contribution to society’s goals. and measures into our reporting cycle. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Governance and stakeholder dialogue To ensure the execution and delivery of our Societal Impact & Sustainability Strategy, Danske Bank has strengthened its governance setup and monitoring on progress. We engage with stakeholders and use their views and expectations to inform our strategic direction and reporting. Since 2018, we have tripled the In addition, we have developed and to behave responsibly. aim of contributing to society’s number of full-time employees new key performance indicators Furthermore, we are expected goals. The updated policy also working with sustainability at to monitor our progress against to show value creation beyond specifies that we do not make both business unit and Group our targets in a reliable and profit, drive societal impact and financial contributions to politilevel to ensure an effective measurable way. Our Societal create solutions for and with our cal parties or candidates. execution of our strategy. When Impact & Sustainability Strategy customers. integrating sustainability from Execution Dashboard enables In 2019, we continued to a governance perspective, us to provide a solid documenIn 2019, we updated our maintain an open stakeholder Danske Bank builds on existing tation of our achievements on Stakeholder Policy to increase dialogue. The Flexinvest Fri structures, products and proregular basis. transparency in relation to case and the money laundering cesses to ensure that sustainathe European Transparency case in Estonia, see pp. 25 and bility is a natural part of everydEngaging with stakeholders Register, and we aligned the 27, were overriding issues in ay workflows. Consequently, the The focus on responsibility and policy with our endorsement of many of these dialogues. There majority of the new employees sustainable banking is accelerathe Principles for Responsible remains a huge task ahead of are firmly rooted in the business ting across our main stakeholBanking. By doing so, we have us in restoring the trust of our units, assisting the units with der groups. Besides expecting committed to proactively customers and society at large. integrating sustainability Danske Bank to be transparent, and responsibly consulting, perspectives into daily operathese stakeholders also expect engaging and partnering with tions. us to assume accountability relevant stakeholders with the Sustainability governance structure The Board of Directors receives regular updates on sustainability to review performance and discuss environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. Board of Directors Our Business Integrity Committee develops and oversees the implementation of our sustainability-related strategies and policies. The committee is chaired by the Head of Wealth Management, and consists of the Executive Leadership Team, the CEO of Danica Pension and the Head of Societal Impact Business Integrity Committee & Sustainability. As well as being responsible for coordinating the implementation of Business units and Group functions decisions made by the Business Integrity Committee, the Societal Impact & Sustainability function is also responsible for monitoring progress on the strategy and for the annual sustainability reporting. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 Assessing material sustainability issues In order to identify issues that interviews with large Corporate lower priority than governance Our commitment to international represent risks or opportuni& Institutions clients, investors, and compliance. Similarly, invesustainability principles ties for our business and for municipalities, labour unions stors also consider governanceIn our Societal Impact & society, we annually assess and NGOs; and a Groupwide and compliance-related topics Sustainability strategy and policies we state our commitment to the the materiality of ESG-related employee survey. to be of most importance, with following: topics. The assessment is climate change preparedness • 2030 Agenda and the UN based on information gathered A majority of our retail custoas an area of increasing focus. Sustainable Development from our stakeholder engagemers in the Nordic countries Goals ments and surveys. We use confirm that sustainability is Our work on societal impact • The UN Global Compact the assessment to calibrate our an important focus area for and sustainability is very • The OECD Guidelines for Societal Impact & Sustainability Danske Bank. Not surprisingly, important to the majority of our Multinational Enterprises Strategy and to ensure that they see governanceand employees. Compliance-related • The UN Guiding Principles on we report on topics that are compliance-related topics topics are high on the agenda Business and Human Rights • The UN-supported Principles important to our stakeholders. such as AML, anti-corruption, for our employees, but climate for Responsible Investment This report provides details of data privacy and protection change is assessed as the • The UNEP FI Principles for our performance and mitigation against cybercrime as the most most important topic. This is Responsible Banking of identified risks. material topics for Danske Bank followed by employee health • The Universal Declaration of to focus on. Climate change and working conditions, which Human Rights In 2019, our stakeholder and sustainable use of natural naturally also retain a high • The ILO Declaration of engagements included retail resources are the two most priority. Fundamental Principles of customer questionnaires in important environmental topics; Rights at Work Denmark, Norway and Finland; however, these topics are given Additional industry-specific international principles and conventions that guide our lending, investment and procurement activities are detailed in our position statements We present and report on available at danskebank.com. our material sustainability Societal impact issues in three areas that are all interlinked. Actual and Climate change preparedness Our engagement principles potential impacts on human The following principles guide our Sustainable use of natural rights and labour rights are resources interaction with our stakeholders: • We want to share our an integral part of several of Financial stability and growth knowledge and expertise with these issues. our stakeholders. Supporting SMEs, entrepreneurs • We act and operate with and start-ups transparency and integrity. • We want to create value for Financial confidence all our stakeholders and to IT security and customer fraud form long-term partnerships of prevention mutual value. Sustainable business • We make ourselves available for dialogue and respond to Anti-corruption input and feedback in a timely and agile manner. Responsible tax • We believe in collaboration Sustainable workplace and base our engagement on Responsible products and fair advice genuine dialogue – we engage, Employee health and well-being Data protection listen and act. Training and development of employees Access to financial services Community support Anti-money laundering (AML) Governance ESG in investments Executive remuneration* ESG in lending Diversity and inclusion Responsible procurement Reducing own environmental footprint ESG transparency * Please see our Annual Report 2019 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Climate and environment Climate change is a global challenge that fundamentally alters the risks that people, businesses and the financial sector face. Danske Bank is committed to helping society transition towards a net-zero carbon economy through green financing. The main objective as a cornerstone for the Danske Bank has moved up This means that 15% of of the Paris advancement of our green bond in Bloomberg’s Global Green pension savings expected by Agreement on issuance and development of Bond League Table, and we our customers will be invested Climate Change green loan offerings. We will are currently in the top 10 in the green transition by is to limit global temperature continue to scale and accelerate banks globally when it comes 2030, and it also means that rises to well below 2°C, and climate action by providing to green bond facilitation. In we will start reporting against governments worldwide have financial offerings that have November 2019, this also led the target from 2020. Danica committed to transforming to a a positive impact on climate us to elevate our partnership Pension is also working to low-carbon economy. The level change and the environment. with the Climate Bonds Initiative make its property portfolio of global warming reached will to further promote and develop more energy efficient thanks be affected by the magnitude Demand for green assets green financing, and we coto the dual effect of reducing and speed of actions taken. It Based on the framework, sponsored the Green Bond both its environmental will also shape the nature of the Danske Bank in 2019 issued European Investor Survey to footprint and its operational risks we will face. its first green bond, and the identify market accelerators. costs. Towards 2022, DKK first green mortgage series Not only did this survey show 27 million will be invested in While major global changes was launched by Realkredit that investors want deals that shopping centres with a target in temperature, weather, sea Danmark. This was followed by have a high level of climate of another 20% reduction in levels and flooding patterns the provision of green personal impact, but it also revealed energy consumption relative to – as well as transitions in mortgage loans in Norway, that investors see public policy the 2015 level. Danske Bank technology, regulation and Sweden and Finland. By issuing as being key to scaling up the has been carbon neutral since market demand – pose green bonds, we can provide green bonds market. We are 2009, and we continuously risks, they may also provide green loans to personal and also engaged in the market for strive to reduce the direct opportunities. As stressed business customers. Danske social and sustainability bonds environmental footprint of our by the Task force on ClimateBank also finances and refiand sustainability-linked loans, operations, see p. 35. related Financial Disclosures nances loans and investments see p. 28. (TCFD), transparency and predominantly taken out and Looking ahead, in addition to the management of climatemade in the Nordic region, Danske Bank makes its own working to introduce new green related risks and opportunities where green funding has green bonds investments concept offerings we are also are key to enabling a shared increased significantly over the through Danske Bank Group working to address positive understanding of the course of the past few years. Treasury, and in 2019 we and negative societal impact at implications of climate change allocated DKK 10 billion for our portfolio level to help steer our at both a company and a Currently, we are seeing a dedicated Green Bond Portfolio full portfolio in a sustainable systemic level. strong interest in green bonds, towards 2022. direction. and the volume of green In March 2019, we launched bonds arranged for clients by Also in 2019, Danica Pension Danske Bank’s Green Bond Danske Bank has grown around announced a DKK 100 billion Framework, which serves 170% from 2018. As a result, green pledge towards 2030. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Green finance figures 2019 • Danske Bank facilitation: DKK Building a market 3 billion Climate Awareness by providing green Bond issued by the European financing solutions on Investment Bank led by Danske ESG integration Climate change Bank has been the largest the back of our Green preparedness and assessing Bond Framework. green bond in DKK to date. environmental, social and managing climate• Danica Pension investments: and governance risks related financial risks Over DKK 10 billion invested in in our investments, and opportunities in the green transition (sub-target lending and line with TCFD. for 2023 is DKK 30 billion), procurement. and DKK 54 million invested in energy efficiency in property Investment and portfolio. lending restrictions • Danske Bank Group Treasury: for a number of DKK 7 billion treasury funds Partnering for impact coal and tar sands invested in green bonds by engaging with companies in line with issued, for example, for large the Climate Bonds the Paris Pledge for renewable energy projects and Initiative to grow the Action. climate protection in Northern market for green Europe. bonds. How we work Read more For more details, please see p. 36 Disclosing Engaging in public policy to promote green CDP scores and our Sustainability Fact Book on environmental 2019. supporting the European Commission’s finance leadership where we have a score of C. sustainable finance action plan as well as eco-labels for financial products. Decarbonising Carbon footprint shipping of selected Danske through engagement Invest funds published in the Getting to Zero Investor annually in line with Coalition and working collaboration the UN’s Montreal with the Poseidon through the Carbon Pledge. Principles. Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) and Climate Action 100+. 2025 goal Helping society transition Introducing our Green Bond Framework towards a net-zero carbon economy through green financing. Our aim is to Through Danske Bank’s Green We have used the definitions Use of proceeds categories continuously grow the volume Bond Framework, we aim to in the framework to review • Clean transportation of green bonds, loans and develop the green bond market the loan portfolio among large • Renewable energy investments. by channelling capital into the corporate clients. Existing loans • Transmission and energy environmentally beneficial that had qualified as green storage projects of our customers and loans served as the foundation • Green and energy-efficient 2019 performance by addressing the investor for the issuance of the first buildings demand for green assets. The Danske Bank Green Bond in • Environmentally sustainable • DKK 7 billion framework defines the loans or March 2019. When the bond management of living natural Green loans granted to customers* investments eligible for funds was launched, not only was the resources and land use • DKK 4.5 billion by the proceeds of green bonds level of demand high, but it also • Sustainable water and Green bonds issued* issued by Danske Bank. It also attracted significant investor wastewater management • DKK 104 billion outlines the process used to diversification. The impact of • Pollution prevention and Green bonds arranged for identify, select and report on eliour framework aligns with secontrol customers gible loans, as well as the portveral Sustainable Development • Climate change adaptation *Danske Bank and Realkredit Danmark folio approach used to manage Goals (SDGs), including SDG 7 proceeds. The framework aligns on affordable and clean energy. Green Bond Committee with the four core components Contributions to reductions in Danske Bank’s Green Bond SDG contribution of the Green Bond Principles carbon emissions are relative Committee approves green loans, We stimulate climate change 2018 administered by the to the purpose the proceeds are monitors the eligible portfolio measures, sustainable International Capital Market to be used for. Our first Green and the allocation of green bond management of natural Association. Bond Impact Report will be net proceeds, and maintains and resources and the share of published in 2020. updates the framework. renewable energy in support of SDGs 13.2, 12.2 and 7.2 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT TCFD reporting – climate-related risks and opportunities To support the transition to a net-zero economy and to future-proof we are participating in working groups organised by UNEP FI to test our business model, Danske Bank has committed to implementing and further develop methodologies. the recommendations from the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Working with the TCFD recommenLooking ahead, we will build on our initial insights to further dations requires significant analysis of climate issues and integrastrengthen our processes for managing climate-related financial tion of findings in processes throughout our business, and we are risks and opportunities. We see our commitment to integrating currently in the early stages of a multi-year journey. climate considerations across our business as integral to our fulfilment of the Principles for Responsible Banking. In 2019, we started working on our first climate-related scenario analyses, and together with leading banks from around the world Governance including green loans and bonds, as well as oversight of the Our Board of Directors exerts oversight of climate-related implementation of the TCFD recommendations. Our Business issues, both as routinely scheduled items and when important Integrity Committee is supplemented by our Sustainable matters arise. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) Investment and Sustainable Lending committees that focus on considerations, including climate-related issues, are taken into activities specific to investment and credit granting respectively. account when taking stands on sector risks. In this regard, the Board Risk Committee operates as a preparatory committee Furthermore, ESG risks, including climate-related risks, are for the Board of Directors by focusing on Danske Bank’s risk subject to oversight by our All Risk Committee, on which all management and related matters. Executive Leadership Team members sit. This committee makes decisions on and monitors all material risks associated with the At management level, the overall responsibility for climateGroup’s business model and activities across all risk categories, related issues lies with our Business Integrity Committee, business units, functions and geographical regions. These which includes all members of the Executive Leadership Team. efforts are conducted in accordance with our enterprise risk The committee has oversight of KPIs and targets related management at a country level and at a business unit level. to our emission reductions and climate-related offerings, Strategy As part of our Nordic Integrator Strategy, we aim to integrate In terms of our offerings, in 2019 we announced a new societal impact and sustainability, including climate framework for our granting of green loans and issuance of green perspectives, into our business model as we believe this is bonds. The foundation for the issuance of the first Danske Bank key to running a sustainable long-term business. Specifically green bond was laid by existing loans that qualified as green. concerning climate change, our goal is to help society transition This first Danske Bank green bond launched with higher levels to a net-zero carbon economy through green financing, and we of demand, a more diversified investor base and consequently see an increasing demand for sustainable finance offerings and a somewhat cheaper funding cost than that of comparable nonproducts that incorporate climate-related considerations. green bond issues. In 2019, we started working on our first climate-related scenario Furthermore, Realkredit Danmark has introduced a green analyses, and we are working towards taking a sector-based mortgage covered bond as the first institution in Denmark to approach to assess both transition and physical risks. For do so. On the client side, the volume of green bonds arranged example, we have examined the transition risks for our oil and for clients by Danske Bank has grown significantly since 2018, gas portfolio, which in the long term could affect the credit quality and we are now among the top 10 banks globally for green of this portfolio. However, further work with scenario analyses is bond facilitation in Bloomberg’s Global Green Bond League required to obtain a more complete and detailed overview of the Table. We are also working to make Danica Pension’s property climate-related risks and opportunities we face across sectors, portfolio more energy-efficient with a view to reducing both the thereby allowing us to fully describe the strategic implications. carbon footprint and operational costs, and Danica Pension has committed to increasing its green investments to DKK 100 We will also be monitoring closely the impact of upcoming billion by 2030. Looking ahead, we expect to develop more green regulation that is expected to shape the climate-related offerings across our markets, including green mortgage loans and risks and opportunities we face, for example, the European sustainability-linked loans. Commission action plan on sustainable finance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Risk management In 2019, we started to include climate-related risk reporting We assess and consider environmental risks in our investment, using sector-specific scenario analyses for relevant sectors, lending and procurement practices on the basis of our and together with leading banks from around the world we are commitments to international sustainability principles, our participating in working groups organised by UNEP FI in order to policies and our position statements. Included in this is our test and further develop methodologies for this work. decision to no longer invest in or lend to companies with a revenue of 30% or more derived from thermal coal mining, Our first analysis covering transition risks was performed for thermal coal utilities or extraction of oil from tar sands. the oil and gas sector, following TCFD recommendations and the World Energy Outlook scenarios from the International Energy Our Credit Policy sets out the principles for managing credit risk, Agency. A physical risk analysis was also conducted to examine and ESG is an integrated part of this policy. Our ESG directives the impact of flooding risk on parts of our real estate portfolio. also set the minimum requirements for managing specific ESG The scenario-based sector assessments provide insights into risks, including climate-related risks, within five specific sectors: climate-related risks and opportunities. We will continue our fossil fuels, mining and metals, forestry, agriculture and arms efforts with climate-related scenario analyses with the aim of and defence. Our ESG instructions and factsheets provide covering additional sectors and refining our methodology while further practical guidance on the procedures when handling also ensuring further integration of the results in our processes. ESG risks. In our role as asset owner and asset manager, we acknowledge Additionally, we regularly assess climate-related risks as part that the significant financial climate-related exposures of our of our credit analysis for individual large corporate customers, investments are not fully captured by traditional financial and we perform risk assessments for selected credit portfolios metrics. We are therefore working to gradually implement based on their impact on the Group’s financial position under the TCFD recommendations into our investment decisionstress and/or significant relation to the Group’s strategy. The making processes. This includes developing methodologies sector risk assessments include an ESG assessment and to identify climate-related risks and opportunities, assessing screenings of our customers using external ESG data providers. the relative exposure of industries to different climate-related These assessments help inform our risk appetite for a given risks and opportunities, and evaluating how well companies sector and are presented to the All Risk Committee and the manage those exposures. Since these issues are complex, the Board Risk Committee. This can lead to specific actions such as implementation will be a multi-year journey, increasing in scope tightening of credit standards. gradually over time. Metrics and targets environmental footprint on p. 35 and the ESG performance table In 2019, we carried out two types of climate-related scenario on p. 36 for further details of our metrics and targets. analysis using two different sets of metrics. The first analysis was on transition risks in the oil and gas sector, focusing on We have also commenced work on analysing the carbon potential effects to the credit quality of our portfolio. The second footprint of our lending and investment portfolios. No portfolio analysis was on physical risks related to increased frequency targets have yet been set based on current findings, although and severity of flooding in our retail mortgage portfolio, which Danica Pension has committed to increasing its green produced estimates of exposure and collateral value at risk. investments to DKK 100 billion by 2030. In terms of our climate footprint, our own operations have been carbon neutral since 2009. Please refer to the section on our “By working with the recommendations of the TCFD, we’re preparing Danske Bank for the future. As part of our credit analysis for large corporate customers, we’ve started working with assessments of climate-related risks. And we’ve also begun developing methodologies to identify climate-related risks and opportunities as part of our investment decision-making processes.” Carsten Rasch Egeriis, Member of the Executive Leadership Team and Head of Group Risk Management. Read more For more details, please see our Annual Report 2019 and our Risk Management Report 2019. Danske Bank also discloses detailed information based on the TCFD framework as part of our reporting to CDP on climate change available at cdp.net. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Innovation and entrepreneurship Entrepreneurs are essential to innovation and economic growth in society. Danske Bank is committed to helping start-ups scale their business and increase their positive impact on society. The Sustainable at leadership level among the engagement of mentors, Development Goals Nordic impact start-ups, Danske Bank frequently (SDGs) address the with women representing participates at Nordic start-up global challenges only 14% of all CEOs. In events, including at events that we face – poverty, inequality and 2020, we will continue our focus on diversity and female climate change, to name but a activities to support female potential. few. As such, these goals form entrepreneurship. a blueprint for achieving a better In addition to this digital future, and they encourage In 2018, we launched +impact, platform, Danske Bank has and stimulate new business our free, cross-Nordic, digital also kick-started a 10-week models and innovations. Impact matchmaking platform tailored accelerator programme for start-ups – new ventures that to social entrepreneurs who Nordic impact start-ups. The Entrepreneurship 2019 figures make a positive social and address one or more of the programme helps start-ups • Danske Bank Growth: 70+ environmental impact whilst SDGs. Through +impact, fine-tune their business models advisers in our Centre of also securing financial returns entrepreneurs can share their and prepares them for the Excellence specialise in helping start-ups and growth – are the embodiment of all that challenges and receive advice next stages of growth. The first companies across our the SDGs represent. from mentors and expert accelerator programme was business and market areas. volunteers. In order to promote launched in October 2018 in • +impact: 825 times an expert Start-ups, however, are high-risk our activities and increase Copenhagen with a broad focus offered to help an impact startbusinesses that need solid up with a challenge through ecosystems to succeed. Since our free, cross-Nordic, digital 2015, Danske Bank has been matchmaking platform. The building a portfolio of activities platform currently lists 250+ across the Nordic countries SDGs addressed by impact start-ups match start-ups and 850+ expert volunteers. This represents to help start-ups to scale their investor preferences a 380% engagement growth business and increase their Top four SDGs most frequently addressed by Nordic impact start-ups: since 2018. positive impact. • +impact accelerator: 20 Nordic start-ups graduated Helping impact entrepreneurs from our training programme Raising capital, recruitment for impact start-ups. and access to best practice • The Hub: 6,000+ start-ups, tools are the main scalability 18,000+ jobs, and 280,000+ challenges for all growth This finding from our 2019 State of Nordic Impact Start-ups report fits applicants listed on our free, digital-community platform companies. On top of these, well with the impact focus of Nordic investors. A 2019 survey of impact tailored to the needs of growth other key challenges specific investing in the Nordic countries conducted by One Initiative and cocompanies across our markets. to impact start-ups include sponsored by Danske Bank shows that the most popular SDG preferences This represents a 200% access to mentors and experts, are the following: engagement growth since the need for an ecosystem of 2018. interacting businesses, and the • Hub Invest in Finland: 16 need for help to develop a viable start-ups and about 70 angel business model. investors participated in matchmaking events. • Canute: 34 start-ups To gain a deeper understanding However, there are also differences. Many impact start-ups focus participated in the market of the challenges and to help on changing the way goods and resources are consumed (SDG 12), introduction programmes for build a strong community whereas investors see industrial innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9) scale-ups going international. around impact start-ups, as investment opportunities. The programme is run by the Danske Bank conducts an The State of Nordic Impact Start-ups survey 2019 also shows that Danish Ministry of Foreign annual survey, and the insights Affairs, and Danske Bank is a energy solutions (SDG 7) represent 65% of profit generated by impact gained are shared in our State founding partner. start-ups. Although SDG 7 is popular with investors, their interests and of Nordic Impact Start-ups impact intention are in general more spread across the SDGs than the • SHE Conference in Norway: report. The 2019 survey carried solutions provided by impact start-ups. More than 2,000 people out in-depth analyses of specific participated at the genderequality conference for topics, including business A total of 83% of the Nordic impact investors expect their impact start-ups. The conference is models, markets, customers portfolio to deliver a rate of return that is at or above the market rate. sponsored and co-organised by and gender diversity. The survey This is good news for the emerging practice of impact investment. Danske Bank. revealed a gender gap SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 on all SDGs. In 2019, second The Hub – Danske Bank’s free, start-ups. The survey also and third programmes ran in digital community platform that brought to light the fact that Copenhagen and Stockholm. makes it easier for start-ups employees who own shares in In Copenhagen the focus was to recruit talent and helps the company they work for work specifically on start-ups working applicants find the right job. on average eight hours more with sustainable fashion and Through The Hub, start-ups per week. food, whereas the participants can create a profile to increase in Stockholm focused on their visibility among investors, Matchmaker for risk capital circular economy solutions. access free tools to support To help bring start-ups into The accelerator programme growth (including templates contact with investors, is all-expenses-paid and for contracts and pitch decks), Danske Bank engages with offers mentoring, training and and can promote their vacant local investor networks such networking. Each programme positions to job seekers. as DanBan and FiBan. In ends with a Demo Day, at 2019, Danske Bank held four which the start-ups pitch their Built by Rainmaking and events as part of The Investor business ideas in front of more powered by Danske Bank, The Series event programme. In than 100 participants and Hub was originally launched in conjunction with these events, potential investors. Denmark in 2015. With the we invited international venture support of local partners, The capital companies to Denmark 2025 goal At Danske Bank, we believe Hub has since expanded to to meet promising Nordic scaleHelping 1,000 social that the Nordic region can cover Sweden, Norway, Finland ups looking for funding. entrepreneurs grow their become a centre for impact and Northern Ireland. positive impact in society. start-ups, and, together with Another way to help start-ups partners, we can help facilitate In 2019, The Hub was gain access to risk capital that development. Ensuring that redesigned and new innovative is through the activation of 2019 performance we have the right competencies features were introduced. our personal customers as on board is a further reason Not only has the applicant angel investors. In 2019, 1200 why we enter into partnerships management system been we launched our new Hub 2025 goal 1000 with others. Our strategic radically improved, but the startInvest programme in Finland, partner on the +impact platform up public profiles have also through which private banking 800 is the venture development firm been upgraded to give start-ups customers are trained in making informed decisions 600 Rainmaking, and partners who more opportunities to promote have contributed to our +impact their business and work culture. about angel investing. The 400 accelerator programme include programme covers topics such SingularityU Nordic, Katapult Being able to offer an attractive as risk handling, building a 200 Accelerator, RISE and WeWork salary can be crucial for portfolio, due diligence and exit 214 0 Labs. attracting and retaining the strategies. Upon completion 2019 right people needed to scale of their training, the angel Data is accumulated from Supporting tech entrepreneurs a business. To help founders investors meet with early-stage baseline 2018. In addition to our initiatives that and employees find a mutually start-ups at a matchmaking focus on supporting impact agreeable and attractive price event. We will arrange similar entrepreneurs, we are also for a career, Danske Bank and training and events across the SDG contribution supporting tech entrepreneurs Arkwright X conducted a Nordic Nordic countries in 2020. We stimulate formalisation across the Nordic region. A Start-up Salary Survey in 2018 and growth among start-ups in key activity in this respect is to chart pay levels within Nordic support of SDG 8.3. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Financial confidence and security Financial challenges are a key driver of personal stress in society, and the risk of financial cybercrime and fraud is increasing. At Danske Bank, we are committed to helping people and businesses become financially confident and secure in today’s digital age. Children today has to be earned. Our Pocket money. Afterwards, the families are living in an Money solution, launched in play games such as making ever-changing 2017, enables parents to have DKK 100 go as far as possible financial world. regular discussions with their for groceries, discovering Digital money, contactless children about spending and hidden household expenses and payments, in-app purchases saving up. The solution consists earning money by carrying out and cryptocurrency are just of an app, a pocket money card household chores. some of the things they need for children aged 8 to 14, and These initiatives are part of help in understanding. At a feature in the Danske Mobile our new impact programme, Financial confidence 2019 figures Danske Bank, we believe that Banking app for parents. The Safe-box. This programme • MoneyVille: 338,699 children practice makes perfect and provides a safe environment in across our markets used our that good money habits can Launching new impact which children’s most influential online game to gain a better help children progress all the programmes role models can help children understanding of how money way to a financially secure A new initiative in Denmark develop good money habits. is earned, how to prioritise spending, and the importance adulthood. Together with our launched in 2019 is Pocket New initiatives targeted at of saving. partners, experts and NGOs, we Money Day. On this day, parents will be launched in • PengeKøbing in Denmark: are continually developing tools children can earn their pocket early 2020, and an educational 1,480 children aged 6 to and educational programmes money by setting up small concept for schools is currently 12 attended our 13 events that ensure the sharing and shops, and parents are provided under development in close together with their parents and activating of knowledge with videos with tips on how collaboration with the Danish learned about money through throughout the community, in to help their children build a students’ organisation, Danske a mix of theatre, talks and schools and at home with the sustainable small business. Skolelever. The programme will games. family. subsequently be adapted to • Money Week in Denmark: 392 classes and 9,562 Another new initiative aimed at the markets in the other Nordic pupils aged 13 to 15 attended A Danske Bank study carried opening up the topic of money countries. a guest lecture at their out by YouGov in 2019 shows is PengeKøbing, launched in school about digital security, that three out of four parents in Denmark in 2019. This event In Finland, Danske Bank budgeting and personal the Nordic countries give pocket involves actors performing launched a two-year finances given by one of our money to their children. About a play for children about the programme in 2018 to make financial advisers. half of all parents give pocket history of money while a it easier to start talking about • Pocket Money app: 16,344 money to help their children psychologist provides advice money and to encourage new users in Denmark, become financially responsible to parents on how to talk to people to take charge of their Norway, Sweden and Finland. • Pocket Money Day in and to teach them that money children about the topic of personal finances. Our first Denmark: 1,542 children aged step was to rent public saunas 8 to 12 opened small shops in and engage in conversation three large shopping centres to about money with the more earn their own pocket money. than 600 people who sat • SMART in Northern Ireland: down in the saunas to talk 5,536 pupils in 53 primary with us. Initiatives in 2019 and post-primary school included investment gifts were educated by our Youth for babies in collaboration Ambassadors on the subjects of budgeting and saving, credit with SOS Children’s Villages and debit, buying and renting Finland, a YouTube series with property, and entrepreneurship. popular journalist-producer • Economic know-how in Arman Alizad, and podcasts in Finland: Dozens of our financial which people living in Finland advisers helped hundreds in different life situations find of young people who are not financial piece of mind with the in employment, education help of Danske Bank mentors. or training to manage their Together with the Children and personal finances. • Financial confidence in Youth Foundation and the Young Finland: Almost 400,000 Entrepreneurship Association, viewed the YouTube series we will in 2020 launch a free and over 50,000 listened to At Pocket Money Day, children can earn pocket money by setting up financial education programme podcasts. small shops. created in alignment with the Finnish school curriculum. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 Counter fraud 2019 figures • Resources: More than 100 employees working across multiple locations to fight fraud and protect Danske Bank customers. • Payment screening: Every month, more than 10 million payments were screened, with customers being contacted if payment verification is required. • Keep It Safe: In the first quarter of 2019, more than 27,000 unique visits were registered on our platform since 2018, increasing to 52,855 in the fourth quarter of the year. • Awareness raising: Our The fight against fraudsters continues content on social media is, on average, viewed by more than 40,000 users. This includes Every month, thousands of FraudEngine detects and flags customers – were used as soarticles, videos and other customers become victims for review any transactions called money mules. Criminals engaging content. of card and payment fraud, that do not follow the usual target these customers and lure • Business customer visits: such as investment scams, payment pattern for the them into transferring illegally At least once a month, we romance scams and ID theft. specific customer. Once such a obtained money between visited business customers to The monetary losses can transaction has been brought different payment accounts. raise awareness of the most amount to millions for business to our attention, we contact the In 2020, Danske Bank in common fraud trends. customers and hundreds of customer to receive first-hand collaboration with national • Mit digitale selvforsvar [My thousands for retail customers. confirmation of whether the authorities and other banks will digital self-defence]: More than 150,000 downloads – an In 2019, we saw a 20% payment was legitimate or be conducting information and increase of more than 50% increase in fraudulent payment not. When possible, fraudulent awareness campaigns about since 2018. transactions, but we managed transactions are halted before the growing trend in money to keep the combined gross funds are moved. mules. losses for card and payment fraud at levels similar to those Because most card fraud Collaboration between Danske of 2018. occurs when a thief steals Bank and Finance Denmark a card’s PIN (enabling the to raise awareness of fraud Nevertheless, fraudsters are perpetrator to withdraw DKK prevention has also been becoming more skilled and 30,000 in just a few minutes), intensified. Together, we the scams are getting more we took the precautionary hosted an event on payment sophisticated. Throughout measure in 2019 of reducing fraud techniques at the annual 2025 goal 2019, we continued to invest in the pre-defined cash withdrawal Danish political festival, Helping five million people and defences to ensure that Danske limit to DKK 6,000. Customers Folkemødet, in 2019. businesses to become financially Bank’s and our customers’ can increase this limit if they confident and secure in today’s assets remain secure. To wish. In 2020, we will launch a digital age. increase security and enable redesigned version of our Keep compliance with ever-increasing Raising fraud awareness It Safe platform, through which regulatory requirements, we To help strengthen cyber we share the latest insights in 2019 performance have ramped up our security resilience across all of the the area of cyber security and capabilities, increased our Nordic countries, Danske Bank provide tools for businesses 6 mio. collaboration with authorities, collaborates with external and personal customers to 2025 goal 5 mio. and enhanced our systems and cyber security organisations protect themselves against processes. connected to the Danish cyber criminals. 4 mio. police and various intelligence Detecting fraudulent agencies. Such agencies We continue to make relevant 3 mio. transactions include the Danish Centre for content from the Keep It Safe 2 mio. At Danske Bank, highly Cyber Security, the Danish platform available to The Danish advanced real-time fraudNational Center of IT-related Consumer Council, which 3.952.248 1 mio. prevention systems are Economic Crime (LCIK), and offers a free app, Mit digitale 0 used to analyse and detect the Nordic Financial CERT, with selvforsvar [My digital self2019 fraudulent card and payment which we share best practice on defence], that provides advice Data is accumulated from transactions. In 2019, we the latest fraud intelligence and on how to avoid becoming a baseline 2018. improved our FraudEngine which plays a lead role in the victim of fraud and what to do programme – a programme that joint effort to fight cybercrime. if it happens. We also provide screens millions of transactions alerts on fake email campaigns SDG contribution among our retail and business In 2019, we saw a doubling and guides on what to look out We stimulate people in achieving customers each month to of cases where customers for when shopping online. literacy and numeracy in support prevent payment fraud. The – especially our younger of SDG 4.6. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Compliance culture A strong compliance culture is fundamental to regaining the trust of our stakeholders. At Danske Bank, managing risks is a responsibility shared by all employees, and we continue to work to ensure it is an integral part of the day-to-day work routines of each and every employee. Complying with applicable types, creating the framework Our Group Compliance function Leadership Team. Clear policies, legislation, market standards to run a responsible business. is responsible for monitoring a high level of risk-awareness and international principles for We work to ensure that strong compliance across the Group and mandatory training for all responsible business conduct internal controls and risks and for providing advice on employees are key to building is fundamental to Danske assessments are embedded at mitigating compliance risks. and maintaining a strong culBank. Taking an enterprise risk the core of all that we do, and in The Chief Compliance Officer ture of compliance. An essential management (ERM) approach, 2020 we will invest further in reports directly to the CEO and pillar in all of this is our Code we set common standards for this area. the Board of Directors and is of Conduct Policy, to which all risk management across all risk a member of our Executive employees must adhere. Learning path for mandatory risk and compliance training Lay the foundation Learn about the biggest regulations 4 Anti-money laundering Why anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist $ financing are important. 2 Everyone is a risk manager 1 Code of conduct What defines good risk What are the conduct behaviour and how to create policies and standards that all a sound risk culture. employees must live up to. 5 GDPR 3 Whistleblowing How to protect personal data and Why have a whistleblower system and how to comply with the EU General Data report wrongdoings. Protection Regulation (GDPR). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 This policy provides guidance whistleblower reports increased added a new training module – Relevant policies on the subject of prudent by more than 20% from 2018 Introduction to Taxes. This modGroup policies of specific relevance behaviour and assists our emto 2019. ule is available to all employees to sustainability include: • Anti-money Laundering, ployees in their daily work and and helps them learn more Counter-Terrorist Financing and decision-making. In addition, Tax transparency about taxation and detecting tax Sanctions Policy our Escalation Policy sets the Tax fraud and tax evasion evasion. • Code of Conduct Policy requirements for appropriate contribute to rising inequality, • Compliance Policy and timely internal reporting of and at Danske Bank we have a Anti-corruption and bribery • Conflict of Interest Policy potentially problematic cases, firm position on tax compliance, Corruption and bribery repre• Credit Policy ensuring that such cases are as set out in our Tax Policy. In sent a significant barrier for • Diversity and Inclusion Policy escalated to the Executive addition to seeking transpar­ economic and social develop• Escalation Policy Leadership Team and reported ency and a proactive, open and ment. We are working to miti• Market Abuse Policy • Remuneration Policy onwards to the Board of Direccooperative relationship with gate the risks associated with • Security Policy tors, when relevant. the tax authorities, we are also corruption and bribery through • Societal Impact & Sustainability committed to disclosing our our compliance infrastructure, Policy Improved whistleblower tax payments in accordance which includes controls, cen• Stakeholder Policy system with national and international tralisation of processes, training • Supplier Code of Conduct We strive to foster a healthy requirements and in line with and escalation procedures. We • Sustainable Investment Policy feedback culture in which good practice among our peers. operate in accordance with the • Tax Policy employees can feel free to voice Should it come to our attention following five principles: (i) not • Whistleblowing Policy any concerns they may have. that any of our customers or to accept or solicit bribes in any Should employees become business partners are engaging form; (ii) not to make or accept aware of irregularities or wrongin tax fraud or tax evasion, we facilitation payments; (iii) not to Read more doings, they can also report cooperate with the relevant offer, promise or give a financial For more details, please see our Annual Report 2019 and our Risk their concerns anonymously authorities in accordance with or other advantage; (iv) to only Management Report 2019. through our whistleblower applicable rules and regulations. accept gifts given or received system. All reports are treated in specific situations; and (v) in the strictest confidence, and Possessing a general underto avoid any conflict between whistleblowers are protected standing of the tax affairs of our our personal interests and the against retaliatory measures. In customers is a key competency interests of the Group. 2019, we revised our Whistle­ that enables our employees to blowing Policy to ensure clearly mitigate compliance risk in To avoid conflicts of interest defined requirements and relation to customer tax evaor accusations of bribery and expectations for the use of sion. The main principles of our corruption, employees should the whistleblower system and Tax Policy and the global tax consult their manager or Group raised the profile of the critical framework are part of our manCompliance if ever they are in importance of whistleblower datory anti-money laundering doubt. Our register of gifts and protection. The number of (AML) training. In 2019, we hospitality provides further transparency to this end. Our stance on corruption and bribery is expressed in our Code of Conduct Policy. In 2020, this policy will be augmented by a separate set of criteria for Gain specialised knowledge sponsorship agreements. 6 Competition law 7 Information security How the requirements affect awareness Ambition our activities including key risk How to behave in areas. Our aim is to have more than a secure manner 95% employees trained in risk regarding sensitive and and compliance in 2023. confidential data. To further drive our strong compliance culture, all employees must complete 2019 performance an annual eLearning package 96% of our employees 8 Market abuse containing courses covering risk and completed and passed risk How the market compliance issues related to internal and compliance training. abuse regulation 9 Social engineering policies and external regulation. The affects our What is social courses follow a learning path that activities. engineering and how helps employees to complete the to prevent it. training in an order that ensures the SDG contribution best possible learning experience and We work to reduce corruption the embedding of knowledge. and bribery in all forms in support of SDG 16.5. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Customer engagement Building long-term responsible customer relationships is key to Danske Bank’s business success. In addition to striving to provide responsible advice and easy and secure access to financial services, we also strive to keep customer data safe. At Danske Bank, we are fully customer relationships. We are – particularly if they have been a targets – and communication, committed to becoming a better taking all steps necessary to loyal customer for many years. irrespective of channel and cusbank for all our stakeholders. As improve our performance and to However, KYC regulations are tomer, should be open, truthful well as acting with integrity, we prevent something similar from not only necessary, but they are and unambiguous. hold ourselves to a high ethical happening again. in the best interests of us all. standard where profit may never If our customers are not overshadow responsible behavCustomer due diligence Through our Nordic KYC utility, satisfied with our services, we iour. We use customer satisLike all other banks in the EU, we aim to simplify the KYC encourage them to contact faction as a pointer for how well Danske Bank is subject to Know processes, thereby improving us with a view to settling the we live up to the expectations of Your Customer (KYC) regulathe customer experience for matter and helping us improve our more than five million custions. It is a requirement that by corporate customers, see p. 26. the customer experience. It is tomers, and it is our aim to be the end of 2020 all our customalso possible to file a complaint among the top two banks when ers will have undergone ongoing Responsible advising online. it comes to customer satisfacdue diligence (ODD) processing. At Danske Bank, we also have tion by 2023. The ODD process, which we a legal obligation to provide Keeping customer data safe started in 2017, involves docuresponsible customer advice, We keep customer data safe Our 2019 performance shows menting who our customers are which means ensuring that adand secure with respect to data room for improvement. We fully and understanding how our cusvisers act in the best interests privacy in line with EU General recognise the negative sentitomers are using our products of our customers and offer the Data Protection Regulation ments aroused by the money and services. most suitable products and ad(GDPR) requirements. GDPR laundering case in Estonia, see vice. Our advisers undergo conentered into force in May 2018, p. 27, and the Flexinvest Fri In 2019, we focused on tinuous training, and we have and since then more than case and the impact these have contacting our more than set up internal controls and 7,000 customers have exhad on our image, customer 1.7 million retail customers audits to ensure that we live up pressed an interest in knowing loyalty and satisfaction. Regainin Denmark. We understand to our obligations and follow our what personal data we store by ing our stakeholders’ trust is that some customers may feel own business procedures. As requesting an overview. We fundamental when it comes to inconvenienced when we ask a matter of principle, retail adrecognise that GDPR is a cul­ building long-term responsible them to provide proof of identity visers do not have sales-related tural change for both customers When asking customers… …we are better able to… to provide their proof of identity and citizenship, if they are a protect customers from the fraudulent activities of others, spot politically exposed person (or related to such a person), PASSPO RT criminals who exhibit behaviour that stands out from the norm, to provide details of certain transactions, and which country combat money laundering, the financing of terrorism and other or countries they are liable to pay tax in, including tax liability in financial crime, and assist our national and foreign tax authorities. the United States. “We invest a lot of time and effort in developing concepts that give a better customer experience. Open Banking is set to be the biggest seismic shift in financial services since online banking. We have created a virtual bank environment to test prototypes and concepts with Nordic fin-tech companies, and our investments in this space form part of our long-term strategy to support innovate financial solutions.” Glenn Söderholm, Member of the Executive Leadership Team and Head of Banking Nordic SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Customer engagement 2019 figures • Users of Danske Mobile Banking: 1,421,680 users of our new Danske Mobile Banking app and mobile banking is now almost as used as e-banking is by our customers. • Customer meeting bookings: 17% of all customer meetings were booked by our customer through our website or Danske Mobile Banking which allows the customer to engage with us in the way that suits them best. • KYC outreach: 387,668 customers contacted as part of our KYC obligations. and employees, and working Daily banking made easy and interfaces for our new financial • Percentage of employees with the data protection princisecure technological ecosystem. These trained in GDPR: 96% ples has required the implemenTo make daily banking easy and allow our customers to view tation of new procedures and secure for our customers, we accounts from other banks in systems. continuously simplify our prothe Danske Mobile Banking app, Read more For more detail on customer cesses and create innovative for example. The interfaces open satisfaction, see our Annual Report Throughout 2019, we continfinancial solutions. In 2019, we up a range of new services for 2019. ued to assist a smooth implerolled-out a new Danske Mobile our customers and present new mentation by providing tools Banking app, and one of our mabusiness opportunities for many and guidance. GDPR is also part jor areas of investment is Open companies. of our mandatory compliance Banking. Regulated by the EU’s training, which has included a PSD2 directive to secure data Danske Bank also offers cusmodule on secure communicaand regulate how this data is tomised solutions for people Ambition tion in view of the Danish Data used, Open Banking gives third with special requirements. For Build long-term responsible Protection Agency’s new guideparties direct access to banking example, in 2019 Danske Bank customer relationships. Our lines for encrypting electronic data, which is of value to our Northern Ireland started working aim is to be among the top two communications. We have customers and for integrating to become dementia friendly. on customer satisfaction in also made a data inspection with partners. This involves training employees everything we do by 2023. test to prepare ourselves for in how to support customers future inspections, and we have Previously, Danske Bank used affected by dementia – a condeveloped additional training an interface from a third party. dition where memory loss and 2019 performance modules for employees who are However, in 2019, in alignment problems with processing inforBanking DK: particularly exposed to GDPR to with the PSD2 directive, we mation can make banking and • Retail customers: Below target be rolled-out in 2020. introduced three new online managing money a challenge. • Commercial customers: Below target Banking Nordic: • Retail customers: On target in The Flexinvest Fri case 2 of 3 countries • Commercial customers: On The Flexinvest Fri case was a major focus FSA issued a decision containing a number target in 3 of 3 countries point for Danske Bank in 2019. of orders. Danske Bank is currently taking the Corporate & Institutions: steps necessary to ensure compliance with • Number 3 overall in the Nordic On 24 June 2019, Danske Bank publicly these. countries announced that customers who had invested • On target in 2 of 4 countries Wealth Management: in the Flexinvest Fri product during a certain On 14 November 2019, Danske Bank Asset Management: period paid fees that were too high. This was a was preliminarily charged by the Danish • Number 2 overall in the Nordic result of a number of management decisions State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and countries to change Flexinvest Fri fees in connection with International Crime (SØIK) for violating the • On target in 1 out of 4 countries the implementation of new regulation (MiFID II) Danish Executive Order on Investor Protection Danica Pension: in 2017. At the time, interest rates and expectin connection with the Flexinvest Fri case. • Below target in 2 countries ed returns were low. From this perspective, the Danske Bank cooperates fully with SØIK. Northern Ireland: management decisions caused the fees to be • Personal Banking & Small set at a level that was too high in relation to As of 31 December 2019, a total of DKK Business: Number 1 • Corporate & Business Banking: the expected returns, which meant the product 310 million in compensation had been paid Number 1 was unsuitable for some customers. to almost 83,000 customers. The remaining 4,000 or so affected customers can expect to In October 2018, Danske Bank commenced receive compensation in 2020. SDG contribution an investigation and notified the Danish We seek to deliver easy and Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA) about For a full overview of the Flexinvest Fri case, secure access to financial the case. On 30 August 2019, the Danish please see Annual Report 2019. services for all in support of SDG 8.10. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Fighting financial crime The implications of financial crime on society are significant and continue to challenge our industry. Taking responsibility for the integrity of our systems and the prevention of financial crime is fundamental to Danske Bank. In recent years, Danske Bank financial crime prevention efCompliance leadership team information. The aim of this has made substantial investforts. One such investment has with staff who have a high level initiative has been to create a ments to improve systems and been a new IT system to supof exper­tise in these areas. joint venture company, and in competencies to fight money port our ongoing due diligence Another area of focus has August 2019 this company laundering and other types (ODD) processing of customers, been to provide comprehensive received approval from the Euof financial crime. Those who see p. 23. This is an important training to raise employee skills ropean Commission to proceed. attempt to misuse the financial milestone as ODD sits at the and expertise within the areas The first commercial launch is system continue to evolve their very centre of our AML activiof AML and combatting finanscheduled for early 2020, with methods and are becoming ties. In 2020, we will continue cial crime. Our internal AML all six banks investing an equal more sophisticated; consequentto focus on robotics and digitalTraining Academy will extend its share in the company. ly, fighting financial crime will isation to allow our employees training offers in 2020. remain at the top of our agenda. to concentrate on investigative Our commitment to the UN Prinwork, with robots handling the Working with peers and ciples for Responsible Banking We are continuing our investimore repetitive activities. advocating industry change will also be an important platform gation of the matters related to The threat of financial crime is for sharing AML best practices the historical non-resident Significant investments in our not something Danske Bank with other banks, see p. 11. customers at the now-closed transaction monitoring and cusfaces alone. Excellence in Estonian branch. Working in tomer and transaction screencompliance and crime prevenIn 2019, we participated in the close cooperation with the ing systems were also made in tion is central to all financial AML Task Force of Finance Denauthorities, we are deeply 2019. Our work has included institutions, and we strongly mark (the Danish business assocommitted to getting to the improving risk and transacbelieve that AML should not be ciation for the financial sector). In bottom of the case. The case tional coverage and tightening a competitive parameter. AML November 2019, the task force is still a topic in many of our alert thresholds, all of which is an area where the whole presented 25 recommendations stakeholder dialogues, and are important steps towards industry should work together, on how the financial sector and transparency about how we protecting the banking system share insights and expertise, the authorities can improve their contribute to fighting financial and keeping our customers and develop solutions that keep efforts to combat financial crime. crime is of great importance to safe. Monitoring and screening our collective systems safe and These recommendations include our stakeholders. continues to be a priority for secure. the development of joint IT soluDanske Bank, and we are maktions in the financial sector and a Bolstering our defences and ing further investments in our The Nordic Know Your Custo­ shared code of conduct. The task capabilities systems during 2020. mer (KYC) Utility, which we force also suggested the creation Our holistic anti-money launinitiated in 2018 together with of a joint unit in which banks, dering (AML) Operating Model We have invested heavily in five other large Nordic banks, supervisors and law enforcement extends across our entire our staff, ensuring we have the serves as good example of agencies can share knowledge customer base. Throughout right expertise to effectively this as it will make it easier for and exchange intelligence related 2019, we invested heavily in combat the rapidly evolving corporate customers to effecto money laundering, the financoptimising the processes and risks of financial crime. In 2019 tively and efficiently provide all ing of terrorism and specific technology that underpin our we strengthened the Group banks with high quality KYC suspicious cases. “Our most important asset for fighting financial crime is not technology – it is our employees. IT and artificial intelligence are great and important tools, and we strive to automate as many controls as possible. But we’ll never achieve our goal unless each and every one of us is engaged and alert to the task of identifying and bringing to light suspicious activities.” Philippe Vollot, Member of the Executive Leadership Team and Chief Compliance Officer SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 AML 2019 figures Nordic KYC utility • Resources: Approximately The aim is to define common KYC standards, simplify KYC processes and manage KYC information for corporate 2,400 full-time employees customers, thereby strengthening financial crime prevention. are working on combating financial crime. Our Group Before Now Compliance (which includes Financial Crime) has doubled in size to 300 employees, and the number of employees who carry out ongoing due diligence grew from 600 in early 2019 The to 1,200 by the end of the Nordic year. KYC • Training: Over 3,000 of Utility our front-line staff in our personal banking segment completed the full-day training course, Our AML, and over 1,400 employees completed Customers Banks/ Customers Banks/ onboarding and ongoing Financial Institutions Financial Institutions training programmes at our internal training organisation, AML Training Academy. Over 200 employees attended our AML EXPERT 2019 Conference in Vilnius, Estonia case Lithuania, where our leading AML professionals and The Estonia case continues to be a major focus A further, and important, aspect of Danske industry experts shared AML area for Danske Bank and all our stakeholders. Bank’s ongoing investigation into historical trends and insights. activities at the Estonian branch relates to The findings of the investigation into the nonsanctions screening. As set out in our interim resident portfolio at the Estonian branch, pubreport for the first nine months of 2019, Danlished in September 2018, revealed a series of ske Bank has enhanced its methodology since significant deficiencies in governance and conpublishing the Report on the Non-Resident trol systems at Danske Bank’s Estonian branch Portfolio in September 2018 and is screening as well as deficiencies at Group level. historical data on relevant historical customers of the Estonian branch, including the terminatDanske Bank remains in dialogue with various ed non-resident portfolio, as well as associinternational authorities regarding the matters ated persons and transaction information for arising out of its Estonian branch. This includes possible sanctions violations. Danske Bank will criminal and regulatory investigations by inform the market if there are material developauthorities in Estonia, Denmark, France and the ments that require disclosure. US. Danske Bank is reporting to, responding to inquiries from and cooperating with these In addition to the investigations by the authorities, including the U.S. Department of authorities, a number of lawsuits have been Justice (DOJ), the U.S. Securities and Exfiled against Danske Bank in the US and in change Commission (SEC), the Estonian Office Denmark. of the Prosecutor General and the Danish State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and InternaThese cases relate to alleged violation at tional Crime (SØIK), relating to Danske Bank’s Danske Bank’s branch in Estonia of the rules Estonian branch. We are cooperating with the on prevention of money laundering and the authorities and continue to share material. alleged failure to timely inform the financial markets of such violation. Ambition The overall timing of completion and the outPrevent financial crime through come of the investigations by, and subsequent Danske Bank is defending itself against effective AML governance. discussions with, the authorities are uncertain. these claims. The timing of completion of any lawsuits (pending or threatening) and their Danske Bank’s internal investigation into the outcome are uncertain. 2019 performance terminated non-resident portfolio is currently expected to conclude by the fourth quarter of In 2019, Danske Bank essentially exited its 15,889 reports submitted to the 2020. This timing is estimated and is subbanking activities in Estonia following a precept authorities regarding suspicious ject to change, including as a result of further from the Estonian Financial Supervisory matters. requests from authorities. The investigation Authority (FSA) to terminate our remaining continues to focus on issues arising out of the banking activities in Estonia. non-resident portfolio at the Estonian branch SDG contribution and includes reviewing whether similar issues For a full overview of events related to the case We work to reduce illicit financial have been present historically at Danske in 2019, please see Annual Report 2019. flows and combat all forms of Bank’s other Baltic branches. organised crime in support of SDG 16.4. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainable finance The provision of sustainable finance is key to addressing growing challenges such as climate change and social inequality. Strengthening integration of environment, social and governance (ESG) perspectives into Danske Bank’s investment and lending practices is one of our highest priorities. The realisation of the European to enabling the transition to a stimulate the agenda. We also align with the Principles for Commission action plan on sustainable economy, these support clear European and Responsible Banking that we sustainable finance will impose changes will also ensure that a national standards. endorsed in September 2019, major regulatory changes on stable financial system is mainsee pp. 12-13. the financial sector, which will tained. Danske Bank welcomes To debate the future of sustainalso impact the way we engage the plan, and we are engaging able investments, we in 2019 In recent years, we have with our customers. In addition through various forums to hosted the CFA Society Denincreased our transparency mark conference Sustainability on how we work to accelerate in Finance: ESG products and sustainable finance, and we integration. As a member of the communicate our position Forum for Sustainable Finance clearly. Forming the basis for under the auspices of Finance our investment, lending and Denmark, we also contributed sourcing processes alongside to the 20 recommendations our Sustainable Investment launched in December 2019 Policy and our Credit Policy are that point to more green and our position statements. These sustainable finance solutions as position statements cover the Sustainable bonds Sustainability-linked loans an important lever for acceleratareas of Climate Change, HuWe support capital allocation We see an increasing ing the agenda. man Rights, Agriculture, Arms to projects that have an interest from companies for and Defence, Forestry, Fossil environmental benefit or sustainability-linked loans. Danske Bank already commits Fuels, and Mining and Metals. positive social developments Such loans enable companies to supporting the transition We have separate committees through green, social and to prove their sustainability to a net-zero carbon economy that oversee and decide on sustainability bonds. Bonds commitments as the loan by providing green finance principal sustainable finance that fund a combination of margin depends on the solutions and by working with decisions. green and social projects are borrower’s achievement the TCFD, see pp. 14-17. These known as sustainability bonds. of sustainability targets. In efforts build on our foundation In 2019, a key focus was on In addition to green bonds, 2019, we granted a Finnish for integrating ESG into our improving the ESG data foundawe also helped customers to company our first ever sustainfinancial services. We align our tion to support better-informed issue social and sustainability ability-linked loan. approach with the UN-supportdecisions and on training to bonds in 2019 to the value of ed Principles for Responsible assist our relationship and portDKK 4.1 billion. Investment and the Danish folio managers in assessing and Stewardship Code, and we will integrating ESG matters. “We listen to what’s important to our clients, and they mention two types of risk: risks related to geopolitical changes and risks related to climate change. That’s why we decided to focus our first Nordic Corporates & Institutions Summit in 2019 on navigating a new world order and on the global climate challenge. It’s our responsibility to help clients address those risks and realise their climate ambitions through green and sustainable finance provisions.” Jakob Groot, Member of the Executive Leadership Team and Head of Danske Bank Corporates & Institutions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 Our sustainable investment journey Sustainable investment is an the training, and new education we will position investment Active ownership 2019 figures integral part of Danske Bank’s programmes will continue to be strategies based on their most • Dialogue: More than 800 dialogues with about 500 duty to deliver long-term and developed. prominent ESG characteristics. companies domiciled across attractive risk-adjusted returns This work will enable us to meet 38 countries. Most company to our customers. Introduced We have set an ambition that different customer needs and interactions took place in the in 2018, our sustainable in100% of our investment teams preferences, and it will make it Nordic region, and we primarily vestment strategy – ESG Inside will have integrated ESG in easier for customers to select engaged small-, midand large– focuses on making bettertheir investment processes an investment fund that aligns cap companies. informed investment decisions by the end of 2020. To reach with their financial goals and • Voting: 5,801 proposals by addressing risks, problems that target, we will continue to sustainability preferences. for voting at 407 meetings and dilemmas, as well as by strengthen our foundation and across 33 country domiciles. Primarily, we voted at general influencing portfolio companies support our investment teams Danske Bank publishes an assembly meetings and for the through active dialogue to conin deploying strong and systeannual investment restriction proposals. tribute to a positive outcome. matic ESG integration. list, and as a signatory to the UN’s Montreal Carbon Pledge, Implementing ESG Inside Engaging to influence we have measured and publisRead more across our investment procesAt Danske Bank, we see active hed the carbon footprint of a For more details on how we work ses is an ongoing task, and we ownership as one of the most selected range of Danske Invest to integrate ESG in the investment do not believe in a one-sizeeffective mechanisms for funds. To advance transparenprocesses, address issues of risk fits-all approach. Our portfolio managing risks, maximising cy, we will additionally launch or dilemmas, see Our Sustainable managers are tailoring their returns and contributing to one-page fact sheets for selecInvestment Journey 2019 report. ESG integration to fit the unique positive societal impact. Our ted funds that detail the carbon For more sustainable finance features and characteristics of direct dialogue and voting at footprint, ESG risks and specific figures, please see p. 36. each strategy and asset class. annual general meetings are investment restrictions. In 2019, we had DKK 1,651 important aspects for creabillion Assets Under Manageting long-term value, and our In 2018, our Climate Chanment (AuM). portfolio managers are change ge and Arms and Defence agents who can influence how position statements led us to To assist our investment teams, companies manage their ESG apply group-wide restrictions we in 2019 introduced the risks and opportunities. Rather on companies deriving more tool mDASH. This materiality than refraining from investing than 30% of their revenue from dashboard evaluates companiwhen issues of concern or risks thermal coal mining, thermal es’ ESG performance and helps arise, we engage so that we can coal utilities or the extraction portfolio managers identify influence. of oil from tar sands. Similarly, aspects that may have a sigDanske Bank does not invest in nificant effect on a company’s We primarily exert active companies directly involved in future financial value and value ownership through single engathe research and development creation. We also established gements and voting, and twice or production of weapons prohia team of ESG analysts across a year we publish an active bited by international law or wethe Nordic countries who act ownership report on our asset apons that are deemed controas on-site support for our local management. versial. Also in 2019, we made investment teams. In addition, a decision to stop investing in Ambition we rolled out an educational Product transparency tobacco – this restriction has Integrate ESG factors into our and skill-building programme, As part of our desire for transbeen applied to both equity and investment and lending practices which engaged more than 600 parency, we want to communibond investments across all through the training of portfolio advisers and client managers cate even more clearly to our Danske Invest funds and Danica managers, relationship managers in 31 different sessions held customers the sustainability Pension investments. and credit officers. in 2019. We will engage more characteristics of our investadvisers and client managers in ment funds. This means that 2019 performance • More than 600 investment advisers and client managers trained in ESG • 712 relationship managers and credit officers across the Group trained in ESG ESG Inside Integrated is ESG Inside Thematic is for ESG Inside Restricted is for for funds that actively funds that invest and work funds that opt out of investments SDG contribution and systematically work in a targeted way according with additional criteria in relation to integrate ESG into the to specific sustainability to Danske Invest’s basic investWe seek to encourage investment process. objectives. ment restriction criteria. customers and portfolio companies to adopt sustainable 124 DKK billion AuM 5 DKK billion AuM 40 DKK billion AuM practices, thereby supporting SDG 12.6. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Our sustainable lending journey When we grant a loan to a risk sectors, we have additional discuss principal dilemmas and customer, we enter into a longexpectations when granting ensure robust and transparent term commitment. We carefully loans, so comprehensive ESG governance and training of emevaluate the customer’s finanassessments are made for ployees. In 2019, we strengthcial situation to make sure that these companies. Besides ened our ESG governance by we understand it, and we offer having access to external data, setting clear guidelines and by loans that are suited to that we base this assessment on training our employees in how customer’s needs and financial the customer´s sustainability reto spot ESG risk and make ESG capacity. Besides considering porting, by scanning the media assess­ments. the purpose for which the funds and by having a dialogue with will be used, we also seek to the customer. We rolled-out the training integrate ESG considerations programmes to relationship into credit granting on par with In 2019, we integrated ESG managers and credit officers the assessment of financial key risks into the ongoing indusvia a train-the-trainer concept. figures. In 2019, we granted try analysis for the All Risk Throughout 2019, our now 80 DKK 1,821 billion in loans to Committee. We have found that trainers across the Nordic counbanking customers. ESG risks make an important tries trained their colleagues, contribution to the analysis and more will follow in 2020. In 2015, ESG was integrated of market developments and Our training programme has a into our Credit Policy, and we financial risks for an industry. strong focus on governance and defined sectors that we conAmong other things, we use the includes the option of handling sider to have an elevated ESG industry analysis when making imaginary and real-life ESG risk. Our work has progressed decisions to determine risks loan cases – an option that has since then, and in 2018 we limits for certain industries. proven to be an effective way of developed a sustainable lending learning. strategy. When working with Strengthened governance ESG at a customer level, our and training Looking ahead, our offerings focus is to help our customers Danske Bank’s Sustainable and training will continue to be understand their ESG risks and Lending Committee was esdeveloped, and we will expand to reduce or mitigate those tablished in 2018. As well as our ESG assessment to cover risks. representing different business more credit customers and units, the members of the expand the usage of industry We use screening to identify committee represent Group analysis. We will also work companies that fail to meet functions, including Business to ensure that all relevant the criteria of our Group-wide Development, Societal Impact & employees receive the guidance restrictions and to identify comSustainability and Risk Manageand help they need to engage panies in our loan portfolio that ment. The committee is responin dialogue with our customers, are in the elevated risk sectors. sible for defining and executing and we will integrate ESG into For companies in the elevated our strategy, and members credit granting. Getting to Zero Coalition and as the basis for the establishment of the the Poseidon Principles Getting to Zero Coalition. Sustainable lending figures 2019 Danske Bank is part of the Getting to Zero • Trainers: 80 ESG ledning Coalition, established in September 2019. The role of Danske Bank is to help finance the trainers across the Nordic countries following our This coalition is an alliance of more than decarbonisation of maritime shipping, which train-the-trainer concept. 80 companies within the maritime, energy, we will do by applying the Poseidon Principles. • Dialogue: 95% of our infrastructure and finance sectors. These principles establish a common baseline relationship managers to quantitatively assess and disclose whether covering corporates, International shipping emits 2-3% of all global financial institutions’ lending portfolios are in institutions and large real greenhouse gas emissions and transports line with adopted climate goals. In this way, estate credit customers have close to 80% of global trade by volume. To the principles also serve as an important tool discussed sustainability reduce emissions, the International Maritime to manage critical investment risks. As one of issues with their customers. Organization (IMO) set a reduction target in 11 international banks, Danske Bank signed • Handling ESG dilemmas: 15 ESG dilemmas for credit 2018 of 50% by 2050. To reach this target, up to the principles in June 2019, and we will customers discussed by zero-emission vessels must enter the global start reporting on our portfolio from 2020. our Sustainable Lending fleet by 2030 – this requirement has served Committee and decided upon by our Credit Committee. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing is an essential part of running a sustainable operation. Danske Bank works closely with partners and suppliers to promote responsible business conduct throughout our supply chain. Responsible sourcing and principles, including the UN ment of high-risk suppliers Procurement 2019 figures collaboration with our suppliers Global Compact and UN Guidin close dialogue with our • Spending: DKK 9 billion form part of our value-chain ing Principles on Business and partners and suppliers. The spend in total, of which approach to embedding environHuman Rights. responsible sourcing process partnerships and core banking accounts for 7%, IT and data mental, social and governance will be part of a future suppliaccounts for 36%, and indirect (ESG) considerations throughWe expect our suppliers to set er due diligence programme procurement accounts for out our business. Our responsimilar sustainability standards alongside other supplier 57%. Indirect procurement sible sourcing process ensures in their supply chains, and in assessments, such as IT covers real estate, workplace that all suppliers comply with 2019 we had dialogues with security, financial assessment services, consultancy and HR our sustainability standards as several suppliers about their and GDPR. In order to monitor services. set out in our Supplier Code of own responsible sourcing the compliance effectiveness • Suppliers: 11,035 suppliers Conduct and with additional process and supplier codes of of our critical suppliers, the delivered products or services specific environmental requireconduct. programme will include ongoing across the Group, and Group Procurement collaborated with ments for selected products due diligence assurance of key branches, departments and and services. The code is based In 2019, we continued to optiareas. business units on 1,763 new on international sustainability mise our screening and assesscontracts. Our risk assessment has three main steps Step 1: Step 2: Step 3: Pre-qualification questions Self-assessment questionnaire Corrective action plan The risk profile of suppliers is preHigh-risk suppliers and suppliers If the self-assessment questionnaire assessed based on the contract of contracts exceeding DKK 10 reveals unsatisfactory issues, we spend, their geographical location million complete an additional engage in dialogue with the supplier Ambition and the category of their product or in-depth questionnaire about their and agree on a corrective action Integrate ESG into our service. ESG policies and performance. Their plan. If the issues are not resolved procurement practices. Our onreplies are evaluated by our external to our satisfaction, we may end the going target is to have minimum partners. business relationship. 90% of tenders in scope through the responsible sourcing process. 2019 performance Independent audits business and their score in the Vilnius, Lithuania, and Warsaw, Each year, a few suppliers self-assessment questionnaire. Poland, for audits because 93% of tenders in scope are selected for independent In 2019, to gain more insight their ESG performance directly through the responsible sourcing process. third-party audits to evaluate into what type of specific ESG affects the workplace and whether they live up to our requirements we can place well-being of our employees. Supplier Code of Conduct and on hospitals, we audited two None of these audits revealed to identify areas where we may private hospitals in Denmark any severe non-compliance SDG contribution help them improve their ESG that are key suppliers of Danica issues, and the audit reports We encourage partners and performance. The suppliers are Pension’s health insurance. have provided good insights into suppliers to adopt sustainable selected on the basis of their We also selected the two propthe performance and maturity practices in support of SDG risk profile, their impact on our erty owners of our premises in level of the suppliers. 12.6. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE Our employees and culture Good leadership, a sustainable workplace and living our core values are all crucial when it comes to engaging employees and creating value for our customers. At Danske Bank, we strive to create a collaborative culture that empowers our employees to succeed. Only with the expertise and support functions and across core values, and it also makes dedication of our employees are countries. employee development more we able to fulfil our regulatory employee-driven. Based on requirements, deliver customer How well we manage to foster the feedback received on initial value and meet stakeholder a sustainable workplace and experiences with MyTalk, we expectations. We strive to ena collaborative culture where have made adjustments to our sure that Danske Bank remains people feel engaged and free performance setup to reinforce an attractive workplace for our to speak up is reflected in our the crucial role played by core more than 22,000 employees employee engagement score. In values and behaviour. In 2020, by providing challenging and 2019, we saw a slight increase we will continue this journey by meaningful work and by fosterin this score from 84 in 2018 stepping up our engagement ing a culture that empowers to 86 in 2019. initiatives and strengthening everyone to learn and grow. We the role of managers in relation set clear expectations for our Employee journey to empowering employees. leaders to act as role models To improve the employee who promote our core values, journey at Danske Bank, we In 2019, we also tested our drive customer centricity and nurture a culture of continuous Grow Universe. This is an inspire their employees to suclearning to build our employinitiative that provides tools ceed by working with engageees’ competencies and refresh to support the embodiment of ment. their skills. Taking a systematic our employees’ development work approach, we provide ideas, competencies and career We operate in a rapidly changguidance and best practice development. Further developing business environment concepts, tools and processes ments and roll-out of the tools driven by digitalisation, and the that create user-centric and are planned for 2020. competition for talent is intense. effective learning experiences. In addition to our need for enIn 2019, we offered more than Mental health and well-being gaged and dedicated employees 2,000 unique training sessions Danske Bank’s HR organisation with capabilities and talent fit and events via our MyLearning continiously addresses risks for the future, we also require platform, and we implemented a and opportunities related to processes that can support and learning toolbox for our around our workforce. To sustain a Promoting human rights accelerate this transition. In line 900 Learning Facilitators to workplace that is healthy and Danske Bank is committed to further heighten the impact of with this, we in 2019 continued safe – both physically and menprotecting and respecting all developing our talent through our training. tally – we build our efforts on human rights, including labour rights, across our business, our expert talent programmes an active working-environment and we are working to identify, and Talent Unite Days, and we At the beginning of 2019, we organisation, councils, and our assess and address potential also strengthened the local launched MyTalk to foster a engagement initiatives, as well and actual adverse human-rights value creation of our Strategic culture of continuous feedback. as collaboration with unions, infringements. Our Code of Workforce Planning process MyTalk helps us ensure that employee representatives and Conduct Policy and HR-related across the business, across we act in accordance with our local management. The wellpolicies address human rights risks in the workplace and are supplemented by internal human rights guidelines. We actively promote diversity and Engagement at different levels an inclusive culture, as well as healthy and safe working environment, with the aim to eliminate discriminatory treatment and protect our employees’ right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, right to privacy and MyTalk is a flexible solution for TeamTalk is the team’s discussion PULSE is the monthly survey right to raising concerns without frequent conversations between on how to create better results, giving the Executive Leadership fear of retaliation. See details employees and their leaders on great days at work, and a speakTeam insight into the employee on our Code of Conduct and what matters most to them at an up culture at team level. engagement at an organisational whistleblower system on pp. individual level. level. 22-23. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 being of our employees is a key the mental well-being of our pact. Through the programme, Employee 2019 figures • Full-time employees (FTEs): factor in relation to our ability employees. At a Group level, we employees are empowered 22,006 FTEs, which is an to recruit, develop and retain a provide training and facilitate to participate in volunteer increase from 2018 where diverse and motivated workknowledge-sharing among our activities one day per year paid the number stood at 20,683 force. And it is only with such a ambassadors, and we promote by the Group. A total of 70% FTEs. workforce that we will be able to World Mental Health Day by inof our employees say that this • Employee turnover: 13%. provide an even better service viting an external guest speaker initiative makes them proud to This is on par with the turnover to our customers. to talk about mental resilience be working at Danske Bank. in 2018. and promote healthy lifestyles. • Mental health ambassadors: Stress and failure to thrive are In partnership with NGOs and 490 mental health and happiness ambassadors issues and risks that must be Engaging employees in other organisations, Danske engaged across the Group. talked about and addressed community activities Bank provides volunteering • Time to Give volunteers: to ensure the well-being of Employees are also encouraged opportunities in all the coun2,034 employees participated our employees. In 2018, we to engage in purposeful activitries in which it has operations. in our Time to Give initiative established an expert team to ties in their local communities. Employees can sign up for an inacross the Group. focus specifically on mental For many years, Danske Bank itiative within the three strategic health and well-being, and in has provided opportunities for themes of our Societal Impact 2019 we launched training employees to volunteer and & Sustainability Strategy or can Read more for leaders and appointed 490 share their time and expertise choose their own cause. We For more employee figures, please mental health and happiness for the benefit of society. Inrecommend activities that have see p. 36 and our Sustainability Fact ambassadors. These ambasspired by our existing activia link to business and where Book 2019. Please also see our Statement on Modern Slavery Act sadors include employees and ties, we launched a corporate employees can contribute with 2019 for further details. union representatives, and their volunteering programme called their professional skills. We aim role is to promote initiatives Time to Give in early 2019 to to engage even more employthat focus on and elevate heighten our community imees in Time to Give in 2020. Selected Time to Give activities 2019 The Children’s Aid Foundation (Børnehjælpsdagen) In Denmark, employees offered mentorships and workshops about personal finances to children in care and socially abandoned youths through our partnership with the Children’s Aid Foundation in Denmark. Champion Girls Home 27 volunteers in India organised a science workshop for children from the local Champion Girls Home. Together they built solar panels and wind turbines that can be used as teaching materials in local public schools. Church Mission 118 employees in Norway helped at various events where they served soup, stood in sales stands and made gifts to be sold by the Church Mission. Clean up days 217 employees in Lithuania volunteered for various environmental projects, including cleaning up Ambition rivers and picking up rubbish from the countryside. Sustain a healthy and safe working environment and a Action Mental Health collaborative culture where our 70 colleagues in Northern Ireland volunteered with our charity partner Action Mental Health. employees feel engaged. Our The volunteers helped with practical activities, including painting and gardening at the charity’s aim is to have more than 90% service centres, and held education sessions with the charity’s clients on topics such as budgeting employee engagement by 2023. and fraud. 2019 performance Knæk Cancer events Together with customers and business partners, 60 employees in Denmark raised funds for the 86% score in the Employee Danish Cancer Society by participating in sporting events such as cycling, yoga and dancing. Engagement Index Det Kærlige Måltid 30 employees in Demark took turns volunteering with Det Kærlige Måltid [Loving Meal] and helped SDG contribution to deliver healthy food for critically ill individuals who struggled without help after they had been We seek to protect labour rights discharged from hospital. and promote safe and secure working environments for all our employees in support of SDG 8.8. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE Diversity and inclusion At Danske Bank, an inclusive culture and a diverse workforce are seen as prerequisites for maintaining a high-performance organisation and for broadening our thinking. By promoting gender balance, we also unlock other facets of diversity. A diverse and inclusive In 2019, we also introduced the share of women in senior workplace is important – not principles for recruitment to leadership position, as part of only to leverage and attract senior leadership roles, both our increased focus on diversity the right employees but also internally and externally. This and inclusion, see p. 36. to provide the best customer means that the recruitment experience and deliver on our panel will always include a Free To Be Me strategic priorities. We review woman, as will the final group At Danske Bank, we seek to our Diversity & Inclusion Policy of candidates. In addition, our create an environment where annually, and in 2019 we female executive talents have differences are a strength and continued to raise awareness access to a mentor to help where people feel valued and and launch initiatives to foster accelerate their career develcan realise their full potential. a culture where all employees opment towards more senior In 2019, we sponsored and have the same opportunities roles. participated in Copenhagen and in which employees feel Pride Week, which is a tribute that all points of view are openly There have been significant to diversity and which promotes welcomed. changes at top management the right to be oneself – irrelevel in Danske Bank in recent spective of gender, ethnicity or Danske Bank recognises the years, and currently one comsexual orientation. importance of gender balance mercial role in the Executive across the organisation, and Leadership Team is held by a Around 300 employees and we are pleased to have a 50% woman. At the Annual General family members participated in share of women in our workMeeting (AGM), two women the annual parade in Copenforce. However, in some parts of were elected to the Board hagen under the slogan Free the organisation we are far from of Directors. As two women To Be Me, and Danske Bank having a gender balance. This is chose not to run for re-election marked Pride Week internally why we need to increase our foand with only one new woman with external guest lectures on cus on reducing gender bias in appointed, the AGM-elected diversity and inclusion. As a Ambition recruitment and on increasing share of women on the Board follow up, Danske Bank decided the share of women in different decreased from 38% in 2018 to launch an employee associPromote diversity and an leadership positions. At Corpoto 25% in 2019. Danske Bank ation for lesbian, gay, bisexual inclusive culture. Our aim is to rates & Institutions, diversity aims for adequate diversity in and transgender (LGBTQ+) increase the number of female managers at all levels. and inclusion is addressed terms of gender, qualifications employees. when it comes to a balanced and competencies on the intake of young talents, as well Board. We also engaged in the Belfast 2019 performance as across teams and leadership Pride and Newry Pride, and we positions. Throughout DanAmong the employee-elected are pleased that Danske Bank • 25% AGM-elected women on ske Bank in Norway, we have members of the Board of Direcin Northern Ireland won three the Board of Directors* defined gender ratio targets for tors, three out of four are womawards in 2019 for its diversity (2020 target 38%) en, and our share of women in teams and for leader groups, and inclusion initiatives, includ• 11% women in the Executive and in Northern Ireland we management positions is stable ing for colleague-led growth in Leadership Team (2020 target 25%) introduced mandatory training at 37%, thereby close to our their diversity networks cover• 37% women in management for all employees to address 2020 target of 38-40%. Going ing gender diversity, LGBTQ+ positions unconscious bias. forward, we will also monitor and disability. (2020 target 38-40%) * The total share of women on the Board of Directors, including the employee-elected members is 42%. SDG contribution In 2019, Danske Bank was included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI). The index is a blueprint for measuring how companies promote We seek to provide equal gender equality across the five dimensions: Female Leadership & Talent Pipeline, opportunities for leadership at Equal Pay & Gender Pay Parity, Inclusive Culture, Sexual Harassment Policies, all levels of decision-making in and Pro-Women Brand. support of SDG 5.5. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Our environmental footprint Working systematically to limit the negative environmental impact of our business operations is important for fostering a sustainable workplace. Our key focus is to reduce carbon emissions through environmental management. As a provider of financial servicaim to align our CO2 emissions emissions, we set an internal Read more es, the environmental footprint target with the Paris Agreement price on carbon, thereby motiFor more environmental figures, of Danske Bank’s business on Climate Change, see p. 36. vating energy efficiency across please see p. 36, our Sustainability operations is limited compared the Group. Fact Book 2019 and our Statement with that of many other indusCarbon neutrality on Carbon Neutrality 2019. tries. Our provision of green Since 2009, Danske Bank’s New workplace initiatives financing is our main contribuoperations have been carbon In 2019, we launched new tion to society’s transition to a neutral. This has been achieved initiatives to reduce our envinet-zero carbon economy, see by certified renewable energy ronmental impact and motivate pp. 14-17. Nevertheless, with and verified carbon credits for sustainable behaviour. Every more than 22,000 employthe CO2 emissions that we canstep taken helps, and a simple ees and premises across 13 not eliminate, for example from initiative such as introducing countries, our environmental transportation and from the reusable water bottles and coffootprint is not insignificant, and consumption of heat and paper. fee cups will reduce our annual minimising it is an important In 2019, our operations resultconsumption of around 4.2 part of driving sustainability in ed in 15,230 tonnes of CO2 million disposable cups, which the workplace. emissions, which is a decrease corresponds to around 21 compared with our emissions tonnes of waste. Similarly, our In 2019, energy consumption in 2018. new bio-grinders in Denmark in our premises accounted for will help us dispose of approxi32% of the Group’s total carbon All electricity used by Danske mately 320 tonnes of bio-waste. emissions, and energy saving is Bank comes from renewable a key focus area for us. Not only sources certified by GuaranIn 2020, we will introduce will our energy efficiency initiatees of Origin and International sustainability requirements tives reduce our environmental Renewable Energy Certificates. for our workplace and premfootprint, but they will also We only purchase carbon credises and will focus on energy reduce our operating costs. We its for projects verified accordefficiency initiatives at our most achieved a reduction in our ening to international standards, energy-consuming premises. ergy consumption per FTE and such as the Gold Standard, and We will also focus on waste in our CO2 emissions per FTE we guarantee a real reduction in sorting in Denmark, Norway from the levels in 2018. We CO2 emissions. By offsetting our and Sweden. Selected environmental initiatives 2019 Energy efficiency: Top 10 energy-consuming buildings in Danske Bank’s portfolio identified with the aim of implementing energy saving initiatives from 2019 onwards, including: • UV protection window film at selected premises in Sweden and Finland • Light sensor technology and LED lights at selected premises in Denmark, Sweden and Finland • Optimisation of air, heat and ventilation systems in Vilnius, Lithuania Ambition Virtual meetings: In Sweden alone, six telepresence systems were installed to support online meetings Reduce our carbon emissions and reduce travel. through environmental management. Eco-friendly and reusable products: Global roll-out of eco-friendly disposable products in our kitchenettes and introduction of reusable personal water bottles and coffee cups. 2019 performance • Energy consumption per FTE 5.18 MWh/FTE Biodiversity: Local biodiversity policy launched in Northern Ireland including a commitment to increase the amount of suitably selected flora and fauna planted at our properties. • CO2 emissions per FTE 0.72 tonnes CO2/FTE Waste handling: Bio-grinders installed at nine locations in Denmark turning bio-waste into bio-energy and fertiliser. Northern Ireland changed waste management supplier so all waste will be recycled or SDG contribution regenerated, with zero waste ending up in landfill. We seek to improve energy efficiency in support of SDG 7.3. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE ESG performance data As part of our annual reporting practices, we include an overview of assured performance data related to our strategy for societal impact and sustaina­bility. In 2019, we included several new metrics that support our strategy – naturally only data from 2019 is available for these. New metrics and targets for 2023 were also introduced in late 2019 and these are presented alongside the targets already set. In 2020 we will further review our future metrics and targets. All data is prepared in accordance with our reporting principles, see pp. 38-39. Current targets New targets 2019 2018 2017 2016 (Time frame) (2023) Sustainable finance Green bonds issued by Danske Bank (DB) (DKK billion) 3.7 Green bonds issued by Realkredit Danmark (RD) (DKK billion) 0.8 Share of green bonds issued (DB+RD) in relation to total bonds issued (%) 0.4 Share of green bonds in relation to total bonds issued by DB (%) 1.1 Share of green bonds in relation to total bonds issued by RD (%) 0.1 Bloomberg Leage table share of arranged Sustainable Bonds 39.1 (DKK billion) Green loans granted to customers in DB (DKK billion) 6.2 Well above Green loans granted to customers in RD (DKK billion) 0.8 DKK 100 billion in sustainable Share of total green loans (DB+RD) in relation to total loans (%) 0.8 financing1 Volume of treasury funds placed in green bonds (DKK billion) 7 10 in allocation (2022) Ranking among Nordic Banks in the Bloomberg Global Green Top 3 in the Bonds Corporate & Government League table 2 Nordic countries Assets under Management (AuM) (DKK billion) 1,651 1,575 1,530 1,420 AuM with ESG Inside, of which: ESG Inside: Integrated (DKK billion) 124 ESG Inside: Thematic (DKK billion) 5 ESG Inside: Restricted (DKK billion) 40 Environment CO2 emissions scope 1 (tonnes)2 790 1,270 1,523 1,502 75% reduction CO2 emissions scope 2 (tonnes)2 4,480 4,308 5,363 5,789 in total CO2 emis­ sions vs. 20103 CO2 emissions scope 3 (tonnes)2 9,960 10,818 11,203 11,373 CO2 emissions per FTE (tonnes/FTE) 0.72 0.82 0.93 0.97 Energy consumption (electricity and heat) (MWh)4 107,615 111,046 113,416 113,441 Energy consumption per FTE (MWh/FTE) 5.18 5.70 6.04 6.10 Renewable energy share scope 1 and 2 (%) 52 53 50 53 Social Number of full-time employees (FTE), end of year5 22,006 20,683 19,768 19,303 Women in the Executive Leadership Team (%)6 11 10 13 0 25% (2020) Women in senior leadership positions (%) 23 35% Women in management (%) 37 37 35 35 38-40% (2020) Women in the workforce (%) 50 50 49 50 Employee turnover (%) 13 13 12 11 Employee Engagement (%) 86 84 85 66 > 90% Number of social entrepreneurs helped 214 1,000 (2025) Number of start-ups and scale-ups supported with growth and 10,000 impact tools, services and expertise 3,851 Number of people and businesses helped 3,952,248 5 million (2025) Number of people supported with financial literacy tools and expertise 719,763 2 million Number of participants in employee volunteering programmes 2,034 Governance Women on the Board of Directors elected at the Annual General Meeting (%) 25 38 38 25 38% (2020) Employees trained in risk and compliance (%) 96 > 95% Tenders through responsible sourcing process (%) 93 97 60 85 > 90% (ongoing) 1 S  ustainable financing includes green loans in DB and RD and Bloomberg Leage table share of arranged Sustainable Bonds. Total sustainable financing in 2019 was DKK 46.1 billion. 2 Data covers Denmark (DK), Sweden (SE), Norway (NO), Ireland (IRL), Northern Ireland (NI), Finland (FI) and Lithuania (LIT) and includes estimated figures for the remainder of the Group. We included exact figures from our operations in India (IN). 3 Baseline is 55,690 tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2010. A 75% emissions reduction equals 13,705 tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2023, meaning that by 2023 we need to have reduced our emissions 10% from 2019 levels. Our total CO2 emissions in 2019 was 15,230 tonnes (scope 1, 2 and 3). 4 Data covers DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. In 2017, we included figures from our operations in IN. 5 Data is from Annual Report 2019 and Fact Book Q4 2019. For a definition of ratios, see Definition of alternative performance measures on p. 65 of our Annual Report 2019. 6 Actual percentage of women in the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) in 2019 is 14% (Six men and one woman. Two men are currently holding two positions, as there are two vacancies in the ELT) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 Independent auditor’s assurance report To the Management and the stakeholders of Danske Bank We performed on-site reviews at Danske Bank’s Head Office in We have assessed Danske Bank’s Sustainability Report 2019 Copenhagen as well as interviews per phone throughout Novem(‘the Report’) to provide limited assurance on selected 2019 ber and December 2019. Our work has included interviews with data on page 36 of the Report. The Report covers Danske Bank’s key functions in Danske Bank, inquiries regarding procedures and international activities from 1 January to 31 December 2019. methods to ensure that selected ESG data and information have been incorporated in accordance with the reporting principles. Our assessment was performed in order to assess whether: We have assessed processes, tools, systems and controls for gathering, consolidating and aggregating ESG data at Group level, • the ESG performance data on page 36 in the Report have and performed analytical review procedures and tested ESG been stated in accordance with the criteria defined by the data prepared at Group level against underlying documentation. reporting principles; We have reviewed the reported data (some measured, some • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions for calculated and some estimated) as well as evaluated and given 2019. feedback on the reliability and validity of the underlying sources, especially of estimated data. Furthermore, we have received docWe express a conclusion providing limited assurance. umentation that the consolidated CO2 emissions have been offset by purchase of offset certificates. Finally, we have evaluated the Management’s responsibility overall presentation of the Report, including the consistency of The Management of Danske Bank is responsible for collecting, information. analysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the report, ensuring that data are free from material misstatement, We have not performed site visits or interviewed external stakewhether due to fraud or error. Danske Bank’s non-financial reholders, nor have we performed any assurance procedures on porting principles contain Management’s defined reporting scope baseline data or forwardlooking statements such as targets and for each data type. The criteria for the reporting principles can be expectations. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these found on page 38-39 of the Report. statements. Auditor’s responsibility Conclusion Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing us on the ESG performance data on page 36 in the Report. Furnot to believe that: thermore, our responsibility is to provide limited assurance on • the ESG performance data subject to our review have been whether Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions stated in accordance with the criteria mentioned in the reportfor 2019. We have conducted our work in accordance with ISAE ing principles; 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions for of Historical Financial Information, and additional requirements 2019. under Danish audit regulation to obtain limited assurance about our conclusion. Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject to Copenhagen, 5 February 2020 International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including Deloitte documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by FSR – Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based on the fundamental principles Jens Ringbæk Helena Barton of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, State-Authorised Lead Reviewer confidentiality and professional behaviour. Public Accountant A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope Identification No than a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the (MNE) mne27735 level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Considering the risk of material misstatement, we planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations necessary to support our conclusion. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DATA AND ASSURANCE Reporting principles The Sustainability Report 2019 placed in green or social bonds CO2 emissions scope 1 basis of the mileage and emiscovers Danske Bank (DB) Group (and similar) or alternatively Scope 1 comprises CO2 emission factors from DEFRA. The (the Group). We believe that bonds that have been issued sions from heating using oil emissions from air travel are the reporting provides a fair and with a government guarantee and gas and from the usage of reported directly by our travel balanced representation of our and founded within Danish or company cars. The emissions agency, American Express. performance within sustainable another Nordic country’s law from heating are calculated on finance, environment, social that promotes the sustainable the basis of heating consumpEstimated CO2 from operations perspectives and governance. transition of our society. tion and either specific emission without registered data factors from energy companies For operations that do not have To ensure data consistency, Ranking among Nordic Banks or average emission factors for any measured consumption, data has been defined and dein the Bloomberg Global heating for the country from we estimate CO2 emissions scribed in business procedures. Green Bonds – Corporate & International Energy Agency on the basis of the average Internal control procedures have Government League table (IEA) and the Department of number of full-time employees been established to ensure that Ranking among Nordic banks Environment, Food and Rural as provided by Group Finance the data is reported according in the Bloomberg Global Green Affairs (DEFRA). For transport from Q4 2018 to Q3 2019 to the definitions. Bonds – Corporate & Governby company cars, the emissions and the average emissions per ment League table as of end are calculated on the basis employee in the Group. These 2019. of the mileage and emission estimates represent 2% of total SUSTAINABLE factors from DEFRA. CO2 emissions in 2019 and FINANCE AuM with ESG Inside are distributed across the three Reporting principle for Assets CO2 emissions scope 2 scopes based on the share of Green bonds under Management (AuM) is Scope 2 comprises CO2 the individual scope. Green bonds consists of green included in the Annual Report emissions from heating and bonds issued by DB and by 2019. AuM with ESG Inside electricity supplied by external CO2 emissions per FTE Realkredit Danmark (RD). Green is defined as the AuM by end suppliers. The emissions from CO2 emissions per employee bonds are defined in our Green of year for investment stratheating and cooling are calcu(tonnes/FTE) are calculated on Bond Framework. Total funding egies positioned within DB’s lated on the basis of heating the basis of the total amount of consists of the following: i) longESG Inside product positioning consumption and on either CO2 emissions (tonnes) and the term bonds issued by DB (exframework. AuM per positioning specific emission factors from number of full-time employees cluding tier 2 and additional tier category (Integrated, Thematic energy companies or average provided by Group Finance from 1), and ii) bonds issued by RD and Restricted) is calculated as emission factors for heating for Q4 2018 to Q3 2019. (excluding pre-issued bonds). the sum of AuM for all investthe country from IEA and DEment strategies within that FRA. Similarly, emissions from Energy consumption Bloomberg Leage table share category. Data on positioned district cooling are calculated on Data for energy consumption of arranged Sustainable Bonds strategies and funds comes the basis of district cooling confrom electricity and heat is Size of Bloomberg Leage table from the product positioning sumption and the specific emiseither based on automatic data share of arranged Sustainaprocess and framework. Data sions factor used for district transfers from smart meters or ble Bonds (green, social and on AuMs comes from the heating. This is a conservative quarterly meter readings, or it is sustainability bonds). We use ordinary financial reporting approach. In accordance with calculated on the basis of statethe Deal Size (USD) and Leage conducted by the CFO area in the market-based methodology ments received regularly during Credit (USD) for all sustainable Wealth Management. from Greenhouse Gas Protocol the year from energy companies bonds arranged, and exchange Guidance, the emissions from and lessors. Data on electricity into DKK. electricity consumption were consumption is calculated mainENVIRONMENT omitted owing to the purchase ly on the basis of statements Green loans of renewable electricity certified from energy companies, and Green loans granted by the Environmental data covers by Guarantees by Origin and heat consumption figures for our Group as defined in our Green the actual consumption from International Renewable Energy head offices are similarly based Bond Framework. The green loan the Group’s operations in DenCertificates. on actual readings taken by the ratio is calculated by applying mark, Finland, Ireland, Northenergy companies. If no reading green loans granted by the ern Ireland, Norway, Sweden, CO2 emissions scope 3 or statement is available, we Group over total loans, excluding Lithuania and India, and it also Scope 3 comprises CO2 emisestimate consumption on the reverse transactions in i) Bankcovers the estimated consumpsions from paper usage and basis of the average electricity ing DK, Commercial; ii) Banking tion from the Group’s remaining business travel by employee or heat consumption at the Nordic, Commercial; and iii) operations without registered cars and flights. The emissions country unit and the floor space. Corporates & Institutions. data. The reporting period for from paper usage are calcuData on floor space covers all the year 2019 runs from Q4 lated on the basis of the paper properties used by the Group Volume of treasury funds 2018 to Q3 2019. Data is consumption and the emisand its subsidiaries, including placed in green bonds retrieved from the Credit360 sion factors from DEFRA. For the Group’s own premises and Total accumulated volume reporting system. transport by employee cars, the leased premises, for own opera(DKK) of Group treasury funds emissions are calculated on the tions in various countries. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 In Sweden, heat consumption Group Financial System (GFS) services and expertise has are captured and reported using data is calculated on the basis at the end of Q4 2019. Senior been accumulated from 2016 Excel and are sent to the Group. of information from boverket.se leadership is defined as female and onwards and includes the (energy labelling of buildings). employees who hold the title number of unique start-ups and The consumption figure is First Vice President, Senior scale-ups supported at least GOVERNANCE calculated on the basis of the Vice President or Executive once with growth and impact Group’s share of floor space in Vice President. Management is tools, services and expertise. Women on the Board of the various buildings in Sweden. defined as employees with staff The support can be via matches Directors (AGM elected) According to this method, data responsibility. with experts on +impact, advice Percentage of women on the on heat consumption at properfrom DB Growth Advisers, Board of Directors elected at ties without actual consumption Women in the workforce enrolment in +impact accelerathe Annual General Meeting. in Finland is calculated by using The percentage of women in the tors or Canute programmes etc. the key figures for Sweden workforce is based on informaKnowing that companies may Employees trained in risk and because consumption patterns tion registered in the GFS at the use The Hub for services other compliance for branches in Finland are end of Q4 2019. than job postings, the number The risk and compliance similar to those for branches in of companies with a job posting eLearning courses are Sweden. Employee turnover on The Hub is used as a proxy. mandatory for all employees Employee turnover is defined of the Group and must be Energy consumption per FTE as the number of employees Data for both KPIs covers comcompleted once a year. In Energy consumption per full(head count) who retired or panies registered in Denmark, addition, all new employees time employee (MWh/FTE) resigned divided by the number Sweden, Norway and Finland. in the Group must complete is calculated on the basis of of employees (head count) per Data covers all types of corpothe module within the first the total energy consumption month and converted to a perrate structures (IVS, ApS, AS, 14 days of their employment. (MWh) and the number of centage rate. The information AB, Inc. etc.). Data is retrieved All temporary employees full-time employees provided by was retrieved from the GFS and from the Keystones system and and external consultants Group Finance from Q4 2018 covers the entire Group. The from lists of start-ups participatwith access to the Group’s IT to Q3 2019. employee turnover rate is based ing in accelerator programmes. systems must also complete on information registered from training. The completion data Renewable energy share Q1 to Q4 2019. Number of people and busihas been extracted from DB’s scope 1 and 2 nesses helped / people supexternal Learning Management Renewable energy share within Employee Engagement ported with financial literacy System, Cornerstone at the end scope 1 and 2 is calculated on Data on employee engagement tools and expertise of 2019. eLearning training the basis of the total energy is based on survey results from Data includes active unique assigned after 16 December consumption and the amount the PULSE survey, which covers users of DB educational tools has not been included. of renewable electricity certified the entire Group. The Employee developed to support financial by Guarantees by Origin and Engagement index is based confidences and/or strengthen Tenders through responsible International Renewable Energy on replies to five questions in IT security. Data also includes sourcing process Certificates. With limited data the PULSE survey: three on people participating in related Data covers all new or re-negoon the energy mix for heating, encouragement and two on physical events arranged by tiated supplier contracts where it is assumed that the energy enablement. The PULSE survey DB. For IT security, receivers of Group Procurement is involved mix is made up of a variety of is conducted monthly, except for communication through radio across the whole Group where different fossil sources. This is a the month of July. The reported broadcasts, articles in newspathe total contract is in scope for conservative approach. data is a 2019 average. pers etc. provided by DB with pre-qualification (supplier with the purpose of strengthening IT total contract value above DKK Number of social security and fraud prevention 1 million). The percentage of SOCIAL entrepreneurs helped / startare estimated and included. tenders that have been through ups and scale-ups supported the responsible sourcing proFull-time employees with growth and impact tools, The number of people supportcess is calculated by dividing The number of full-time employservices and expertise ed with financial literacy tools the number of activities in ees (FTEs), end of year, is based Number of unique impact startand expertise excludes all IT scope by the number of activion information registered in the ups matched with mentors on security-related activities. Data ties marked as compliant. Group’s accounting system at +impact, via Growth & Impact has been accumulated from the end of Q4 2019. (G&I) supported accelerators 2018 and onwards. or other G&I initiatives. The Women in the Executive unique impact start-up is countNumber of participants Leadership Team ed at the time the start-up is in employee volunteering Percentage of women in the matched with the first mentor. programmes Executive Leadership Team Impact start-ups matched via Data includes the total number based on total number of posithe accelerator are counted at of employees (head count) who tions. the kick-off of the accelerator have reported their participation programme. Data has been in the Time to Give programme Women in senior leadership accumulated from 2018 and during the year. All employees positions and in management onwards. in the Group have the opportuThe percentages of women in nity to participate. Registration senior leadership positions and The number of start-ups and is captured and reported via an in management are based on scale-ups supported with internal IT system. For Northern information registered in the growth and impact tools, Ireland and India, registrations Danske Bank A/S Holmens Kanal 2-12 DK-1092 København K Tel +45 33 44 00 00 CVR No. 61 12 62 28 København danskebank.com
