imc AG, Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord, 66123 Saarbrücken United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Saarbruecken, 09.12.2020 Communication on Progress, Year: 2020 To whom it may concern: Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarize the progress we have made in 2020 against these principles and we are eager to further contribute to global sustainability goals in the future. Yours sincerely, Christian Wachter, Chief Executive Officer, imc AG imc Vorstand/ Amtsgericht Saarbrücken/ information multimedia communication AG Executive Board Commercial Register Saarbrücken Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord Christian Wachter (Vorsitzender/ CEO) HRB 13 338 66123 Saarbrücken Sven R. Becker Deutschland/ Germany Dr. Wolfram Jost USt-IdNr./ Vat ID no. Tel. +49 681 9476-0 Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender/ DE 812 187 208 Fax +49 681 9476-530 Chairman of the Supervisory Board info@im-c.de Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. www.im-c.de August-Wilhelm Scheer Company Profile and Communication on Progress 2020 imc information multimedia communication AG Headquarters Saarbruecken Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord D-66123 Saarbruecken T. +49 681 9476-0 | Fax -530 info@im-c.com im-c.com im-c.com 1 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 1 Company Profile 1.1 About imc AG imc AG is one of Europe’s largest providers of comprehensive solutions for technologyenhanced learning, training, education, and staff development. The company was established in 1997 by Professor August-Wilhelm Scheer, internationally recognized scholar, entrepreneur and expert in business process management. Since then, imc has developed solutions related to the design and production of e-learning courses as well as to the design and implementation of technical and professional infrastructures (e.g. learning management system design and implementation; implementation of integrated e-learning infrastructures etc.) for e-learning, distance education, and staff development. imc operates from its headquarters in Saarbrucken, Germany. Further offices and subsidiaries are located in Freiburg, Munich, Essen, Zurich (Switzerland), Graz (Austria), London (UK), Sibiu (Romania), Melbourne (Australia), Auckland (New Zealand), Scottsdale (USA), and Singapore. Company imc information multimedia communication AG Address Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord│66123 Saarbrücken Phone: +49 681 9476-0, Fax +49 681 9476-530 E-mail: info@im-c.de│www.im-c.com Founding year 1997 Associates Scheer GmbH (60%); Dr. Wolfang Kraemer, Frank Milius, Dr. Volker Zimmermann (13,33% each) Executive Board Christian Wachter, Sven R. Becker, Dr. Wolfram Jost VAT No. DE 812 187 208 Commercial Register No. HRB 13338 UNGM Registration No. 161680 Table 1: Company Details 2 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 1.2 Products and Services imc’s focus is on providing customers with a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and services:  New Media and e-Learning Content Production: imc provides professional services covering the whole value chain of bespoke e-learning content design and production. imc runs content projects from customized planning to instructional design, storyboard development and realization up to the roll-out, dependent on customers’ requirements and timeframe. imc is experienced in working with different learning content formats, i.e. classic e-learning programs (web-based training courses), serious games, smartphone apps, interactive video, e-books, as well as games and training content for mobile websites.  Consulting Services: imc helps organizations to (re)organize their learning processes and to select, implement, adapt and integrate suitable software systems and technologies. imc’s consultants perform in-depth needs analyses before proposing the right learning management strategy, always considering client-specific demands and learning cultures. Consulting services range from the technical implementation of our products to the conceptualization of an organization’s complete e-learning offering; they include training and coaching services on the instructional design and technical implementation of interactive training content. Service implementation and project management are based on PRINCE2. Figure 1: imc Products and Services  E-Learning Authoring tools: imc Content Studio is a high-end e-learning authoring tool able to meet the highest demands. It is a multiple test winner in usability, productivity, functionality and price-performance ratio. The authoring environment is also the perfect solution for the easy and efficient creation and evaluation of exercises, tests, exams and assessments. 3 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020  Learning Management System: imc Learning Suite (ILS) is one of the leading Learning Management Systems (LMS) on the market. It is a state-of-the-art software solution that enables decentralized implementation of multimedia-enhanced teaching and learning opportunities within a centrally coordinated organizational framework and organizationwide administration structures. The ILS is top-ranked in the Gartner Group’s market survey on Corporate Learning Solutions and has received high marks in other market analyses (e.g. Bersin & Associates).  Electronic Performance Support: imc Process Guide is a software solution for the process-oriented, workplace-integrated support of users of software systems, e.g. SAP, MS Office, Peoplesoft, as well as a broad range of legacy systems.  On-demand Learning Services include hosting services for learning environments as well as “Software as a Service” arrangements for our customers. imc implements ITIL guidelines for IT services; a 24/7 ITIL-based service desk for software products is available.  Training Strategy Consulting Services: We provide guidance in the development of innovative and successful training concepts and support in putting them into effect. 1.3 Standards Quality management at imc is organized on the basis of the international ISO 9001 standard. imc holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. Since 2015, imc has also been ISO / IEC 27001:2013 certified, proving the implementation and maintenance of a state-of-the-art Information Security Management System. In December 2015, imc underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN 16247-1 in order to implement EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). To ensure the quality of services we follow the PRINCE2 project management standard. imc’s consultants are PRINCE2 trained and certified. Finally, imc supports the United Nations Global Compact and the Women’s Empowerment principles. 4 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 1.4 Reference Projects with United Nations Organizations Since 1997, imc has conducted a great number of projects related to the design and development of interactive, multimedia e-learning content. The following figure shows some projects imc has implemented with UN organizations: Figure 2: Selected Reference Projects with UN Organizations 5 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 2 Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made towards achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Different colors highlight the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, i.e. the core fields of action to which the Ten Principles belong. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 1: imc acts in conformity with human rights legislation and considers its prescriptions especially Businesses should support and respect with regard to the following points: the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Working Conditions It is one of the main objectives of imc to create a safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during work. We are proud that since 2018, we have a signed and published “Health and Safety Policy”. imc’s headquarters, the Scheer Towers, provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all imc subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. Regular on-site inspections for workplace safety take place resulting in the definition of measures for improvement. The inspections are often combined with a voluntary offer for ergonomics consulting, addressing the correct setting of the workplace (desk, chair, screen, light) and healthy body posture, preventing back pain and muscle tenseness. In each subsidiary, there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. Furthermore, there is a fire prevention officer in each subsidiary, responsible for 6 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year evacuation in case of emergency. imc currently has 15 fire prevention officers in Germany who are trained once per year. imc employees have always access to drinkable water. A kitchen is available in every imc building, imc’s headquarters also have a snack-bar and canteen. In 2017, imc introduced a company health program called GET FIT in order to raise awareness among staff regarding nutrition, fitness (including back health) and coping with stress, as well as sharing information for a healthier life. In cooperation with the health insurance Barmer (in Germany) and Vitaliberty, an agency for company health management, the portal MOOVE was introduced for all imc offices worldwide. MOOVE is a multi-lingual portal that allows tracking of personal health and improving it with personal targets. At imc’s German offices, additional local campaigns are held. Talks on “Healthy Diet at work and at home”, “Live Balance” and “Time Management” are regularly held for all staff, and in the MOOVE portal, a section on “Resilience” was introduced, providing information and practical exercises for the prevention of stress. The position of a compliance officer was created and staffed at imc Germany in 2018. Furthermore, imc Learning Suite was made compliant to the European Law GDPR. Staff development was reinforced by offering digital training in the portal “Empower imc”, while at the same time assuring that staff is compliant with regard to legally required trainings. In 2019, the imc headquarters moved into a larger building (Scheer Tower II), which provides employees with more individual space and improved working conditions. Due to an innovative building concept, employees can work in open space offices and flexible rooms. Health management at imc has reached a new level in 2019 by introducing company runs (program “Run imc”) at different locations. imc has also launched the performance management program EMPOWER ME in 2019. The objective of this program is to operationalize the idea that individual development and 7 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year organizational performance is not a contradiction. EMPOWER ME replaces the annual meeting of managers and employees with conversations on a regular basis. For development conversations they are provided with individual development plans, which are focused on the key strengths and preferences of the employee. What is more, in an expectations meeting, both, managers and employees, can define expectations of each other. Moreover, in 2019, imc has started a Brand Ambassador Program for employees. The voluntary participants are provided with group activities such as professional social media trainings, which enhance their skills. There are also social media trainings, which are open to all employees. Wages and Salary imc ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. A Career Growth/Staff Development System was introduced in 2016, defining the requirements to be met for achieving different career levels in Technical resp. Management Career Paths (see below) for the various departments, which are available to all employees. 8 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also, imc employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. With regard to its international subsidiaries, imc makes sure to be compliant with national legislation, collective wages and employment conditions of the respective countries, drawing from professional legal support. Since 2018, imc has an officially published “Equality and Diversity Policy”, while an Anti-Discrimination Agreement has already been part of each employee’s working contract for several years. Promoting human rights internationally imc cooperated with inter-governmental agencies in developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, refugee rights, as well as gender issues, such as prevention from sexual exploitation and abuse, and children’s rights. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. 9 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Selected performance indicators: The following table shows the current distribution of staff according to gender and age criteria. It also shows imc’s performance in achieving a gender-balanced workforce: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Gender Female (in 37 37 33 33,5 34,5 37 37,2 %) Male (in %) 63 63 67 66,5 65,5 63 62,8 Age < 30 years 25 58 82 71 87 76 74 groups old 30-50 70 156 134 145 174 185 220 years old >50 years 5 6 9 17 29 32 29 old Specific plans for 2021: imc will continue its efforts to ensure favorable working conditions for its entire workforce regardless of the location. As an inclusive organization imc will continue to strive for gender-equality and a non-discriminatory working environment for company staff. imc plans to offer its corporate Health Management further on in 2021 with further company runs in different locations as well as to provide its employees with recommendations and access to virtual fitness offerings due to restrictions on sport facilities during COVID-19 Anti10 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Pandemic Measures. The company strives to expand its Brand Ambassador Program and in this context will offer further social media trainings for the employees. The topics will be selected according to the interests of the staff. As imc expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2021, a specific aim is an improved international internal information policy on the company-wide web-based collaboration tool. In addition, imc will strive to promote further equal working conditions by further advancement of salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. The company also plans to continue its successful use of MS Teams and MS Stream in providing web-based collaboration, onboarding and exchange among (virtual) project teams and different departments. Furthermore, imc will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, gender issues, and childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 2: imc respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the regions it opBusinesses should ensure that they are erates. not complicit in human rights abuses. imc is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. 11 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 3: imc accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining in acBusinesses should uphold the freedom cordance to local labor legislation. Employees have the right to join or to form trade unions. Emof association and the effective recogployees’ representatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out their representanition of the right to collective bargaintive functions at the workplace. ing. Principle 4: All labor is sourced from the open labor market, employment is freely chosen and there is no Businesses should support the eliminaforced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All imc employees are provided with labor contracts tion of all forms of forced and compuland may resign at any time they consider appropriate. sory labor. In addition, imc offers the following benefits to its staff: Accident insurance Company pension scheme. In 2019, imc introduced a leadership program with professional trainings for managers. The goal of the program is to enhance the quality of leadership within the company. Furthermore, the “Plus1 refer program” was launched. This means in effect that imc’s employees can support someone by referring a candidate and earn rewards. Specific plans for 2021: As imc expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2021, specific aims are, among others, further professionalization of Human Resources processes, further reinforcement of internal and international communication, further improvement of leadership development and employee satisfaction in single departments and extension of health management. In addition, imc will strive to promote further good working conditions by further advancement of 12 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. Principle 5: imc doesn’t source workforce from child labor. It acts in accordance with the following rules: Businesses should support the effecThe course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of tive abolition of child labor. ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young people under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. imc cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on childrens’ rights. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2021: imc will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 6: Businesses should support Since 2018, imc has an officially published “Equality and Diversity Policy”, while an Anti-Discrimithe elimination of discrimination in renation Agreement was already part of each employee’s working contract for several years. spect of employment and occupation. It is the policy of imc to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favorable treatment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed term contract status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that 13 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. imc emphasizes that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organization’s Disciplinary Procedure. imc recognizes the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. imc supports part-time work and flexible working arrangements that are possible also in management positions. In 2016, imc implemented the non-profit project Cost Effective, Quality, Skills Education for South African Youth , aiming to increase access to and capacity of higher and further education and training, and therefore access to the labor market in South Africa. imc therefore developed diagnostic tests and bridging courses in “Numeracy” and “English Literacy” to increase the admission rate to Technical Vocational Education and Training colleges in South Africa, as well as providing free and online accessible high quality training material to those who lack the opportunity to visit a college. In addition, imc supported the colleges in digitizing their learning material and in the development of their own institutional future technology plans. The project was funded by DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft), a subsidiary of KfW Development Bank. In 2017, imc started as a partner in the implementation of the non-profit project “InKraFT”, which aims to give people with disabilities the right skills to learn and eventually to work as an automobile mechatronic engineer. The project establishes an innovative and virtual learning concept, providing the right tools to get this new work perspective with the help of digital media and 14 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year technologies. imc supports the project by providing the Learning Management System imc Learning Suite and by integrating the modules of the partners into the platform. In 2018, a new non-profit research project of imc started which supports the political request to invest more in education and the labor market in Africa. Together with research partners, IMC introduces online research laboratories into African schools in the project „Go-Lab Goes Africa“. During the three-year-project, a knowledge portal for schools in Africa is developed, with content available in French and Swahili. The solution will be tested in schools in Nigeria, Kenya and Benin. The schools will be equipped with the necessary technology, teachers will be trained on the use of digital laboratories in their classes and the solution will include offline functionalities for use when internet connectivity is poor. Concrete actions in 2020:  Digital Trainings on work-related basic education In 2019 and 2020 imc continued its cooperation with Arbeit und Leben Berlin e.V. in the project “lernen mit evideo”. The project provides functional illiterates with work-related basic education in the format of interactive, video-based online trainings (https://www.lernen-mit-evideo.de/) The trainings focus on job-specific and industry-specific qualification (e.g. Industrial Cleaning, Logistics, Hotel and Catering) and enable learners to acquire basic educational skills or to refresh them. The trainings are being developed by imc and hosted via imc's LMS imc Learning Suite . In 2018 the training series received the Comenius EDU Media Seal. 15 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year  imc Diversity Weeks / Charter of Diversity Signature Between 21 May and 31 May 2020 imc organized “diversity weeks”. Special activities and events regarding diversity were scheduled within this timeframe. As a special highlight, imc’s Management Board and HR department have signed the official Charter of Diversity – an initiative supported by the German Federal Chancellery and under the patronage of German Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel. Diversity is a core value of imc. You may follow this link to learn more about imc’s diversity policy in an expert interview with Elke Zastrau, Head of Human Resources: https://www.im-c.com/career/imc-as-an-employer/diversity/  International Women's Day 2020: Post Card Offering and Social Media Campaign imc supported the International Women’s Day 2020 and raised awareness on establishing equality between men and women by launching two initiatives. Post Card Offering: imc trusts in the power of compliments. Therefore, our employees were given the opportunity to tell their female team members, as well as all the other women out there “You rock!” by leaving a colleague, a female family member or a friend a short note to tell her what makes her so special to you. Employees could request the imc International Women’s Day postcard free of charge by from the company’s Human Resources Department. Social Media Campaign: During 2 weeks in May 2020, imc’s corporate Instagram stories offered insights into the daily working life of female imc team members. 16 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year  Support of School Education and Higher Education Sector In the course of the Covid-19 pandemic imc provided primary schools, secondary schools as well as higher education instutions with its learning technologies free of charge. Schools and Universities had the opportunity to licence the Learning Management System imc Learning Suite as well as the Authoring tool imc Content Studio at no cost. Universities only had to pay for the hosting costs.  Provision of Go-Lab Platform In the course of the Covid-10 Pandemic and the widely shut-down of school, imc decided to offer its digital teaching platform “Go-Lab” (online laboratories for STEM subjects) free of charge. The web-based Go-Lab platform combines interactive online experiments with conventional classroom teaching. Go-Lab offers a comprehensive variety of tools for research-based lessons, supporting science teaching in particular. https://www.im-c.com/newsroom/news/kostenlose-online-labore-fuer-schulen/  School Cooperations “Lernwelt Saar” and “Digital Primary School” In 2020 imc was delighted to strenghten its engagement in the provision of digital learning technolgies for school education. In the course of 2020 the company started cooperations with several regional schools for the Saarland state. The primary school Südschule St. Ingbert as well as the secondary school Bellevue Saarbrucecken were provided with Consultancy on Virutal Classroom and conducting digital teaching. In addition the school were provided with the Learning Management System “imc Learning Suite”. Furthermore imc signed a cooperation agreement with the regional state government on promoting the digitalization of school education and fostering the teaching on media use and media competencies. imc also supports the regional digital learning platform “Lernwelt Saar” with consultancy and its digital learning technologies. Further information on the initiatives are available on imc’s website (articles only in German language) https://www.im-c.com/de/newsroom/news/imc-ag-offizieller-kooperationspartner-im-itbuendnis-fuer-digitale-grundschule/ 17 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year https://www.im-c.com/de/newsroom/pressemeldungen/innovative-digitalpartnerschaft-derunternehmen-der-scheer-group-mit-lernwelt-saar/ https://www.im-c.com/de/newsroom/pressemeldungen/schulkooperation-saarland-digitalebildung/ Selected performance indicators: imc is pleased to have reached its highest number of nationality diversity among its staff in 2020, with a total of 49 different nationalities working at IMC: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Nationalities of full-time 31 31 30 29 39 45 49 staff Gender equality (% of fe37 37 33 33,5 34,5 31 32 male full-time staff) Furthermore, imc continued to cooperate with inter-governmental agencies on developing elearning modules on gender issues, such as prevention from sexual exploitation and abuse, and ethics and integrity. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2021: A culturally, ethnically, and linguistically diverse workforce has turned out beneficial for the company’s overall business performance in the past. As one of its core values imc will continue to operationalize the topic of diversity further in 2021. 18 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year In addition, imc will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing elearning modules on gender issues in order to increase their impact. Principle 7: Since 2018, imc has an officially published “Environmental Policy” and “Environmental Policy Businesses should support a precauStatement (for imc APAC)”. imc promotes perceived attitudes to resource management and retionary approach to environmental chalsource expenditure in relation to environmental background. All operations have to be comlenges. pleted undue any negative impacts on human beings or environmental pollution. imc cooperates with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2021: Sustainability will be a focus topic at imc in 2021. imc plans to further design corresponding actions. Principle 8: Since 2018, imc has a published “Environmental Policy” and “Environmental Policy Statement Businesses should undertake initiatives (for imc APAC). to promote greater environmental reIn December 2015, imc underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN 16247-1, as sponsibility. required by the new amendment to the German Law on Energy Service Providing (EDL-G) that implements the EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). The audit report was made available in 2016, containing recommendation for measures of improvement which are successively implemented during its 5-year validity. imc continues the use of an additional line in all employees’ e-mail signature: “Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the house. 19 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year imc’s travel policy underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when organizing work-related travels. Travelling by train is the preferred way of transport, besides flights and hiring cars when necessary. Thanks to a more diversified staff distribution in the branch offices (e.g. more New Media and Sales employees in the Munich, Essen, Melbourne or Singapore Offices), travel efforts can be significantly reduced for visiting local clients. The same principles are applied with regard to subcontractors wherever possible. These measures contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions, travel costs and strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. imc practices waste separation, according to the German law. In 2016, imc’s Munich Office changed from paper towels to washable cloth towel rolls, avoiding waste of paper. In addition, imc cooperates with inter-governmental agencies (such as the Green Climate Fund and UNFPA) on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Concrete actions in 2020: imc undertook the following initiatives in 2020 to promote greater environmental responsibility among its employees and to improve its corporate environmental responsibility.  JobBike Offering Since August 2020 imc offeres its employees the possibility to lease a JobBike at special conditions. imc Germany offers JobRad® as a benefit to its employees.JobRad turns new bicycles and e-bikes into company bikes and allows for tax saving. imc leases the bicycles or e20 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year bikes for the employee and the individual can ride it whenever and whereever she or he wants to work, in everyday life, on holiday or for sports. This is not only beneficial for the environment, but also helps employees to stay fit and healthy.  Pool Bikes The imc office in Freiburg establisched in April 2020 a bycicle pool. Employees have the possibility to rent a bike to get to work, to get to local appointments during working hours or to use it for private purposes. The bikes are stored in the underground garage of the office and the office established a booking system.  Praticipation in the „Stadtrad“ Challenge imc participated in the nation-wide initiative “Stadtradeln” which was hosted by the Climate Alliance (https://www.climatealliance.org/about-us.html). The goal was to cover as many everyday trips as possible by bike in a climate-friendly way for 21 days. imc employees at various locations from Munich to Saarbruecken – joined the challenge and pedaled together from 6th to 26th September. Across Germany the initiative had over 500.000 participants and helped to avoide the emission of 17 tons of Carbon dioxide. https://www.im-c.com/de/?taxonomy=taxonomy_of_topic_press&term=nachhaltigkeitengagement 21 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year  Job Ticket for Public Transport At several offices in Germany (Freiburg, Essen, Munich) the company cooperates with the local public transport companies in order to offer monthly public transport tickets at reduced rates and in addition subsidises the purchase of each monthly ticket with 10€.  BahnCard with 100% power from renewable energies For frequent travelers imc subscribes a “Business BahnCard” from the German National Railway company, which powers its long-distance trains with 100% renewable energies.  Procurement of sustainable Office Supplies (sustainable products) and energy efficient IT-hardware imc procures its office supplies from vendors with ecologically, fair-trade and sustainable products such as memo AG (www.memo.de) that provide transparency of their supply chains. Furthermore, imc preferably procures energy-efficient office devices and IT-hardware is being leased and selected after Green-IT principles. Specific plans for 2021: imc will continue taking the measures identified by the Energy Efficiency Audit in order to improve its energy management and enhance its environmental responsibility. In general, sustainability will be one of imc’s core topics in 2021. imc plans to design further corresponding actions. Principle 9: The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for imc. Challenges, which result from complexity of Businesses should encourage the deenvironmental protection, have large influence on IT-development and usage spectrum: velopment and diffusion of environmenNew media channels for educational programs are offering chances to promote environmental tally friendly technologies. protection. 22 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year • Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. • The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km. • imc has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. imc intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years. • In the imc Learning Suite, the Learning Management System developed by imc, the options for using one of a variety of virtual classroom tools, among them open source solutions, have been expanded. Thus, imc impacts and facilitates its customers’ practice to hold meetings and trainings virtually instead of face-to-face, reducing CO2 emissions. • imc supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combining its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol, these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. • imc also has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures. In 2013, imc 23 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year received the “Cloud for Society Award” for its business operations in this area. The award also covers “green IT” aspects of IT operations. imc’s software products, the Learning Management System imc Learning Suite, the authoring tool imc Content Studio, and the performance support tool imc Process Guide, are all available as cloud-based solutions (software as a service). • imc has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from imc’s car pool. In addition, imc cooperates with inter-governmental agencies in developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience. In particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2021: Sustainability will be a focus topic at IMC in 2021. IMC plans to design further corresponding actions. Principle 10: In 2018, the position of a compliance officer was created and staffed at imc Germany. All direcBusinesses should work against all tors, officers and employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business of imc, includforms of corruption, including extortion ing, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money laundering, bribery, improper and bribery. payments and anti-competitive activities. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take 24 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from re-occurring. imc is certified according to ISO / IEC 27001: 2013, proving imc’s Information Security Management System, and holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Certificate, applying a regular schedule for external audits. State-of-the-art data protection and digital processes, combined with staff trainings, contribute to a transparent working environment. The following processes are already being monitored by the ISO standard: People Review (staff appraisal), Induction of new staff, Onboarding of new staff (administratively), Exit of staff, Career Growth/Staff Development, and Internal Change of Department of Staff. In order to foster compliance with anti-corruption rules in a broad range of business operations, imc has developed an interactive training curriculum available for use in organizations of all kinds. In addition, imc has broadened its product portfolio with an online compliance management system which is used by imc customers in order to effectively provide compliance relevant training to their workforce. In 2017, imc has introduced, and continued since then, a bi-monthly “Impulse Session” to improve internal transparency and communication between the board and staff. The meeting is held onsite at headquarters and shared by a live web stream with all staff at other offices and subsidiaries. In 2019, imc has introduced a professional contract management system for customer contracts, in order to further professionalize internal processes. The newly introduced system also leads to greater transparency with regard to contract negotiations. imc also released a Privacy Policy in 2019. The purpose of this corporate policy is to safeguard and protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, in particular their right of the protection of personal data. Furthermore, imc is cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning 25 imc AG | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 | 09.12.2020 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year modules on corruption prevention, internal controls and raising fraud awareness. They are targeted to a global audience of professionals in the humanitarian sector. Specific plans for 2021: imc will strive to further improve internal communication and transparency. As imc expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2021, the company aims at improving the international internal information policy on the company-wide web-based collaboration tool (atlassian confluence). In addition, imc will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing elearning modules on corruption prevention in order to increase their impact. END OF DOCUMENT 26
