CATTINI e FIGLIO S.r.l. Communication on Progress for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact 1 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • SUMMARY: • Continuous commitment to the UNGC and its principles. • 2020 Status. • 2021 Targets. 2 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT TO THE UNGC AND ITS PRINCIPLES: We are delighted again to confirm our commitment to the UNGC’S 10 universal principles. 2020 will be always remembered as the year of the Covid 19 pandemic; despite hard times for our Company as well as for Europe and the entire world, our Organization has emerged through all the different storms encountered with the inner strength of our solid set of values, embodied in the 10 universal principles. Proving our respect to all people, to our environment as well as to our Community has made our Associates especially proud to serve in our Company and enabled our Organization to literally fly to its future targets. We are determined to retain this invaluable force and cannot think of a better way to power our way ahead. Casarile, December 09, 2020 3 Lorenzo A. Cattini – Chairman, C.e.o. Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (1): • Cattini e Figlio never tolerated and never will tolerate any kind of abuse in respect with the universal known human rights. • There has been no reported case of inobservance of any human rights since the e-mail anonym hotline has been established in 2010. • Cattini e Figlio will endlessly continue to stress the importance of respect of human rights throughout its entire organization and to all stakeholders including Suppliers. 4 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (2): • Health and safety issues are covered by periodical meetings between employees and management representatives as well as by procedures included in the management model according to legislative decree 231, recognized by the Italian government. • Employees are represented by a serious and competent committee. • Cattini e Figlio has appointed a management representative for health, safety and environment duly empowered to act. • Plenary health and safety session is held annually. • The totality of employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio recognizes the right for all employees to associate to unions and confirms that the unions are not subject to any kind of discrimination. Year 2020 Total employees 235 Associated to unions 38 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 6 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (2): • The use of child and/or forced labour in Cattini & Figlio’s plants as well as in our Suppliers facilities has never and will never be tolerated; no person will be enrolled under the minimum age permitted by the Italian law. Age employees from 18 to 20 years 0 from 21 to 35 years 42 from 36 to 50 years 94 above 50 years 99 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 7 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (3): • One of Cattini e Figlio’s maior objectives is to take care of its human resources and to endlessly develop their potential through appropriate business climate, training, job rotation and other universally accepted practises. • Selection and recruitement activities for new personnel are performed strictly according to objective evaluations about each candidate potential for the position,without making any gender, racial or other kind of discrimination. 8 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • ENVIRONMENT STATUS: • Cattini e Figlio takes care to minimise the impact to the environment as much as possible taking into consideration the inevitable constrainsts due to the fact that materials and manufacturing methods are specified by its Customers. • In FY 2020 we completed our production resources investment plan and decommissioned more than 70 old and inefficent machines from 2017 to date. • In FY 2020 we sealed a contract with our energy provider to use – from 2021 – 100% of our energy requirement exclusively from «green» sources. 9 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • ANTI-CORRUPTION STATUS: • Corruption has never and will never be tolerated by Cattini & Figlio: so far, no non compliance to our policy has been reported to the top management ouf our Company. • Our Code of Ethics has been updated and published on our website; it is extremely clear about non-ethical issues and our Company will stop or not enter into business relations with any third parties responsible for such painful acts. 10 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • STATUS 2020: WHAT WE HAVE DONE 1. Despite the challenging business environment, we continued our continous improvement strategy by achieving the IATF certification for our heat treatment plant too (formerly ISO 9001). 2. We continued to verify the effectiveness of our voluntary management model according to the legislation risk assessment act 231 with excellent results. 3. We continued an important training program throughout our Organization to assure a «Zero Alibi, Zero Defect attitude». for the future. 11 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2020 to the UN Global Compact • TARGETS FOR 2021 1. Continue to spread the UNGC principles throughout our Organization and our Supply chain. 2. Prepare for ISO 45001 (health and safety) certification within FY 2022. 3. Prepare for environmental certification of our heat treatment plan within FY 2023. 12 CATTINI e FIGLIO S.r.l. END OF COP FOR YEAR 2020 Thank you! 13
