COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 25/10/2018 to: 25/10/2019 [8 Aug 2019] To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sacotel s.a.l reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Riccardo Hosri Chief Executive Officer 1. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights SDG1/SDG2/SDG3 Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Provides Healthy meals equilibrated by nutritionists, freshly cooked, to all employees at a very fair price, where all proceeds go to EYWA association. Labour SDG5 Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Comply with minimum wage standards Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria We are leading the gender equality SDG by example: BOD: 3 Women, 2 Men Some of our employees are from different nationalities, and some others come from totally different backgrounds and belonging. We are proud that our employees are totally diversified, and we lead them by example. Environment SDG7 / SDG11 Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health . Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances Sacotel is in the Renewable Energy business and has made a Joint Venture with Titer 1 Chinese Solar Panel Manufacturer, our company is creating awareness every day on the safety of the environment, and in every medium possible. Sacotel was recognized in the academia category for the design and implementation of the on & off Grid PV solution for the International school of Choueifat campus, member of the SABIS School Network. The school has 1,543 students and 158 teachers; capitalizing on this, the International School of Choueifat and Sacotel expanded their initiative from energy efficiency to a more holistic approach covering waste management, green spaces, energy efficiency, water efficiency, Health and safety and sustainability education in order to get Green Schools Certification. Students of all ages were involved in this project and were educated on the environmental and economic advantages of renewable energy. The project became the corner stone of the School’s efforts that let them reach the platinum green school awards. Sacotel supplied solar panels for 5000 villas in Dubai and is currently working on supplying a city of 500 buildings. Our aim is to contribute to saving the planet in every way, and to become a great example in the field or Renewable Energy. Anti-Corruption SDG16 Assess the risk of corruption when doing business Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment Our company has been a leader in fighting corruptions, we are known to have fought different kind of corruptions through legal cases, especially when going through the tendering process. We make sure to respect process and clauses of the tenders that we work on during and after implementation. Work with our partners and distributers on how to ensure an ethical behavior between the employees of both companies. We make sure to have a clause stating that we should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Our company tries to resists the solicitation of bribes and extortion combatting bribery. We enhance the transparency of our activities in the fight against it and we adopt measures in order to honor these commitments. SDG17 We have applied for Green Schools Certificate Program and partnered with SABIS to help the school become a Green one. Partnered with EYWA (A non-profit organization, allowing working mothers to go on with their productive lives by giving them the opportunity of placing their kids at relatively free of charge in a the fully equipped and staffed nursery offering toddlers education, play and love. It is a 200-m2 ground floor with backyard in the heart of Beirut.) Partnered with Queasine aiming at serving healthy meals to the children of EYWA association, Queasine also offers food to companies and individuals at a very special rate, where all proceeds go to EYWA association as well.
