Rueil-Malmaison, January 31st, 2020 PRESS RELEASE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT THE HEART OF ARVAL’S STRATEGY REWARDED BY ECOVADIS GOLD RATING Arval, a global leader in full service vehicle leasing and mobility solutions, has been awarded the gold recognition level on the EcoVadis* Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform, rating it among the top 2% best companies in the Renting and leasing of motor vehicles” industry. In 2019, Arval scored 70/100, a gain of two points compared to 2018. For the 4th year in a row, this recognition highlights Arval’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, which is at the heart of Arval’s strategy. We are living at a time when fundamental topics for the future are rapidly taking shape. Mobility – which is at the core of what Arval provides to its customers – has an impact on many of today’s key societal and ecological challenges, including environment protection, congestion and accessibility, the future of cities and quality of life. Arval helps its clients succeed in their energy transition by offering sustainable mobility solutions. “CSR is not an option neither a duty, but it is part of Arval’s DNA. At Arval, we are convinced that being proactive is an essential part of our approach. With more than 1 million cars on the roads, as many drivers behind the wheel and billions of kilometres travelled every year, least we can say is that we have a say in energy transition, road safety, congestion, urbanisation and greener mobility”, Alain Van Groenendael, Arval Chairman and CEO. Discover the 2019 Arval CSR Report *Note to editors: EcoVadis operates a web-based collaborative platform, allowing companies to assess the CSR performance of their global suppliers. Companies are given a rating out of 100 depending on their performance in four areas: environment, labour practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. For each of these areas, EcoVadis evaluates the organisation’s policies, actions and results. Press contacts: VERBATEE: Jérôme Goaer – j.goaer@verbatee.com +33 (0)6 61 61 79 34 Aline Besselièvre – a.besselievre@verbatee.com +33 (0)6 61 85 10 05 Florence Bastien – f.bastien@verbatee.com +33 (0)6 61 61 78 55 Arval : Christelle Paillès – christelle.pailles@arval.com +33 (0)1 57 69 53 69 Mathilde Aureau – mathilde.aureau@arval.com +33 (0)1 57 69 54 15 About Arval: Arval is the specialist in full service vehicle leasing (1,19 million leased vehicles in the world at end Dec. 2018) and new mobility solutions. Every day, the 7,000 Arval employees, in their 29 Countries, strive with passion to accomplish Arval’s promise: offer to all its customers – large international corporates, smaller companies or retail clients (including individuals), flexible solutions to make their journeys seamless and sustainable. Arval is a founding member of the Element-Arval Global Alliance, a worldwide leader in the fleet management industry, with 3 million vehicles in 50 countries. Arval has been founded in 1989 and is fully owned by BNP Paribas. Within the Group, Arval belongs to the Retail Banking & Services field of activity. www.arval.com About BNP Paribas: BNP Paribas is a leading bank in Europe with an international reach. It has a presence in 72 countries, with more than 202,000 employees, of which more than 154,000 in Europe. The Group has key positions in its three main activities: Domestic Markets and International Financial Services (whose retail-banking networks and financial services are covered by Retail Banking & Services) and Corporate & Institutional Banking, which serves two client franchises: corporate clients and institutional investors. The Group helps all its clients (individuals, community associations, entrepreneurs, SMEs, corporates and institutional clients) to realise their projects through solutions spanning financing, investment, savings and protection insurance. In Europe, the Group has four domestic markets (Belgium, France, Italy and Luxembourg) and BNP Paribas Personal Finance is the European leader in consumer lending. BNP Paribas is rolling out its integrated retail-banking model in Mediterranean countries, in Turkey, in Eastern Europe and a large network in the western part of the United States. In its Corporate & Institutional Banking and International Financial Services activities, BNP Paribas also enjoys top positions in Europe, a strong presence in the Americas as well as a solid and fast-growing business in Asia-Pacific. www.bnpparibas.com
