UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2019 1. Introduction In its 13 years of presence in telecommunications market Our objective in Vip mobile is to support the improvement in Serbia, Vip mobile has accomplished the sustainable of the local community, while constantly achieving better growth in all business segments owing to its strategic business results, which is why we continuously invest in the determination to focus on providing the best customer environment, culture, education, digitalisation. Accepting experience and on continuous improvement of the the responsibility for our business operations and their network, technology and offering of the innovative influence, we induce, through our socially responsible products and services. Vip always puts its customers first, operation, positive changes in the society and contribute and the company is dedicated to adapt the products and to improving the quality of life in Serbia. services to their needs. 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address As the youngest telecom operator in the country, we know drivers of change and tell different stories, are always it is essential to be different and to introduce changes. We welcome to join us in this effort! know that the world is left to the young, which is why we want to show by example the importance of responsibility Our CSR strategy in 2018/2019 has been mainly towards the community in which we live and work. Vip is focused on our long-term projects related to environment, the initiator of the projects that make Serbia a better place children internet safety, family values and digital to live in and through these projects we are telling a improvement in education. different story, the story of trust and unity. In the past 12 years through our social responsibility programs, we We will continue with the implementation of corporate helped the children and the elderly people, influenced the social responsibility based on UN Global Compact development of culture and sports, opened and resolved a principles and lead other companies as a good example number of environmental issues, and thus set up the of permanent and stable CSR practice in the Serbian foundation of responsible, humanitarian impact in the business sector. business world. The doors of our company are always opened to the community and all of those who want to be 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance 2.1. Care for employees HR Sector 2018/2019 strategy was focused on talent management and leadership development, strengthening of corporate culture and promoting Vip mobile as a desirable employer. For our employees we provide additional benefits such as: • Voluntary health insurance • Voluntary pension insurance • Kindergarten on site at our headquarters building • Special benefits and discounts for shopping, sports, leisure • Various work-life balance benefits 2.1.1. Basic information about Age structure 2018 Vip employees and investment in their development 2019 30.0% 27.4% 27.3% 25.0% Woman Man 20.0% 19.5% 15.0% 14.3% Gender structure 2018 Gender structure 2019 10.0% 38.40 % 38 % 5.0% 5.9% 3.9% 61.60 % 62 % 0.0% 1% 0.6% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> Age structure 2019 30.0% 27.2% 27.3% 25.0% 20.0% 17.6% Management share 2018 Management share 2019 15.0% 16.10% 40.50 % 49.7 % 10.0% 59.50 % 50.3 % 5.0% 4.7% 5% 1.2% 0.6% 0.0% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> 2.1.2. Managing talents, recognizing top performers, raising competencies One of the major company aims in human resources regardless of their gender, may use them wherever and each of the respective companies. development is continuing of employee competence whenever they need them. development, creation of new development programs Cooperation with start up community: Changes which will enable this aim’s implementation and enrich the Within regularly planned activities for professional on the market, technology development and growth of start programs that have been a constituent part of Vip mobile development in 2019, our employees will attend courses up community brought along the need for developing the business culture for years. Our aim is to create an inspiring for development of professional skills, leadership, new competences necessary for finding one’s way around and stimulating environment in which our employees can organizational and other “soft” skills in order to the coming era. Given the circumstances, in order to grow together with the company, fulfil their potentials and accomplish improvement in their respective fields. In connect with the start up community, we have launched a be passionate about their work. addition, we continuously support internal exchange of partnership cooperation with ICT Hub within which we knowledge through the rotation programs, insight into the jointly create the strategy for development of future “Gallup Strength Based Program” good practice workplace of colleagues from other departments as well as competences. In addition to attending the ICT Hub open of this program continue in 2019. This year we focused on through an increasing number of cross-functional projects. trainings, we are free to hire their lecturers and organize development of leadership skills through coaching. This educational programs specifically intended for our needs. program includes creating of each employee’s profile, Employee development in the field of new based on their key strengths, 4 individual as well as 2 team trends and work methodologies – digitalization, Mentorship Program During 2019 we continued coaching sessions. Each of the participants has their own agile transformation and an increasing access to new Mentorship Program in which our key employees will individual coach with whom they continuously work on technologies are making us face the new challenges in the receive the support from experienced mentors from other their development. field of employee education. The transformation project, companies who will transfer their knowledge and which is currently under way, includes, among other experience as well as various examples from other During 2019 we continued the project “Vip things, developing of internal and external education industries’ practice. e-mpowering classroom”, e-learning platforms programs regarding these issues. (online learning platform, a vault of new knowledge and skills in the form of virtual interactive courses on various A1 Group Programs A1 Group portfolio contains themes) enabling access to all employees in order to various development programs for the employees from all provide even larger support to employee development. In companies which are a part of this Group. Our colleagues 2019, the e-learning platform was improved, due to have on their disposal “A1 Learning Hub” school open which, in addition to numerous new and modern trainings, development programs for various target groups functionalities, the employees gained access to a large as well as various online contents. A1 Group largely number of various contents. E-learning knowledge and participates in the development strategy for all employees, content are available at all times, so that the employees, which is further developed and tailored to local needs by 2.1.3. Social Recruiting In the course of 2019 we have continued and improved job recruiting via social networks in order to be able to search more efficiently and find the talents who are hard to come by, but also to increase the company visibility and raise the level of awareness regarding Vip as an employer. This year, we have launched a new IT system for employee recruiting and selection whose functionalities will enable us to be even better positioned in various channels, among other things, social networks. 2.2. Responsibility towards community Vip is dedicated to initiating positive changes in its environment, and, as a responsible company, it focuses its operations on improving the quality of life in Serbia. 2.2.1. Education Aiming to provide support to young talents, Vip mobile company has improved cooperation with the Faculty of Organizational Science, the Faculty of Transport and Traffic Engineering, the Faculty of Economics and a local group of Electrical Engineering Students' European Association (EESTEC) in Belgrade. In 2019 we supported winners of Case Study Show with paid internship within the company. Through this project we support students in their education. 2.2.2. Environment Daily newspaper Blic and Vip mobile have carried out the communities, removed over 400 cubic meters of waste from environmental project “Let’s Clean the Rivers of Serbia” with the banks of 20 rivers across Serbia. an aim to restore the dignity of Serbian watercourses, to make the environment healthier and more beautiful, and to The project is a part of a wider initiative “Ecomotivate raise public awareness of the importance of this topic. Serbia”, through which Vip is conducting a large number of internal and external activities aimed at protecting the In the period from October to December 2019, more than environment. 1,000 volunteers, along with the representatives of local 2.2.3. Digital platform Safe kids As a provider of communications services, Vip actively The content was created with the participation of experts addresses the issue of children’s safety on the internet. from the Digital Communications Institute, and the Having in mind that the youngest population is frequently platform also contains results of relevant studies, advice the first to embrace various online trends, Vip has and explanations of a variety of situations that can occur continued to provide support to parents through the on social networks and messaging apps, as well as useful Bezbedni klinci (Safe Kids) platform (bezbedniklinci.rs). websites. Interesting and educational content is provided on the Internet address bezbedniklinci.rs has become a partner platform and made available to parents, enabling them to of many parents in Serbia in their effort to overcome the receive timely information and keep up with their kids, challenges of modern parenting, helping them to develop who are growing up in the digital age. The aim is to help digital literacy skills and better understand the online the parents feel confident and ready to be the first persons environment which is an inescapable element of raising their children go to for advice, answers, or reactions children today. concerning safe internet use. 2.2.4. Family Values For years, Vip has been working on the concept of new dads, too: they can count on extra days off with pay, family-responsible business, where it has yet again set a when their child is born. One of the biggest benefits is a new standard. The latest operator in the market was the workplace kindergarten on company premises, while the first company in Serbia to win the prestigious certificate employees having a third child also receive a monthly “Family Friendly Enterprise”, according to the licensed allowance of RSD 10,000 until the child turns 15, which is certification scheme of the Slovenian Ekvilib Institute, which a way for Vip to contribute directly to the population policy is a guarantee that the company has adjusted its internal in Serbia. structure and organization to allow its employees the opportunity to devote themselves equally to their career Vip decided to expand its positive internal practices by and to their private commitments. making a direct contribution to the community in which it operates. In 2019, a special offer was created, intended Vip employs more than 1,400 people who look after the for all new moms, with free subscription for a period of needs of 2.3 million customers, and special emphasis is nine months. Considering that no similar offer was given to the fact that more than a half of the total number recorded on the market, Vip has successfully drawn of employees are parents. The company was among the attention to the significance of providing support to parents first to decide that employees on maternity leave receive who are only just getting used to their new obligations and full pay for the entire duration of their leave. When they expenses, at the time when they are assuming their most return, new moms are entitled to an adjustment period that important role in life. entails working part-time at full pay. Support is provided to 2.2.5. The Selfless Book Vip has designed a special book that comprises poems recognized by the Ministry of Education, Science and intended for children, which speak about the value of Technological Development, with the support of which the sharing. At the end of the book, there is a one-of-a-kind company presented copies of “The Selfless Book” to all “Selfless Paper”, to be used for wrapping presents. Over the preschool institutions and kindergartens in Serbia. New Year’s holidays, all Vip employees took part in the wrapping of gifts that were then presented to child care institutions across Serbia. The value of this project was 2.3. Vip Sponsorships As a company that offers and uses digital solutions and new technologies, we support innovative projects relevant to our core business. Vip also strives to enrich everyday life with valuable content while supporting education, sports and culture. In 2019 our main focus was on continuation of existing sponsorship project “Vip Kinoteka” and partnership with Belgrade Dance Festival. 2.3.1. Belgrade Dance Festival 16th edition of Belgrade Dance Festival proves once again the National Dance Foundation. that the title of one of the most outstanding European event is well deserved. As a major partner of the Belgrade Dance Owing to this cooperation Serbia became an Festival for twelve years, Vip mobile has introduced a indispensable stopping point to a large number of distinctive pattern of large companies’ investments in significant international dance performances. Serbian culture, and jointly created the slogan Communication on the Move , which best reflected the Through the accompanying “Vip Talents” project, Belgrade strength of this cooperation. To the popularization of artistic Dance Festival and Vip mobile had the youngest ballet dance in Serbia, Vip contributed by awarding a prize Vip talents enrolled into the high quality educational and calls to prominent artists from the region with distinctive practical workshops held by top mentors who contribute to dancing career abroad, then journalistic award Vip step guiding them on their way to professional artistic dancing. forward , but also through the Vip talents and support to 2.3.2. Vip Kinoteka Introduced in December 2017, project “Vip Kinoteka” By using the technique of digital restoration, legendary carried out jointly by Vip mobile and the Yugoslav Film films such as “Who’s singin’ over there”, “The National Archive, aims to preserve and protect some of the most Class”, “The Marathon Family” and “The Balkan Spy” are famous masterpieces of the seventh art, which have been now preserved for future generations in the quality they proclaimed national cultural property of great importance. deserve. This is just a starting point of the long-awaited process of digital restoration of the Serbian film heritage During the 2019 four more films were digitally restored as the core of the project includes works of cinematic art and re-screened with high image and sound quality. Since produced in the period from 1967 to 1993. the beginning of the project, thirteen cult movies has been digitally restored and presented to the audience in 16 cities across Serbia. 2.4. Responsibility towards Compliance Vip mobile, as member of Telekom Austria Group, regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia and with all assessment sessions clearly shows that it is important not complies with the highest corporate management business ethics principles. Vip is also fully committed to only to achieve our goals, but also how we achieve them. standards, which are a foundation for establishing an transparency in business reporting. Our business partners, users of our services, shareholders, excellent and long-term relationship with our customers, public, and our employees expect us to meet the highest partners and relevant state institutions. Compliance is actively implemented and incorporated standards, also in the sense of integrity. into existing processes and controls. Right way -Right Telekom Austria is listed on Vienna Stock Exchanges and results. Compliance awareness through Code of Conduct, operates in accordance with Austria security trade acts as compliance management policies, regular compliance well as with stock exchange regulations. Vip mobile is trainings to all level employees within Vip mobile, conducting its operations in accordance with all laws and whistle-blower (local and group), Compliance Risk
