Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents 2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Contents 4 Letter from the CEO 6 Who we are 8 Siteimprove and the Sustainable Development Goals 10 Goal 4: Quality Education 14 Goal 10: Reducing Inequalities 16 Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals 18 Accessibility state of the globe 20 Human rights 22 Contributing to inclusion since 2007 23 Making our platform accessible to support a diverse workplace 25 The Siteimprove global accessibility pledge 26 Empowering employees through internal accessibility training 27 The Siteimprove Academy 27 On the road: Events around the world 31 Update on the WAI-Tools Project 32 Establishing the W3C’s Diversity Fund 32 Combating the democratic problem of inaccessible political websites 33 Helping vendors: The case with DocuSign 34 The dedication of one Siteimprover resulted in a Danish version of WCAG 2.1 34 Siteimprove Performance 36 Data Privacy 37 Goals 38 Labor rights 40 Policies 41 Our people are our greatest resource 44 Giving back to the community 45 Taking pride in diversity 47 Goals 48 Environment 50 Siteimprove’s Environmental Policy 51 Minimizing the impact of our supply chain 51 Minimizing the carbon footprint of our data processing 52 Minimizing the impact of our hardware 53 Goals 54 Anti-corruption 56 Siteimprove’s Code of Conduct 57 Siteimprove’s Whistleblower Policy 57 Siteimprove’s Supplier Code of Conduct 57 Goals 3 Letter from the CEO Dear reader, I’m excited to once again introduce Siteimprove’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report, reaffirming our support for the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined back in 2010, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2019 was a notable year for Siteimprove. Our commitment to developing an enterprise level product meant that we expanded our marketing suite to further serve digital marketing teams with two new products, Siteimprove Ads and Siteimprove Performance, and further improved our existing products. Our main contribution to a more inclusive web is Siteimprove Accessibility, which continues to provide best-in-class accessibility monitoring and will become even better when we upgrade the product with a new accessibility engine in 2020. Like Accessibility, our latest product, Siteimprove Performance, is a great example of how inclusion and good business go hand-in-hand. The product enables our customers to identify how to improve the performance of their websites and make their content and services available for even more users, and customers, around the world. We are seeing more and more of our customers turning to Siteimprove to get quality training. Our industry knowledge, strong network of partners, and expertise mean we can provide valuable industry insights and useful learning within all things digital. Central to the customer learning experience is the Siteimprove Academy, which took a major step forward in 2019. Not only did we see the number of completed Accessibility courses almost doubling compared to 2018, the courses are now approved for Continuing Accessibility Education Credits through IAAP. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Siteimprove continues to be a strong partner for likedemands to suppliers and partners. That’s one of the minded organizations. As we enter the final year of the reasons why we introduced the Siteimprove Accessibility WAI-Tools project, we can look back at a productive 2019 Pledge and our Supplier Code of Conduct in 2019. It is where we made great strides in the project, which aims a strong statement that if you want to do business with to be the go-to solution for the European governments Siteimprove, you must respect human and labor rights, for repairing web accessibility problems. We also look after the environment, work against corruption, and continued our partnership with the European Disability provide accessible solutions. Forum, with whom we published an important report Last but not least, I would like to praise our employees revealing serious accessibility issues on the websites of for their continuous dedication. They have embraced the the European parliaments. internal accessibility initiatives that we rolled out in 2019 One of the highlights of the year for me personally was and they show an undying passion and engagement for when I had the pleasure of welcoming a big crowd of making the web better every day. I know they do much passionate accessibility professionals at our launch more to contribute to an inclusive world than can be event for the Accessibility World Map in May, 2019. At the described in this report. event, we presented the Accessibility World Map website, With this report, I hope to inspire you to take action and which is part of our commitment to further develop join Siteimprove on our journey toward a sustainable, measurements of progress within digital inclusion, inclusive future. and announced that the site also offers free tools for checking and improving website accessibility. Using our expertise and development capabilities to provide free accessibility tools comes natural to us as a responsible company, and I look forward to seeing Siteimprove help even more organizations in the future. In order to achieve the SDGs and successfully make the web better for all, it’s crucial that we get other organizations on board. Siteimprove has reached a Morten Ersbøll Ebbesen, size where we can feel confident when presenting our Chief Executive Officer & Founder 5 Who we are Siteimprove helps organizations cut through complexity by making it easier to prioritize work that drives value and delivers growth. Our platform empowers teams with actionable insights that eliminate guesswork and prioritize the most impactful tasks. We bring together siloed digital disciplines in one innovative solution, which integrates seamlessly with leading technology and existing workflows. Perfect your digital presence from a single solution – Siteimprove. At Siteimprove we empower organizations with actionable insights to cut through digital complexity and achieve growth. We operate in a digital reality. Almost every aspect of our lives takes place online. Every type of organization utilizes this digital space to serve their citizens, students, customers, and users. We want to ensure everyone can use this digital space without limitations. We also want to empower organizations and businesses to overcome their digital limitations by reaching their full digital potential. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Our brand promises 1. We overcome complexity Our solution cuts through digital complexity and prioritizes tasks that drive results 2. We make insights actionable We eliminate guesswork and empower decision making 3. We work with you Our innovative platform integrates with leading technology solutions while we support your digital development 4. We power growth We empower organizations to meet their digital goals 7 Siteimprove and the SDGs In 2015, the United Nations agreed to 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of their ambitious 2030 agenda. The overall objective is a better, more sustainable future. The 17 SDGs, and the 169 targets that go with them, address the global challenges we need to overcome within the next 10 years. We are strong supporters of the SDGs and their purpose of leaving no one behind. For the past few years, Siteimprove has worked actively with the SDGs and we encourage others to take part and join us on the path toward a sustainable future. Siteimprove is uniquely positioned to contribute to the SDGs regarding digital human rights. We’ve identified the goals that align best with our core business and areas of expertise and considered where we can make the biggest impact, which means we’re focusing on three specific goals that we view as great shared value opportunities. Our business model also has potential to directly or indirectly impact several other SDGs. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 2019 CSR Report 2019 Siteimprove’s impact on the SDGs Focused positive impact Potential positive impact Potential negative impact In this report, we will go into detail about our focused positive impact on goals 4, 10, and 17. In the Environment section, we explain how we mitigate the risk of potential negative impact on Goal 13: Climate Action. 9 Goal 4: Quality Education 10 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Our focus We want to ensure inclusive, equitable, and quality education by educating our stakeholders about accessibility and inclusion and by contributing to equal access to online education. Why quality education is a priority We are committed to providing equitable, quality education for all, which is why it’s a key area of focus as we work toward a more inclusive world. As web accessibility is still seen largely as a niche topic, our goal is to make people aware of the issues caused by inaccessible technology, and to educate them on how to solve these issues. With our expertise, we are able to provide the knowledge and tools people need to improve the accessibility of their websites and live up to global accessibility standards. Our targets 4.3 Equal access to affordable technical, vocational, and higher education 4.5 Eliminate all discrimination in education Our contribution We spread awareness about accessibility and inclusion in everything we do. For those who are willing to learn more, we can educate them about the topic in a number of ways. In Siteimprove Academy, we offer a long list accessibility courses, some related to practical topics, like creating accessible documents and emails, some aimed at specific professionals such as designers and developers, and others that are more general, like our Web Accessibility Fundamentals course. Every Siteimprove customer gets complementary access to all of our Academy courses for up to 20 of their users with their Siteimprove contract. We also educate customers, partners, employees, and the general public through events, digital content, social media campaigns, and webinars. Our accessibility experts regularly speak at external conferences and Siteimprove-hosted events. They are also often featured in the accessibility webinars we organize over the course of the year. On our website, we offer a substantial number of resources and pieces of content to help organizations become more accessible, and we always share valuable insights with the world on our social media channels. Furthermore, one of Siteimprove’s main customer segments is the education sector. By providing educational institutions with the software tools they need, we empower schools, colleges, and universities to make their information and services available to users of all abilities. When barriers on websites are eliminated, we can ensure that quality education is accessible for a larger part of society. 11 Goal 4: Quality Education Back 2 school supply drive During the month of August, our Minneapolis office organized a back-to-school supply drive, where we collected school supplies and donated them to kids in the local community. For the initiative, we teamed up with the Bay Laurel Fund, a non-profit organization started by Darryl White, who’s an inbound marketing development manager at Siteimprove. The purpose of the initiative was to raise awareness and collect donations for kids in need of school supplies before the new school year started. Siteimprove’s goal was to collect 50 backpacks, 100 notebooks, and 150 crayon, marker, pen, and pencil packs. At the end of the month, we had managed to surpass our goal by bringing in over 80 backpacks, 240 notebooks, and 190 packs of markers, pens, and pencils, most of which were donations from Siteimprovers. A group of Siteimprovers brought the supplies to a local park in the St. Louis Park neighborhood near Minneapolis and handed them out to local kids in need of these items. At the park, we were joined by other inspiring local business and role models who helped prepare the underprivileged kids for the first day of school. The kids got new haircuts and meals to go with the school supplies so that they were set for the new school year. Darryl received great reactions to the initiative, confirming that his non-profit and his colleagues made a great contribution to the community. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 “To see the smiles on all their faces was priceless! I don’t know how many times I heard ‘Officer Chaunte look at my hair’ or ‘Look at what I got!’” Darryl recalls. “Overall, I think it was a huge impact on the community and on the volunteers. There were parents coming up to us to thank us for setting up the event. One mother with 3 kids was in tears thanking us for the event and providing this blessing to them,” he continues. Finally, Darryl also notes that the initiative helped inspire the young people: “The other amazing thing about this event is all the people of color that were involved. We know how important it is to see someone that looks like you and our goal was to show the kids that you can be a barber, hairstylist, police officer, chef, businessperson—no matter what.” Darryl’s long-term plan with the Bay Laurel Fund is to open a community center in Minneapolis that will provide arts and athletic programs for kids in one building. To see the smiles on all their faces was priceless!” Darryl White Key highlights from 2019 • A ll 19 Accessibility courses in Siteimprove Academy are now approved for Continuing Accessibility Education Credits through the International Association of Accessibility Professionals (IAAP). • A total of 14,174 accessibility courses were completed by users in Siteimprove Academy, which is 97% more than in 2018. • Siteimprove made their first appearance at Folkemødet, Denmark’s Democratic Festival, bringing educational empathy exercise for everyone to try. • S  iteimprove now offers a total of 71 free blog posts about accessibility, plus numerous white papers, webinars, and more. • S  iteimprove rolled out mandatory accessibility training internally, which has since become an integral part of onboarding new employees. • S  iteimprove’s portfolio includes more than 700 educational institutions that are using Siteimprove to make their information and services more accessible. 13 Goal 10: Reducing Inequalities 14 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Our focus Our Contribution We focus on promoting and contributing to the social, We developed our Siteimprove Accessibility software tool economic, and political inclusion of everyone, regardless more than 10 years ago and have continued improving of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, it ever since to better help organizations remove digital economic, or other status. We do this through our barriers from their websites. We also provide free software solutions and public advocacy for accessibility resources that contribute to reduced inequalities on the and inclusion, and by sharing our knowledge and web, including the Siteimprove Accessibility Checker for expertise. Google Chrome that we released in 2017. The expertise of our employees is another asset in our Why reducing inequalities is a priority efforts to create awareness and provide education about We believe that equal access to digital platforms is a accessibility and inclusion. With our resources and fundamental right. As the world becomes increasingly knowledge, we can influence people and organizations digital, digital accessibility is more important than ever. around the world, whether through the content we Our objective is to use our technology to make a genuine create, the events we host and take part in, or through difference, and to give everyone the knowledge and tools our interactions with customers and partners. they need to contribute to the change. This doesn’t just As we believe equal access to information and services apply to those with disabilities—as the world population on the web is a fundamental right, our contributions to ages, the need for accessible websites continues to this cause are described further in the section Human increase. Rights. Our targets 10.2 Promote universal social, economic, and political inclusion 10.3 Ensure equal opportunities and end discrimination Key highlights from 2019 • The number of users of Siteimprove’s free Google Chrome extension increased to 58,000, a 29% increase since 2018. • 96% of Siteimprove’s revenue comes from customers with the Accessibility product as part of their Siteimprove suite. • Siteimprove launched www.accessibilityworldmap.org, a website that monitors accessibility levels of websites across the world and offers free tools for improving the accessibility of any website. • Siteimprove introduced an Accessibility Pledge and a Supplier Code of Conduct, which explicitly require Siteimprove suppliers to be accessible. • Siteimprove launched the Performance product, which helps organizations remove barriers that make their websites unavailable for certain devices, locations, and internet connections. 15 Goal 17 : Partnerships for the Goals 16 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Our focus Our contribution We focus on encouraging and promoting effective public, Siteimprove partners with public and private entities public-private, and civil society partnerships. This helps worldwide to leverage our accessibility knowledge and put accessibility on the global agenda and extend our solutions. In 2019, we partnered with other organizations reach, enabling us to have a positive impact on even on several important projects and continued to more people around the world. engage with policy makers, civil society, and standards organizations by participating in conferences and panel Why partnerships for the goals is a priority discussions. Our goal with every collaboration is to use our knowledge and resources to contribute to more peopleWe believe that reducing the digital divide can only be centric accessibility guidelines, legislation, and solutions. achieved by the joint efforts of multiple stakeholders. Strategies and policies jointly defined by governments, One of the partnership highlights of the year was when industry, and civil society have far-reaching effects on we once again went to the United Nations in New York for closing the digital gap. We are committed to bringing the Conference of State Parties (COSP) to the Convention together key stakeholders to understand the issues, find on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) together solutions, and collaborate to deliver change. with our partner, European Disability Forum (EDF). We also made great strides in the WAI-Tools project, on Our targets which we collaborate with key players in the accessibility 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for industry, national authorities, and the World Wide Web sustainable development Consortium (W3C). The WAI-Tools project, which is due to be completed in November 2020, is part of the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 Programme. Shedding more light on the lack of digital accessibility 17.17 Encourage effective within European politics, Siteimprove and the European partnerships Disability Forum published a report that revealed the poor state of European parliament websites. The report found that 89% of EU member states fail to meet Web Accessibility Directive requirements. 17.19 Further develop measurements of Partnering with the Danish Institute for Human Rights, progress we assessed the websites of the Danish political parties and published the report “Make Democracy Accessible.” The report reveals that the parties’ websites lag behind, even though all parties in the Danish parliament voted in favor of the EU Web Accessibility Directive. Key highlights from 2019 • Siteimprove co-authored 10 rules as part of the WAI-Tools project. • Siteimprove once again teamed up with the European Disability Forum (EDF) to participate in the Conference of State Parties to the Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. • Siteimprove co-funded W3C’s Diversity Fund. • Through partnerships with EDF and the Danish Institute for Human Rights, Siteimprove highlighted how inaccessible websites can have democratic consequences. 17 Accessibility state of the globe Building on the foundation of the Accessibility State of the Current Last year’s Country Globe, which we published for the first time in 2017, Siteimprove score score developed the Accessibility World Map, an interactive map that United States 67 65 compares the accessibility levels of websites around the world. Iceland 65 64 A free resource, the Accessibility World Map presents the worldwide Japan 65 65 accessibility levels in an easy-to-understand, accessible, and interactive dashboard. With this website, we aim to empower Netherlands 65 65 visitors to advocate for a more accessible online world. Currently, Norway 65 65 28 countries are tracked and Siteimprove has the ambition to add United Kingdom 65 64 more in the coming years. Australia 64 67 This project, which is completely non-profit, supports Canada 64 63 Siteimprove’s commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Denmark 64 64 number 4, 10, and 17. It is Siteimprove’s hope that through this resource the public will be better informed about how their Estonia 64 63 respective country is performing and utilize the information and Sweden 64 64 resources provided to push for better web accessibility. Austria 63 66 Finland 63 62 Current accessibility state of the globe Spain 63 63 Countries and industries are scored on a scale of one to 100. The higher the score, the more accessible the websites in the country Belgium 63 62 are. This table shows each country’s current score compared with Portugal 63 65 their score last year. Germany 62 62 Italy 62 62 Methodology Switzerland 62 64 The results are based upon Siteimprove’s Accessibility Digital New Zealand 62 63 Certainty Index™ (DCI). The accessibility DCI is a metric developed by Siteimprove to indicate the level of a website’s accessibility. Mexico 62 62 Siteimprove’s automated accessibility checks are based on France 61 61 techniques used to evaluate conformance to the Web Content Brazil 61 61 Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) success criteria. India 61 61 The DCI Accessibility Score is a quantitative ratio Russia 61 60 value based on a combination of automatically tested properties that indicates the level of Chile 60 60 accessibility barriers identified for a given South Africa 60 59 website, so it’s not a conformance level score. United Arab 59 59 To generate a balanced metric, and to control Emirates 18 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 sensitivity, Siteimprove designed an algorithm that weights several qualities of the pages across a website. The result is a singular score between one and 100. The higher the score, the fewer identified accessibility barriers. All sites included in this project were collected from publicly available databases. The overall country accessibility score is calculated by combining the overall accessibility scores of seven industries within each country: o Education o Manufacturing o Financial Services o Retail o Government o Tourism and hospitality o Healthcare Launching accessibilityworldmap.org Accessibilityworldmap.org was officially launched at the event ‘Benchmarking Digital Inclusion to Drive a Better Digital World’ in Copenhagen, Denmark, on May 14, 2019. The event was hosted by Siteimprove, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, The Confederation of Danish Industry (DI), and The American Chamber of Commerce in Denmark. Speakers from Accenture, Adobe, Microsoft, and Salesforce, among others, spoke on the day about the importance of web accessibility. With 150 people in attendance the event was a great success and we hope the website will be a source of learning, measurement, and inspiration. The launch of the Accessibility World Map was also our way of marking Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) in 2019. Siteimprove has actively celebrated GAAD since its initiation in 2012, and this year we were honored to celebrate it with other great organizations at the launch event. Offering free accessibility tools The website not only offers data, insights, and learning—visitors can also access three Siteimprove tools, along with the Google Chrome Accessibility Checker. The tools are: • A  ccessibility Statement Generator: Many countries require websites to have an accessibility statement by law. This free Accessibility Statement Generator will help users generate a unique accessibility statement for their website. The generator is available in 10 languages. • C  olor-Contrast Checker: Color contrast is a very important component of creating a more accessible web for all users. This color contrast checker helps users determine whether or not their color combinations are accessible. • R  eal-time Accessibility Page Checker: With this tool, visitors get an instant overview of accessibility performance on individual pages on their website. It saves them countless hours finding and fixing inaccessible features. 19 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Human rights 21 Global Compact Principles 1-2 The company should 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses At Siteimprove, we believe that accessing the internet is a human right. No one should be excluded online because of their age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic, or other status. That’s why Siteimprove works actively to put digital accessibility on the public and private agenda. Creating awareness about the need for an inclusive web and educating customers, partners, the public, and other stakeholders about how to do it right are key focus areas at Siteimprove. Our efforts to make digital information and services accessible and removing technological barriers are our key contribution to human rights, and to the Sustainable Development Goals. In this section, you can read about what we do to promote and improve digital human rights and inclusion. Contributing to inclusion since 2007 The Siteimprove Accessibility tool saw the light of day all the way back in 2007. Since then, it has seen numerous improvements, new functionality, and an ever-increasing number of users. Today, more than 7,000 organizations around the world use our accessibility software to remove barriers from their websites and make them more inclusive. We are proud to report that 96% of our revenue comes from customers who have our accessibility tool as part of their solution. With the Siteimprove accessibility tool, users can prioritize issues based on responsibility, conformance level, and severity, so they can efficiently remove accessibility barriers that affect the way their users interact with the brand. You don’t need to be an accessibility expert. We pinpoint issues via on-page and in-code highlights. With our integrations, users can jump right into their content management system and fix the issue right away. In 2017, our software solution was accompanied by the Siteimprove Accessibility Checker for Google Chrome, which is a free extension available for all Chrome users worldwide. With the tool, users can check individual pages for accessibility errors and receive guidance on how to fix those issues. More than 58,000 individual users now use the free extension on their websites. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 To complement our automatic accessibility testing software, we also offer manual testing for customers, who are interested in user testing their websites and ensuring that they live up to all accessibility standards. Our manual testing team provides a high level of service and enables us to assist customers in all aspects of digital accessibility. Making our platform accessible to support a diverse workplace In 2019, we took a deep look at our internal processes and the services we offer and identified areas where we could become more inclusive. Naturally, we started working to make our products as inclusive as possible, because at Siteimprove, we want our products to be accessible for all users. The Siteimprove platform has been developed with accessibility in mind, and the majority of all functionality is accessible. For the purpose of identifying accessibility issues in the development phase, we have installed a thorough procedure, which, in addition to automated accessibility evaluations and heuristic evaluations, involves manual testing performed by experts in a variety of browser and assistive technology combinations In 2019, we made great strides and introduced some impressive accessibility initiatives in the development of our software: • F irstly, we wanted to move away from planning dedicated accessibility sprints, and minimize the number of accessibility issues produced in the first place. By simplifying what we require by each role of designer, developer, and tester, as well as offering specialist consultancy throughout the development cycle, we’re now seeing accessibility as a well-integrated discipline in the daily Scrum routine. • S econdly, we’re in the process of removing existing accessibility roadblocks so that all users have access to functionality and information on equal terms. We have identified a number of such impediments across our products, and we’re working with the individual product teams on prioritizing these. • Lastly,  for extra transparency, we have added an Executive Summary to our VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template). While today we can only claim that the majority of all functionality is accessible and usable, once we have removed the known impediments and achieved a barrier-free platform, we can claim to be accessible and usable for all. We are proud of our VPAT which is available on our website. This document helps us provide transparency about fixed accessibility issues and issues yet to be fixed on the Siteimprove platform. You’ll find the VPAT on our homepage by following this link: siteimprove.com/en/vpat/ 23 We want to ensure equal access online for all.” Tobias Jensen Inside the machinery Interview with Tobias Jensen, Digital Accessibility Specialist, on making the platform accessible. What did we achieve in 2019? “We established a taskforce to build our new design system, which is subject to strict accessibility requirements. All our new features will be built using this system. We have also created a VPAT for our website, which provides transparency into what we are currently working on and what we want to improve. Specifically, we have solved more than 300 tickets related to accessibility this year alone – that translates to 300+ specific accessibility improvements in the platform.” Why are we working so hard on making the platform accessible? “We want to ensure equal access online for all. Ultimately, we want to create intuitive, barrier-free products that all people can use, no matter their abilities. It is as simple as that.” What has the reaction been among your colleagues in product development? “In general, our employees are now a lot more interested in accessibility and take pride in developing products that fulfil the requirements. Our tools have been optimized to a more intuitive and user-friendly experience for screen-reader users and we have received the feedback from our users that they can now solve a long list of tasks much easier, which of course was to be expected but also really nice to hear!” 24 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 The Siteimprove global accessibility pledge In March 2019, Siteimprove presented all employees world-wide with the company’s new accessibility pledge, which is intended to guide employees, and re-enforce for everyone how important accessibility is to the company. Creating the pledge has been an internal process involving the Accessibility Relations Group and the Executive Management Team. Both parties wanted to put together a pledge that could be proudly displayed in each Siteimprove office to remind employees that accessibility is a guiding principle for the work they do. Each office received a printed copy of the pledge, as well as a braille version, both of which are signed by Siteimprove CEO, Morten Ebbesen. Siteimprove Accessibility Pledge We champion global inclusion by empowering people to do more through digital accessibility, which is at the heart of our company. We are committed to ensuring that digital solutions and content developed, or acquired, by Siteimprove meets a high level of accessibility. This means either conformance with level AA of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 or ensuring that the solutions are effective, efficient, engaging, error tolerant, and easy to learn for users of all abilities. We pledge that should a conflict arise between release deadlines, aesthetics, or the production of accessible solutions and content that accessibility will remain a priority. 25 Empowering employees through internal accessibility training In 2019, we identified that mandatory accessibility training for our employees was another way to become more inclusive internally. As we announced the Siteimprove Accessibility Pledge, the decision was made to roll out mandatory accessibility courses for all current and future employees. All employees are now required to complete Siteimprove’s ‘Web Accessibility Fundamentals’ course. The course was designed by our in-house accessibility experts and provides a great foundation for employees to build their accessibility knowledge upon. The course is comprised of four modules, each which must be undertaken before the user can progress further. The modules are: 1. Understand Accessibility 2. Guidelines and Legal Considerations 3. Starting your Accessibility Program 4. A  ssessment – General Digital Accessibility Basics The course finishes with a short examination where the user must score at least 80% correct on the multiple-choice test. Thereafter, the user receives a certificate. Employees working in HR, Legal, Marketing, Customer Experience, and Operations are also required to complete the ‘Accessibility for Microsoft Office’ course. It consists of four sub-courses, which cover accessibility basics for Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook. To complete each of the sub-courses’ users must answer 80% of the multiple-choice questions on the test correctly. Afterwards, the user receives a certificate. These courses have been added to the onboarding program that all new employees must participate in. At the end of the year, 98% of all Siteimprovers had completed our Web Accessibility Fundamentals course. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 The Siteimprove Academy At the event, which was held at the United Nations Headquarters in New Along with our product, we York, Siteimprove hosted a panel provide organizations with access debate along with Pacific Disability to experts and a vast library of Forum, the EU Commission, and educational resources, including the European Disability Forum. multiple training courses in Commenting on the other hosts and Siteimprove Academy. Siteimprove panelists, Stein Erik Skotkjerra, who customers have access to 19 different represented Siteimprove on the panel, Accessibility courses in the Siteimprove said: “I’m proud to be in such company, and we Academy. are really getting a lot of good feedback on what we A major development in 2019 is that we can now do, for instance with the Accessibility World Map.” proudly report that all of our Accessibility courses Asked why the UN, public authorities, and NGOs are approved for Continuing Accessibility Education are interested in hearing what Siteimprove has to Credits through the International Association of say, Stein Erik notes: “With our 7,000 customers, we Accessibility Professionals (IAAP). have a perspective they lack. Our customer base is In total, 14,174 accessibility courses were completed a continuous source of feedback and knowledge by Siteimprove users in 2019, which is twice as that they don’t have.” many as in 2018! It’s an impressive development Stein Erik points out two key take-aways from that shows Siteimprove’s customers have great will this year’s conference. The first is that we need and determination to learn about accessibility and to make sure that people with disabilities are contribute to a more inclusive web. It also shows included in emerging technologies, like AI and our commitment to SDG 4 (Quality Education) that big data. If accessibility is not considered, the we can create online learning that engages so many current technological revolution will risk increasing people around the world. inequality. “Secondly, companies need to start seeing people with disabilities as a resource in their recruitment, and we need to see more people with On the road: disabilities also in senior leadership positions. That Events around the world is where change really happens.” Stein Erik adds. Organizing, hosting, and participating in events to Kevin Rydberg, Managing Accessibility Consultant share our knowledge and expertise is one of the at Siteimprove, who also attended the conference, most important ways that Siteimprove contributes saw lots of potential for partnerships: “What I to the SDGs and to human rights. Allow us to take saw was that there is no limit to where these you on a tour of some of the numerous events that conversations and partnerships can go. I’m excited Siteimprove was a part of in 2019. to see how we can work with these organizations to get the message of inclusion out there.” At the UN in New York Being a thought-leader within the field of digital Accessibility 2020 in London accessibility, Siteimprove has participated in Accessibility 2020 was not really “on the road,” the annual Conference of State Parties (COSP) as we hosted the event at the Shard in London, at the Convention on the Rights of Persons with which is also home to our UK office. However, the Disabilities (CRPD) over the past few years, and 2019 event, which was intended for web managers, was no exception. Knowing that we can only make digital, communications, and marketing managers progress within accessibility if we work together, and owners, included some of the UK’s leading we sent a delegation to the event to discuss how accessibility experts and covered the current social we can partner with academia, public authorities, and legal climate, as well as what’s coming in 2020 and user organizations. within digital accessibility. We also discussed how 27 to build a framework for working with accessibility All proceeds from the ticket sales, which amounted within an organization and we had Middlesex to a total of € 11,000, were donated to het University joining us and showcasing their progress Gehandicapte Kind (Dutch Foundation for Children on their path to compliance. All 60 attendees went with Disabilities) to support their work for children home feeling ready and equipped to become even with disabilities. more inclusive in 2020. Accessibility Live in Amsterdam and Toronto Web Accessibility Live is an exclusive event with which we aim to educate, inspire, and instill a new perspective on accessibility and inclusion. We provide hands-on knowledge about web accessibility and the impact of regulations, and guide attendees on how they can be more inclusive in their own work. After several successful Web Accessibility Live events in 2017 and 2018, Siteimprove once again organized two new editions of Web Accessibility Live in 2019, this time in Amsterdam and Toronto. The event in Toronto took place on May 16, coinciding with Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD). We brought together marketing and web professionals across multiple industries, as well as some of Canada’s leading Accessibility Experts to celebrate GAAD with us. On the agenda were stories from other organizations on how they have begun implementing web accessibility into their business practices and some tips on how to incorporate accessibility into a project lifecycle. The event was free to attend and we a saw a great turnout of people eager to learn more about accessibility. For the event in Amsterdam, which took place in October, we teamed up with the Accessibility Foundation. All sessions were devoted to digital accessibility and, among other things, the attendees could hear the inspiring stories of Accenture and VodafoneZiggo and learn how to make accessible smartphone videos. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Folkemødet in Bornholm exercises are of course only able to provide a Every year on the small Danish island of Bornholm, limited simulated idea of what a person with a four-day political festival is held in which a disability may face, they can be useful in politicians, NGOs, celebrities, private companies, introducing the topic of accessibility to a new and politically active individuals come together audience. to debate different social and political issues. We concluded the festival with a moderated At the festival, known in Danish as Folkemødet debate session, in which we had the audience (The People’s Democratic Festival), the United pose questions to a representative from the Nations Sustainable Development Goals take Institute of Human Rights and a representative center stage, which is why Siteimprove joined from the Confederation of Young People with the festival for the first time in 2019. Disabilities. We spent the four days talking to people at a Later in the year, we also brought the empathy variety of events about the importance of digital exercises to Ungdommens Folkemøde, which inclusion. Armed with three distinct empathy is the youth version of the People’s Democratic exercises – eye disease stimulation glasses, Festival. Here, we teamed up with the student tinnitus headphones, and Parkinson’s gloves, we organization Operation Dagsværk and with had people complete different digital exercises, the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI) who such as watching uncaptioned videos with the hosted us at their SDG-themed tents. Once again, tinnitus headphones on, to introduce visitors the empathy exercises were an eye-opening to the concept of accessibility. While empathy experience to people of all ages. 29 CSUN in California this session, they were invited by another conference The CSUN Assistive Technology Conference is another organizer to present the same topic later in the year to a annual occurrence on the Siteimprove calendar. The different group of people. conference is hosted by California State University Corbb also co-led a session with representatives from Northridge and is the largest conference about assistive UnitedHealth Group about how to get more people technology in the world, with more than 5,000 people in with disabilities into accessibility careers. They talked attendance. about the unconscious biases in the recruitment process For Siteimprove, the CSUN conference is crucial to and techniques for overcoming those issues. The participate in, which is why we sent a large and diverse conversation then turned to the people with disabilities, group of people to the conference this year, including encouraging them to get over their own biases about the accessibility consultants and employees working in types of careers in the accessibility industry that they product development, manual testing, and marketing. think are achievable for them. Speaking about the importance of the conference, Corbb Finally, Corbb also represented Siteimprove at the O’Connor, Accessibility Testing Operations Manager at W3C’s debate about the future of the Web Accessibility Siteimprove, noted: “From my perspective, we, as people Guidelines (WCAG). They ended up writing parts of what with disabilities, need to be there so that we can help will become the next standard for web accessibility, to direct the conversations about the technology that we’ll which Corbb commented: “This year, I saw firsthand use every day.” that the guidelines published by the W3C truly come as Corbb and his colleague Christina Adams ran a successful a result of conversation, debate, and earnest work from session where they presented multiple scenarios where practitioners in the field, and I’m privileged to be part of the design may not be perfect for accessibility, but the an organization that supports our contributions to this underlying code could make it more accessible. During work.” the incredible work being done in the assistive Siteimprove at CSUN technology field. It is a place where the end user, regardless of ability, is the focus and the tech aims Darryl White, Inbound Marketing to improve the user’s experience and access to Development Manager information.” Christina Adams, Front-end Developer KK: “For Siteimprove, it is a place where we can Kristian Kristoffersen, Product Unit learn and share knowledge and news with our peers Director and customers, and it’s a great opportunity to meet them face-to-face.” Why is CSUN important? DW: “CSUN is the largest conference of its kind How did you and Siteimprove contribute in the accessibility space. It allows organizations to the 2019 CSUN? and individuals to showcase technology and other DW: “Siteimprove accessibility experts held multiple solutions that may help remove barriers that can sessions educating the attendees on the topic of affect a person with disabilities.” accessibility. We had a booth at the conference CA: “Conferences such as CSUN that focus on where we talked more about the importance of Assistive Technology and making accessible digital manual testing and also had educational training experiences are important to shine a spotlight on available.” 30 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Update on the WAI-Tools Project Rules must define what is being tested (Applicability), what the outcome should be (Expectation), and examples Since November 2017, Siteimprove has worked on of Pass, Fail, and Inapplicable test cases. This creates the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) Tools project, clear and transparent interpretations of what is and isn’t cooperating with other key players to build high-quality, an accessibility issue. standardized, and open-source checks for accessibility conformance testing to support the implementation of WAI-Tools is an Innovation Action project, co-funded the EU Web Accessibility Directive. by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 program, Europe’s largest research and innovation The EU Web Accessibility Directive requires member states program. The project was established as a response to to monitor and report compliance progress to the EU the Horizon 2020 program’s call for innovation in the commission beginning in December 2019. Member states area of accessibility compliance assessment. In addition and public-sector bodies need accurate, automated tools to Siteimprove, the WAI-Tools consortium consists of that can process large amounts of content and assist in the W3C, Norwegian Agency for Public Management repairing web accessibility problems. WAI-Tools aims to and eGovernment (Difi), Portuguese Ministry for Science be their go-to solution. and Technology, University of Lisbon, Deque Systems, As part of the project in 2019, Siteimprove contributed and Accessibility Foundation. The project is due to be to the development of standardized Accessibility completed in November 2020. Conformance Testing (ACT) rules along with W3C and the other project partners. ACT Rules define how to test for WCAG accessibility conformance in accordance with the W3C Accessibility Conformance Testing (ACT) Rules Format 1.0. In addition to other requirements, all ACT Everyone realizes we need to work together to make it easier for all web users.” CA: “Siteimprove representatives presented multiple Kristian Kristoffersen conference sessions on a variety of accessibility topics that were all well attended. We also had a booth set up in the exhibition hall to promote our products and accessibility related initiatives. We met with several other companies and discussed disabilities. It was amazing to see the diversity of partnering on certain initiatives to provide better how people use websites and what technology is accessibility reporting and remediation for a more being developed and refined to expand the digital accessible web.” audience and create better user experiences for everyone.” What was your main takeaway from this year’s conference? KK: “More and more people are joining these conferences which proves accessibility is becoming DW: “We are well known in the accessibility industry more and more widespread. However, there is still and people seek out our advice on what they should a massive knowledge gap preventing accessibility be aware of and things they should be doing.” from becoming the norm. It’s also clear that the CA: “My main takeaway was the incredible amount accessibility industry is driving partnerships. of work being produced and the momentum of Everyone realizes we need to work together to the industry to remove barriers for people with make it easier for all web users.” 31 Establishing the W3C’s Diversity the co-authors of two reports that revealed that Fund websites of major political institutions and parties have severe accessibility issues. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is, in essence, the organization that sets the standards In the report ‘Democracy, Accessibility, and the for how the web works. They have developed European Union,’ Siteimprove partnered up standards like HTML, CSS, and the WCAG. Each year, with the European Disability Forum to deliver an the W3C working groups gather for their technical accessibility report on the different parliament plenary conference to get inspired, work on web websites in Europe. The report, which assessed standards, and learn from each other. This year’s the accessibility of parliament websites using TPAC conference was held in Fukuoka, Japan. Siteimprove’s Digital Certainty Index® (DCI), found that 25 of the 28 assessed countries scored poorly. To ensure that underrepresented groups are also The official European Parliament website was also well represented at these events, Siteimprove and reviewed, and with a DCI score of just 55.8 (out of other tech companies launched the Diversity Fund 100) it proved to be the most inaccessible of all. The to fund travel and participation for people who report found that 89% of EU member states failed to would otherwise not have been able to attend and meet Web Accessibility Directive requirements. make their voice heard. Applicants must be from a traditionally underrepresented and/or marginalized Lack of accessible information on the websites of group in the web community, including but not national parliaments seriously hinders the possibility limited to: persons identifying as LGBTQ, women, of persons with disabilities to fully and effectively persons of color, and/or persons with disabilities; exercise their political rights. Commenting on the and be unable to attend without some financial findings, Yannis Vardakastanis, President of EDF, assistance. said: “National parliaments have a decisive and representative role in modern democracy. The In 2019, Siteimprove raised $14,770 together with importance of having fully accessible websites is other major companies. This enabled seven people clear: it is not only a legal obligation, it is essential to from under-represented groups to attend TPAC assure that persons with disabilities enjoy their right in Fukuoka. The diverse group included people to participation in public and political life.” from Korea and India, people with disabilities (physical and cognitive), women, men, and people We also collaborated with the Danish Institute for who identify as non-binary/transgender. With one Human Rights to assess the accessibility levels of exception, the group consisted of people attending the political parties in Denmark. The report ‘Make TPAC for the first time, and for two people it was also Democracy Accessible’ revealed some disappointing their first participation in the W3C community. results for the political parties. Despite the fact that all parties in the Danish parliament voted in This is an important contribution to ensuring that favor of the EU Web Accessibility Directive, which we keep hearing all voices-not only the loudest aims to ensure that all public websites and mobile voices backed by large tech companies. It aligns applications are accessible, the parties’ own perfectly with Siteimprove’s strategy and our focus websites lag behind and were categorized as having on contributing toward Sustainable Development a ’Bad’ level of accessibility. Goals 10 (Reducing Inequalities) and 17 (Partnership for the Goals). These accessibility issues pose a risk to democracy in the sense that parliaments and parties are potentially denying people with disabilities access Combating the democratic problem to essential information about the politics of their of inaccessible political websites own country and the EU. We will continue to shed Siteimprove is deeply committed to partnering light on these issues and help find solutions, so with both private and public entities in our efforts that the digitization of society and politics doesn’t to reduce inequalities on the web. In 2019, we were become an increasing problem for our democracy. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 DocuSign was almost unmanageable for a user with disability.” Corbb O’Connor Helping vendors: The case with DocuSign feedback we provide, including the electronic signature provider DocuSign. It can be difficult to make sure products and software We had worked with DocuSign previously, but during the purchased from a third-party vendor comply with most recent renegotiation of our agreement, we raised your organization’s accessibility policy. Many software a number of accessibility issues that were challenging products aren’t inherently accessible straight out of the our employees and other screen reader users. Corbb box, which can make choosing a provider more difficult, O’Connor, Accessibility Testing Operations Manager, especially for companies like Siteimprove that champion explains: “DocuSign was almost unmanageable for a web accessibility. user with a disability. A sender of a document couldn’t The introduction of our Accessibility Pledge and our drag and drop using a screen reader and a keyboard, or strict accessibility demands mean that any vendor that label fields in the document. Even signing a document we use must provide an accessible solution or have the was a challenge.” intention of improving their accessibility. We realize it After we had pointed out the issues and discussed can be a daunting task for potential suppliers. That’s them with DocuSign, our teams worked together to why we use our expertise to assist third-party vendors as identify a work-around for the current issues that helped they work through their web accessibility issues. Working us achieve our business objectives while DocuSign with our vendors to improve their accessibility is a true continues to improve the accessibility of the platform. win-win situation, because the vendor improves their DocuSign opened up their service and gave Siteimprove solution and opens it up for many more users, while we employees early access to the new accessible features. get to use a solution that we really want and otherwise The result of the collaboration is that DocuSign now can wouldn’t have used if it weren’t accessible. offer an improved and more inclusive solution and have Some companies, primarily the large corporations, don’t a happy customer in Siteimprove. We hope to continue want to talk to us about improving the accessibility to provide feedback for not only DocuSign but other of their services. Others have been happy to hear the vendors as well on an ongoing basis. 33 The dedication of one Siteimprover After having approached W3C suggesting a Danish resulted in a Danish version of translation, Anne made contact with the Agency of Digitisation in Denmark asking them to prioritize the WCAG 2.1 translation and help set up a working group. In late 2018, the latest version of the Web Content Anne already started translating some of the criteria Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), version 2.1, was when they were published in 2018. However, it wasn’t published in English by the World Wide Web until March 2019 that the group started working on Consortium (W3C). The guidelines cover a wide the whole translation together. The final Danish range of recommendations for making web content translation of WCAG 2.1, of which Anne has written more accessible. the introduction and the criteria explanations, was Accessibility guidelines can be very technical and difpublished on December 11, 2019. ficult to grasp, especially if the guidelines are written It was by no means an easy task because a lot of in a foreign language. That’s why local translations items were up for discussion. The project group are crucial if such guidelines are to be successfully needed to decide whether to use some of the adapted by people working with the web around English terms or create Danish ones instead. They the world. One Siteimprover couldn’t accept that also needed to consider the language used in the it would take years before a correct translation of current 2.0 translation, which they also ended up WCAG 2.1 was available in Danish, so she took on the changing. “It has been really interesting to discuss massive task of doing the translation herself alongall the details about the translation. We need it to side two other accessibility experts and one reprebe as clear and precise as possible. I’ve had some sentative from the Danish Agency of Digitisation. really good conversations with my Siteimprove That one Siteimprover, who felt a Danish translation colleagues, and I’ve gotten to know new talented was an immediate need, is Anne Thyme Nørregaard, people during this process,” Anne commented. Digital Accessibility Product Expert at Siteimprove. We are all thankful for Anne and the group making Asked why she took on the task, Anne explained: “I it easier to understand and use the WCAG 2.1. The wanted to be involved, because I couldn’t accept Danish translation of WCAG 2.1 is available on the that it would take years if I didn’t do something. W3C website. The guidelines contain a lot of really technical and difficult terms which made it clear to me that we were going to need a Danish translation for all the web editors out there.” “The legislation clearly states that there are rules Siteimprove Performance that all websites must comply with, and I believe In 2019, two new Siteimprove products were those rules must be understandable for regular web launched: Google Ads and Performance. users without having to hire a consultant to interpret Siteimprove Performance is a product that can them,” Anne adds. help organizations remove barriers that make their websites unavailable for certain devices, Siteimprove cannot take locations, and internet connection. By measuring the credit for the time the loading speed and analyzing the content on and effort Anne devotthe page, Siteimprove Performance gives advice to ed to this work, as she I couldn’t accept users on what they can do to make their site load did most of it during her that it would take spare time and parental faster for visitors. years if I didn’t do leave. However, it was To get better insight into the product and how it something.” through the strong partcontributes to reduced inequalities online, we nership between Siteinterviewed two Siteimprove web performance Anne Thyme Nørregaard improve and W3C that experts: Peter Müller, Senior Software Engineer, the project materialized. and Viktor Petersson, Product Expert. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Very briefly, what does Siteimprove Performance do? “It measures how a visitor experiences the speed of your website. We’ve made it We’ve made it very user-friendly and easy for non-technical users to understand. It measures website performance on an ongoing very user-friendly basis allowing users to see the development over time. You can and easy for nonalso measure the experience across different locations.” technical users to understand.” How big of a problem is poor website performance? Peter Müller and “First of all, a slow site is a big blocker for conversions. Globally, Viktor Petersson the average web performance is actually becoming worse because while websites continue to increase in size, more and more people in emerging markets are going online on slow devices and poor connections. It’s a problem that the majority of sites are coded and created under good conditions, primarily in the West. There’s a lack of empathy for potential visitors who live under different technological conditions. Developers and decision makers usually use the best hardware, while visitors have varying devices and internet speeds.” How can performance impact the accessibility of a website? “A webpage isn’t accessible until it’s fully loaded. If the site doesn’t load fast enough, your visitors leave the site. Screen reader users rely on websites being fully loaded. If a site is loading slowly and a visitor tries using a screen reader in the middle of the loading process, it can become problematic for the user.” How can customers use Siteimprove Performance to improve their accessibility? “When they fix their performance issues, they can reduce the time visitors need to wait before accessing their content. In our experience, many decision makers aren’t familiar with this topic, so the fact that it is so easy and user-friendly can convince many to start working on this.” Viktor and Peter emphasize that there’s a big challenge ahead for the world in regard to web performance. The next billion new people on the internet will primarily be people with slower devices living in places with poor infrastructure. They will be excluded from information, services, and products on websites if the website owners don’t consider web performance. 35 Data Privacy At Siteimprove, we believe people have the right to privacy online and that personal data is personal. Siteimprove takes privacy very seriously and has a reputation for safeguarding customer data. Siteimprove processes data for all our clients through the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. In addition to GDPR compliance and training complying with data privacy regulations, it’s Siteimprove Siteimprove is committed to General Data Protection policy not to sell or otherwise share customer data to Regulation (GDPR) compliance in both its own internal third-parties. Our customers own their data and we processing of personal data, as well as customer use of ensure that their data is kept safe and not shared with the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. These compliance other entities, commercial or otherwise. efforts have direct executive-team oversight and are implemented by the Siteimprove Legal, Information In addition to our own measures, we encourage our Security, and IT departments. suppliers to make data privacy a priority in all their operations through our Supplier Code of Conduct. Siteimprove’s approach to GDPR compliance includes, but is not limited to, the technical and organizational Siteimprove Data Privacy measures below: Not only do we safeguard private data ourselves, we • Transparency  in the processing of data and the subalso provide a solution that helps other organizations processors used do the same. With Siteimprove Data Privacy, we help • O ffering customers a Data Processing Agreement to our customers locate the personal data that they store assist them in meeting their GDPR obligations online, including ID numbers, cookies, and more. We empower our customers to find and remove personal • I mplementing principles of privacy by default and privacy by design into the development process data across their website, and in turn, help them adopt better data privacy practices. Together, we minimize the • E nhancing our infrastructure to implement encryption of data-at-rest and increased access controls risk of their user and customer data being abused. At the end of 2019, more than 300 organizations were • C onducting awareness sessions on what personal data is and how it should be treated using Siteimprove Data Privacy to protect their personal data. • R egularly auditing individual departments to verify adherence to personal data business processes and identify any new procedures or personal data flows Protect personal data with Siteimprove’s Share Widget • I ncreasing vendor security requirements in both vetting processes and contracts The Siteimprove Share Widget offers social engagement while protecting personal data. The Share Widget does • A nnual ISAE3400 audits performed by external auditor not collect data from users or visitors and does not sell (PwC) visitor data to third parties. This distinguishes us from In 2019, we became even better equipped at handling other content-sharing widget services that add cookies personal data when all Siteimprove employees to collect data to re-sell to advertisers. successfully completed a GDPR training course, thus In the past, alarms have been raised, particularly in the obtaining a GDPR certification. The course equipped our public sector, that content-sharing services sell data employees with the necessary knowledge about what to or share data with third parties. With our product, personal data is, how to safeguard it, and how to be customers can safely implement a share widget that GDPR compliant. respects privacy. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Goals Siteimprove’s human rights goals Goals achieved 2019 Goals for 2020 Contribute to making the web The number of users of our free We will continue developing and better and more Google Chrome Accessibility Checker improving our accessibility software inclusive for all increased by 29%. to provide other organizations with the best possible tools to improve 98% of all Siteimprovers completed their accessibility. our Web Accessibility Fundamentals course. We will continue to support and organize events to create awareness We launched the website about digital inclusion. www.accessibilityworldmap.org along with three free tools: Accessibility Statement Generator, Color-Contrast Checker, and Realtime Accessibility Page Checker. We organized, hosted, and participated in numerous events around the world with the purpose of spreading awareness and knowledge about digital inclusion and accessibility. Provide quality consulting and Siteimprove customers and partners We will continue to offer expert education completed 14,174 accessibility consultancy and education on courses in the Siteimprove Academy. accessibility to Siteimprove customers, partners, employees, and We continued to add educational the general public. content to our blog. It now contains 71 posts about accessibility. Form effective accessibility We continued our partnership with We will continue to look for partnerships the European Disability Forum (EDF), partnerships in the public and private alongside whom we participated sectors that can help us toward in the 12th Session of the UN a sustainable future and digital Convention for the Rights of People equality. with Disabilities. We aim to complete the WAI-Tools We saw great progress in the WAIproject in 2020. Tools project, where we co-authored 10 accessibility rules. We published two reports with NGO partners on the poor accessibility levels of the websites of the European parliaments and Danish political parties. 37 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Labor rights 39 Policies Global Compact Principles 3-6 Siteimprove’s commitment to proper The company should labor practices and being socially responsible is described in the section 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective “Working Together” of our Code of recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Conduct. The Code of Conduct is a 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and comprehensive company policy to compulsory labor. which every Siteimprove employee 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labor. must adhere. The company and all 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect employees are committed to the of employment and occupation. following clauses: • O  pen and honest communication • P  eople are our greatest resource The Siteimprove Code of Conduct and its related activities will be elaborated on throughout this section of the report. Siteimprove’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which we introduced in 2019, has a section dedicated to labor rights and workplace health and safety. It clearly states that we require our suppliers to have safe and healthy working conditions, to ensure that no forced labor or child labor is used in their own operations or by their partners and suppliers, and to commit to complying with all local laws and regulations. As Siteimprove strives to create and maintain a safe, mutually respectful working environment, free of all forms of harassment, we have a zero-tolerance policy towards harassment. It is considered a collective problem and responsibility to intervene, should it take place. A safe and respectful working environment contributes to employee retention and is a precondition for productive and happy employees. Siteimprove’s Whistleblower Policy, which we rolled out in 2019, enables employees, and other stakeholders, to make good faith reports pertaining to serious violations such as suspected fraud, unethical business practices, bribery, corruption, or other improper or unlawful activity, or serious health and safety concerns within Siteimprove. Siteimprove is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We preach inclusion externally in our efforts to make the web better for all, and we find it only natural not to discriminate in our hiring process or in the way we treat employees. We are very focused on fostering a workplace culture where everyone is included and treated fairly and equally, and we take pride in being a workplace for people of all abilities. We encourage minorities, women, disabled, and veterans to apply for our jobs worldwide. 40 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Our people are our greatest resource At Siteimprove, our employees are our greatest resource. Without them, there would be no innovative software, no happy customers, no Siteimprove. That’s why we continue to work hard to maintain a safe, healthy, and inclusive workplace and aim for the highest possible level of employee satisfaction. The Siteimprove workforce Siteimprove has offices and employees around the world. Specifically, Siteimprove employs people in Australia, Austria, Canada, Finland, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Denmark, where our headquarters are located. Siteimprove adheres to local labor laws in all countries in which the company is represented. Siteimprove does not use child labor or forced labor, a commitment stated in our Code of Conduct. Child labor is defined as employing any person younger than the minimum age allowed by law in the jurisdiction in question. However, in no event will we knowingly employ anyone younger than sixteen years of age. Siteimprover facts 580 Number of 35 Average age Siteimprovers 2 years Average time of 46 Total nationalities employment of current employees 38 % Females 62 % Males 41 Health and safety As a SaaS company our product is software, and all production of Siteimprove software is conducted by highly skilled IT professionals under safe conditions in our headquarters in Denmark. The main initiatives A great place to work for ensuring that our workplaces provide a safe work The happiness and well-being of our environment are our company-wide Code of Conduct, employees is a top priority, which is why our work environment organization, and our peoplewe put a lot of effort into maintaining centric approach to doing business. a workplace culture that nurtures In terms of employee safety, Siteimprove is committed professional growth and maximizes to the following: employee happiness. Every year, we • S  iteimprove strives to eliminate potential hazards run employee satisfaction surveys in collaboration with external experts to from the workplace and to comply with all keep track of how our employees are applicable occupational safety and health laws and doing and to identify areas where we standards. need to improve. • S  iteimprove helps maintain a safe, healthy, and Great Place to Work® is a global reproductive work environment for all Siteimprove search and consulting firm that we’ve employees by: collaborated with for the past five years. prohibiting the possession, use, sale, or transfer of We ran their employee satisfaction illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia on Siteimprove survey for a fifth time in September property or time; 2019. All our locations participated in the prohibiting the conduct of Siteimprove business survey. This year we are very happy to while under the influence of alcohol; report that our overall ratings improved prohibiting any acts that could be perceived as compared to the year before, which we violent, threatening, degrading or intimidating; believe is testament to the hard work and that everyone, especially management, requiring that any instance of drug or alcohol put toward improving our 2018 results, abuse, violence, or unlawful weapons possession which decreased for the first time. We be reported to management immediately. also saw a slight increase in the global To further ensure that Siteimprove is a safe and healthy response rate in 2019, which was 90%. workplace, a working environment organization has Our headquarters in Denmark is also been established. The group is based in Copenhagen included in the Great Place to Work® and consists of four employee representatives elected rankings. This year we saw our highest by their colleagues along with representatives from rankings ever as Siteimprove was ranked the Legal department. The working environment number 7 among the best IT companies organization takes mandatory courses and monitors to work for in Denmark with more than the work environment in the offices based on a list of 50 employees, and number 19 among parameters, including room temperature, sound, air the best mid-size companies to work for quality, and ergonomic conditions. in Denmark. The working environment group once again organized However, our participation in Great Place several free first aid courses for the Copenhagen-based to Work® is not a branding exercise for us – employees in 2019, and with two defibrillators already we take the survey results very seriously. in the office we can quickly assist if someone suffers a heart attack. 42 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 The results are instrumental in our work with • P eople here are treated fairly, regardless maintaining a healthy working environment and of their race, disability, sex, age, or sexual nurturing an inclusive, open culture. The survey orientation. can help direct our attention to areas that need improvement, which we might not have • T his is a physically safe place to work. identified otherwise before it was too late. We • E mployees are able to take time off from strive to be open about the results, which means work when necessary. they are shared with the Executive Management • P eople celebrate special events around Team, while each manager receives the results here. for their team. The global results are shared with the whole organization at a global staff meeting. • T his is a friendly place to work. Based on our highest scoring statements globally • Y ou are made to feel welcome when you join the organization. from the Great Place to Work®, the following characterizes Siteimprove as a workplace: 43 Giving back to the community 2019 was the second year of our “Give Back at Siteimprove” initiative that we launched in our Minneapolis office in 2018. The initiative gives all eligible employees the opportunity to contribute their time, talent, and passion to good causes by volunteering for organizations or events. Each employee receives two days, or 16 hours, to use during regularly scheduled work to spend on these activities. While the amount of donated hours topped 400 in 2018, we saw a big increase in engagement this year. In total, Siteimprovers spent 556 working hours supporting a wide range of charitable causes in the local area! Siteimprovers volunteering for Habitat Siteimprovers volunteering for Feed My Starving Children for Humanity 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Taking pride in diversity We aspire to be an inclusive company. We take pride in having a diverse workforce and we see it as one of our core strengths. Our employees hail from 46 countries and all of them bring different backgrounds, abilities, and valuable knowledge and experiences to the table, contributing to our inclusive company culture and great business results. Being an Equal Opportunity Employer, we are committed to provide employment opportunities to all qualified persons on an equal basis. Siteimprove will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law in any of the terms or conditions of employment. Our diversity goals progress since 2018 where the overall split was Operating in the generally male-dominated IT 37-63 (female-male) and 31-69 (female-male) industry, Siteimprove is committed to working for management positions. The gender split on toward increasing the share of women in all levels the Executive Management Team and the Board of the company. This goal is stated in our Diversity of Directors remains unchanged, which can be Policy, a company policy that applies to all attributed to the fact that we have not found the employees, functions, and units of Siteimprove. right candidates for the tasks at hand. Specifically, we have a goal of adding one woman This past year we have increased our efforts to the Board of Directors by 2021, adding an to reach our diversity goals. We instructed the additional woman to the Executive Management headhunting firms that we work with on C-level Team by the year 2021, and to have an overall hires that gender diversity is a priority and gender-split of at least 40-60 (female-male) in hiring managers have been told the same. Hiring other management levels by 2022. managers have embraced the idea and have The current status is that the overall gender split already contributed to increasing the number is 38-62 (female-male) and for management of female employees and managers across the positions it is 37-63 (female-male). While we organization. have yet to achieve our goals, we have seen 45 We also launched our internal diversity project, Support for underrepresented groups in tech which looks into how we can increase gender During 2019, we continued our collaboration with several diversity within the organization. By focusing on organizations that work toward getting more people from opportunities, challenges, and barriers within talent underrepresented groups into the tech industry. Since 2017 attraction, recruitment, retainment, development, we have sponsored the community Women in Tech, who and top management, and by working with organize activities to help and inspire women to pursue a unconscious biases, the project aims to support career in tech, a cause that we gladly support. For the third the business in reaching its diversity goals. We are year running we joined them at their event at Techfestival certain that achieving a higher level of diversity will in Copenhagen and we also attended multiple panel contribute to better business results and greater debates with them where they had invited members of the employee satisfaction. business and political world to discuss how to increase the ratio of women in the IT and tech industry. Together with Women in Tech, we aim to show that technology is a great industry for everyone and, hopefully, encourage more women to pursue a career in technology. Celebrating diversity For the same reasons, we were happy host the community Rails Girls on several occasions during the year. Rails We continue to show support for LGBTQ Girls is an organization whose aim is to give tools and a Pride and celebrate pride week at our community for women to understand technology and to different locations. Whether it’s by build their ideas. One way companies can support the dressing up in rainbow colors and eating organization is to provide a working space for a group, and rainbow cakes, waving the Pride flag at one of our employees, Nynne Just Christoffersen, arranged the top of our HQ, or advocating for equal for a Rails Girls group to come by the Siteimprove office rights on social media, it’s important once a month to work on their project. Nynne also worked for us to support LGBTQ Pride to show with the group to help them with their project. that we are against discrimination and violence of anyone because of their Another monthly arrangement that we set up was hosting sexual orientation. We’re a company that a HackYourFuture workshop. HackYourFuture is a coding preaches inclusion and it’s important for school that teaches computer programming to refugees. us to promote inclusion of all people, Starting out in the Netherlands in 2016, they are now both externally and internally, to make active in four countries, including Denmark. After having sure everyone can feel like they can be hosted them in 2018, we were happy to commit to hosting themselves and belong at Siteimprove. a monthly workshop for a group of HackYourFuture students. Every month, Siteimprove employees would be ready to help the students with their coding homework, and we had planned a helpful session for them each time about different topics. For instance, they talked to one of our product owners, learning more about building products and the relationship between product owners and software engineers, and they met one of our recruiters who helped them with their CVs and LinkedIn profiles. HackYourFuture’s goal is to teach their students how to code in order to boost their chances of gaining long-term employment, while increasing the number of talented developers on the job market—a goal we are very interested in achieving as well. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Goals Siteimprove’s labor rights goals Goals achieved 2019 Goals for 2020 Ensure a healthy work environment We rolled out our Supplier Code of We will continue to focus on for all Siteimprove Conduct, requiring our suppliers have maintaining a safe and healthy work employees safe and healthy working conditions. environment for all Siteimprove employees. The work environment organization held first aid courses for our employees in Copenhagen. Ensure that employees and We continue to be an equal We will continue to provide and applicants have opportunity employer and not promote equal rights for employees, equal opportunities discriminate in our hiring process. applicants, and the public. We established our diversity policy We aim to get closer to our goals for that includes tangible goals for gender diversity. gender diversity. We want to contribute to more We extended our partnership with diversity in the IT and tech industry. Women in Tech. We continue to promote equality and inclusion internally and externally. Continue our focus on the well-being We saw our global results in the We want to continue tracking and satisfaction of Great Place to Work® survey improve employee satisfaction through the our employees compared to 2018 and were ranked Great Place to Work® survey. among the top workplaces in Denmark. We will continue to prioritize the professional development and workWe continue to use systematic life balance of our employees. onboarding surveys to track satisfaction and onboarding levels of new Siteimprovers. We introduced further opportunities and frameworks for professional development for our employees. 47 48 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Environment 49 Global Compact Principles 7-9 The company should 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As an IT company, Siteimprove’s environmental impact in the production and distribution processes is significantly lower than in many other industries. However, we want to positively contribute to a better environment and a greener future, which is why we have high environmental expectations for our employees, our providers, and our suppliers. We are aware of the potential risk of negative environmental impact that our data processing poses. In this section, we elaborate on how we mitigate that risk. Siteimprove’s Environmental Policy The Environmental Policy applies to all Siteimprove branch offices and defines the overall environmental work within the company. The policy is directly related to the principles of the Global Compact. To live up to the principles, we take the following actions: We exercise caution in relation to environmental challenges by: • S triving to be among the most environmentally conscious businesses in our industry • E nsuring that all our providers and suppliers demonstrate environmental consciousness • E nsuring that our internal processes are environmentally compatible We take steps to promote environmental responsibility by: • I ncreasing the engagement and environmental consciousness among employees • E nsuring that our facilities comply with the highest environmental standards We support the development and growth of environmentally friendly initiatives by: • E  nsuring that materials from end-of-life products to an increasing extent can be recycled, or that they can be disposed in an environmentally safe manner • C  ooperating with authorities on the establishment/operation of facilities when new legislation takes effect or better technology becomes available 50 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Minimizing the impact of our supply chain Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires all Siteimprove Suppliers to comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the impact of their business on the environment. Compliance with environmental laws includes any international or applicable local laws affecting the source of materials and processes used to manufacture products. Siteimprove suppliers should minimize their own environmental impact and continuously try to limit their environmental impact on a continuous basis. Minimizing the carbon footprint of our data processing As a Software-as-a-Service company, the biggest carbon footprint in our production and distribution comes from the large amounts of data we process, more specifically, from the energy used in our data centers. We are aware of the environmental impact of that energy consumption, which is why we have chosen a data center that meets our demands regarding sustainable energy consumption and optimal data security. Our data center, Interxion, has received multiple environmental awards and they support and consume energy from sustainable and low-carbon sources. 100% of their power comes from sustainable sources, including water, solar, and wind. Interxion also uses a unique cooling system that uses water from reservoirs 70 meters below ground, which enables them to exploit the natural cooling potential of the water to reduce the load on their chillers. While Interxion is our main data center, we also use Amazon Web Services (AWS) for some of our data processes. AWS are committed to their goal of using 100% renewable energy for their global infrastructure footprint in the future and we’re happy to see them making progress. In January 2018, they reported a 50% renewable energy usage, and this year AWS announced that they will build four new wind energy farms and one new solar farm to get closer to their goal. 51 Minimizing the impact of our hardware As an IT company we use a lot of hardware equipment across all our offices. To ensure that the hardware we use has been produced and distributed in accordance with environmental standards, we use a fellow Global Compact Signatory, Atea, as our global IT hardware provider. From an environmental standpoint, Atea is the right provider for Siteimprove because they are ISO 14001 certified, they screen their manufacturing suppliers using specific environmental criteria, and they have ambitious sustainability goals. Once we no longer have a use for our hardware, we look to donate it to other organizations in need. In 2019, our team in Vienna donated 8 of their well-functioning, second-hand computer monitors to an elementary school. Collaborating with the board of education in Vienna, we found a school that was expanding their computer science curriculum and needed big monitors like the ones we use. To support this initiative that fosters digital learning, we decided to donate the computer monitors to them. 52 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Goals Siteimprove’s environment goals Goals achieved 2019 Goals for 2020 Use environmentally responsible suppliers We continued our collaboration with We will continue our collaboration environmentally responsible data with green primary suppliers. centers. We implemented our Supplier Code of Conduct requiring Siteimprove’s suppliers to minimize their own environmental impact. Encourage and practice We started donating our second-hand We will continue to encourage environmental hardware to organizations in need. employees and external stakeholders consciousness to consider the environment in their Our team in Minneapolis celebrated activities and use of resources. Earth Day by organizing a clean up of their street and planting seeds. We will continue to look for opportunities to recycle more and produce less waste in our offices. 53 54 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Anticorruption 55 Global Compact Principles 10 The company should 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Siteimprove is committed to conducting our business free from extortion, bribery, and all unlawful, unethical, or fraudulent activity. We are proud to report that Siteimprove had no cases or allegations related to bribery or corruption in 2019, and while Siteimprove operates in a low-risk market and solely in countries perceived as “less corrupt” by Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, we take additional measures to work against corruption. Siteimprove’s Code of Conduct Our company-wide Code of Conduct, which is mandatory for all Siteimprove employees to read and comply with, addresses the issues of bribery and corruption. The section “Building Business Relationships” states that “Honest dealing with customers and suppliers is essential to Siteimprove’s relationships. Giving or receiving any kickbacks, bribes, or similar payments of any sort is prohibited.” Furthermore, it informs employees of their responsibility in their dealings with government employees, to whom they are not allowed to offer any gifts, gratuity, or things of value, unless pre-approved by the Legal Department. It is policy that employees at Siteimprove cannot keep gifts from providers, customers, vendors, and other partners to avoid conflicts of interest caused by such gifts. As a global company, Siteimprove follows the strictest ethical and business standards of behavior, regardless of the leniency of local standards. Complying with the Code of Conduct is based on the use of good judgment and seeking guidance when questions arise. If employees are in doubt about anything related to corruption and bribery, they are encouraged to contact the Legal Department, who can advise on the correct course of action. If employees witness any breaches or suspect violations of the company-wide Code of Conduct, they must contact the legal department or reach out to Human Resources. The consequence of violating the Code of Conduct can be a warning or termination. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 Siteimprove’s Whistleblower Policy In 2019, we implemented the Siteimprove Whistleblower Policy. The formal processes established in the policy enable employees, and other stakeholders, to make anonymous good faith reports pertaining to serious violations such as suspected fraud, unethical business practices, bribery, corruption, or other improper or unlawful activity within Siteimprove. Every report of a possible violation will be investigated promptly and impartially, with every effort to maintain confidentiality of the reported individuals and the person reporting the violation. If a violation has taken place, we will take appropriate corrective and remedial action, up to termination and reporting the violation to a competent legal authority. Siteimprove’s Supplier Code of Conduct The Siteimprove Supplier Code of Conduct that we introduced in 2019 requires all Siteimprove suppliers to conduct business according to the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act (UKBA), the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (CFPOA), and similar laws in other countries that prohibit improper payments to obtain a business advantage. Suppliers must not offer, promise, give, accept, or solicit any bribe, gift, loan, fee, or other advantage to any government official or employee, any customer, any Siteimprove employee, or any other person to obtain any business or improperly influence any action or decision. The Supplier must also have appropriate whistleblowing procedures in place, which should be communicated to its employees and stakeholders. At a minimum, the Supplier must ensure that the confidentiality, anonymity, and protection of employee or supplier whistleblowers are respected, unless prohibited by law. Goals Siteimprove’s anti-corruption goals Goals achieved 2019 Goals for 2020 Prevent all forms of bribery and corruption in the company We implemented our We will continue doing Supplier Code of Conduct. business free of corruption. We implemented our Whistleblower Policy. We had no cases or allegations related to bribery or corruption. 57 To find this and previous Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, please visit https://siteimprove.com/en/company/csr/ 58 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 CSR Report 2019 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
