1 COP osm.no COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OSM Sustainability Report United Nations Global Compact Reporting year 2019 Member since 13/02/2017 osm.no CONTENTS 01 Letter from CEO C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 02 OSM and the UN Global Impact 03 About OSM 07 Stakeholder Management, Engagement and Relationship 03 09 Human Rights 10 Labour 15 Environment 23 17 Anti-Corruption 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 23 Sustainable Development Goals 26 Quality Education 30 Gender Equality 32 Decent Work and Economic Growth LETTER FROM CEO 01 osm.no STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL IMPACT Since 1989, OSM Maritime Group has developed to become one of the global market leaders for third party management services for the offshore and maritime industries Both segments play a significant role in sustainable business development. OSM is committed to contributing to the global footprint by aiming at conducting business in a sustainable and responsible manner. In 2019, OSM made further progress into the UNGC 10 principals and selected SDG goals on both national and international levels. Throughout the year, we were continuously evaluating our business processes and activities to enhance our compliance to the UNGC principals and SDG. This is our 3rd sustainability report which highlights the initiatives and measures taken towards our goals. Hereby, OSM Maritime Group confirms and renews the commitment to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environmental Protection and Anti-Corruption. BJOERN SPROTTE CEO OSM AND THE UN GLOBAL IMPACT OSM joined the UN Global Impact in year 2017 under one of the operating units “Crew Management”. From 2018 onwards, the sustainability report was expanded to include relevant data and statistics from the whole OSM group. This is OSM third sustainability report, this report gives an in-depth overview and understanding of the group’s efforts in sustainability. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S This report is a collaboration effort of the whole group with the following stakeholders having direct involvement in the report: BJOERN SPROTTE CEO SPONSOR ANJELO NOAH MARQUESES ORDOÑO Foundation Officer PHILIPPINES INPUTS ON OSM CARES CHRISTIAN ANGELO LUBATON Medical Director, Holistic Care INPUTS ON NMC RICHARD MACARUBBO HSEQ Manager – Crew Management CYPRUS INPUTS ON CSR, REPORT MODERATOR DIMITRIS PAVLOU Global HSEQ Manager – Strategic SINGAPORE Quality Assurance Management CHERLYNN TAN INPUTS REGARDED HSEQ, Team Leader, RMQA REPORT MODERATOR DATA COLLECTION, ANALYSIS / EVALUATION AND REPORT WRITING ROHIT TALWAR Head of RMQA PROJECT FACILITATOR ABOUT OSM OSM Maritime is unique – we are an independent service provider, not a maritime asset owner or manufacturer. We partner together with our customers and partners to bring them real value through a unique combination of clear strengths. We have developed a suite of services designed with the pressures that our customers face in mind. At OSM, we hope to offer a one stop shop with all-encompassing service solutions. 03 Our services include: osm.no osm.no TECHNICAL CREW NEW BUILDING VALUE ADDED OSM PEOPLE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES OSM IS REPRESENTED WITH OPERATIONS C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S TECHNICAL CREW AROUND THE WHOLE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT WORLD. 1. Ship and Maritime Asset 1. Full Crew Management Management 2. Recruitment and Selection 2. Offshore Management 3. Medical Services 3. Operations Center 4. PI Insurance and Claims 4. Energy Efficiency Handling Improvement 5. Pension 5. Safety Case Development 6. Payroll and Tax Management 6. Lay-up Management 7. Travel Management 7. Project Management 8. Competence and Training 8. EBN Services Management 9. EBN Services NEW BUILDING VALUE ADDED MANAGEMENT SERVICES 1. Offshore and Conventional 1. Consultancy New building 2. Vessel IT Services 3. Supply Chain Management 4. Medical Services 5. Procurement / S2S 6. Inspections and Quality Management OSM PEOPLE 7. Catering Management 8. EBN Services 1. Personnel for Hire 2. Recruitment and Selection VISION Our vision is to be a long-term partner for our customers, a home for our people and an asset in society. OSM Maritime has a long tradition in being a provider of quality service, operational safety and 05 environmental protection in the maritime – and shipping industry. Our goal is to constantly improve osm.no our reputation as a premier ship manager and to provide our services with integrity and reliability aiming for zero incidents and zero spills. MISSION To contribute to our customers’ success. At OSM, our mission is to go that extra mile to be our customer’s first preference to provide safe, high quality and reliable services. We’re also committed to conduct our operations in a manner C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S which promotes safety, protects human life, the environment and property. Safety, Health, Quality and Environmental responsibilities extend throughout the organization. Everyone is expected to take a personal, proactive and constructive role in our drive for flawless, efficient, competitive and customer focused operations and to participate in our efforts to achieve our targets of zero incidents and zero spills. OUR CORE VALUES ARE THE CORNERSTONES IN OUR DAILY WORK. EVERY DECISION AND FACE-TO-FACE MEETING WITH PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD SHOULD REFLECT OSM MARITIME VALUES. OSM Maritime values RESPONSIBLE TEAM BUILDERS FRIENDLY This is the cornerstone of our A key factor for success is A friendly atmosphere makes a values. Most importantly, we are motivating people to work huge difference! It makes your responsible for the safety and health together. Each one of our co-workers happier. It makes work of our people on board and ashore. employees is a vital asset. But go easier! It makes the customers Safety always comes first. We place the team is always stronger than more satisfied! It’s what keeps us great value on environmental the individual. We do business in business! And best of all: It is responsibility and keeping our by building teams. We team up simple to live by and it is free! planet safe for future generations. with our customers, suppliers and partners. We don’t believe ALWAYS ON! Responsibility also means honesty in traditional hierarchies where and trustworthiness. We expect people at the top call all the shots proper conduct from all our and the rest just follow. In a nutshell, this is our way of doing people and never accept unethical things. Things happen fast in our or questionable business practices. We prefer an open atmosphere of business and we aim to stay ahead We manage significant assets on cooperation regardless of position of the game. ALWAYS ON! simply behalf of our clients and we take or title. It’s important for us that means that we’re focused, in control responsibility for the job being all employees feel they belong to of every situation, innovative and done in a professional, costa team and do their best to help totally committed. We like to be on effective manner, safe-guarding each other create success. We our toes, quick to respond to our our client’s assets and reputations. want our teams to WIN. clients’ needs and demands and We also guarantee first-class always on the lookout for new and training for our employees better solutions. STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND RELATIONSHIP 07 osm.no OSM recognized the importance of our stakeholders and a detailed stakeholder mapping was conducted to reveal opportunities and potential problems that may exist. The stakeholder engagement matrix was periodically assessed, and necessary amendments were made as required. More details on the stakeholder mapping can be found in Attachment II of the report. In 2018, a materiality assessment survey was carried out which allows OSM to identify several topics which our stakeholders are most concerned. The materiality assessment survey points out the crucial areas which allow us to better facilitate the implementation of policies and processes in regards to corporate sustainability. The creation and strategy process involved in its development was long and extensive. Several departments and employees from different levels and functions of OSM were consulted. To define the issues and topics to be included on it, we have consulted our risk committee aiming to include all relevant points. All issues and topics included in the materiality assessment survey can be considered as risks and opportunities to OSM. It was designed to cover all principles from the UN Global Compact and detailed information can be found in Attachment III 10 principles of UN Global Compact and related topics selected to the OSM Materiality assessment survey. A group of 81 topics have been identified and grouped into 19 issues. We have adopted an inclusive strategy for our stakeholder engagement approach, including a broader range of stakeholders. Our materiality assessment was sent by e-mail to our internal stakeholders and it was available to all our stakeholders on social media. OSM MATERIALITY MATRIX C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S According to the material assessment survey, the issues selected as Material by our stakeholders are: Safety, Health, Respect for Education and Fair Employment and Wellness Human Rights Development and Labor – Associated with – Associated with of our People Rights (direct Labour rights Human rights – Associated with and indirect) – Labour rights Associated with Labour rights. Most feedback for our materiality assessment were provided by OSM employees, though we also counted replies from Suppliers, Customers, Competitors, Community members, Certification bodies and others 09 osm.no HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the Make sure that they are not complicit in protection of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses human rights OSM is has a staunch approach towards human rights. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to respect human rights and protect our employees against human rights abuse. OSM has a Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Commitment Policy (FCV-H.06) which clearly states: OSM regards the respect for human rights as a fundamental value. This is governed by the Company’s core values to be Responsible, to be Team builders, to be Friendly and Always on. OSM endeavours a due diligent approach to identify and prevent human rights risk internally through our established framework of management systems and externally through established service level agreements. Furthermore, we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuse. The Human Resource Policy also include statements that OSM adopts a fair, just system of selecting candidates for the positions available. All OSM employees are always reminded to refrain from any mental or physical coercion, sexual harassment / abuse or any other form of harassment onboard or on shore. In 2019, we have started carrying out due diligence on all our critical suppliers to access their certification, supplier information, industry experience, anti-corruption, HSE management systems, labor and human rights. As per our process, this has to be done before a supplier can be included as our approved supplier. Supplier audits was also carried out for several of our suppliers to ensure they adhere to our company policies. In 2019, OSM has also develop a whistle blowing channel for all our employees both on shore and at sea to report any deviations without any fear of repercussions as all whistle blowers are kept confidential. The Company encourages Company personnel to address their concerns with their immediate supervisor. For seafarers, this would include the normal chain of command including Master and shore representatives such as the Vessel Manager, the Marine Superintendent or the Designated Person Ashore. If Company personnel have a legitimate concern which is more serious, or which OSM Singapore has also they prefer not to raise through the usual channels, or if they feel the concern has shifted to a new office this year. not been adequately addressed through the usual channels, they should raise this In this new office, we have C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S concern directly to the Designated Person Ashore (DPA) implemented a few innovations to ensure that our employees OSM has also plans to put in place an ethics committee to further support the has a conducive environment to Human Rights principles and mitigate these issues. work in. Some notable initiatives include constructing a spacious OSM understands that their employees also has personal commitments to fulfill, and comfortable canteen, thus staggered working hours was also implemented in some OSM offices in order small cosy areas for private to provide employees with better work-life balances. This also allows employees to discussions, a prayer room and commute to and from offices in off-peak hours. a dedicated kitchen appliance for our Muslim employees as Corporate CSR activities were also planned and participated by the various OSM well as a private nursing room office around the word. Information regarding the CSR activities can be found in the for new mothers in the office. Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of The elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 The effective abolition of child labour The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation OSM is a Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), 2006 certified and accredited by local authorities in countries that did not ratify it yet. The Maritime Labour Convention governs the minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board of a vessel and the conditions of employment, accommodation, food and catering on board, recreational facilities, health protection, medical care, welfare, social security protection and financial security. We are committed to principal 4,5,6 with continuous monitoring to ensure complete compliance. Our Human Resource Policy (FCV-H.06) states: We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, we do not associate with any forms of forced and compulsory labour, child labour and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Commitment Policy (FCV-H.06) further states that: OSM is committed to preserve the rights of our employees and treat them with dignity and esteem. There are detailed processes in all offices to ensure we are conforming to all federal, provincial and local regulations and laws. The company has zero tolerance for harsh or inhumane treatment, unlawful harassment in any 11 form and regardless of intent including sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical osm.no coercion and verbal abuse of any employee. The company does not engage in discrimination base on subspecies, colour, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, handicap, pregnancy, religious belief, political affiliation, union membership, or any other class protected by law. Disciplinary policies and processes in support of these requirements are clearly stipulated in the established management systems. The company prohibits the utilization of all forms of forced labour, advanced forms of slavery and any kind of human trafficking. As per previously mentioned, our suppliers undergo a stringent due diligence check before becoming one of our approved supplier. Our commitment to principles 4,5,6 is further reinforced in our Manning Policy: OSM will always verify that labour conditions on ships where seafarers are placed are in conformity with applicable collective bargaining agreements with a representative seafarers’ organization and supply seafarers only to ship owners that offer terms and conditions of employment to seafarers who comply with applicable laws or regulations or collective agreements. With the support of our management system and of our Business Processes, our Grievance Procedure clearly define the right of any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged violation of his contractual or any other rights. Those complaints, when received, will be registered on our reporting system called IRIS Improvement Reporting and Information System. In 2019, We have received 5 crew complaints for this reporting year. All reports have and will be extensively investigated to ensure that root causes are established, and measures are put in place to prevent future occurrences. To develop and promote the risk-based thinking on OSM, we have established a risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different offices locations. This risk committee evaluate our risks and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S management process to proper access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted to a risk evaluation. Occupational and operational risks related to OSM are managed in accordance with our Health, Safety and Environment Policy (HSEP) for crewing services and by our HSEQ POLICY (TQM-05) for technical management services. The effectiveness of our management system is monitored through annual internal and external audits. OSM has a diverse range of nationalities both on board and ashore. In our office, we have 39 nationalities employed in OSM offices around the world. This is an 11% increase compared to the number of nationalities employed in 2018. Female employees account for 51% of our total workforce, taking a slight edge over the male counterparts by 1%. However, it is noted that female employees are represented by only 17% as head of countries and 14% in operational leadership team. TOP 10 NATIONALITY (%) OF OFFICE EMPLOYEES Figure 1: Top 10 Nationality (%) of Office Employees as of 08 January 2020* 17% 2% NORWAY FINLAND 1% UK UKRAINE 41% 6% 2% PHILIPPINES BRAZIL CYPRUS SINGAPORE 4% INDIA 5% 6% INDONESIA 5% * For full list of nationalities, please refer to attachment IV GENDER (%) OF AGE GROUP (%) OF OFFICE EMPLOYEES OFFICE EMPLOYEES Figure 3: Age group (%) of office employees as of 8 January 2020 Figure 2: Gender (%) of Office Employees as of 8 January 2020 40.00% 35.00% 30.00% 25.00% 20.00% 15.00% 13 osm.no 10.00% 5.00% 0.00% 49% 51% 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 More than 60 Age Group LEADERSHIP TEAM IN OFFICE (%) PER GENDER Figure 4: Leadership team in office (%) per gender as of 8 January 2020 100.00% 83.33% 85.71% Female Male 16.67% 14.29% 0.00% Sum of Head of Country Sum of Executive Team Sum of Operational Leadership Team Shipping has always been a male dominant industry. With that in mind, OSM is fully committed to support women in shipping. OSM women makes up 4% of our crew which is slightly higher than industry standards. (As per ITF, women only make up an estimated 2% of the world maritime workforce.) Our female leaders onboard maintain at 2% of our crew. However, only 9% of the total female crew progressed to leadership positions compared to 23% of the male’s population. GENDER % OF ONBOARD GENDER % OF ONBOARD SEAFARERS SEAFARERS IN LEADERSHIP Figure 5: Gender (%) of onboard seafarers as POSITIONS of 20 January 2020 Figure 6: Gender (%) of onboard seafarers in leadership positions as of 20 January 2020 Female C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Female 4% 2% Male Male 96% 98% MALE (%) SEAFARERS IN FEMALE (%) OF ONBOARD LEADERSHIP POSITIONS SEAFARERS IN LEADERSHIP Figure 7: Male (%) seafarers in leadership POSITIONS positions as of 20 January 2020 Figure 8: Female (%) seafarers in leadership positions 20 January 2020 Leadership Position 23% Leadership Position 23% Non-leadership Non-leadership Position Position 77% 77% In 2019, our catering program saw 37% of female trainees. This is a small dip in compared in 2018 where 39% of the trainees were female. However, it must be noted that there was a 15% increase in overall female trainees as compared to 2018. Our cadet program, on the other hand saw a 2% increase in female participation as compared to 2018. Through this program, OSM aims to provide better leaders for tomorrow. Moving forward next year, we will step up efforts to increase female representation in the company as well as put in plans to retain and attract more females to join the shipping industry. 15 osm.no ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should support a Undertake initiatives to Encourage the development precautionary approach to promote greater environmental and diffusion of environmental challenges responsibility environmentally friendly technologies OSM understands the importance of environmental protection and reinforces our commitment to our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR): • OSM aims to be a company that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth beneficial to the company and society; • In OSM Maritime Group, we define Corporate Social Responsibility as follows: (…) Protecting the environment and the safety of people (…); • OSM recognizes the importance of protecting all our human, financial, physical, informational, social, environmental, and reputational assets; and • All employees are responsible and accountable for contributing to a safe working environment, for fostering safe working attitudes, and for operating in an environmentally responsible manner. Environmental risks associated with OSM are evaluated by a risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different offices locations. This risk committee evaluates our risks and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change management process to properly access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities also undergo by a risk evaluation. OSM aims to be as paperless as possible in our operations. We have heavily invested in innovation and in developing on-line programs for the management of our operations such as: e-Crew, IRIS, Lanteria, Salesforce, Bizagi, Visma, Eyeshare and others. OSM is encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies towards its operations. By reflecting on our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICYCSR) we can improve the compliance with Principle 8. With our risk committee, and risk based thinking all potential risk related to our operations will be managed, supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. With this we can also state compliance with Principle 7. We plan to further develop initiatives for the following year to increase the compliance with principles 7, 8 and 9 such as: Inclusion on environmental items in supplier’s audit checklist, inclusion on environmental items in internal audit checklist, implementation of environmental programs as per our SHORE SAFETY EMERGENCY PROCEDURES AND ENVIROMENTAL MANAGEMENT C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S PROGRAMMES and implementation of Awareness campaigns regarded OSM have invested in training environmental protection themes. and qualifying Seafarers regarding environmental Periodic HSSEQ tips which covers environmental issues were published to all protection. In our Seagull employees, highlighting the need for environmental protection and the measures CBT training, we cover topics that one should take to preserve our environment. on environment such as Oil Pollution Act, MARPOL In line with IMO 2020, we have taken below steps to prepare for the new regulation: and Marine Environmental • New Sulphur limits from 1st Jan 2020 in marine fuels. – Carried out Training to Awareness. Crew for awareness and Develop SIP for compliance. • Exhaust Gas Cleaning Scrubber where compliant fuel not in use – Provided support to our clients to install new scrubber, trained crew and develop scrubber management plan for appropriate operations and reporting. • Complying with EU MRV and IMO DcS reporting for CO2 statistics. • Maintenance of refrigerant Logbook in all our managed vessels. – Our Crew Training Manual under ECMS covers complete guidelines for Refrigerant Gases. In partnership with our travel agents, OSM has started to monitor the CO2 emissions related to shore staff and seafarers travel. Table 1: Airlines Emission for 2019 Office Staff + Seafarers Data from (01.01.2019 31.12.2019) Airlines emission – Office staff + Seafarers KM Total Kg CO2 315,223,952.26 47,634,488.44 AIRLINES EMISSION 450,000,000.00 0.2 0.18 OFFICE STAFF + 360,000,000.00 0.16 0.14 SEAFARERS FOR 270,000,000.00 0.12 KM Total CO2/KM 0.1 LAST 3 YEARS 180,000,000.00 0.08 0.06 Figure 9: Airlines Emission 90,000,000.00 0.04 Office Staff + Seafarers for last 0.02 0.00 0 3 years 2017 2018 2019 Year KM total KG CO2 CO2 / KM In 2019, we see a slight increase on CO2/km despite a lower distance travelled. OSM Maritime Group along with other ship management, dry bulk, and global cruise companies have signed up to Wilhelmsen’s 3DP printing early adopter program (EAP) for 3D printing, eliminating the need for physical inventory storage, often complex distribution, and typically high logistics costs. 3DP printing offers a more environmentally friendly approach, reducing the need for transportation and emissions generated from these transportations. We are excited to be one the early collaborators to a more efficient sustainable future in shipping. With the initiative of 4-day work week in our Manila Office, we will be tracking the environmental 17 benefits reaped from this program. The computation of carbon emissions will be derived from osm.no electricity usage, water usage and employee’s travel to and from the office. The results will be populated and presented in next year’s sustainability report. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery OSM has a Business Ethic Policies Policy which covers the following areas of concern: • Anti-Bribery/Corruption • Gifts • Conflicts of Interest • Facilitation payments • Inside Information • Political contributions • Integrity Due Diligence • Charitable contributions • Bribes All existing employees receives regular, relevant training on how to implement and adhere to the Business Ethnic Policy. All new employees will also go through this policy as part of the induction program. Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption are communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners. IT IS OUR POLICY TO CONDUCT ALL OF OUR BUSINESS IN AN HONEST, ETHICAL AND TRANSPARENT MANNER. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. As per previously stated, our supplier undergo strict due diligence before becoming one of our approved supplier. We take Principle 10, very seriously and we are committed to continuously improve our compliance. In 2019, we have zero cases pertaining to associated violations. In addition, for high risk regions such Congo, Angola, Ukraine and Brazil we have a TRACE certification. To have a TRACE certificate means that we have completed a comprehensive due diligence process administered by TRACE, the world’s leading anti-bribery standard setting organization and that we have successfully demonstrated our commitment to commercial transparency. Corruption risks associated with OSM are evaluated by a risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different offices locations. We also have a change management process to properly access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted for a risk evaluation. We are also looking to hire a compliance manager into our legal team to strengthen our compliance to principal 10. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY This year, 53% of our OSM Figure 10: % of CSR activities offices reported to be engaged in CSR activities. This is an increase of 10% compared to 2018. 53% 19 Reported presence of osm.no CSR activities in their local offices Figure 11: Segregation (%) of CSR activities Disaster Recovery Management, Water, 3.57% 3.57% Charity, 17.86% Childcare / Development, 7.14% Education, 21.43% Health, 39.29% Environment, 7.14% We see health and education activates taking about 60% of the pie. This is in line with OSM dedicated efforts in SDG 3 and SDG 4. Brazil, Cyprus and Philippines offices reported majority of the CSR activities. It should be noted that there may be more CSR activities which is not communicated to group level. Next year, more methods will be established to encourage reporting of these CSR activities. Some examples of our CSR activities conducted as presented below: CYPRUS PARTICIPATION TO THE LIMASSOL MARATHON FOR CHARITY 12 OSM employees participated in running for Charity, OPAP Limassol Marathon GSO is one of the largest fundraising platforms in Cyprus, hosting around 10,000 runners from more than 250 teams. The amount collected is currently supporting projects by 22 NGOs which are helping people with pancreatic cancer, mental disabilities, and vulnerable children, amongst many other great causes. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S CYPRUS CHARITY BOX IN OSM CYPRUS OFFICE Our OSM Cyprus office has a charity box in the office where employees can bring clothes and shoes to be donated to people in need. Every few months, CYPRUS we gather and segregate what was PARTICIPATION TO THE CYPRUS SHIPPING CHAMBER collected to a local NGO “Fundraising VOLLEYBALL FOR CHARITY Charity Organization”. The Charity Beach-Volley Tournament is the Shipping Chamber’s main The Charity’s main goal is to help annual sporting/charity Event. The Tournament is organised by the families and children that are in need Chamber, under the auspices of the Minister of Communications and of basic materials and supplies in all Works, with great success since 1996. aspects of their lives. These supplies are secured from the Charity’s members The high participation of Chamber Members at the Beach-Volley who volunteer their services either Tournament shows their great interest in contributing financially for through direct financial donations, a good cause and at the same time enjoying a friendly competition donation of material goods (e.g. food, among colleagues and friends. The net amount raised, is donated to clothing, house ware goods), or by the Charity Association “One Dream – One Wish”, whose mission is to assisting the Charity in any other way. provide life incentives to children suffering from cancer, leukaemia and Fundraising during the five years of other blood diseases, by fulfilling their wishes and at the same time, its operation has offered more than offering financial and psychological support to them and their families. €500.000 to children in need for food, clothing, education and other smaller family needs. Also, it has prepared and distributed boxes of food and packets with clothing, shoes and school necessities to more than 1000 families. OSM-AD FOUNDATION The OSM-AD Foundation is a non-profit organization that operates to help uplift indigent communities through education and disaster response programs. We are deeply honoured to have received the CrewConnect Global award for Welfare and Corporate Social Responsibility Award with our OSM-AD Foundation. This year, the OSM-AD was involved in vast array of CSR activities. 21 osm.no PHILIPPINES KINACHAWA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL Barangay Kinachawa is one of the most isolated communities in San Ricardo, Southern Leyte. It is located 16.5 Km from the municipality’s town-proper. The people are dependent mostly on fishing and coconut farming. The community is currently pressed economically due to low market demand for coconut products. OSM-AD Foundation provided school supplies to the children enrolled in Kinachawa Elementary School for the upcoming school-year. The educational kit includes PHILIPPINES one schoolbag, 6 notebooks, 2 ball pens, 1 crayon set, 1 SAN RICARDO sketchpad and 1 pastel colors set. NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL The Foundation also donated football and volleyball equipment to support the school’s sports development. San Ricardo is a 5th class municipality and a coastal town inhabited by 10,494 residents. The indigency of the people reflects to the high municipal poverty incidence. In coordination with the faculty members of SRNHS, OSM-ADF helped to improve the culture of sports in the school by donating complete equipment for softball. The school used to have a softball team, but due to old age of their former equipment, they were no longer able to participate in interschool tournaments competitively. The school sees sports like softball as the key to some of its students to pursue higher education upon graduation by becoming student-athletes, and therefore athletic-scholars in college. PHILIPPINES PHILIPPINES TALAHID ELEMENTARY SCHOOL MAGSAYSAY ELEMENTARY SCHOOl Barangay Talahid is one of the Barangay Magsaysay is one of the communities located in the adjacent Kerikite communities in Almagro Island Island within the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Almagro. The island is 2-3 within the jurisdiction of the hours boat ride away from the nearest point of commerce, the Calbayog City Municipality of Almagro. The island from mainland Western Samar Province. is 2-3 hours boat ride away from the nearest point of commerce, The school received the following grants: the Calbayog City from mainland • Children’s library and school supplies Western Samar Province. • Volleyball equipment C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S • Badminton equipment The school received the following grants: The teachers also participated in the workshop hosted by its neighboring • Children’s library and school school. The workshop aimed to contribute to the enhancement of instructional supplies skills of teachers. • Volleyball equipment • Badminton equipment • School Gardening Equipment PHILIPPINES IPIL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL The Municipality of Buhi was once hit by a deadly typhoon in 2018 where OSM Foundation responded through relief operation. A year after, the Foundation returned to community bringing school supplies and bags to almost 280 children. The terrain in Buhi is the home of the indigenous peoples known as the Agta Tribe. The indigenous children received school supplies such as schoolbags, notebooks and writing materials that their families could hardly afford. Interestingly, around 1,200 notebooks where donated by our office colleagues. This made the project a collective effort. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS This year, OSM has focus on the following SGDs: 23 01 02 03 04 osm.no SDG 3 SDG 4 SDG 5 SDG 8 Good Health and Quality Gender Decent Work Well-Being Education Equality and Economic Growth SDG 3 Good Health and Well-Being AIM: ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE WELL-BEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES The Nordic Medical Good health and well being is essential to all people around the world. OSM is fully committed Clinic (NMC) to supporting healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages. is also another initiative by OSM In all offices, employees and their dependents are covered with health insurance and medical care to promote health provided by the company. Annual health screening is also arranged in some offices so that employees and well-being of will be able to better understand their health status and seek early medical attention if necessary our employees. Established in Our procedures also ensure that all seafarers undergo medical evaluation prior to signing on our January 2018, managed vessels. Aligned with our customers, we offer medical coverage to our seafarers when NMC is a prethey are on board and this coverage can be extended when they are on leave, under certain employment circumstances. Coverage can be, optionally, extended to family members. medical examination (PEME) In our Manila office, plans are put in place to implement a 4-day work week to ease employees clinic for seafarers. long travel time due to traffic conditions. This also allows employees to have better work life balance, increasing productivity and morale. As part of the PEME program, NMC aims to empower each seafarer to take care of their health. ‘My body, my responsibility’ attitude is best to have a safe and uneventful voyage at sea. NMC use the wholeness of health approach, teaching the seafarer to be mindful of his body and his well-being in the different areas of his/her life. Emotional and Mental Health lth Fin H ea s a s nc al ne es y sic Fit Ph and Work and Relationships Career WHOLENESS OF HEALTHMODEL , als C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S mm Go Life unity al s son sion Per Pas Co Spirt ual Pray Health, and er Li Rest tion ea fe Recr NMC developed a health app that NMC Holistic Health education is part of the mandatory health and is also done outside of the wellness training during PEME covering clinic premises. Various health the topics such as: seminars on physical and 1. How to have Good Rest and Sleep mental health, and well-being 2. Get Enough Daily Water Intake are being done for seafarers and shore employees inside their manning 3. Eat Good Food and Feel Good companies and their other crew and family gatherings. 4. Regular Physical and Meaningful Activities In 2019, we see almost 80% increase of PEME done for OSM 5. Dental Care and Oral Hygiene Seafarers. With an increase of seafarers, we still sight a 50% decrease 6. On Sexually Transmitted Infections: of medical repatriations in OSM as compared to in 2018. This is well Preventive than Curative inline with NMC target of reducing medical repatriations by 50% in 7. Take Care of your Mental Health 2019. and Well-Being 8. Take Care of Yourself while This really positive results shows that the MNC efforts in the last year Onshore has greatly contributed to the SDG goal. 9. Take Care of Yourself while Travelling OSM works in close cooperation with our customers to communicate the Health Safety and Environmental requirements onboard the vessel(s) to all crew before signing on to an appointed vessel, by supplying the seafarer with necessary documentation and information provided by the customer such as Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy. Some of the actions to ensure the health and the well-being of our seafarers on board: • Drug and Alcohol Declaration (D&A) provided by the customer to be signed by all crew members; • Pre employment screening for drug and alcohol are conducted prior joining the vessels • Unannounced periodic drug and alcohol test conducted on board • Senior officers to be routed via the ship management offices at least once a year or as required by the Fleet Group where our D&A policy will be further reiterated; • Pre-departure medical examination of all seafarers including, but not limited to, Drug and 25 Alcohol test; osm.no • Counselling and rehabilitation provided for any personnel who provides voluntary disclosure Alcoholism and Drug abuse • Additional medical help in ports available to seafarers; • Ensure the supply of necessary protective clothing on board the vessels; • Encourage and motivate seafarers to use Personal Protective Equipment (PPE); • Provide our crew with sufficient supply of good quality and nutritious food, drinking water and catering arrangements, considering the seafarers differing cultural, religious and gastronomic backgrounds, and the duration & nature of the voyage. • Food served in hygienic condition • Promote a healthy and hygienic working environment; • Recruit catering staff knowledgeable in food preparation to provide a balanced diet and healthy nutrition for the crew; • Train catering personnel on their contributory role in maintenance of cleanliness, orderliness and proper housekeeping on board; • Identify knowledge gaps of all catering personnel then reinforced occupational competence by additional training or upgrading courses; and • Provide guidance on managing Fatigue • Providing crew with recreational facilities on board • Implement procedures to ensure that crew have adequate rest hours • Register, investigate and follow up of any non-compliance on our Improvement Reporting and Information System (IRIS) to ensure corrective actions are implemented Campaigns and circulars distributed / organised through the year cover health issues: • Manual Lifting Safety Campaign • Hand Injury Safety Campaign • Shell – Maritime Partners in Safety • Take 5 for Safety • Personal Injuries Campaign • Safety Flashes OSM Seafarers Family Club (OSM SFC) also held three majors events in 2019 which benefitted almost 5500 attendees composed of seafarers and their family members from its 10 regional chapters in the Philippines as follows: • Family Day – Annual summer outing that promotes spending quality time with family. This is a fun-filled OSM recognize the importance day of games & prizes, raffle, loot bags of OSM of a healthy diet, therefore merchandise, activity booths, and sumptuous meal. in 2019, we have recently • Family and Wealth Conference – The best added catering service to our inspirational and technical speakers are invited to talk C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S catalogues. With this service, about their areas of expertise; helping us with our OSM aims to provide safe, advocacy of raising-up Happy, Healthy and Wealthy healthy and sustainable catering seafarers and families. solutions for all crew members. • Year-end Party – Packed with the best entertainers, raffle, games & prizes, gifts for the family & kids, and a sumptuous meal SDG 4 Quality Education OSM recognises that education is immensely important in the society this world. Therefore, we have strived to invest heavily into education. This includes implementing Cadet Programs, Training Academy, DP Training Center and a Catering Academy. OSM also have developed partnerships with training providers including Seagull Maritime, Green Jakobsen, Maersk Training, SimSea. TRAINING ACADEMY OSM BRIDGING PROGRAM The training academy started its activities In this program, skills and knowledge of in 2010 with bridge, DP and engine Seafarers coming from offshore vessels are simulators, instrumentation, refrigeration and aligned with cruise ship job requirements; hydraulics liquid cargo, TECDIS, and annual free trainings and seminars enabling offshore subscriptions to maritime accrediting bodies. crew to transfer to passenger ships. Since then, many other programs have been implemented to meet market developments SEAGULL CBT and customer requirements. This is an interactive training which seafarers can take on board, and when completed, a CATERING ACADEMY training certificate will be provided. Established in 2014, offering training In 2019, close to a quarter of our crew and education programs in the catering has completed all their required ed all department that goes beyond industry their mandatory courses. Our average standards. crew completion rate however is only 18%. In 2020, we are looking to enhance the FUTURE LEADERS PROGRAM average completion rate by more stringent A cadet program for seafarers to develop the monitoring and monthly updates. future leaders onboard our vessels. COMPLETION RATE (%) OF SEAFARERS Figure 12: Completion rate (%) of seafarers 30% 24.66% 25% 20% 18.12% % 15% 12.99% 10.75% 9.30% 10% 6.72% 4.40% 5.29% 27 5% 3.88% 2.89% osm.no 0.98% 0% 0-9 10-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90-99 100% % OF COMPLETION ILEARN Developed by OSM and launched in August The following courses has the highest number of 2018, the cloud-based training solution of completions: iLearn is a reflection of our focus on People • Pre-Departure Orientation Seminar & Technology to support our sustainable • Pre-Employment Orientation Seminar / growth. Easily accessed from ilearn.osm. Human Relations no, it serves as an enhanced online training • Maritime Resource Management platform for OSM’s global pool of seafarers. • Cross Cultural Communication Designed with a learner-centric experience at its core, iLearn is mobile friendly and LANTERIA LEARNING available in offline mode – enabling access Lanteria Learning allows employees on shore anywhere, anytime. to further enhance their knowledge and competency through a web-based learning ILearn also allows seafarers to learn from system. The LinkedIn training tool can be others in the OSM Learning Community, accessed online and offline and some of the engage with teammates in Virtual courses will produce a certificate that will be Classrooms, and gain easy access to the uploaded and stored in LANTERIA, where support tools they need. In 2019, a total of the competence of our shore employees are 4725 courses were completed in ILearn managed. ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS AS OF 8TH JANUARY 2020 2,358 550 462 5H 6M Hours viewed People logged in People viewed content Avg. time per viewer Besides having technical skills, OSM also recognize the paramount importance of one possessing soft skills. This year, we have engaged an Organisational Behavioural Associate to focus on Human Element and soft skill development. In 2019, we have conducted a workshop on enhancing onshore employee’s communication and influencing skills. A series of soft skills development workshop will be organized through year 2020. TEAM WORKING DECISION MAKING COMMUNICATION Topics planned for RESULTS FOCUSED AND INFLUENCING training includes: C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S SITUATION LEADERSHIP AND AWARENESS MANAGERIAL SKILLS TEAM WORKING DECISION MAKING Works effectively in a team-building Reaches systematic and rational judgements productive working relationships through or chooses an option based on relevant coorproation with colelagues, treating others information by analyzing issues and breaking with respect, resolving conflicts among team them down into their discrete parts. members and balancing individual and team goals. RESULTS FOCUSED Focuses on achieving desired results and how COMMUNICATION AND best to achieve them. Takes conscientious INFLUENCING action to get the job done, suing initiative Gives and receives communication clearly, and energy, and demonstrating flexibility and precisely and in a convincing way to groups emotional toughness. as well as individuals at all levels, including senior/line manager, colleagues and LEADERSHIP AND MANAGERIAL SKILLS subordinates. Inspires, motivates and empowers personnel to perform at their best to achieve goals. SITUATION AWARENESS Adjusts leadership style to situations, Accurately perceives the immediate including those that develop suddenly or environment (system or task) and external change rapidly. factors that may have an impact. Understands surroundings and predicts their status in the near future. Officers and crew seminars were also arranged at regular intervals to boost and refresh crew’s knowledge / skills related to their day to day operations. In 2019, the following topics were discussed: • Preparations and onboard Management • Lost Baggage of Audits and Inspections • CTM • Emissions Regulations 2020 essential key • Cash Advance points for officers • IRIS reporting & Risk Assessment • Managing shipboard performance and • PSC Back to Basics appraisals • Deck Navigational Safety • Learning on the move – byte sized wisdom • PMS Good Practices 29 • One Safety Mindset and how to achieve • Engine Machinery performance, analysis osm.no this in your team (Behaviour-based safety) and reporting • Dealing with Depression and Stress • Dry Commercial Management & • Preparations and Onboard Management Communication of Audits and Inspections • Wet Vetting and Safety Management • Emissions Regulations 2020 – essential • Navigational Operations Challenges & key points for officers Expectations • Crew Planning • Engine Room Operations Challenges & • Travel Expenses Expectations • Contract Extension • Maritime Crew Resource • Early Repatriation Our AIM (Audits, Investigation, Mentoring) Team also provides mentoring sessions to our seafarers while boarding vessels. This includes topics ranging from behavioral based safety, environmental to total quality management. The following CSR initiatives related to education is reported: 1. Management Trainee Programs in Cyprus and Singapore 2. Provide college scholarships to a total of 9 scholars in Philippines 3. Supplying / donating of school and sport supplies to various indigent communities in Philippine 4. Educational and career developments projects with local employees in Brazil 5. Supporting “Enkurs” – local school competition on maritime subject in Latvia which aims to promote maritime industry and encourage youths to join maritime academy and colleague after graduating schools in Latvia. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S SDG 5 Gender Equality Shipping has predominated known as a male industry, female represents only 2% of the of the 1.2 million seafarers. OSM recognize that Gender Equality is essential to eliminate poverty, maintain peace and to improve women and girls’ position in the world. This year, OSM has incorporated Gender Equality as one of our development goals. OSM supports Gender Equality through our Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Commitment policy where it states that OSM does not tolerate any gender discrimination and sexual abuse. In our new Singapore Office, we have also taken steps to ensure that a nursing room is incorporated in the office for our new mothers. The need to gender equality was further reiterated in our annual Manila town hall where our Crew Director Julia Anastasiou and Managing Director of OSM Philippines Mailyn Borillo spoke to over 150 seafarers on World Maritime Day. In line with the theme, they re-enforced the importance of women empowerment in the Maritime industry. OSM is also represented by our Crew Director, Ms. Julia Anastasiou, Managing Director of OSM Philippines, Ms. Mailyn Borillo and Branch Manager Ms. Nina Sue Da Silva in Crew Connect’s first ever “Women in Shipping Summit”. Our OSM female champions addressed challenges and issues on gender balance in the Maritime industry as well as solutions to resolve this gender diversity. The World Maritime day theme for the year is “Empowering Women in the Maritime Community”. Our Contract Manager, Mrs. Thaw Thaw Han attended the event as a speaker, highlighting initiatives the company has been undertaking to support Gender Equality in the company. 3 of our employees were also awarded the Outstanding Women Maritime Professionals by the Philippines Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA), Associated Marine Officers’ and Seamen’s Union of the Philippines (AMOSUP) • Chief Engineer – Nina Sue Da Silva (First Chief Engineer of the Philippines) • Chief Officer licensee – Thaddea Pearl Hangad • Second Engineer licensee – Dyesebel Diaz Ms. Georgia Demetriou, our group legal Our Managing Director of OSM counsel joined the Women’s International Philippines, Ms Mailyn Borillo was 31 Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA) as awarded the Circle of Excellence in the osm.no a young board affiliate for this year. WISTA Asia CEO awards 2019 for the category is an international networking organization Shero of the Year. The Shero of the Year whose mission is to attract and support Award recognizes women who have women at the management level in the achieved recognizable success, overseeing maritime, trading, and logistics sectors. They organizations in the Philippines that have promote diversity and empower women to advanced the nation’s economic and/or lead through their unique perspective and social standing in the eyes of the world. competencies, with the conviction that gender diversity is key in providing a sustainable future for the shipping industry internationally. WE ARE PLEASED TO NOTE THAT THE COMPANY EFFORTS IN ENHANCING GENDER DIVERSITY IS YIELDING POSITIVE RESULTS AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO DEVELOP ACTION PLANS TO FURTHER MAKE PROGRESS TOWARDS GENDER Our Crew Director Ms. Julia Anastasiou, EQUALITY. has been awarded the prestigious award of “Young Entrepreneur in the Shipping Industry” by the Selection Committee of the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCCI) The award is given by the CCCI in collaboration with the magazine “Thessaloniki’s Dromena” and is aiming to promote youth entrepreneurship as well as participation in a global network of youth entrepreneurship. SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth OSM is committed to Ensure Decent work to our global network of employees and Economic Growth to our industry segment in all countries and offices locations. This commitment can be observed in our Business Strategy, as one of our Strategic Objectives is Sustainable Growth. We understand that the Sustainable growth that we aim can only be achieved with Decent work and Economic Growth of our people and communities. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S OSM is a MLC certified or accredited company. With our annual internal and external audits, OSM can ensure the compliance with the labor rights of our seafarers. Our HSEQ team and HSE policy are in place to ensure the health and safety of our employees on shore and offshore. “The MLC, 2006 sets out seafarers’ rights to decent conditions of work and helps to create conditions of fair competition for shipowners. It is intended to be globally applicable, easily understandable, readily updatable and uniformly enforced (ILO)” According with ILO website, by the end of 2019, a total of 96 countries had ratified the MLC 2006 convention. Although the Convention has not been ratified by all countries at this point, its effect is spread worldwide once vessels from non-signatory states that attempt to enter ports of signatory states may face penalties for non-compliance with it. With a global presence, 30 offices in different countries, and managing 11,000 seafarers we understand that we are creating jobs worldwide and making a difference for the local communities and local economies, supporting SDG8 in this way. We also are highly averse to any form of corruption such as fraud, extortion and bribery. We are committed to act in line with all relevant rules and regulations and our BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY (FCO-POLICY-BE) reinforces this commitment. Some of the OSM offices are also TRACE certified, as stated earlier in this report. UN recognized that young people holds the key to achieving decent work and economic growth. As such, OSM has invested into several internship / management opportunities and programs for undergraduates, allowing them to acquire the essential skillset and experience, preparing them to be future leaders of our industry. THE COMMITMENT OF OSM WITH THE DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH IN THE COMBINATION OF CSR INITIATIVES PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED AND PRESENTED – ALL OF THEM COMBINED, SUPPORT AND REINFORCE SDG8 AND ARE ALIGNED WITH OSM MOTTO: “IT’S ALL ABOUT PEOPLE”. 33 osm.no Next Steps Development and implementation of ethics committee and a enhanced whistle blow channel Further invest in shared value projects and partner Further advance into with our customers and harassment and bullying local authorities to create prevention in alignment synergies and promote with the new amendments the selected sustainable development goals Continual advance Incorporate SDG 14 – into our environmental Life below Water into our compliance, focusing the business strategy and vessels managed by OSM further advance in these and expanding it to our societal goals business units Further implement and incorporate the 10 principles into all our business units C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 01 02 03 04 01. By Grant Arvin Vasquez onboard MT Sten Skagen 02. By Assistant Crane Operator Bjørn Kristen Jensen 03. By Klaus Grøndal 04. Sayan Princess Attachment I: CSR Initiatives for 2019 Focus Area Activity Report Location Organised ‘Seafarer’s Day’ Australia Charity Participated in Limassol Marathon for charity Cyprus Participation to the Cyprus Shipping Chamber Volleyball Cyprus Donation from Employees for PASYKAF Cyprus Collection of food and supplies for people in need during Cyprus Christmas (distributed to local NGOs) Continuation of the charity box during the whole year in our Cyprus office for clothes/shoes that will be donated to people in need 35 (distributed to local NGOs) osm.no Charity event to orphanage Croatia Collection of toys from employees and distributed to Brazil underprivileged children Education Safety Program – Be Safe / Live Saving Rules Brazil Management trainee program Cyprus Supporting “Enkurs” – local school competition on maritime Latvia subject Member of Norwegian Chamber of Commerce – support of Latvia Foster Family Association Environment 3 day environmental program organised. Topics discussed: Brazil 1. Ecological Footprint 2. Change of internal culture with environmental practices (delivery of reusable straws to all employees) Water Consumption reduction campaign Brazil Recycling in the office (plastic, metal, glass, paper, batteries) Cyprus Health Eye specialist visits every 2 years Croatia Reimbursement of medical treatment to employees such as laser Ukraine eyes correction, spine treatment, lab tests 15 minutes exercise group conducted by a professional twice a Brazil week Participated in in São Silvestre 2019 Project – 15km run Brazil Health Campaigns conducted: Brazil • Yellow September: Suicide Prevention • Pink October: Breast Cancer Prevention • Blue November: Prostate Cancer Prevention • Depressed: How we can take care of it? • HIV-AIDS Prevention • Vaccination Campaign (Influenza A and Influenza B) Shiatsu day for employees by professional Brazil Organised “Push for Better” campaign to raise awareness and Australia funding for mental health Voluntary medical insurance for better medical treatment Russia Sports Benefit Russia Fruits distributed every month to promote healthy eating habits Singapore Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2019 Expectations from Stakeholder Identity Stakeholders Synergy/Interaction Certification bodies • DNV-GL • Transparent, consistent and • Contract • BV accurate reporting • External audits • TRACE • Access to management • Certificates emission • Lloyd’s Register • Responsibility and reliability • Communication on Social media • Local authorities Competitors • Other Crew • Fair business • Participation in associations management companies • Business Ethics • Participations in events related to Oil and Gas/Crewing industry • Mapping the market and observing C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S trends Employees Unions • Unions • Responsibility and reliability • Annual meetings • Seafarers associations • Fair business • Signed agreements (CBA) • Business Ethics • Communication on Social media • Transparency External Customers • Customers • Responsibility and reliability • Business development team • License holders • Fair business • Contracts • Oil and gas extractors • Business Ethics • Feedback forms • Shipping companies • Transparency • OSM website • Ship-Owners (customers) • Continuous improvement • Participation of events related to Oil • Seafarers (not yet • Activity records and evidences and Gas /Crewing industry employed) • Easy access to information • Social media (LinkedIn, Facebook, • Customer service Instagram and others) • Employment opportunities • Communication on Social media • Qualified staff (office and onboard) • Compliance with sector standards • High quality services Internal Customers • Employees (Office, • Responsibility and reliability • Daily management on E-crew on-board/Shore and • Fair business • Periodic Appraisals Seafarers) • Business Ethics • Annual Employee survey • Families of Seafarers • Transparency • Onboard Magazine Bi-annual • OSM Owners • Continuous improvement • Annual seminars • Seafarers • Activity records and evidences • Training for onshore and onboard staff • Existing OSM Seafarers • Easy access to information • Support to seafarer’s families • Top Management/ • Appraisal and constant • Management review meetings Board Members/ Crew feedback • Communication on Social media Management Leader • Ethical work environment and Team fair reward • Executive Management • Career development • Compliance with sector standards • High quality services Finance institutions • Creditors • Responsibility and reliability • Creditors: Financial relationship (not • Banks • Fair business utilised today) • Potential Market • Business Ethics • Bank: Custodian and transaction investors • Transparency processing; potentially borrowing • Continuous improvement facility (not today) • Activity records and evidences • Potential market investors: Investing in • Easy access to information business in anticipation of return Public and • Government • Responsibility and reliability • Complying with local and international Government agencies • Laws and Regulations • Fair business requirements • Regulatory bodies • Business Ethics • Complying with industry standards • Transparency • Monitoring changes in rules and regulations • Communication on Social media Interaction and Management 2019 Next steps (from 2020 on) • ISO 9001OSM offices around the globe were audited in • Maintaining our corporate certificate of ISO 9001:2015 2019 being accredited or re-accredited • Keeping MLC certification/ accreditation • TRACE certification in key locations was maintained • Expand the ISO 14001 and others across other OSM maritime • ISO 14001 certification was maintained in key locations group offices • Stakeholders engagement survey • Attending events on the oil and gas/crewing industries • Developing business strategies at long and short term • Market assessment and evaluation • Keep assessing the market and anticipating it`s trends • Stakeholders engagement survey • Conducting risk assessment and defining mitigation actions focusing in business continuity and sustainability 37 osm.no • MLC certified and authorized • Keep the MLC certification and authorization • Participation on the annual meeting • Keep Participating on the annual meetings • Signed agreements and CBA`s for 2019 • Keep signing agreements and CBA`s • Stakeholders engagement survey • Enclose the relationship with the unions • Management of new customers by Salesforce • Increasing Business development team • Contracts set with support of legal department • Expansion of geographical area • Customer satisfaction from Data analysis • External agencies project • Contact numbers available at OSM website • Increase shared content in social media • Publicity material published at OSM website • CSR and sustainability awareness campaigns • Participation in events worldwide • Sharing our Communication on Progress report • Sharing material and positions at social media • Keep the participation in events • Stakeholders engagement survey • keep improving our customer satisfaction survey • Developing business strategies at long and short term • MLC certified and authorized • e-Crew access to all employees by app in the cell phone • Career development and fair reward • Management of career development of onshore staff by Lanteria • Safety, health and friendly work environment • Promoting OSM values through campaigns and training • Ethical work environment • Annual Management review meetings • Non-discriminatory policy and diversity • Implementation of the risk committee • Trainings in house for seafarers • Development of more training centres around the globe • Holding events with seafarer’s families and trainings • Keep up the training centre in Manila • Management review meetings • Further investments on Cadets programs • Quarterly Management review meetings • Keep investing in the support of seafarers families such as events • Stakeholders engagement survey and trainings • Bank: Daily use of bank system; transactions processing • Bank: Improved monitoring of foreign exchange risk and liquidity • Custodian of OSM money risk. Also, bank relationships to be reviewed in light of bank’s • Creditors / Potential market investors: Not explored credit risk • Creditors / Potential market investors: Not expected to be explored • Legal department has been the responsible by the interface • Keep legal department as the responsible for the interface with with local and international requirements local and international requirements • HSEQ has provided support to the company in complying • Expand the support from HSEQ regarded industry standards with industry standards • Keep sending monthly updates on laws and regulations • HSEQ has sent monthly circular with updates in rules and regulations, with the support of legal department • Stakeholders engagement survey Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2019 Expectations from Stakeholder Identity Stakeholders Synergy/Interaction Industry • Associations on Oil and • Fair business • Meeting via industry groups Organizations gas industryMaritime • Business Ethics Transparency • Compliance related communications community • Continuous improvement • Monitoring any updates upcoming from • National Flag States • Employment opportunities industry organizations • Philippine Overseas • Analysing market trends Employment • Communication on Social media Administration (POEA) • International Labour Organization (ILO) C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S • International Maritime Organization (IMO) Norwegian Shipowners Association (NSA) • International Association of Independent • -Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) • International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF) Local communities • Communities by • Responsibility and reliability • OSM Foundation: Adonis Donato our offices locations • Fair business Foundation, Inc. worldwide and other • Business Ethics • CSR initiatives undertaken by several facilities • Transparency OSM offices worldwide • Continuous improvement • Compliance with local legal • Employment opportunities requirements • Support and development • Offices site worldwide and local contact numbers • Local employees • Communication on Social media Media, NGO`s, Social • Media • Responsibility and reliability • Marketing department in OSM Media • Social media • Business Ethics • Periodic publications of content in • International • Transparency social media organizations • Easy access to information • Onboard magazine periodic publications • Member of UN global Compact Suppliers • External lawyers • Responsibility and reliability • Constant correspondence with GARD • Internet provider • Fair business • Contract with suppliers • Logistic companies • Business Ethics • Power of attorney with external agents (Gtravel, GriffInstone) • Transparency (POA) • Travel agents • Financial resources to meet • Price policy with travel agents and • Other systems and IT financial obligations logistics companies providers (EyeShare, • Suppliers evaluation and audit Visma, TeleComputing, • Supplier personnel in constant contact e-Crew, IRIS, and others) with supplier portfolio • Training and education • Invoice management institutions • Communication on Social media • Medical clinics • External agencies • Training centres & providers • External recruitment agencies • GARD P&I Interaction and Management 2019 Next steps (from 2020 on) • Implementing the applicable industry standards into our • Implementing environmental programs and KPI`s; operations; • Implementing the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); • Constantly working to increase the quality of our operations • Start working with the Amendments of 2016 to the MLC 2006 aligned with health and safety industry standards; • Stakeholders engagement survey 39 osm.no • Promoting employment opportunities • Increase employment opportunities promotion by expanding • Responsible operations respecting legal requirements and operations and increasing business volume industry standards • Continue with our responsible operations, respecting legal • Promoting CSR initiatives in several OSM Offices locations requirements and industry standards 42% of OSM offices worldwide engaged in such activities • Keep promoting CSR initiatives in several OSM Offices locations • Promoting CSR initiatives in Manila with OSM Foundation: increase the percentage of OSM offices worldwide engaged in Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. CSR initiatives • Promoting education and training with cadet programs and • Keep promoting CSR initiatives in Manila with OSM Foundation: training centres Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. • Stakeholders engagement survey • Keep promoting education and training with cadet programs and expand training centres in other geographical locations • Constant shared content in social media • Keep sharing content in social media • Onboard magazine semi-annual publications • Improve the content on the OSM Onboard magazine • Media sharing at OSM website • Keep up media sharing on OSM website • UN global compact 10 principles mapping • Publishing the Communication On Progress report on OSM • Stakeholders mapping website • Stakeholders engagement survey • Daily correspondence with GARD • Keep up the good communication with GARD • Suppliers contract management • Keep up the supplier contract management • Procurement procedures being used • Develop the supplier audit and implement annual business review • Audit schedule for critical suppliers • Invoice team working with the invoice management • Implement supplier quality evaluation verification • Stakeholders engagement survey • Develop selection criteria and supplier’s development program • Developing new services inside OMS and reduce supplier service volume, were possible Attachment III 10 principles of ON Global compact and related topics selected to the OSM Materiality assessment survey 10 principles of Issues Topic UNGC Human rights Diversity, inclusion and gender equality 1 Equality in opportunity and treatment; 2 Gender Diversity/ Discrimination/ Inclusion; 3 Other form of Diversity/ Discrimination/ Inclusion; 4 Racial diversity/ discrimination; 5 Sexual orientation diversity/ discrimination/ inclusion; 6 Gender diversity at Board level; and 7 Gender payment gap. Respect for Human Rights 1 Child Labour; 2 Forced labour; 3 Modern slavery; 4 Migrant workers and traffic of people. Business and Economic Growth in 1 -Economic inequalities among countries; 2 Emerging Developing Countries markets strategy; 3 Fair trade; and 4 Socially inclusive C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S business model. Labour rights Safety, Health, and Wellness 1 Health and well-being; 2 Mental health; and 3 Occupational health and safety. Fair employment and labour rights (direct and 1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining; 2 indirect) Labour management relations; 3 Working Hours; 4 Fair compensation; 5 Pay difference among employees; 6 Employment culture, and 7 Pensions and social security. Risk Management 1 Disaster Management; 2 Cyber security; 3 Data privacy; 4 Compliance with legal/costumer/ industry requirements; and 5 Change management. Major Accidents and Non-Conformity with 1 Process safety; 2 Human factor management and applicable laws and industry standards prevention; and 3 Lessons learned. Education and Development of our People 1 Succession planning; 2 Training and education; 3 – Governance; 5 Talent attraction and retention; and 6 Training and education. Environmental Natural Resource and Water Stewardship 1 Wildlife Preservation and Protection. protection Circular Economy 1 Blue economy; 2 Cradle to cradle; 3 -Systems thinking and Social; and 4 Environmental and Economic impact. Waste Management, Recycling, and 1 Minimized waste, emission, and energy leakage; and 2 Conscious Consumption Narrowing energy and material loops. Climate Change 1 Greenhouse effect; 2 Global Warming; and 3 Reduced Biodiversity. Energy Consumption and Green Energy 1 Indirect/Direct environmental impact; 2 Alternative energy Sources sources; and 3 Clean and green energy sources. CO2 Emissions (Greenhouse gas emissions) 1 Air pollution; and 2 Greenhouse gases. Oil or Chemical Spill 1 Chemical safety; 2 Environmental disasters; 3 Water pollution; and 4 Ocean pollution. Anticorruption Anti-corruption and Transparency 1 – Values; 2 Anti-counterfeiting; 3 Anti-trust/anti-competitive behaviour; 4 Bribery and corruption; 5 – Compliance; 6 Audit conflict of interests; 7 Internal governance and accountability; 8 Ethical business practices; 9 Tax transparency; 10 Tax contributions; and 11 Economic value added. Responsible Marketing and Communication 1 Responsible marketing practices; 2 Gender and other stereotyping; 3 Accountability to stakeholders; and 4 Transparency and reporting. Supplier Qualification and Development 1 Informal labour in the value chain; 2 Extended producer responsibility; 3 Child Labour in the value chain; 4 Forced labour in the value chain; 5 Modern slavery in the value chain; and 6 Migrant workers and traffic of people in the value chain. Innovation Towards Sustainability 1 Sustainability Certification; 2 Employee engagement in sustainability; and 3 New technologies, 0.00% 5.00% 10.00% 15.00% 20.00% 25.00% 30.00% 35.00% 40.00% 45.00% Filipino Norwegian Brazilian Indian Polish Singaporean Cypriot Ukrainian Finnish British Congolese Australian Danish Latvian Russian Malaysian Attachment IV: Office employees as of 08 January 2020 German Greek Angolan Chinese NATIONALITY (%) OF OFFICE EMPLOYEES American Portuguese Croatian Romanian Columbian Korean Guatemalan Japanese Spanish Canadian Swedish Ukraine Sri Lanken Lithuanian Taiwanese Bulgarian French Burmese Dutch osm.no 41 It’s all about people www.osm.no
