2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO 2 2019 KEY FIGURES 4 BUSINESS MODEL 6 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 7 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 1.1 History 8 AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 151 1.2 Corporate mission and strategy 9 6.1 General information about the Company 152 1.3 Assystem’s market and positioning 10 6.2 Information about the Company’s share capital 155 1.4 Business overview 10 6.3 Statutory audit and fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members 1.5 Organisational structure 13 of their networks 163 6.4 Special report on awards of free shares and performance shares 164 6.5 Special report on stock options 164 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 15 2.1 Risk governance and management 17 2.2 Risk factors 23 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 165 7.1 Agenda 166 7.2 Purposes of the proposed resolutions 167 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT 29 7.3 Text of the proposed resolutions 174 3.1 Vision and major challenges 31 7.4 Statutory Auditors’ reports 189 3.2 Operational management contents of non-financial risks 36 3.3 Methodology note 51 3.4 Report of the independent third party 54 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 191 8.1 Material contracts 192 8.2 Disclosure of interests in non-consolidated companies 192 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 57 8.3 Statement by the persons responsible for the 2019 Universal Registration Document 192 4.1 The Board of Directors 59 8.4 Cross-reference tables 193 4.2 Compensation of corporate officers 71 4.3 Additional information 79 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 5.1 The Group’s results 82 5.2 Consolidated financial statements 84 5.3 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 126 5.4 Parent company financial statements 130 5.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 148 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT An international group specialised in engineering and innovation consultancy, operating in 15 countries and employing some 6,000 people. For over 50 years, Assystem has been a partner of choice for the world's largest industrial corporations. The original French-language version of this Universal Registration Document was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers on 3 April 2020 in its capacity as the competent authority as defi ned in Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, without prior approval as provided for in Article 9 of said Regulation. This Universal Registration Document may be used in support of a public offering of fi nancial securities or the admission of securities to trading on a regulated market if accompanied by a securities note and, where applicable, a summary and all amendments to the Universal Registration Document filed since it was first approved. The prospectus formed by these documents must be approved by the AMF in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. The English-language version of this document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions expressed therein, the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over this translation A N E W PAT H T O G R O W T H ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO DOMINIQUE LOUIS FIGHTING FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN 2019 was a year that clearly showed the effects of climate change, with extreme events such as the devastating fires in Australia highlighting the urgent need for everyone to take action – companies included. With more than 50 years’ experience in nuclear engineering, we at Assystem are firmly convinced that the production of nuclear electricity has an essential role to play in combatting global warming. As the world is looking to energy transition to help fi ght climate change, the constant rise in production and use of electricity due to both economic and demographic growth is a real challenge for the planet. Today, two-thirds of electricity is generated from fossil fuels (coal, oil and gas) and, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), electricity production is already responsible for over 40% of global carbon emissions. It is therefore time to take a stand and think energy alternatively. In order to reconcile ecology with economic and demographic growth, we need to produce large quantities of cleaner energy in the most cost-effective manner. Generating electricity from carbon-free energy sources – mainly hydro, nuclear, solar and wind power – using low carbon processes is a necessity for deploying a more sustainable energy mix. 2 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO At Assystem we are fighting for what we believe in – that nuclear, At the same time, digital technology is transforming both the needs combined with other carbon-free energy sources, is vital for energy of our clients and the engineering profession. Digitalisation of the transition and combatting climate change. We are working day engineering industry is an opportunity for the sectors in which we in, day out, across the globe to develop this energy, helping at all operate, resulting in better management of costs and project lead times to make the nuclear programmes we are involved in highly times. Going digital is crucial, therefore, if an engineering fi rm efficient, cost-effective, and absolutely safe. Growth for our nuclear wants to propose a competitive service offering. At Assystem, we activities was particularly robust in 2019, with strong international have built up strong expertise in this domain over the past few development. years. Having made a head start, we are determined to keep our lead, and have set up a specific digital business unit so all of our Our internationalisation is profoundly transforming the Group. activities can make increasing use of the Group’s digital know-how. Although keeping our corporate values and DNA intact while becoming more geographically and culturally diverse requires Our activism goes further than the choice of the sectors we operate constant adaptation, it also makes us more resilient and higher in. It is also reflected on a day-to-day basis in how we recruit new performing, and increases the breadth and depth of the expertise employees and how we help our people to develop their technical we can offer our growing number of clients. and managerial skills. We deeply believe that companies have a duty to help society evolve and that the underlying business model But nuclear activities are not Assystem’s only growth vector. We has to be as humane, responsible and inclusive as possible. Without are continuing to develop our engineering services for designers, that, no company will be able to futureproof its business. builders and operators of other complex infrastructure that are subject to significant regulatory and safety constraints – an area In 2020, our strategy will continue to focus on four key drivers: where our experience in the nuclear industry gives us a considerable further business wins for nuclear activities; ongoing development advantage. In particular, in 2019 we made major commercial in other sectors that design, build, upgrade and operate complex inroads in the rail transport sector, where our technical and project infrastructure, where we can showcase our technical and project management capacities are an excellent fit with the capital spending management skills; continued internationalisation and digitalisation; cycle currently taking place in France for upgrading and extending and always acting as a committed, responsible and inclusive public transport networks. company. Dominique Louis ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 3 2019 KEY FIGURES 2019 KEY FIGURES AVERAGE PRICE AND MONTHLY TRADING VOLUMES OF THE ASSYSTEM SHARE IN 2019 Euros Number of shares 300,000 40 35 250,000 30 200,000 25 150,000 20 15 100,000 10 50,000 5 0 0 J19 F19 M19 A19 M19 J19 J19 A19 S19 O19 N19 D19 TRADING VOLUME (IN NO. OF SHARES) AVERAGE SHARE PRICE NYSE Euronext Compartment B ISIN: FR0000074148 Share included in the CAC All-Tradable index DIVIDEND PER SHARE (IN €) OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 1.00 1.00 1.00* 4.28% 0.80 38.58% 57.14% HDL DEVELOPMENT(1) FREE FLOAT(2) TREASURY SHARES 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Dividend that will be recommended (1) HDL Development is a holding company controlled by at the Annual General Meeting to be held Dominique Louis (Assystem’s Chairman & CEO), notably on 26 June 2020 through HDL, which itself holds 0.35% of Assystem’s capital. (2) Including 0.35% held by HDL. 4 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 2019 KEY FIGURES BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BREAKDOWN BY DIVISION OF REVENUE (IN MILLIONS OF EUROS) BY BUSINESS SECTOR 497.5 444.1 8% 18% 74% 2018 2019 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE – NUCLEAR ENERGY (including Nuclear: 61%) ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE – ET&I LIFE SCIENCES STAFFING OTHER (including Transport: 7%, OTHER and Industry & Building Engineering: 7%) EBITA* FREE CASH FLOW* (IN MILLIONS OF EUROS) (IN MILLIONS OF EUROS) 35.2 43.8 26.6 17.5 2018 2019 2018 2019 * See definition (1) in Chapter 5, Section 5.1.1 * See definition (2) in Chapter 5, of this Universal Registration Document Section 5.1.3.3 of this Universal Registration Document. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS EMPLOYEE NUMBERS EMPLOYEE NUMBERS BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION BY DIVISION BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION 4,448 59 779 4,011 1,279 266 5,155 4,448 1,597 1,545 2018 2019 FRANCE ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE FRANCE OUTSIDE FRANCE STAFFING UK/BELGIUM/SWITZERLAND OTHER AFRICA/MIDDLE EAST/ASIA ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 5 BUSINESS MODEL OUR MISSION: ENABLER OF ENERGY AND DIGITAL REVOLUTIONS We firmly believe that sustainable growth requires an energy mix focused on carbon-free electricity. OUR RESOURCES HUMAN CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL OPERATIONAL CAPITAL 5,993 employees €16m in R&D expenditure €16m worth of investments 10 key accounts 20 partnerships (start-ups/joint 3 acquisitions generating c. 58% of revenue ventures/centres of excellence) €(51,6)m net debt Present in 15 countries NOS ENJEUX ENERGY LEVERAGING DIGITALISATION TRANSITION HUMAN CAPITAL TRANSPORT COMPLIANCE, SAFETY DEFENCE AND SECURITY * PROJECT ● Compliance MANAGEMENT ● Safety AND ENGINEERING ● Security INDUSTRY ● Consulting ● Site and permit studies NUCLEAR ● Project management DIGITALISATION HEALTHCARE & DATA ● Research and analysis ● Digital engineering ● Systems ● Project control engineering solutions ● Industrial control ● Digital field services systems ENERGY ● Industrial data science * Breakdown based on revenue OUR CONTRIBUTIONS OUR VALUE CREATION SOCIETY HR ENVIRONMENT € SHAREHOLDERS CLIENTS JOB CANDIDATES CLIMATE ● €497.5m in revenue ● 91% client ● 1,573 new hires ● Emissions: 1.23 TeqCO2/ ● €35.2m in operating satisfaction rate employee/year profit ● Total GHG emissions/ year (5): 5,728 ● 2019 dividend: PARTNERSHIPS €1 per share (6) WITH SCHOOLS EMPLOYEES (1) AND UNIVERSITIES ● Women in the workforce: 27% ● 7 partnerships ● Diversity ratio (2): 2% STATE CLIENTS ● €10.7m in taxes ● Training ratio (3): 62.3% ● Promoting carbon-free put back into the ● Workplace accident rate (4): 3.3% energy community (1) Calculation based on 74% of the Group’s workforce. (4) Rate of workplace accidents with lost time. (2) % of employees with disabilities. (5) TeqCO2. (3) Percentage of employees who received training in 2019. (6) Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2020. 6 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 1.1 HISTORY 8 1.4 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 10 1.4.1 Energy & Infrastructure 10 1.4.2 Staffing 13 1.2 CORPORATE MISSION AND STRATEGY 9 1.2.1 Assystem’s corporate mission 9 1.2.2 Assystem’s strategy 9 1.5 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 13 1.5.1 Assystem’s organisational structure 13 1.5.2 Simplified organisation chart of Assystem 1.3 ASSYSTEM’S MARKET at 31 December 2019 14 AND POSITIONING 10 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 7 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP HISTORY 1.1 HISTORY 1966 TO 1995: THE NUCLEAR YEARS In addition, as part of the ITER international project launched at Cadarache in the south of France – whose objective is to prove the The Assystem Group’s history began in 1966, when a team of nuclear feasibility of nuclear fusion as a source of almost limitless carbon-free engineers and technicians in France created Atem, a company energy – the Group has teamed up with a number of other engineering specialised in the commissioning of industrial units. The Group’s business players: development was subsequently driven by the major nuclear equipment ● in 2010, with Atkins (since acquired by SNC Lavalin), EGIS and programme put in place by the French State after the first oil crisis in Empresarios Agrupados – based in the UK, France and Spain 1973. respectively – to set up the SNC Engage consortium (owned on an In the 1980s, Atem began to diversify into project management, mainly equal basis), which won the contract for managing the construction in industrial automation and IT, working with clients in sectors such as of the ITER project’s buildings; automotive, steel, space and defence. ● in 2016, with the UK-based Amec Foster Wheeler (since acquired In 1989, Atem teamed up with Cogema to form Alphatem, a company by John Wood Group) and the South Korean company Kepco E&C dedicated to testing and commissioning equipment and facilities to set up the SNC Momentum consortium (owned on an equal basis), purchased under Cogema’s capital expenditure programmes (an which was named the construction management-as-agent contractor irradiated fuel reprocessing plant in the Hague and the Melox plant tasked with organising and overseeing the assembly of over a million in the Gard region of France which produces MOX fuel assemblies). components for the ITER fusion reactor. In 1994, Atem and Alphatem merged to create Assystem, which was floated on the Paris stock exchange (Second Marché) in 1995. 2017: CONTROL OF THE GPS DIVISION TRANSFERRED TO ARDIAN 1996 TO 2003: BUSINESS DIVERSIFICATION At the end of September 2017, Assystem SA sold its outsourced R&D division – Global Product Solutions (GPS) – to an acquisition company 1996 marked the end of the investment cycle for construction of new specifically set up for that purpose controlled by an investment fund industrial facilities (nuclear power stations and reprocessing plants) in managed by the private equity firm, Ardian. Out of the c.€530 million the nuclear industry in France and the rest of the world, and the start of sale proceeds, Assystem reinvested €185 million in equity and quasia new era for Assystem. the Company began to diversify into product equity financing for the new group, which was renamed Expleo Group design and development for the aeronautics and automotive sectors in early 2019. This reinvestment was carried out in two stages: the first (with the acquisition of Studia in France), whilst retaining its specific in September 2017 and the second in January 2018, when Expleo skills and expertise in the nuclear sector. Group acquired the German company SQS (see below). Consequently, Assystem now owns 38.16% of Expleo Group’s capital and has 2003 TO 2016: INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT accounted for this interest by the equity method in its consolidated financial statements since 1 October 2017. In 2003, the merger with Brime Technologies allowed Assystem to penetrate the new technologies sector and paved the way for the Group The aim of the overall operation was to enable Expleo Group to to go international. Between 2004 and 2016 it carried out several participate in the consolidation process taking place in the outsourced significant acquisitions in the United Kingdom, Germany, India and R&D market by giving it access to the resources and expertise that the Middle East, which changed the Group’s structure and enabled Ardian deploys to support the growth of its holdings (particularly in terms it to expand its business and client portfolios. Since then, Assystem of identifying, financing and integrating acquisitions), and therefore has strengthened its operating presence in the Middle East through helping it to diversify its geographic presence and client portfolio. the following: In line with this objective, in early February 2018, Expleo Group ● in January 2015 it acquired Radicon – an engineering company with acquired a controlling interest of over 95% (subsequently raised to 400 employees based in Al Khobar and Riyad in Saudi Arabia – 100%) in the German group, SQS. At the time of the acquisition, SQS allowing Assystem to double its size in the Arabian Gulf region and had 4,500 employees in 19 countries (including 2,000 in India). win market share in the infrastructure, energy and transport sectors; Renamed QMC after joining Expleo Group, SQS has built up sold and widely-recognised expertise in providing digital strategy consulting ● in June 2016 it acquired a 51% interest in the Turkish engineering services to its clients and carrying out tests for software applications, company, Envy – a well-established player in Turkey’s engineering systems, processes and networks. services market, operating primarily in the energy and transport sectors. Envy is notably involved in the construction of the Akkuyu Expleo Group – which has strong technical know-how and proven nuclear power station (a Rosatom project). expertise in complex and critical systems – generated almost €1.1 billion in revenue in 2019 and had 15,000 employees. It partners its clients in the aeronautics, defence, automotive, transport and manufacturing industries, from the design of their products and services through to the sales and marketing phase, and thanks to QMC, it also offers solutions in the bank/insurance sector. 8 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP CORPORATE MISSION AND STRATEGY 2017 TO 2019: ORGANIC AND EXTERNAL throughout the world as fossil fuels are replaced by carbon-free sources GROWTH IN INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING for producing electricity. The Group’s nuclear activities saw particular (ASSYSTEM E&I) strong organic growth in 2018 and 2019. 1 In addition, between 2017 and 2019 the Group: After transferring control of its GPS division, Assystem refocused its business development on its Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) division. In line ● developed and deepened its partnership with the Russian group with this, in late 2017 it acquired a 5% stake in Framatome alongside Rosatom, which began when Assystem became the controlling EDF (Framatome’s controlling shareholder with a 75.5% interest) and shareholder of the Turkish company, Envy, in 2016. Rosatom designs Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd (which has a 19.5% interest), reinforcing nuclear reactors, builds and operates nuclear power plants, and has its long-standing partnership with EDF, its leading client. Generating a large portfolio of new-build nuclear power plant projects; annual revenue of over €3 billion, Framatome is the company to which ● made a strong entry into the rail transport engineering sector in Areva NP transferred its assets and activities related to (i) the design France, where the Group’s technical capacities are very well suited and supply of nuclear reactor equipment, (ii) the design and supply of to the current capital expenditure cycle (notably the upgrading and fuel assemblies and (iii) services provided to a large worldwide installed extension of the public transport networks in the Greater Paris area); base of nuclear reactors. ● carried out four acquisitions of signifi cance, three of which have This investment forms part of a broader agreement between Assystem given Assystem a leading position in France in the domains of project and EDF aimed at consolidating their partnership, particularly concerning management and integrating project management systems. The fourth maintenance services carried out on civilian nuclear reactors in France has expanded the Group’s offering of engineering services for the and the United Kingdom to ensure they remain in proper working order. life sciences sector; It also opens up opportunities for Assystem to take part in new-build ● continued to broaden its service offering, and invested in digitalising projects of the French nuclear industry and to work with other major this offering as well as in the use of data science to optimise the international players. processing of the large data volumes handled in infrastructure As a leading nuclear engineering company, Assystem is well placed to engineering activities. leverage the anticipated rapid growth in demand for nuclear engineering 1.2 CORPORATE MISSION AND STRATEGY 1.2.1 ASSYSTEM’S CORPORATE MISSION This division’s overall strategy is to: ● combine organic and external growth in a balanced way; Leading global industrial groups have selected Assystem as their partner of choice for providing them with engineering solutions and complex ● consolidate the globalisation of its activities, with particular emphasis project management services. As a key player in the industry for more on business development in the United Kingdom, Central Europe, than 50 years, the Group has highly-skilled teams of engineers who Central Asia, India, Turkey and, more generally, the Middle East; design and work on critical and complex infrastructure projects, as ● develop new services for existing clients and enlarge the client well as on building and ensuring the optimal use of assets throughout portfolio, notably by gaining additional skills through hiring employees their life cycles. and/or acquiring companies that possess those skills; Its 6,000 employees contribute their specifi c talent, know-how and ● ensure that client offerings remain competitive by using an appropriate values to help clients meet the range of challenges they face on a daily mix of resources based in Western Europe and elsewhere in the basis, such as producing cleaner energy and broadening the reach world. of electric transport. For the Staffing division – whose business involves providing consultants The Group’s teams are trained to master and build skills whilst being and technicians for large-scale projects in the Oil & Gas and other major able to adapt to the challenges inherent in innovation, risk management industrial sectors – the objectives are two-fold. First, grow its portfolio of and complex projects. Operating in 15 countries, they work hard every high value-added businesses (specialist consultant offering), working in day to share their expertise, optimise know-how and bring clients’ and synergy with Assystem E&I, particularly in the Middle East. And second, partners’ projects to fruition. in the volume-focused segment of the market, apply a selective approach to contracts in order to optimise profit margins, whilst digitalising its services in order to adapt its offering and cost base to the segment’s 1.2.2 ASSYSTEM’S STRATEGY specific characteristics. The Group’s expansion drive is focused on its E&I division, which is specialised in engineering and project management for critical and complex infrastructure. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 9 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP ASSYSTEM’S MARKET AND POSITIONING 1.3 ASSYSTEM’S MARKET AND POSITIONING Assystem main business is providing engineering services and managing driven by large-scale maintenance programmes, the construction of new complex infrastructure projects. reactors in France and the United Kingdom, and new-build programmes for civil nuclear reactors launched by new-entrant countries (Turkey, the The role of engineering is to study, design and oversee the construction United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Egypt). of all or part of a structural work. Assystem brings added value to industrial companies, utilities and contractors operating in nuclear Assystem’s main competitors in this market are UK and North American energy, conventional energy, transport infrastructure, life sciences and groups such as SNC-Lavalin (which is also Assystem’s partner in the other complex infrastructure thanks to its long-standing presence in the Engage consortium for the ITER project), Jacobs, John Wood Group nuclear industry, and therefore its experience of operating in restricted (also an Assystem partner in the Momentum consortium for the ITER environments with stringent safety requirements. The Group’s experts project), and Worley Parsons. help major players in the energy industry (operators and equipment French engineering companies specialised in infrastructure engineering manufacturers) to manage their capital expenditure at every stage of their – including Assystem – are currently benefi ting from a strong cycle assets’ life cycles – from design through to construction, commissioning, of government investment in urban public transport infrastructure. The maintenance and ultimately decommissioning. Group’s competitors in this domain are primarily Egis’s infrastructure Electricity consumption is rising rapidly across the world due to engineering department, Systra (a joint subsidiary of SNCF and RATP), urbanisation, the growth of the middle classes in emerging economies, Setec and Ingérop. more automated manufacturing, the digital revolution and the increasing For engineering services to other industrial sectors – which Assystem use of connected objects and electric cars. Today, more than ever, mainly provides in France, Belgium and Switzerland – the Group’s electricity is an essential driver of global economic and social competitors are companies such as Vulcain and Scalian, and in the life development. sciences segment, Altran, Alten and Akka Technologies. The Group is a leading player in nuclear engineering markets, whose In the field of technology consulting – in which Assystem has a presence growth is being led by the need to combine economic growth with the through its 38.16% stake in Expleo Group – business is still being combat against global warming, and therefore to increase electricity propelled by the automotive and aeronautics sectors. production from carbon-free sources, mainly hydro, nuclear, solar and wind power. Assystem has in-depth expertise in nuclear engineering and a strong reputation, both in France and internationally. The Group’s business is 1.4 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Assystem operates in the engineering and infrastructure project Assystem’s Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) division works with public management market through two divisions: authorities, utility companies and equipment manufacturers to develop, execute and deliver critical and complex infrastructure projects. Thanks ● Energy & Infrastructure (90% of 2019 consolidated revenue); to its long-standing presence in the nuclear industry, Assystem has built ● Staffing (9% of 2019 consolidated revenue). up over 50 years of experience in delivering engineering solutions and Assystem also owns a 38.16% interest in Expleo Group, a major player managing complex infrastructure projects in environments subject to strict in the outsourced R&D market. The Group accounts for this interest by constraints and/or stringent safety requirements. the equity method in its consolidated financial statements. Structured around technical and project departments, E&I operates both in France and internationally, chiefly in the nuclear, public transport, 1.4.1 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE defence and life sciences sectors, and its clients are generally large prime contractors. Focused on ensuring the success of its clients’ projects, E&I is a driver 2019 key figures of digital transformation in the engineering industry, combining all the Revenue: €446.2 million potential of a data-based approach with systems engineering. The Group EBITA: €36.9 million has developed four main specific areas of expertise: (i) data science, which enables it to carry out precise, automated analyses of large Employees: 5,155 volumes of data in order to extract information that is both reliable and immediately usable; (ii) systems engineering, for optimally managing the 10 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW design of complex systems; (iii) project control, for effectively integrating An innovative and digital group project management systems; and (iv) field services, to reinforce the management of operational complexities in field activities. During 2019, Assystem continued to roll out its Imagine programme launched in 2018, which is structured around three pillars. First, 1 All of the Group’s cross-sector project management expertise is being developing skills and the Group’s employer appeal through innovation. gradually combined into Euro Contrôle Projet, which specialises in Second, developing new systems engineering methods by using Project Management Office and works on an independent basis on technologies such as Building Information Modelling (BIM), Plant Life assignments entrusted to it by prime contractors. In addition, taken Cycle Management (PLM), data processing and artificial intelligence. together, e-P6 Consulting and the specialist department of ASCO And third, creating real innovation ecosystems by jointly developing (acquired in the second half of 2019), hold a leading position in projects with clients, start-ups (Sparte, Saagie and Cosmotech), public France in project management systems integration. and private research institutes (supported by the French government’s Investissements d’avenir programme), universities and engineering Sector specialisations schools. In the nuclear engineering sector, Assystem works with all of the world’s As part of the programme’s third pillar, in 2019 the Group created major nuclear technology players. E&I participates in new infrastructure a Chair of Excellence for PhD students at the École des Mines d’Alès projects, in the areas of research, production, the fuel cycle and waste engineering school, dedicated to developing new systems engineering management, as well as working on existing infrastructure in a range of methods for critical infrastructure. different areas, from siting and permit surveys, then design, construction When the Group’s management team first launched Imagine, it decided and commission testing, right up to dismantling and decommissioning. that the programme would be monitored based on criteria that factor And during the operational phase, E&I also provides services to maintain in the technological maturity of the solutions proposed and the markets plants in good working order and extend their lifespans. addressed. However, it became apparent that although the programme E&I mostly carries out its projects in the contractual capacity of Architect was meeting its objective of driving significant advances in R&D, it Engineer or Owner Engineer or under operations support contracts. As was not facilitating the large-scale rollout across the Group’s entities of well as its project management expertise, E&I can also draw on the the innovations created, especially innovations relating to the digital skills of its offshore design centre in India where required. transformation of engineering. In the transport infrastructure sector, Assystem works with operators To facilitate such rollouts, therefore, a new initiative called Engineering of airports, underground and overground railways, trams and buses, Powered By Digital was launched in 2019, with the aim of consolidating providing them with engineering and project management services for the Group’s digital transformation strategy by making sure it is extending and maintaining urban, suburban, regional and international implemented across all of its entities. The underlying objective of this terminals and networks. new initiative is not only to boost performance for client projects but also to enhance the appeal and attractiveness of the Group’s offerings. In life sciences, Assystem Care – which operates in France, Belgium and Switzerland – allies expertise in engineering and regulatory compliance. Engineering Powered by Digital is based on: This is particularly important in view of the sector’s requirements in ● Three principles: (i) being attuned to and anticipating clients’ needs, terms of CQV (certification, qualification and validation) and production (ii) switching engineering services from a document-centric approach processes and installations. to a data-centric approach, and (iii) adopting a Model Based Systems In the defence sector, Assystem works both with public agencies and Engineering (MBSE) approach to projects to replace conventional private manufacturers in the areas of project management, equipment single-discipline approaches. approval and installation, design, construction, commissioning, access ● Four areas of service expertise: digital engineering, industrial data security and maintaining infrastructure in good working order. science, field services, and project control solutions. Assystem also offers engineering and project management services The Group has set up a digital hub comprising around a hundred for the construction of complex buildings used for other purposes, employees and incorporating an innovation lab. This hub works which have strict constraints in terms of design and access security. closely with Assystem’s operating entities with a view to (i) increasing In Saudi Arabia, for example, the Group’s subsidiary, Radicon, is a the use of the Group’s digital innovations for existing projects, and well-known provider of building engineering services for the country’s (ii) showcasing those innovations to help win new contracts both in major infrastructure projects (new towns/cities, university and hospital France and internationally. complexes and petrochemical projects). The creation of this hub has significantly increased the Group’s R&D Lastly, E&I provides integration and maintenance services for command expenditure, and at the same time has enabled R&D resources to be and control systems, as well as engineering services to both conventional more effectively channelled into projects on digital methods and systems. and renewable energy producers and to electricity transmission and So far, it has had the positive effect the Group was seeking in terms of distribution operators. digital innovations gradually being taken up by its operating entities, with many tangible results seen in 2019. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 11 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW In systems engineering, the Group has made significant progress in Project control solutions – which play an essential role in the delivery using MBSE coupled with a data-centric approach to obtain precise of complex projects – cover: descriptions and models of interactions between the various components ● Assystem’s capabilities in integrating project management systems, of projects and to be able to fully factor in the corresponding interfaces. with the Primavera, MS Project and Planisware software. The Group is This has led to existing projects being better structured – such as those now France’s leader in this field, through e-P6 Consulting and ASCO, with the CEA (the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy acquired in late 2018 and in 2019 respectively. Commission), Orano and EDF – and it has also helped to win new projects, such as the recent contract signed for renovating the electrical ● C ombining this project management software with a data-centric installations at the navy base in Brest, France. Going forward, this approach based on BIM4D (i.e. BIM plus scheduling), and developing approach will be gradually deployed across all of the phases of the rules engines and solutions for optimising complex tasks carried out project life cycle (design, construction, commissioning, operation and in constrained environments. All of this facilitates the preparation decommissioning). and execution of the various stages of a project’s life cycle. An example of the Group’s work in this area is the demonstrators created In terms of systems and methods, Assystem has heightened its expertise jointly with EDF to optimise production workflows and nuclear power in benchmark platforms and systems such as the 3D Experience platform plant outages (for which the Group specifically formed a strategic (Dassault Systèmes), engineering software, open source environments partnership with the start-up Cosmotech). and complex environments that combine BIM tools with PLM (or ALM), All of these changes and developments show that digital is playing an and project management platforms (Primavera, Planisware and MS increasingly important role when it comes to recruiting engineers. The Project). The Group has already tested its hub approach – called Asset Group is therefore investing in developing an automated profile search Information Hub – in Rosatom’s technical environment. solution so that its project managers can effectively and quickly meet In the area of data science, Assystem has developed a support suite client needs. This automated solution, which uses artificial intelligence for preparing engineering projects which corresponds to a businessalgorithms, has already been deployed in the Group’s nuclear activities specific search engine and is the product of the Group’s expertise in and will form the basis of a new service offering for the Staffing division. decommissioning operations and its capabilities in artificial intelligence. And for design engineering work, a solution has been developed for Significant events for E&I in 2019 automating business processes that uses state-of-the art deep learning techniques to automatically extract client requirements, which facilitates NUCLEAR ENGINEERING POSITIONS REINFORCED the configuration of a PLM platform. Having been validated on Assystem continued to reinforce its nuclear engineering positions in demonstrators with EDF and Rolls Royce, this solution is currently being 2019, both in France and internationally. The examples below illustrate integrated into the Group’s offering. One example of its future use will the depth and technical strength of the Group’s offering, which, along be for digitalising CQV operations for life sciences players, which with its reputation for delivery excellence, are key factors for its success. illustrates the benefits of having a cross-sector digital business unit for sharing knowledge and usages. Professional Services framework contract signed for the construction of the Hinkley Point EPR power plant in the UK In this same domain of data analysis and verifying document compliance, In 2019, Assystem signed an eight-year multi-disciplinary framework extremely positive results have been obtained from a major project for contract with its client EDF Energy NNB for the Hinkley Point EPR the CEA and the Flamanville EPR on digitalising commissioning tests. The project. Under this contract, Assystem will supply its professional solutions developed have been trialled for other use cases at EDF and services and cutting-edge expertise in all fields of engineering, including for the SNCF, and are being applied in the Hinkley Point commissioning quality assurance, quality control, site engineering and commissioning preparation project in the United Kingdom. During 2019, the Group preparation. also developed an original e-cataloguing solution for Saudi Aramco which is based on Assystem’s business process automation offer and Contribution to EDF’s Grand Carénage programme will be used as a platform for creating a whole new service offering. The Grand Carénage is EDF’s programme to upgrade and further enhance the safety of its existing fleet of nuclear reactors in order to Lastly, marked progress has likewise been made in predictive extend the lives of a number of plants. This large-scale project is in maintenance, with the completion for EDF at Flamanville of a demonstrator line with operations already carried out on the plants concerned since of optimised maintenance engineering for certain equipment. This their start-up, but its singularity lies in the sheer volume of maintenance, demonstrator will be initially incorporated into a new service offering modifications and component replacements involved. for EDF and will then be proposed to other clients in the nuclear, rail transport and defence sectors. Assystem is contributing to this programme by supplying site engineering services for the preparation, organisation and monitoring of the work The Group’s field services business line develops bespoke, flexible and performed by the contractor fi rms, as well as providing technical interoperable solutions for managing industrial assets and overseeing management, logistics support, methodology support and project engineering operations at construction sites, drawing on in-depth management (PMO) services. business know-how and fully leveraging client data. For example, the Group has developed numerous industrial applications for Air Liquide, a surveillance system for the Akkuyu site in Turkey, and applications for new projects in Saudi Arabia (notably for Veolia). 12 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Contribution to the design studies for the EPR 2 reactor Project management consultancy for Aéroports de Paris In connection with the project to design the second generation of EPRs In late 2019, Assystem won a project management consultancy contract (EPR 2), Assystem has been selected to work on six sub-assemblies (the concerning the driverless shuttle for the new Terminal 4 building at 1 production and distribution of compressed air, fire detection and fire Roissy Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris, which is scheduled to come fighting water building, conventional effluent and waste water building, into service towards the end of this coming decade. Called the Airport gas storage and the related buildings, and certain components required People Mover, this shuttle will link Terminal 4 with the airport’s other for producing and distributing demineralised water). terminals, as well as its car parks and RER train stations. The EPR 2 is intended to leverage three cost-effi ciency drivers in Assystem’s role in the project is to define and structure the scope of the domains of design and construction: simplifying and optimising responsibilities of the future contractors, manage the interfaces, monitor design; transforming engineering methods and tools by using systems the underlying requirements and configuration of the plans, and set up engineering and Plant Life Cycle Management (PLM); and incorporating a risk management system. industrialisation and standardisation aspects right from the basic design ENTERING THE DEFENCE SECTOR studies stage. In late 2019, Assystem won an Engineering, Procurement and Assystem has integrated these objectives into the services it is providing, Construction Management (EPCM) contract for the Renovelec project especially in terms of using systems engineering methods, which means (which involves renovating the electricity supply system at the Brest moving from a management approach based on individual disciplines naval base in France). Also during the year, the Group continued its to a multi-disciplinary systems-based approach. partnership with Dassault Aviation, with a new engineering contract Decommissioning study for the CEA for the Marcoule site for an assembly plant in India, and a project management consultancy During 2019 Assystem carried out a decommissioning study for the contract for relocating industrial capacity to France. The Group also CEA for the Marcoule site, for which it used ADS DEM – its specific partnered Thalès in connection with a large-scale export service offer. decision-support application for decommissioning that helps to secure MAJOR ORDERS IN SAUDI ARABIA all of the key parameters for each operation. By using this application, combined with Building Information Modelling (BIM) and real-time 3D Assystem’s Saudi subsidiary, Radicon, received a number of major technologies, a whole range of results can be obtained in terms of orders for infrastructure engineering services in 2019 as part of the costs, lead times, waste and dosimetry. country’s industrial development (at Jubai, Yanbu and Jizan). It also won a large EPCM contract with Veolia concerning an incinerator, and ROBUST BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT IN TRANSPORT ENGINEERING a multi-year engineering framework contract with SABIC, the world’s Project management consultancy for SNCF Réseau biggest petrochemical company. Following the audit of SNCF’s main railway stations that was carried out by Assystem in conjunction with Accenture in 2018, Assystem ET&I and 1.4.2 STAFFING SNCF have built up strong business relations. This enabled Assystem to put its skills to the service of the French railway system once again in 2019 when it won a project management consultancy contract with 2019 key figures SNCF Réseau for the oversight and technical co-ordination of its Rolling Revenue: €43.8 million Stock Blueprint project. EBITA: €1.2 million The Rolling Stock Blueprint is a programme to replace and renovate the rolling stock for the rail network in the Ile de France region (Paris Employees: 779 and its suburbs). The new rolling stock – which is more spacious and comfortable – will increase the network’s passenger transport capacity and requires adaptations to be made to a range of different infrastructure The Staffi ng division – which operates through the MPH Group – (stations, platforms, electricity supply, maintenance centres). provides specialist consultants and technicians to the Oil & Gas sector, as well as to major players in the nuclear, defence, public transport equipment, telecommunications, mining and metallurgy sectors, to work on large-scale projects, mainly in the Middle East, Russia and Africa. 1.5 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 1.5.1 ASSYSTEM’S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE The Group is made up of two divisions – the Energy & Infrastructure division (comprising nuclear, infrastructure, life sciences and project management activities) and the Staffing division. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 13 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 1.5.2 SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION CHART OF ASSYSTEM AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 100% HDL Holding companies 35.38% France controlled by Dominique Louis Dominique Louis 51.85% 0.48% HDL DEVELOPMENT 12.29% Managers and France former managers 57.14% 0.35% ARDIAN ASSYSTEM S.A. (including managers) France 1% 1% ASSYSTEM EGYPT FOR ASSYSTEM ENGINEERING ENGINEERING SERVICES SERVICES INDIA LLP 61.84% Egypt India 99% 99% 99.23% 93.89% EXPLEO GROUP 38.16% ASSYSTEM ENGINEERING & OPERATION SERVICES 0.77% 6.11% France BATIR CONSEILS France France 100% FRAMATOME 5% ASCO ASSISTANCE 100% EURO France ET CONSEIL CONTROLE PROJET France France 49.96% 100% 100% EUROSYN DEVELOPPEMENT E-P6 CONSULTING ASSYSTEM CARE HOLDING France France Belgium and its Belgian, French 100% 49% and Swiss subsidiaries 100 % INSIEMA UZENERGOENGINEERING France ASSYSTEM MPH GLOBAL SERVICES Uzbekistan and its French and international subsidiaries 100% 39% 100% EMIRATES NUCLEAR ASSYSTEM POLYNÉSIE AND SYSTEMS SERVICES France ASSYSTEM ENERGY United Arab Emirates & INFRASTRUCTURE United Kingdom 100% 51% ASSYSTEM NOUVELLE-CALÉDONIE ENVY ENERJI VE CEVRE France YATIRMLARI ANONIM SIKETI Turkey 49.96% 50% 100% ASSYSTEM AXISCADES ALPHATEST ASSYSTEM SOLUTIONS ENGINEERING France DMCC India United Arab Emirates 50% N.TRIPLE.A France 25% 75% ASSYSTEM AND ALI HARBI ENGAGE FOR ENGINEERING France CONSULTANCY (RADICON) 33.33% Saudi Arabia ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE MOMENTUM France HOLDING COMPANY 100% 100% STAFFING OTHER ASSYSTEM NUCLEAR PROMAFRI ENGINEERING ALLIANCE Morocco EXPLEO GROUP France 14 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 2.1 RISK GOVERNANCE 2.2 RISK FACTORS 23 AND MANAGEMENT 17 2.2.1 Risks related to certain geographic regions 24 2.1.1 Risk governance 17 2.2.2 Operational risks 25 2.1.2 Operational risk management 18 2.2.3 Financial risks 26 2.1.3 Internal control 22 2.2.4 HR risks 27 2.1.4 Combating corruption and influence peddling 23 2.2.5 Risks related to information systems 27 2.2.6 Legal, regulatory and tax risks 27 2.2.7 Industrial and environmental risks 28 2.2.8 Risks related to acquisitions 28 2.2.9 Insurance strategy 28 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 15 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Assystem conducts its business in a constantly-changing environment. The specific internal control and risk management procedures put in The Group is therefore exposed to risks which, if they were to occur, place by the Company related to preparing and processing accounting could have a significant adverse effect on its business, financial position and financial information are described in Chapter 5 of this Universal and/or profit. Registration Document. This Chapter sets out the risk governance system set up by Assystem as However, internal control cannot provide an absolute guarantee that well as the risk factors to which the Group is exposed, including risks Assystem’s internal control objectives will be met, as any internal control related to the economic environment, operational risks, financial risks, system has inherent limitations. These limitations are due to various HR risks, risks related to information systems, legal, regulatory and tax factors, such as uncertainties in the external environment, the exercise risks, industrial and environmental risks and risks related to acquisitions. of judgement, or the cost/benefit ratio when setting up new control mechanisms. Until recently, the Group considered that there were no other relevant signifi cant risks to which it is exposed apart from those described Assystem’s internal control system concerns all fully consolidated below. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has given rise to a new and subsidiaries controlled by the Group. unforeseen risk. Assystem issued a press release about this on 20 March The summary information set out below relating to Assystem’s internal 2020 (see Chapter 5, Section 5.1.4). control procedures is focused on significant elements that could have A description of the type and impact of each risk factor, other than the an impact on the accounting and financial information published by Covid-19 pandemic risk, is set out below, together with an explanation the Group. of the measures taken to reduce those risks. The Group has chosen to apply the internal control framework Concerning the Covid-19 pandemic, the Group is implementing a advocated by the Autorité des marchés financiers (“AMF” – the French number of measures in order to mitigate, as far as possible, the impact securities regulator) in its position-recommendation no. 2016-08 dated of the pandemic on its business, earnings and cash flow generation 26 October 2016. for 2020, including measures permitted or facilitated by the French The internal control procedures in place within the Group, and notably authorities (in particular the furloughing of employees). However, at this those relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and stage, Assystem is not in a position to determine, with any reasonable financial information, are broken down on the basis of the five main degree of accuracy, the net impact that the pandemic will have on its components of internal control (see Section 2.1.3 below). business, earnings and cash flow generation for 2020, especially as it does not yet know how the exact duration of the lockdown measures The Sections below also describe the procedures established for imposed in France and other countries where the Group operates. identifying, analysing and managing accounting and financial risks. 16 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 2.1 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 2.1.1 RISK GOVERNANCE The overall internal control system forms an integrated framework covering the entire scope of the Group: divisions, business units, legal entities, countries, departments and all business processes. 2.1.1.1 Internal control players and organisation of internal control procedures Assystem’s Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for verifying that the internal control system is implemented and works properly. The Group has a full set of measures in place intended to control and reduce risks which if they were to occur could prevent it from Since it is responsible for initiating and spearheading the Group’s stated 2 achieving its objectives. These measures take the form of procedures, strategy of deploying an integrated internal control system, Assystem’s instructions, supervisory arrangements, authorisations, delegations of management team is the system’s owner. However, all Group players responsibility, etc. are part-owners in the sense that they are the agents and custodians of the system. The table below summarises the main roles and responsibilities of each category of internal control player. Internal control player Internal control roles and responsibilities Board of Directors • initiates and spearheads the internal control system by relaying clear information and guidelines; • is responsible for verifying that the internal control system is deployed across the Group and ensuring that it works properly; • ensures that the internal control system is in line with the Group’s risk management strategy. Audit Committee • ensures that the Group has a consistent internal control system that is compatible with its overall business strategy and risk profile; • approves the internal control system and is regularly informed of the findings of audits and the recommendations implemented; • consults the executive management team in order to form an opinion on the construction and effectiveness of the internal control system; • ensures the effective functioning of the risk management process related to the preparation of financial information. Group executive • steers the Group’s business strategy and sets the targets for consolidated entities, allocates the resources necessary for their achievement management team and tracks performance based on those targets; • works in conjunction with the Quality Department to ensure that client projects are performed to the required standards. Finance Department • plays a key role in internal control due to the cross-disciplinary skills and responsibilities of the financial control, treasury and tax units, relayed by the divisionand country-level finance managers. Legal Affairs & Compliance • plays a key role in internal control due to its organisational structure that covers all of the Group’s entities, and alerts the executive Department management team when necessary. Operations management • is responsible for deploying the internal control system within the scope of its remit (i.e. its BU, legal entity, country or department) and ensuring that it works properly; • verifies that the internal control system is aligned with the structure, strategy and organisation of its scope of remit. Operations and support staff • are actively involved in implementing the internal control system; • carry out work and operations in compliance with the established internal control system; • inform management of any malfunctions and help determine remedial measures; • can issue alerts, through a whistle-blowing platform, about any cases of non-compliance they may identify in relation to Assystem Group entities. The overall system also involves the participation of external players, 2.1.1.2 Internal control objectives including the Statutory Auditors. However, the Statutory Auditors are The Group’s internal control system aims to provide appropriate and not owners of the internal control and risk management systems. Their reasonable assurance of: responsibility is to review those systems and issue an independent opinion on their suitability. Each year the Statutory Auditors perform a ● the reliability of financial information; Group audit as part of their legal engagement to certify the consolidated ● compliance with the applicable laws and regulations; financial statements and the separate financial statements of Group ● the proper functioning of internal processes, such as those used to companies. In compliance with French commercial law, the certification safeguard the Group’s business and assets; and of Assystem’s consolidated and parent company financial statements is carried out by two Statutory Auditors, who jointly examine all the ● the application of instructions and guidelines set by the Board of financial statements, the methods used for their preparation and specific Directors. internal control procedures related to the preparation of accounting and ● More generally, it helps the Group manage its business activities and financial information. guarantee the effectiveness of its operations and processes and the efficient use of its resources. In line with the above, the internal control Other than in specific circumstances, all of the subsidiaries controlled by system has five main objectives which can be summarised as follows: the Company use the audit services of Assystem’s two Statutory Auditors or members of their respective networks. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 17 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Objective Reasonable assurance Finance That the financial information produced and published is reliable. Compliance That the applicable laws, regulations, standards and all other obligations are respected. Operations That operations, activities and processes work effectively and efficiently. Integrity That assets (people, tangible assets and intangible assets) are secure and protected. Strategy That the Group’s strategy and the resources put in place to implement it contribute to achieving the objectives of growth, profitability and business sustainability. 2.1.2 OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATING PROCEDURES Business operating procedures 2.1.2.1 Organisation, responsibilities, operating In France, the Group uses a quality management system (QMS) which procedures and tools is available on the Intranet systems of the Group’s entities. The QMS – which is a key repository of information on quality for the Group’s ORGANISATION operations – is also applicable in other countries that are significant Assystem’s organisational structure is largely decentralised, which by for the Group’s business. It includes a map of business processes and definition results in a high degree of delegation of operational, functional a set of related procedures and instructions. The quality managers use and legal responsibilities to the Group’s offi cers and managers. Its this system to carry out periodic audits aimed at assessing whether the internal control system and information systems therefore need to be applicable quality standards are being respected. adapted to this structure in order to effectively contribute to monitoring Pre-sales and client contracts its operations. Pre-sales and client contract processes are defined in the QMS. Delegations of authority and responsibilities are drawn up in writing Before any bid is submitted, an internal decision-making process takes after approval by executive management. place on whether or not to actually respond to the client’s invitation to A document called “Management Philosophy Rules & Requirements” tender. If the decision is positive, a technical and commercial bid is describes the procedures that operations staff are required to respect. drawn up and is then subject to validations concerning its technical, The provisions of this document apply to the whole Group and it is financial, tax, legal and compliance aspects. available to all employees. Performing services and reviewing ongoing projects RESPONSIBILITIES The performance of contracts is overseen by project managers. Monthly The responsibilities assigned to employees are set out in writing in reviews are organised, at an operational level, for major fi xed-fee job descriptions which are validated by their line managers and projects, involving an examination of the project’s technical stage supplemented, where applicable, by delegations of authority. Job of completion, costs and revenues, cash flow curve, and profit and descriptions help to clarify the nature of the work and transactions for costs to completion. The corresponding analyses are presented at the which the employees are responsible by clearly describing the type and business units’ regular business reviews, which are attended by the method of supervision applicable and by integrating, where required, Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer & Deputy CEO, the the internal control dimension by setting out their responsibilities related Chief Financial Controller and the Chief Legal & Compliance Officer. to complying with and updating procedures. Human resources, recruitment, and payroll management The delegations of authority describe the permanent or temporary Human resource requirements are identifi ed and conveyed by line transfer of responsibilities and chiefly relate to financial transactions management, and the corresponding recruitment procedures are defined (incurring and authorising capital expenditure, ceilings set regarding and managed by each country’s Human Resources Department. Overall procurement, supplier payments, etc.). The bank signing powers in budgets for pay increases are managed at the level of each operating place at local level must reflect these delegations of authority as closely entity and country and are reviewed and validated by executive as possible. management. Having suitable resources to achieve its objectives is essential for Administrative procedures the Group, notably due to the level of staff turnover. The Human Sales Resources Departments play a key role in guaranteeing this suitability. In conjunction with the operations departments, they draw up staff In France, investigations are carried out before any client account training plans and coordinate annual performance appraisals during is opened in order to ensure the client’s solvency (supported by a which the achievements for the past year are reviewed, targets for monitoring process to alert the Company to any major changes in the following year are set and the skills that need to be acquired or solvency). All client accounts are covered by a debt recovery procedure strengthened are identified. based on customised reminder scenarios. For this purpose, the Group uses a client account and debt recovery management software. This software is used at various stages of the billing process as from when 18 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT the invoice is issued: pre-reminders before the due date, reminders, Budgeting and management control identification of late payments, identification of disputes and monitoring The operating units draft and present their strategy and annual budget of their resolution, inventory of promises to pay (and verifi cation of to the Group’s executive management team. The Group’s annual budget invoice payments at the specified dates). is then approved by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Similar procedures, adapted on a case-by-case basis to the specific Executive Management and the Group Finance Department carry out a businesses and countries concerned, are implemented in the Group’s monthly analysis and cross-check of the key reporting indicators in order entities located outside France. Consequently, the measures and to identify any variation from forecasts, detect any significant shortfalls procedures set up to prevent doubtful trade receivables and improve the (notably in terms of the gross margin on contracts, gross operating effectiveness of trade receivables recovery allow the Group, wherever possible, to limit the number and amount of impaired trade receivables margin, the operational non-billing rate and client payment times) and 2 propose remedial measures where required. and ensure good generation of operating cash flow. Purchases Additionally, the Group has strict internal rules that apply to all consolidated entities, stipulating the revenue recognition procedures Purchasing is subject to the following controls: to be followed depending on the type of business and project (mainly ● statement of needs by the internal client; time and materials and fixed-fee projects). ● purchase of the equipment or service by the department concerned The Group has a set of General Terms and Conditions of Service, (general services, IT, etc.); which have been reviewed, reinforced and updated in line with the ● validation of the service and/or delivery by the department concerned; applicable regulations and are systematically integrated into the bids ● issue of the payment authorisation at the appropriate hierarchical it submits to clients in France. For international bids, specific terms and level, and invoice validated by the Accounting Department based conditions of service are used, which are adapted to the country and on the relevant documents. risks concerned and are systematically reviewed by the Group’s Legal Affairs & Compliance and Tax Departments, as well as by Group Payment of invoices is organised by the Accounting Department. Treasury. The Group has also put in place a third-party assessment policy, which Real estate involves scoring suppliers, then categorising them in one of three levels depending on (i) purchase volumes, and (ii) their assessment score, as If new premises are required for particular operations, a statement of follows: requirements is drawn up by the operations manager, which is then validated by the head of the relevant Business Unit and forwarded to ● level 1: minimal monitoring; the General Services Department at Group and/or country level for ● level 2: additional monitoring; processing and examination of the corresponding business case. The ● level 3: reinforced monitoring. executive management team is subsequently responsible for analysing Lastly, the Group’s entities have a template set of General Terms and the project and validating the size and cost of the premises selected. Conditions of Purchase, which is regularly updated to ensure compliance The General Services Department then participates in the various stages with the applicable regulations. of the negotiation process to ensure that leases are effectively tracked, Consolidation in France, and where necessary, in other countries. Regular budget reviews concerning premises both in and outside France are carried out The Group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in so that information can be regularly exchanged between the General accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Services and Finance Departments and that data on existing premises based on accounting data prepared under the responsibility of the can be updated and current and future projects analysed. heads of its operating units. Delegations of authority Points of particular significance for the Group are dealt with centrally. For example, the Group Finance Department reviews the accounting The principles applicable to the delegations of authority put in place treatment of disposals and acquisitions of assets and shares and the meet a three-fold objective: regular tests carried out on the value of the assets held by the Group’s ● to raise the awareness of operations managers about their entities. responsibilities regarding health and safety; Accounting ● to give operations managers powers to represent the Group; The Group Finance Department coordinates the accounts closing ● to set a precise framework within which operations managers can processes and sends out any necessary memoranda and instructions to exercise their representative powers (including the possibility of suball consolidated entities. In addition, it meets regularly with the Statutory delegating those powers). Auditors in order to present specific and significant transactions carried The delegations mainly concern commitments directly related to out during the year and the accounting options selected in accordance operational areas, such as hiring consultants and/or sales managers, with the applicable accounting standards. signing client contracts and handling claims and disputes. Bank signing powers are only partially delegated, both in France and abroad, and concern limited amounts. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 19 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Financing and cash management Acquisitions and disposals The Group has set up a centralised system at Assystem SA for managing As a general rule, the operations departments identify and pre-select debt and raising funds on the market when required. Assystem SA then acquisition targets, which are then validated by the Group executive finances the subsidiaries’ needs through intra-group current accounts or management team and the Finance Department. Large-scale acquisitions, loans. A centralised system for managing cash and investments has also however, are identifi ed and pre-selected by the Group executive been put in place, by creating a cash pool and a treasury management management team. The identification process is carried out based on system for entities in Eurozone countries, and implementing other cash the principles described in the Group’s third-party assessment policy – pooling procedures for the Group’s non-Eurozone entities. The underlying which was drawn up in accordance with France’s new “Sapin II” Act aim of this centralised cash management policy is to guarantee the on anti-corruption – and the “Anti-Corruption Checks for Mergers & liquidity and security of the Group’s investments. Acquisitions” guidelines issued by the French Anti-Corruption Agency. Currency and interest rate hedges as well as the counterparties for these Due diligence procedures are then carried out – comprising operational, hedges are centralised at Assystem SA The Company uses only a small financial, human resources, tax, legal and anti-corruption audits of the number of banks for its hedging instruments. targets, and a review of their financial performance and risk exposures – to ensure that the targets are compatible with the Group’s business The Group has chosen Swift Net to ensure that its bank messaging model. Once these procedures have been performed, acquisition is secure. Combined with the use of a cash management software in proposals that represent amounts over a certain threshold are presented Saas mode, this solution provides an optimised system for centrally to the Board of Directors for approval. managing the Group’s cash on a day-to-day basis and for minimising financial risk by offering a fully integrated management solution for Acquired companies are integrated into the Group’s operational and cash and payments. management reporting process as rapidly as possible and, depending on the size of the companies, the Group’s information systems are The Group monitors actual and forecast cash flows for each subsidiary deployed to guarantee the reliability of financial information. on a daily basis for the Eurozone and on a monthly basis for nonEurozone countries. These reviews cover the forecasts for the main Disposals of assets and securities are validated by the Board of Directors cash flows related to operating, financing and investing activities, and and the executive management team and are managed and monitored at therefore provide a precise analysis. Group level in conjunction with the operations departments concerned. The Group has rolled out across the majority of its consolidated entities a Legal disputes consolidation, reporting and cash flow analysis system, which provides Legal disputes involving Assystem SA and its subsidiaries are managed, specific responses for highly operational issues, including: monitored and reported solely by the Group Legal Affairs & Compliance ● building and structuring processes for monitoring “rolling” and Department in conjunction with in-house legal experts at country level updated cash flow forecasting; and/or experts in contract, corporate and securities trading law. A ● standardising and simplifying the reporting and data collection quarterly reporting system has been set up in France whereby the processes; potential financial impact of legal disputes is analysed by the finance directors of each operations department, and, if required, by the Group ● analysing, for a given period, gaps between actual and forecast Finance Department. figures; Communication of results ● easily dealing with other issues arising as a result of the Group’s activities (cash pooling, intra-group transactions, multiple currencies, The preparation and validation of press releases and investor identification of cash and non-cash flows). presentations concerning the Group’s results are governed by a specific Financial commitments procedure involving the Group’s executive management team, the Finance Department, the Communications Department and the Statutory Financial commitments – including off-balance sheet commitments – Auditors. Draft financial releases are submitted to the Audit Committee require prior approval by the Group Finance Department. In addition, and the Board of Directors for review. The confidentiality of financial as part of the accounts closing process, the operating units are required information prior to its disclosure is strictly managed within the Group, to list all of the commitments they have given and received. in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Capital expenditure The Group takes all reasonable measures to provide regular, reliable, A capital expenditure authorisation procedure covering all capex clear and transparent information to its shareholders and fi nancial categories is applicable to all Group subsidiaries. Given the Group’s analysts. business, these expenditures are limited to the medium term and mainly Information is provided through press releases, the quarterly publication concern computer hardware and software. of the Group’s revenue figures and the half-yearly and yearly publication of its results. The Group organises meetings with financial analysts twice a year, when it publishes its half-yearly and annual results, as well as conference calls four times a year, when it publishes its quarterly revenue figures. 20 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Financial reporting order to enable cross-business analyses (in particular project profitability The Group’s financial reporting includes a set of indicators and analyses) to be carried out based on the same data, and to facilitate aggregates which enable the Group to precisely analyse the the exchange of skills between business units and countries. performance of its subsidiaries and business units. In addition to these indicators, the Group specifically monitors its SG&A expenses, billable 2.1.2.3 Identifying, analysing and managing risks staff time and billing rates. All of the tools and systems used are rounded The Group attaches critical importance to effectively managing its risks. out by the Group’s internal control measures. It regularly conducts project reviews to help identify the risks involved in See the “Financing and cash management” Section above for details about the Group’s cash flow management and analysis systems. ongoing projects and to decide on any actions to be taken to reduce them. These reviews – which mainly relate to fixed-fee projects – are 2 carried out using check-lists and enable the following areas to be 2.1.2.2 Internal communication dealt with: The Intranet and the reporting and consolidation system are the two ● recognition of revenue in line with the fi nancial progress of the centralised communication channels used by the Group to relay key contract; information that is necessary for the people concerned to exercise their ● margin on completion; responsibilities. ● contractual risks and related reserves and provisions; The QMS manual and the main procedures applicable at local level ● cash flows. (relating to IT, human resources and project management) are published on the Intranet. Each business unit also carries out their own project reviews, which cover the main projects in progress. All of the subsidiaries are equipped with the Group reporting and consolidation system, which is the platform used for the fi nancial The assessment of the risks to which the Group is exposed as well information published by the Group. Accounting instructions are sent as the probability of these risks occurring and their potential impacts to all Group subsidiaries to ensure that information is reported in a is based on discussions carried out between the Group’s executive standardised format. management team and managers from its principal operations and corporate departments. On the basis of these discussions, risks are The Group communicates with its subsidiaries by circulating memoranda classified into the following main categories (see Section 2.1.4 below and procedures to ensure that matters affecting the Group as a whole, for corruption risks): such as investments, cash management, the monitoring of trade receivables, etc., are dealt with consistently. ● business/operations; ● contract and project management; Lastly, subsidiaries are responsible for setting up and maintaining management information systems that are compatible with the Group’s ● HR/people and skills management; objectives in terms of reporting financial information and managing ● finance. projects. To date, the Group has not opted to implement a shared For each of the above categories, the main risks have been identified, management information system for all of its subsidiaries. It does, defi ned and assessed in terms of their impact and probability of however, take care to ensure that the descriptions and content of its occurrence. key performance indicators are harmonised for comparable activities in The criteria used to assess the impact of identified risks and the probability of their occurrence are described below. IMPACT For risks whose consequences can be measured in monetary terms, their impact on consolidated operating profit is determined in accordance with the following scale. Magnitude Monetary impact on operating profit Low to medium Between €0.5m and €3.5m High Over €3.5m PROBABILITY The probability of risks occurring is measured by reference to the past occurrence of comparable and/or similar events, according to the following scale: Degree of probability Occurrence of comparable and/or similar events in the past Low to medium (less than 30%) Occurred between zero and two times in the past five years High (over 30%) Occurred more than twice in the past five years ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 21 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT The various risks thus assessed are positioned on two axes (impact and Conditions of Service, which are appended to client invoices. It also probability), which is then used to rank them as follows: drafts any specific terms and conditions of service when required, adapting them to each country and type of risk concerned. The Tax ● Type 1 – Low to medium probability/high impact: priority risks and Treasury Departments also carry out reviews of the tax and cash which require specific attention from Executive Management, in close management aspects of contracts and the guarantees that need to co-ordination with one or more members of the Board of Directors. be given; If a Type 1 risk occurs, measures aimed at mitigating its impact are implemented by management as rapidly as possible. ● Time management and billing: specifi c applications are used for entering and tracking time spent on projects and jobs. Each subsidiary ● Type 2 – High probability/low to medium impact: risks requiring verifies and performs controls to ensure that the times entered for that the Board of Directors is regularly informed in order to provide ongoing projects are accurate and to trigger client invoicing. it with a reasonable assurance of the proper functioning of controls aimed at reducing the possibility of the risks occurring. ● Payments: the Group has introduced a dual signature policy for means of payment. In line with this policy, the Company defines thresholds ● Type 3 – Low to medium probability/low to medium impact: risks for the authorisation of subsidiaries’ expenses based on categories requiring that the Board of Directors is regularly informed in order of authorised signatories. A secure bank messaging system is used to provide it with reasonable assurance of the proper functioning of to ensure that the policy is respected. controls aimed at mitigating the impact in the event that the risks occur. ● Budget and budget adjustments: each subsidiary presents the budget No risks specific to the Group’s operations have been identified that that it has drawn up for the upcoming financial year to the members have a high probability of occurrence and would have a high impact of the executive management team who approve budgets. The same on operating profit. procedure applies to budget adjustments that are made during the The risk classification set out in Section 2.2 below – which is based year. on the dual criteria of the probability of occurrence and the potential ● Periodic results and reporting: periodic results are reported every impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position – is the result of month via the reporting and consolidation system. The Group Finance an assessment by the Company’s executive managers based on their Department conducts a critical review of these results and obtains any in-depth experience of handling the Group’s operations and having further information that it may require from the relevant subsidiaries. discussed the classification with the Board of Directors. The Group places particular importance on segregating tasks in order to strengthen the controls undertaken for critical transactions, particularly 2.1.3 INTERNAL CONTROL payments. In small-sized entities, it is sometimes difficult to segregate tasks for 2.1.3.1 Control activities in line with objectives organisational reasons. In such cases, specific controls are put in place, In view of the Group’s high degree of decentralisation and its policy mainly corresponding to increased oversight by management, which of delegating powers and responsibilities, the scope of the controls conducts an independent review of critical transactions for control and implemented is defined by each subsidiary’s management team based authorisation purposes. on the Group’s underlying internal control framework. 2.1.3.2 Ongoing monitoring of the internal control The main purpose of the controls performed is to reduce the major risks process to which the Group is exposed. Determining the general principles of the internal control system and The principal categories of control activities cover the following areas: overseeing the internal control process are two of the responsibilities of ● C ontract authorisation: the Group has established delegation the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Group’s executive principles which give the appropriate managers the necessary powers management team. Executive Management is responsible for ensuring to authorise contracts. The controls performed cover each contract that the system is properly implemented in all of the Group’s entities phase: and works in conjunction with the relevant support functions to achieve ● selecting invitations to tender, this objective. ● submitting bids, ● setting billing rates and pricing, 2.1.3.3 2020 action plan ● signing contract riders. The Group has made internal control part of a continuous improvement plan with the aim of enhancing the operational effectiveness of its ● Contract review: the Legal Affairs & Compliance Department conducts processes for preparing and processing accounting and fi nancial an independent review of major bids, contracts and contract riders information. In line with this, the action plan drawn up for 2020 includes before they are submitted or signed. This Department is also carrying out a priority review of recently-acquired subsidiaries, covering responsible for updating, where necessary, the General Terms and financial, organisational and operational issues. 22 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.1.4 COMBATING CORRUPTION AND Agency, as well as dedicated internal policies based on an update INFLUENCE PEDDLING to the Group’s risk map related to these two issues, including: ● a policy on corporate gifts and invitations, In 2011, Assystem pledged to uphold the UN Global Compact which sets out ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the ● a corporate sponsorship and philanthropy policy, environment and anti-corruption measures. It reaffirmed its pledge to ● a policy on the use of intermediaries, uphold these principles on 16 January 2017. ● a third-party assessment policy, Employing fair business practices is one of the Group’s key priorities. ● a whistle-blowing policy. In accordance with the requirements of France’s “Sapin II” Act, the ● a Legal Affairs & Compliance Department, which is in charge of 2 Group has put in place a policy to combat corruption and influence relaying the Code of Conduct and above policies across the Group. peddling. This policy takes the form of: ● a specifi c Code of Conduct aimed at combating corruption and influence peddling, as recommended by the French Anti-Corruption 2.2 RISK FACTORS Risk category Identified risk Change* Risks related to certain geographic regions Risk of volatility in revenue and operating profit N Risk of unforeseen costs for fixed-price contracts Operational risks and erosion of operating profit J Financial risks Liquidity/financing risks J HR risks Risk of losing key skills/not retaining talent N Risk of data being unavailable or corrupted, or being accessed Risks related to information systems by unauthorised third parties N Legal, regulatory and tax risks Risk of non-compliance J Risk related to acquisitions Risk that an acquisition could have a dilutive effect on operating profit. Financial, legal and reputational risks. N JStable — NIncrease * Change before taking into account the action plans and other measures implemented within the Group ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 23 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.2.1 RISKS RELATED TO CERTAIN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 2 risk Risk of volatility in revenue and The revenue and operating profit generated in these geographic regions have a Risk of political, social and economic operating profit. relatively limited impact overall as the Group generates over 80% of its revenue in instability in some of the geographic Western Europe. regions in which the Group operates. Type 2 risk Erosion of gross margin and, ultimately, Close monitoring of ongoing projects and new business by the management team Risk that the markets and geographic operating profit. of the division concerned and regularly relaying information to members of that regions in which the Group operates management team. may have a dilutive effect on margins. Review of gross margins for ongoing projects and new business. Type 2 risk Negative impact on revenue, gross Process for monitoring third parties (clients, suppliers, service providers, etc.) and Risk of parties with which the Group margin, and operating profit. reviewing offers (go/no go tests) to ensure that the applicable international trade works being subject to international sanctions are not breached. trade sanctions that prevent the performance of projects Type 2 risk Negative impact on cash flows and Procedure drawn up and applied for prior authorisation of recurring capital expenditure Risk that investments made do not operating profit. (primarily for software). This procedure sets out the authorised signatories within generate the expected returns. the operating entity and requires signature by one or even two members of the management team for capital expenditure in excess of a given threshold. Capital expenditure (i.e. investments excluding external growth operations) represents in average over medium period between 1% and 2% of the Group’s consolidated revenue, which is normal in Assystem’s industry, and means that exposure to risks related to this expenditure is limited. The Board of Directors is systematically informed of, and holds discussions on, any potential acquisitions of equity interests or other external growth investments, once these have been assessed by the Group’s executive and operations teams. Type 3 risk Negative impact on realisable and Client creditworthiness investigations conducted before new contracts are taken on, Risk of non-recover y of trade available assets and on operating and regularly re-conducted for contracts or clients already in the portfolio. receivables. profit. In addition, certain members of the Group’s accounting teams are assigned a specific credit management role, which involves regularly monitoring the collection of trade receivables, tracking progress in the collection of outstanding receivables, and issuing the necessary reminders. 24 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.2.2 OPERATIONAL RISKS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 1 risk Negative impact on revenue and The business conducted with the Group’s largest clients requires varied skills in Risk that business activities engaged operating profit. diverse business sectors, which automatically significantly reduces the risk of revenue in with one or more major clients may dependency. In addition, in a number of cases clients would find it difficult to replace decline or cease altogether. the Group’s technical expertise, which means that they will need its services over a long period of time. Type 1 risk Risk that the operational non-billing rate Negative impact on operating profit. As one of the Group’s key operating indicators, the ONBR is included in the periodic reporting carried out by each legal entity which is reviewed by the Group’s 2 (ONBR) exceeds the threshold of 10% executive management team. If the ONBR exceeds the defined threshold, Executive for a prolonged period. Management takes appropriate measures to promptly lower it, notably by sharing and crossing over resources. The ONBR is determined as follows: Total unbilled hours of billable staff/Total hours worked by billable staff. Type 3 risk Negative impact on gross margin and, Specific process for selecting projects and submitting bids (financial review of Risk that contracts entered into do not ultimately, on operating profit. key project elements, in particular projected revenue and margins and margin on generate sufficient margins. completion for fixed-price projects) and authorisation by designated managers. Contract review process by each business unit and Group Executive Management, with a particular focus on multi-year projects. Type 3 risk Negative impact on revenue and gross Contract review process by each business unit and Group Executive Management, Risk that fixed-price contracts may lead margin, and ultimately, on operating with a specific focus on multi-year projects. to excess non-billable hours. profit. These contract reviews are used to assess the progress of projects under way and all the identified risks to date in order to draw up and implement appropriate action plans (both for clients and in-house). Type 3 risk Negative impact on project Annual recruitment plans are drawn up on the basis of a turnover rate of 20%-25%, and Risk that net staff turnover is not effectively performance and revenue. changes in the rate during the period are regularly measured, analysed and monitored. managed and that the turnover rate is See Chapter 3 of this Universal Registration Document for further details. such that the replacement of resources Staff turnover is measured as follows: cannot be ensured during the period. Staff departures during the year/Average headcount during the year. Type 3 risk Negative impact on revenue, continued Subject to respecting international trade sanctions, the Group constantly highlights its Risk that clients may relocate their relationships with clients and operating ability to provide services in the same geographic locations as its clients. business or projects to geographic profit. regions where the Group does not operate. Type 3 risk Negative impact on operating profit. The Group regularly reviews the allocation of its management resources and the Risk that contracts entered into do not configuration of its local resources in order to avoid incurring costs in a given generate sufficient margins to cover geographic region that, over the long term, are out of proportion with the revenue development costs in geographic generated in that region. regions where the Group traditionally has little or no operating presence. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 25 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.2.3 FINANCIAL RISKS The Group’s organisational structure is such that it centrally manages all Every month, Group Treasury reports to the CFO & Deputy CEO on the market risks to which it is exposed, namely interest rate risk, exchange positions and results of its management in compliance with the principles rate risk, counterparty risk and liquidity risk. and policies put in place by the Group’s executive management team. Most Group entities use the same software programmes (Taïga, Integrity Within the Finance Department, Group Treasury operates in the financial or Swaps). These tools help to secure movements and enable more markets as the Group’s financial risk management body. This unit is reliable reporting, in accordance with Group standards. organised in such a way as to ensure the segregation of tasks. Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 1 risk Negative impact on the cost of debt Assystem has carried out a specific review of its liquidity risk and considers that it is Risk of inability to meet financial and potentially on the Group’s ability capable of meeting its future maturities. commitments (liquidity risk). to operate as a going concern. Furthermore, Assystem has put in place: • a cash pooling system to optimise its liquidity resources, with monthly reports submitted to the CFO & Deputy CEO; • a pro-active management strategy for its debt, which is issued and managed centrally by the Company. At 31 December 2019, the Group had access to a €120 million revolving credit facility with a sufficient maturity to finance its general corporate requirements (28 September 2024 following the exercise of the one-year extension option). €17 million of this facility had been drawn down at 31 December 2019. In addition, in early 2018 Assystem set up a €30 million investment loan (increased to €60 million in June 2019) with a final maturity of 28 September 2024. Type 1 risk Negative impact on cash and The above-mentioned revolving credit facility and investment loan contain a covenant Risk of a breach of a financial potentially on the Group’s ability to based on the Group’s consolidated gearing ratio (consolidated net debt at the test covenant triggering early repayment of operate as a going concern. date/EBITDA for the past 12 months as adjusted for acquisitions and divestments). This borrowings. ratio is measured at the end of each half-year period and must not exceed 3.75 at each 31 December and 3.95 at each 30 June. If the covenant is breached, a qualified majority of lenders (representing at least two thirds of the lending commitments) may require early repayment of the borrowings. At 31 December 2019, the Group’s gearing ratio was well below the ceiling specified in the covenant. Type 3 risk Negative impact on financial expenses. To reduce this risk, where necessary, the Company sets up appropriate hedges using Risk of a failure to effectively control derivative financial instruments, taking into account the prevailing market conditions. finance costs (interest rate risk). The financial instruments used which mainly correspond to swap contracts are approved by the CFO & Deputy CEO. At 31 December 2019, in view of the attractive market conditions, the Group put in place an interest rate hedge for its debt repayable at maturity, with a start date of end-June 2020. Type 3 risk Negative impact on equity and/or The Group monitors bids and contracts in foreign currencies in order to safeguard Risk of a failure to effectively control consolidated profit. the related operating margins. The hedges put in place when exchange rate risk is foreign-currency cash flows and the identified mainly correspond to forward purchase or sale contracts, whose amounts valuation of subsidiaries outside the and maturities are matched with the underlying exposure. Eurozone (exchange rate risk), given the To hedge intra-group transactions in foreign currencies, the Group uses currency geographical diversity of the Group’s swaps. operating presence. The Group’s foreign-currency balance sheet risk essentially relates to the euro/Turkish lira, euro/Saudi riyal and euro/pound sterling exchange rates. See Note 8.6 to the consolidated financial statements for details about the Group’s financial risk management strategy. Type 3 risk Negative impact on consolidated The Group undertakes counterparty review and monitoring procedures which are Risk of default by a financial counterparty. profit. approved by executive management. 26 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.2.4 HR RISKS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 1 risk Negative impact on the Group’s Employee training is a key priority for the Group and it has developed dedicated Risk that the Group’s available skills reputation and revenue generation. training structures by sector and business. do not match client and market requirements. Type 1 risk Negative impact on the Group’s Key persons are identified within each of the Group’s operating entities as well as Risk of losing key skills needed for reputation and revenue. the Group to be able to operate and in its support functions. Succession plans have been drawn up for all of these key persons. 2 develop. A more detailed description of the Group’s HR risks is provided in Chapter 3 of this Universal Registration Document. 2.2.5 RISKS RELATED TO INFORMATION SYSTEMS Risks related to information systems (Type 1 risks) as well as the measures and action plans put in place by the Group to manage those risks are described in Chapter 3 of this Universal Registration Document. 2.2.6 LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 3 risk Negative impact on the Group’s The bid and project review process includes a legal and tax review. These reviews are Risk of lack of control over the legal, reputation, operating profit and notably used to ensure that there are no legal terms or conditions that are unacceptable regulatory and tax aspects of the financial position. for the Group. The definitions and formal classifications of these terms and conditions Group’s business and operations in a are provided to all line managers. context of globalisation, and lack of regulatory compliance. Type 3 risk Negative impact on operating profit Working in conjunction with operations staff, the Group Tax Department continuously Risk that changes to French or foreign and/or consolidated profit. monitors any changes in tax regulations, and their corresponding interpretations, that tax regulations, or their interpretation are of relevance to the Group. Where necessary, it proposes ways of adapting the by the relevant authorities, may be Group’s organisational structure and its operations in order to mitigate the impacts contrary to the Group’s interests or may of such changes. restrict the Group’s ability to organise or conduct its business. TAX AUDITS At end-2017, the Company received a payment notice from the tax France authorities for the reassessed amount and therefore increased the provision in its 2017 financial statements. The provision covers since In late 2014 the Company received notification of a €13.5 million then the full reassessed amount as well as the potential late payment tax reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised for 2010, penalties. 2011 and 2012 by its former subsidiary Assystem France, which was a member of the Company’s tax group during the years concerned. The In 2019, an additional amount was set aside for potential late payment Company is fully disputing the validity of this reassessment. penalties and at the year-end the provision totalled €16.6 million. The risk relating to this dispute was transferred by Assystem France to Also during 2019, the French tax authorities’ National and International the Company at end-2016 in return for the payment by Assystem France Audit Department carried out an audit on the Company’s accounts for of €7.3 million in compensation. The Company recognized a provision 2016 and 2017. No tax reassessments were issued following this for the full amount of this compensation in its 2016 financial statements. audit. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 27 2 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK FACTORS 2.2.7 INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Due to the nature of its activities, the Group has no significant direct impact on the environment. In the nuclear sector, the Group provides only knowledge-based services and is not authorised to operate any nuclear facilities as defined in the applicable regulations. The Group’s environmental policies and strategies are set out in Chapter 3 of this Registration Document relating to non-financial performance. The risk assessment procedure described in Section 2.1.2.3 above does not apply to industrial and environmental risks as the Group has not identified any such risks specific to its activities that are significant. 2.2.8 RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS Type Impact Risk reduction measures Type 1 risk Financial risks, criminal legal risks, During the due diligences performed prior to acquisitions, a specific audit is now Risk that acquired companies may have image risks. carried out to detect any cases of corruption or influence peddling committed acts that do not comply with A post-acquisition plan (which is included in the third-party assessment policy) is the applicable laws and regulations on implemented for companies that the Group acquires and measures are taken to ensure corruption and influence peddling. their legal and regulatory compliance. Type 2 risk Dilutive impact on operating profit. A post-acquisition integration plan is drawn up for companies that are newly acquired Risk that acquired companies may not Group profitability/performance by the Group. One of Assystem’s priorities after acquiring a company is to implement generate operating profit in line with the objectives not met. the Group’s reporting processes and systems so that it can rapidly monitor changes Group’s objectives and expectations. in results and generation of cash flow and take any appropriate corrective measures. At the date of this Universal Registration Document, the Group had not identified any other significant risks. 2.2.9 INSURANCE STRATEGY Assystem also has construction insurance to cover any claims under the ten-year warranty that it may be required to give for building works in The Group’s insurance strategy includes a pro-active risk prevention accordance with French legislation. and protection approach and the coverage of major risks in all of its Coverage amounts vary depending on the type of risks and risk exposure business areas and sectors. concerned. To cover these risks, Assystem has taken out a professional and operating The Group’s insurance strategy is managed and overseen by the Legal liability insurance policy for its French and international subsidiaries. Affairs & Compliance Department, which: The professional liability insurance policy acts as umbrella insurance providing protection against any losses and amounts of claims that are ● proposes solutions to Group Executive Management for transferring not covered – or not fully covered – by the local insurance policies of risks to the insurance market; Group entities located outside France. ● negotiates, sets up and manages insurance programmes for the Group as a whole and reports to the executive management team on the actions it takes and the costs it incurs in relation to insurance; ● manages insurance claims. 28 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT 3.1 VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 31 3.3 METHODOLOGY NOTE 51 3.1.1 CSR vision and strategy 31 3.3.1 Reporting standards 51 3.1.2 Contributions to achieving the sustainable 3.3.2 Indicators and reporting methodology 52 development goals 31 3.1.3 Stakeholder map 32 3.4 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD 3.1.4 Identification of non-financial challenges and risks 34 PARTY 54 3.2 OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 36 3.2.1 A responsible employer 36 3.2.2 An ethical market player 44 3.2.3 Creating value for clients and society 46 3.2.4 Contributing to energy transition 48 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 29 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT “Electricity will power our future in more ways than one. But we will need to make full use of our engineering expertise and innovation capabilities to develop carbonfree energy production and its applications in the digital era.” Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO of Assystem and co-author of “2050, une France sans carbone” (2050, a carbon-free France), Éditions Fayard, 2018 “The real choice is not nuclear versus renewables, it’s nuclear and renewables versus gas, oil and coal. Choosing nuclear and renewables is the only way to effectively combat climate change.” Stéphane Aubarbier, Assystem’s Chief Operating Officer 30 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 3.1 VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 3.1.1 CSR VISION AND STRATEGY SDG 7 targets: ● 7.1 Access to energy We are convinced that Assystem, like all companies, has a duty to help develop solutions to the major challenges facing society, by basing ● 7.3 Energy efficiency our organisation on a responsible and inclusive model that ensures the ● 7.A Research and development business’s sustainability. SDG 13 target: The Assystem Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy is our ● 13.5 Raise capacity response to the climate emergency and the resulting need to adjust our SDG 17 target: business growth strategies to take account of social and environmental challenges. We attach considerable importance to complying with all ● 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development applicable laws and regulations in our host countries and to treating all employees fairly. But more than that, we are determined to use our Science and technology make a valuable contribution businesses as a lever to help accelerate the energy transition. to economic growth and play an important role in 3 supporting sustainable development. For over 50 years, we have deployed our nuclear engineering expertise 3.1.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ACHIEVING on an international scale. We have also directed our THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS engineering services towards modernising and extending the life of By choosing to specialise in engineering projects that have a positive complex infrastructure that contributes to sustainable development (rail environmental impact, we aim to contribute to achieving the Sustainable infrastructure, integrated waste-to-energy plants, etc.). To facilitate Development Goals (SDGs) announced by the United Nations (UN) in achievement of the sustainable development goals, we intend to 2015. We are also following in the footsteps of the International Atomic strengthen our innovation capabilities, fine-tune the technologies Energy Agency (IAEA), which published a document in 2016 entitled currently in use, introduce digital solutions across all of our businesses “Nuclear Science for Sustainable Development Goals” highlighting and use data science to improve our industrial performance. the many ways in which nuclear science plays a role in achieving the SDG 9 targets: SDGs, especially in the fields of manufacturing, human health, energy ● 9.1 Sustainable, resilient and inclusive infrastructure and the environment. ● 9.5 Innovation, research and development In line with the IAEA’s stated position, we intend to put our engineering expertise to work in helping to achieve the following SDGs: In addition to our core business and in line with our commitment to being an engaged, responsible and inclusive organisation, we are We’re fi rmly convinced that developing programmes that contribute to meeting the following SDGs: nuclear, combined with other carbon-free energy sources, The employability of young engineers is a major has an essential role to play concern for Assystem. To drive progress in this area, in energy transition. That’s we develop partnerships with engineering schools and why we work, day in day out, to help make the nuclear programmes prepare training roadmaps for interns and employees we are involved in safe, highly efficient and cost-effective, through our under work-study contracts. These roadmaps help them innovation and development projects, notably in the area of digital acquire technical and professional skills that will facilitate their entry engineering. At the same time, we are helping new countries to convert in the job market while helping us to ensure that we are able to hire to nuclear energy. We intend to make our expertise available to countries the skills we need. such as Turkey and Uzbekistan that are choosing this energy source SDG 4 target: for the first time, as well as to countries that are renewing their nuclear ● 4.4 Increase skills and access to employment power plants. We recognise that partnerships permit greater access to nuclear science and technology and are supporting the governmentWe have a long tradition of actively promoting gender sponsored competitiveness clusters through cooperation agreements equality, in order to better reflect the society that we with a wide range of partners, such as Institut de Radioprotection et de live in. Our Incredible Women programme consists Sûreté Nucléaire (IRSN) France’s nuclear safety institute, Groupement of a set of initiatives to encourage and help women des Industriels Français de l’Énergie Nucléaire (GIFEN), the French to move up the career ladder at Assystem, such as nuclear industry association, and Société Française d’Énergie Nucléaire mentoring and coaching initiatives and leadership training. A core aim (SFEN), a nuclear energy research and information organisation. These of the programme is to increase the number of women in management partners are a valuable source of opportunities to share expertise and positions. skills. SDG 5 target: ● 5.5 Full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 31 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 3.1.3 STAKEHOLDER MAP SOCIAL LEGITIMACY Sub-contractors, ECONOMIC EMPLOYEE-RELATED suppliers Third-party organisations Employee representatives Insurers ER Banks/Investors PO Shareholders W Partners Candidates Employees Media Competitors Clients Universities Scientific community Regulator Courts Public authorities Governments CY Industry EN organisations URG Organisations representing employers and employees INSTITUTIONAL Stakeholder typology/hierarchy (Mitchell, Agle & Wood method, 1997) Levels of influence • DEFINITIVE • DEPENDENT POWER Stakeholders that have the greatest influence Stakeholders that express legitimate and urgent Ability to influence the company. over the company and are capable of making it needs but do not have the necessary power to change its decisions. influence the company’s actions. LEGITIMACY The stakeholder’s actions are perceived as desirable • DANGEROUS • DORMANT or appropriate. Stakeholders whose actions may negatively affect Following an event triggering their intervention, the company in certain cases. these stakeholders issue directives that are likely URGENCY to determine the company’s actions. Obligation for management to respond to the • DOMINANT stakeholder’s demands within a period that is Stakeholders that have the two most important • DISCRETIONARY acceptable to the stakeholder. attributes allowing them to influence the company’s These stakeholders have legitimate expectations, actions: power and legitimacy. As a result, the but they are unable to dictate or infl uence the company must attach the necessary importance company’s decisions. to satisfying reciprocal interests in order to be able to grow. • NON-STAKEHOLDER Non-stakeholders have only limited influence or their influence is sufficiently generic that it does not directly affect the company. 32 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES We are committed to listening to economic, social, community and In this way, we intend to create the necessary conditions for lasting, institutional stakeholders in France and internationally, in order to responsible and shared business growth. In 2019, we confirmed the understand their expectations, identify the main risks and opportunities, stakeholder map, classifying each stakeholder according to their degree adapt our approach and improve our performance. of influence over the Group, the perceived legitimacy of their demands and expectations, and the urgency with which these demands need to be addressed. Interactions Expectations Dialogue method Shareholders The support of our shareholders is critical to • A sustainable business model • Publication of regulatory reports the Group’s medium-term development. They • Recurring performance • General Meetings of Shareholders want to be informed about our major decisions • Ethical practices • Investor and analyst meetings and core strategies. They expect us to meet the • Transparency about financial and other • Code of Conduct covering bribery and highest standards of corporate governance. issues corruption and influence peddling • Insider Trading Compliance Code Clients Our clients are our main source of business • Project delivery • Frequent and recurring dialogue in order to referrals. Thanks to them, we generate revenue • Engagement and service quality partner them for their strategy and business and create value. Our clients’ business environment influences • Compliance with safety, security and environmental imperatives challenges • Annual satisfaction surveys 3 our own business. • Innovative technological solutions • Joint participation in conferences and Our agile business model and ability to adapt symposia on future developments in our to their environment are essential. businesses Partners Our partners are strategic and their techniques • Joint projects built around innovative • Creation of project teams to work on and skill-sets complement our own. solutions common solutions We create vehicles enabling us to work • Shared project governance together on long-term projects. • High quality services Competitors Our competitors are in direct competition with • Compliance with the fundamental principles • Some of our competitors are also our us. We operate in the same markets, bid of healthy competition in accordance with partners on certain projects for the same contracts and source the same competition law • Membership of industry organisations candidates. We offer competing innovations • Contribution to the public debate and • Participation in conferences, debates and and technological solutions to clients. industry discussions in order to drive trade fairs It is important that we present competitive, advances in our disciplines and professional attractive and differentiating bids in order to practices in accordance with competition win contracts. law Employees Our employees are essential to our value • Interesting engagements • Engagement survey every two years creation process. We need to develop their • High quality management • Meetings at local offices employability and promote an open and • Dynamic career management and skills • Leadership of communities (experts, flexible work environment. development managers, interns) • Competitive compensation • High quality dialogue with employee • Workplace wellness representatives • Organisation of road shows and live chats with management Candidates The shortage of qualified engineers makes it • Motivating projects • Presence on engineering school campuses all the more important to make Assystem an • Career paths and development opportunities and sponsoring partnerships with target attractive employer brand. • High quality work life and attractiveness schools Attracting, hiring and integrating talent is (pride in their employer) • Social media presence and presence on crucial to support our business growth and our • Social engagement and values job boards clients’ projects. • Organisation of hiring events (Incrediblengineers) • Employee referral programme • Media plan and media relations (employer brand) ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 33 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 3.1.4 IDENTIFICATION OF NON-FINANCIAL and image, and its resources and environment, and then by reference CHALLENGES AND RISKS to their importance for the main stakeholders concerned. The process led to the identification of the ten most critical challenges 3.1.4.1 Identification, analysis and qualification of for the Group. Seven of these concern material non-financial risks. non-financial challenges and risks 3.1.4.2 Basis of the Corporate Social Responsibility In a constantly changing international environment, pro-active risk (CSR) strategy management is key to ensuring our businesses’ development. We are exposed to risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Our CSR strategy is organised around four pillars that support our Group, its business, financial position, results or outlook, as explained business strategy and ambitions: to be a responsible employer, to be in Chapter 2 of this Universal Registration Document. an ethical market player, to create value for clients and society, and to contribute to energy transition through our businesses. These pillars The exercise to identify non-financial challenges, risks and opportunities are rolled down into the ten most critical challenges referred to above. launched in 2018 was extended in 2019 to include additional analyses of our businesses’ financial, social and environmental consequences. The heads of the business units and corporate departments were interviewed in order to complete the original analysis and retain only the most relevant challenges and risks. These were initially defi ned according to their impact on business continuity, the Group’s reputation A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER AN ETHICAL MARKET PLAYER ● Diversity ● Business ethics ● Attractiveness, talent retention ● Data security ● Skills alignment ● Employee health and safety CREATING VALUE ENERGY TRANSITIION FOR CLIENTS AND SOCIETY ● Client satisfaction ● Digitalisation ● Nuclear safety 34 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT VISION AND MAJOR CHALLENGES 3.1.4.3 Main non-financial risks The risks identified as being material are as follows: Challenge Related risks and impacts KPI/Measures taken Attractiveness Difficulty of attracting and retaining employees in a dynamic and competitive • Number of new hires and talent retention business sector • Staff turnover rate (resignations) • Inability to acquire the skills needed to accompany the development of new markets, due to the lack of qualified candidates and the strong demand for these skills • Failure to integrate/develop the necessary competencies and deploy the managerial resources required to support the Group in its international development and medium-term growth • Loss of critical skills • Employee disengagement Skills mismatch Mismatch between available skill sets and the needs arising from the changing • Investment in training as a% of total engineering profession and the Group’s growing international reach payroll • Inability to partner the development of new markets due to lack of resources and/ • Number of employees trained during or a mismatch between available skill sets and those needed by the Group the year 3 Employee health Absence of a health and safety culture, ineffective practices to create and guarantee • Occupational accident frequency rate and safety safe working conditions in compliance with H&S laws for the year • Damage to employees’ physical or mental health • Impaired working conditions and higher work-related accident and absentee rates • Impaired client safety performance Preventing bribery Breach of competition laws, instances of bribery and corruption • Preventive and control procedures and corruption • Reputational damage (% of Group subsidiaries) and influence • Destabilisation of the Group and its management peddling (ABC) • Financial losses Client satisfaction Impaired service quality and client relations • Client satisfaction rate • Impaired image and reputation • Difficulty of attracting and retaining clients Data security Absence of a data protection culture, ineffective practices or systems to protect the • Continuous adjustment of preventive integrity of data given to or managed by the Group resources and procedures • Sensitive client or internal data compromised or leaked • Information system failures due to cyber-crime • Loss of confidence on the part of clients, essential operators and supervisory authorities Nuclear safety Possible inability to honour engineering commitments, affecting the ability of a • Number of events reported to a nuclear power plant’s operator to achieve, comply with or maintain the plant’s safety nuclear safety authority for which performance. Assystem is declared responsible • Loss of confidence among clients and safety authorities • % of employees exposed to radiation • Interruption of client operations levels that are greater than one-tenth • Damage to health, safety and protected interests of the maximum permissible amounts Significant events in 2019 Assystem’s CSR strategy is regularly assessed by outside organisations at the request of clients. One such organisation is EcoVadis, which awarded Assystem Gold status in 2019, placing us in the top 5% of companies in terms of sustainability rating. And we are in the top 1% for our action in the areas of social dynamics and human resources policy. In 2019, the Gaia SRI rating service for investors awarded Assystem a score of 71/100 for 2018. This was significantly above the average scores obtained by the reference peer group (58/100) and the total reference group of companies with revenues of between €150 million and €500 million (56/100). Each year, Gaia publishes the list of the top 70 French companies in terms of social and environmental performance and governance. Since we joined the reference group, we have moved steadily up the rankings thanks to our record of continuous improvement over the past three years. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 35 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2 OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.1 A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 3.2.1.1.1.2 Practices and action plans We have set up a dedicated organisation to help women push the We are convinced that our teams’ enthusiasm, creativeness and limits. A Gender Balance Committee validates our strategies in this perseverance are instrumental in making us more competitive. Assystem’s area. A project team is responsible for the programme’s operational 6,000 employees are the Group’s lifeblood and its most valuable management, supported by a network of correspondents who deploy resource. The success and growth of our business depends on our the programme in the various Group entities. And a two-pronged gender ability to nurture diverse profiles, experiences and personalities, attract balance strategy has been adopted: and retain talent, and propose bespoke induction, training and career Hiring and awareness-raising development programmes. It also depends on our offering high quality working conditions that promote wellness and a supportive environment, The engineering profession traditionally attracts more men than women, and implementing a human resources policy that upholds employees’ who are generally less likely to choose a career in science. This is rights and guarantees their protection. borne out by the fact that, on average, women make up only 20% of engineering school graduates. The challenge for us is to go out and 3.2.1.1 Committed to diversity meet the young generations in order to change mentalities and combat stereotyping. Combating all forms of discrimination is one of the Group’s core values. We endeavour to create an inclusive environment and to promote Many communication tools are used to highlight the position of women diversity as a driver of performance. The aim is to respond to client in our workforce and improve the gender balance. For example, women expectations by refl ecting their social norms and codes, as well as candidates are targeted through specific hiring events, we participate their multicultural environment, while enabling the women and men in women-led forums and debates, a dedicated community has been who make up our corporate community to express their talents. Our set up on our internal social network, an internal newsletter has been commitments are set out in writing in the Diversity Charter signed in created and we also sponsor women’s sports events. 2018, which consolidates our policy of promoting diversity through our In terms of hiring, we have set ourselves the challenge of 40% of new hiring, employee development and career management programmes hires to be women in the near future (versus 31% in 2019 and 7% in and our initiatives to raise management awareness of these issues. 2010). 3.2.1.1.1 GENDER BALANCE Retaining women by encouraging their promotion within the organisation We firmly believe that diverse profiles add to the collective intelligence We have developed initiatives to help women take on additional available within the organisation to drive competitive advantage. This responsibilities, including mentoring plans, lunch & learn coaching is the reason for our long-standing commitment to actively promoting sessions, female leadership and self-marketing courses and conferences gender balance and equality. featuring female role models. Networking is still a hot topic, as reflected in the popularity of our internal Incredible Women network dedicated to 3.2.1.1.1.1 Policies and commitments promoting the position of women inside and outside the organisation. We have addressed this issue by qualifying it as a priority human The network has proven very popular among employees and is now resources challenge. Since 2010, we have followed an assertive human being deployed internationally. resources policy focused on hiring and retaining women, and giving them the opportunity to take up management positions. The policy Our aim is for women to represent over 30% of the workforce in the has been given shape with the Incredible Women programme. This near future. In 2019, the proportion was already 28% versus only programme is based on a strategy of continuous progress and is closely 17% in 2010. monitored by Group executive management, who are committed to The biggest challenge, however, is to break the glass ceiling and raise walking the talk. the proportion of women managers to 30%. Assystem has endorsed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles While actively pursuing our gender balance policy in France, during (WEPs), in a formal reaffirmation of our commitment to achieving SDG 5. 2019 we extended our action to the United Kingdom, Belgium and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through training campaigns for management teams in the hiring of women and other initiatives. 36 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS Significant events in 2019 In 2019, Assystem Engineering & Operation Services obtained a gender equality index score of 87/100. Set up in 2018 in application of the French law to promote freedom of choice of professional future, this index is calculated annually based on four or five indicators depending on the size of the organisation: compensation, pay rises, promotions, maternity leave and top management gender balance. The index is published and reported to the authorities. The “Live my Life” initiative open to members of the Incredible Women network offers women the opportunity to spend a day alongside a manager in order to get an idea of what it would be like to hold certain positions. The round-table discussion on the topic of “Women who are pushing the limits” organised in France in November 2019, aimed to legitimise women’s ambitions and inspire them to pursue a career in management. The event was an opportunity for participants to learn first-hand about the experiences of Colonel Karine Le Jeune, commander of the Essonne gendarme unit, and Aline des Cloizeaux, Vice Chair of WIN France and Project Director. Women like them holding high-level operational positions serve as role models who help women to imagine the type of career they could have within Assystem. 3 3.2.1.1.2 DISABILITY helped to improve their skills through our sponsorship programmes By creating a Mission Handicap disability support unit thirteen years with specialised schools; ago, we played a pioneering role in this area. Disabled employment ● regular information, awareness-raising and training: initiatives has been embedded in our corporate culture and DNA through the targeting both managers and employees; signature of various agreements in favour of this category of employees. ● outsourcing to sheltered workshops; In 2019, we signed our third three-year agreement (2019-2022) on the employment of people with disabilities. The Mission Handicap unit has ● technological innovation: our Innovation unit is working on the achieved promising results as the cornerstone of a continuous progress Handroide project to develop a prototype wheelchair and mobility strategy shared and recognised by all employees. aid. The following initiatives have been deployed with the support of a 3.2.1.2 Develop the employer brand and retain talent network of disability correspondents: We are pursuing a strategy based on a combination of organic growth ● hiring and integration: employees with disabilities currently represent and acquisitions. Hiring talent is one of the cornerstones of this strategy. 2% of the total workforce; The ability to pick out, attract and retain the best talents is a strategic ● skill-building: employees registered as disabled and other employees imperative in a hyper-competitive market. with disabilities who are taking part in initial or ongoing training are 3.2.1.2.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Target 2019 2018 Change Staff turnover rate (resignations) 15% 14.6% 14.9% ➙ Number of new hires > 1,500 1,573 1,617 ➙ The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities apart from the year. The results of the recruitment programme were satisfactory INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries; contractors considering the shortage of candidates with the profiles sought by the in the United Kingdom are also excluded. Group. All told, the rate of new hires for the measurement boundary held firm compared with 2018. The rate of staff resignations remained under control in 2019 and in line with the observed average for companies with a similar business 3.2.1.2.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS model. The rate tends to increase in periods when we have a very As a responsible and committed employer, we deploy our teams’ talents high volume of work, due to the resulting pressure on resources. The and skills on major engagements supporting our clients’ international effectiveness of our talent retention policies and initiatives helps to limit industrial projects. Employees are empowered to drive their own careers, the number of resignations, particularly among key people for whom and we promote a working environment in which each individual is the resignation rate is less than 7%. encouraged to learn from his or her fellow team members, take on Like 2018, last year was a period of rapid business growth, leading responsibilities and use their judgement. us to implement a major recruitment programme to keep pace with Each year, we hire over 2,000 people worldwide (1,500 excluding expanding demand and support our clients’ projects in France and INSIEMA and MPH-GS which take on large numbers of employees due internationally. The sharp increase in employee numbers and business to the nature of their businesses). It is therefore vital to adapt our hiring volumes was mainly attributable to the acquisitions carried out during strategy by deploying new tools and practices and taking into account ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 37 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS the changed expectations of candidates, especially young graduates including an international one, the three-year programme enables and juniors. We have devised a long-term human resources strategy to participants to discover the Group’s different activities. Supported and attract, develop and retain talents. mentored by a member of the Executive Committee, the graduates have the opportunity to work on the largest engagements. Implementation of this strategy, which is fully embedded in our business strategy, ensures that our human resources and skillsets are aligned with A specific system dedicated to key talents the Group’s growth objectives. Identifying and retaining high-flyers is an important challenge in the 3.2.1.2.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS engineering sector where talent is in short supply. Three key talent categories have been defined: key position (management, technical, Attracting talent sales), key contributor (critical and important know-how) and key Some sixty people are dedicated exclusively to the hiring process. The potential (young talents lined up for executive management positions people responsible for sourcing and hiring talent work closely with the in the medium-to-long term). These profiles are monitored by our French management of the various business units and subsidiaries. Dedicated and international HR teams using processes such as talent reviews teams are responsible for hiring executives for senior management and Career Committees. The objective is to proactively offer support positions and/or recognised experts. Many initiatives are organised and development opportunities in the shape of bespoke programmes each year to attract talent. (training, career plans). In parallel, a Talent Management programme Candidates introduced to Assystem by Group employees who went to has been developed for key people (around 200), in order to support the same school or university accounted for 25% of new hires last year. their career and skills development. The objective is to help them move This high rate attests to the engagement of our employees, who act as into positions where they can make a significant contribution. powerful ambassadors for the Group. The advantages for Assystem are An induction programme for all new hires clear: the hiring process is simpler and less costly, and there is also a lower risk of selecting the wrong profile. We launch regular internal An induction programme has been set up to ensure that new hires settle campaigns to keep these candidatures flowing in. easily into their new job and find their feet within the organisation. Job boards are the second largest source of candidates, followed by An assertive strategy to attract interns and employees under work-study ads placed on the career pages of newspapers and magazines (11%). contracts We have also increased our visibility on social media, which generated A major campaign has been launched to attract young people interested around 10% of new hires in 2018. LinkedIn, for example, has become in an internship, a work-study contract or an apprenticeship, as part of an essential hiring tool when it comes to attracting increasingly mobile our drive to enhance their employability. The chosen candidates follow and connected candidates. the Incredible Start programme and are invited to participate in a teamThe Assystem employer brand is protected by paying close attention to based collaborative innovation competition. A total of 137 interns and the way the Group is presented by the people responsible for hiring. employees on work-study contracts took part in this programme in 2019. Conferences and breakfast meetings are organised to help them gain Preferred relations with engineering schools a good understanding of energy transition challenges, which are likely Our relations with engineering schools are central to our strategy to strike a chord with the young generation. For Assystem’s teams, the for hiring and retaining the best talents. Our investment in this area challenge is to clearly explain how the Group is contributing to carbonalso embellishes our employer brand and contributes to the Group’s free energy production. attractiveness. A dedicated team of Campus Managers and ambassadors Once again in 2019, one of the pillars of our human resources strategy visits the schools to help the community to flourish. We have established was the hiring of more women. Communication campaigns to convince partnerships with several target schools such as INSA (Lyon and Rouen), women that by joining Assystem they will have the opportunity to flourish INSTIN, ENSEM, Arts et Métiers Paris Tech and IMT Atlantique. The in a supportive professional environment were pursued with conviction most recent partnership is with PHELMA (Grenoble INP), which joined and success. the system in 2019. Retaining talent These partnerships fulfil three objectives: We have developed an assertive induction and retention strategy, ● strengthen the Group’s reputation, proximity and attractiveness vis à holding firm to our commitment to training and passing on knowledge vis the schools through expert presentations in the various faculties and expertise to the young generation. New hires are supported through and during certain courses that enable students to discover the various induction programmes and career development plans. disciplines and job opportunities at Assystem; A winning career path for very high potential engineering graduates ● create bridges between the schools and the Company, participate In 2017, we launched our Graduate Programme designed to prepare in on-campus career fairs and give students opportunities to work on young talents for management responsibilities. The programme targets case studies or innovative research topics; both young graduates and juniors. Organised in several rotations ● facilitate the hiring of young graduates, interns and apprentices. 38 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS Significant events in 2019 Following on from the communication campaign rolled out in 2018 in France, Belgium and Switzerland, in 2019 we launched our Incrediblengineers campaign, designed to raise the profile of our engineers and recognise their contribution to major social challenges, in the United Kingdom and the Middle East. Also in 2019, we began partnering “Nos quartiers ont du talent”, a non-profit organisation set up to showcase the talent of over 600 local businesses, by signing two partnership agreements in Marseille and the Paris region. “Nos quartiers ont du talent” promotes equal opportunities by helping university graduates aged under 30 from disadvantaged neighbourhoods or poor families to achieve their employment or work-study goals or to set up in business. Under the terms of the partnership, seasoned managers or executives working at Assystem will offer personalised support to these young graduates in their search for a job or a work-study contract. The system helps us to broaden our recruitment horizons in France while also supporting our inclusive employment policy. To promote the development of our corporate culture and DNA against a backdrop of strong business growth, both in France and internationally, our training programmes in management skills and the Leadership Model are structured to nurture personal qualities and core behaviours within the organisation. The last phase in the consolidation of these programmes in France was completed in 2019 and they were also duplicated by Group subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Plans are now 3 being made to pursue a similar strategy for the deployment of a common managerial DNA across all Group businesses and entities. 3.2.1.3 Maintaining aligned skillsets Ensuring that our skillsets are constantly aligned with market needs while also offering our teams varied and exciting career opportunities is a key factor in ensuring that we can successfully implement our strategy. 3.2.1.3.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Target 2019 2018 Change Investment in training as a % of total payroll > 2% 3.39% 2.78% ➚ Proportion of employees trained during the year > 50% 62.3% 57.5% ➚ The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities apart from 3.2.1.3.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries. Skills development and transmission To support our business growth, international expansion and transition In a changing environment, our ability to adjust our engineers’ skills to digital engineering, we provided over 90,800 hours of training in and expertise to match the needs of our business and keep pace 2019, an increase of 17.5% over the previous year. And this total does with its international expansion is strategically important. Our training not include training on our e-learning platforms. programmes meet this challenge by addressing three priorities: 3.2.1.3.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS Align skillsets with changing markets and client needs We are committed to raising the employability of all members of the To keep pace with changing markets, training plans are adjusted each Assystem community to the highest level and to providing them with year, based on the strategic and marketing roadmaps defined by the individual support throughout their career with the Group. business units and subsidiaries. The plans’ content is also regularly updated, particularly project management training. The strategy aims to: Develop a learning culture ● promote the development and transmission of skills: our training roadmaps place employees in a learning environment rooted in In today’s knowledge economy, meeting our growth targets and keeping innovation and experience sharing; pace with developments in our professions depends on our ability to ● promote staff mobility, which is a means of retaining employees, develop a learning community and promote a learning organisation. helping them to ramp up their skills and develop their employability. Flexible e-learning and digital learning solutions permit large-scale deployment of training modules. They also make it very easy for The implementation of a human resources strategy that is embedded in employees to follow their training roadmap and drive their own skills our overall business strategy ensures that our HR programmes (Leadership development. To keep pace with changing needs, we offer a diverse Model, skills management, career development support) are aligned learning system combining personal and multi-modal solutions and with our strategic goals and the needs of our clients. formal and informal options. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 39 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS Transmitting knowledge and expertise We undertake numerous initiatives to promote the transmission of The Assystem Institute federates the skills acquisition roadmaps for the skills between generations. Around thirty skills communities have been various disciplines through three internal organisations, the Assystem created to facilitate knowledge sharing. Tutoring, mentoring, coaching, Nuclear Institute, the Assystem Life Sciences Institute and the Assystem sponsoring and buddy systems are also included in the arsenal used Connect Institute (cyber-security). to transmit know-how and contribute to disseminating the Group’s industrial expertise. At Assystem, we believe that capturing the full These specialised training institutes have three objectives: value of the expertise existing within the organisation is a valuable ● align the skills base with their specialist sector’s requirements and source of competitive differentiation. identify clients’ needs; Encouraging mobility ● identify and map available resources and skillsets (experts/trainers) Mobility is inherent in our business. As one of the cornerstones of our to support development of the offer; human resources policy, mobility programmes support and promote ● update/realign the integration and specialisation training roadmaps the creation of bridges between disciplines and sectors, which are based on feedback from front-line personnel and the Assystem particularly valuable as our Group expands internationally. The large communities of experts. number and wide variety of French and international engagements This organisation enables us to circulate knowledge and expertise more conducted by our businesses offer a wealth of attractive and motivating quickly between generations and also between sectors. career opportunities. In addition, to capture the expertise of senior staff, we have set up a Mobility programmes cover four areas: career management system that promotes the transmission of knowledge ● geographic mobility in the home country; and expertise through a technical expertise unit which seniors (aged 45 ● international mobility, which is growing rapidly across the Group’s and over) are invited to join. The expertise of these seasoned engineers 15 host countries; provides an opportunity to leverage the Group’s core competencies, especially in the nuclear sector. Some of them have acquired very ● sector mobility, to gain experience of all of our businesses; valuable experience, having participated in the commissioning of all of ● inter-discipline mobility, with a view to gaining the experience France’s nuclear power stations and worked on other nuclear projects required to lead technical teams or manage projects. throughout the world. As a result, they add real value to the transmission of nuclear knowledge and skills during initial training courses. Significant events in 2019 A finalist in the internal innovation competition, the EMOBY app matches the vacancies and skills gaps reported by managers with the job opportunities sought by employees. This efficient and user-friendly app enables employees to display, in a single click, the positions most closely aligned with their skills and the next rung on their career ladder, and provides managers with details of employees whose profiles closely match the needs of their projects. EMOBY will be developed in a two-step process: ● acquisition of more detailed information about available skills than that provided in CVs; ● creation of skills maps based on existing discipline databases. In 2019, we stepped up our communication in this area by publishing mobility newsletters. We also enhanced our processes by designing a mobility roadmap that clearly sets out the stages in the process from the mobility request to the formal offer. The system has enabled some 400 employees to carry out their mobility project. Lastly, 2019 saw the launch of the ETALENT platform where employees can post details of their mobility project. A six-member HR team then works on matching these projects with the available opportunities. 3.2.1.4 Making health and safety a priority We believe that our employees’ health, safety and security are a key source of competitive advantage. Our safety culture is an important driver of internal cohesion and it also helps us to maintain the confidence of our clients and partners. 40 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.1.4.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Target 2019 2018 Change Lost-time accident frequency rate 2.00 3.34 2.17 ➚ The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities apart from Involve middle management in the risk management process INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries. We ensure that line managers and supervisors are warned of the Last year saw an increase in the number of work-related accidents, risks associated with certain jobs. The risks mainly concern the particularly in France. Happily, this had no impact on the severity required skills and expertise, which are developed through external rate, which fell by 50%, or the absentee rate, which stood at 3.48%. training programmes leading to recognised qualifications. In 2019, Nevertheless, it highlights the need for greater efforts in the area of over 39,400 hours of training were provided. Controls are based employee safety to bring Assystem into line with international standards. on a comprehensive quality assurance system and involve site safety inspections (with over 550 inspections carried out in 2019) and internal 3.2.1.4.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS or external audits, some of which are performed by clients. We are committed to guaranteeing safe working conditions for our Raise employees’ awareness of health and safety risks through training employees, contractors and other stakeholders working in particularly sensitive nuclear environments and on major infrastructure projects In 2019, taking advantage of the deployment of a digital training 3 policy using e-learning tools, we launched a programme to digitalise our in France and internationally. The equipment and resources made safety awareness training courses and modules. This solution enabled available to our teams comply with and, where possible, go beyond our us to provide initial safety-awareness training to over 90% of new hires obligations under the laws and regulations in force in our host countries. in France in 2019 (around 900 people), as soon as they joined the It is our responsibility to prevent and manage health and safety risks at organisation. our own facilities and also at those of our clients. We have addressed In addition, 43% of employees took part in the 1,200 live chats on this broad responsibility by drawing up a health and safety charter safety issues organised during the year. These sessions are one of and setting up an occupational health and safety (OH&S) management the highlights of our health and safety policy, helping us to directly system covering nearly all of our French and international sites. communicate, share and raise awareness of the specific health and Outside France, this focus on safety is backed by measures to prevent safety risks faced by each individual employee. This example of the risks that are specific to certain regions where we have operations. management and employee appropriation of health and safety issues For example, additional measures are taken to address the hazards of reflects a shared commitment to risk prevention. working in hostile environments (e.g. extreme heat and wild animals in Develop a culture of learning by experience desert areas). In regions affected by complex geopolitical situations, we deploy specific measures to protect employees called on to enter Learning by experience and through continuous improvement is an high risk areas or conflict zones (risk of kidnapping, attacks) integral part of the Assystem health and safety strategy. Risks identified by front-line employees are reported using the eASY digital app and 3.2.1.4.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS integrated in the information system. A total of 350 reports were The Group’s health and safety culture is based on a continuous recorded in 2019, 16% more than the previous year, but the figure improvement process covering four key areas: is still low given the size of the Group and this represents an area for improvement in 2020. The data are analysed and discussed during Prevent and reduce major physical and psychosocial risks monthly steering Committee meetings. The aim is to lead a dynamic Assystem is an engineering company and its exposure to the risk of risk reporting process at the Group’s various facilities, and to share serious accidents is therefore limited. Physical risks mainly concern best practices and the feedback received from front-line employees. slipping and falling (41% of accidents), road accidents (22%), dizziness Continuing the certification programmes launched in 2018, the (16%), and occupational technical gestures and the work environment programme to align the health and safety management system with (12%). ISO 45001:2018 was stepped up in 2019. After Assystem Engineering We have a long-standing proactive strategy for preventing psychosocial and Operation Services (France) led the way, Envy (Turkey) and Radicon risks and management is keenly aware of situations that could make (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) also obtained ISO 45001:2018 certification employees feel vulnerable or experience a loss of confi dence. The in 2019. This alignment programme will be pursued in 2020, with the duty of care network comprising all interested parties (employee ultimate aim of all the main subsidiaries having aligned and certified representatives, occupational health physicians, management and safety management systems. At present, entities employing 85% of human resources professionals) helps to identify, support and monitor the Group’s workforce have ISO 45001, OHSAS18001 or MASE employees classifi ed as “at risk” or who have become vulnerable certification. following an adverse life event. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 41 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The ISO 45001:2018 certification process led us to take the following representatives) to the definition of measures to manage and prevent measures: safety risks and improve workplace wellness; ● extended governance. Health and safety in all its aspects – technical, ● increased internal communication. An internal health and safety social legal, environmental and cultural – has become an integral and network has been set up featuring regular posts describing best essential part of our operations management processes. The strategy safety practices and reporting situations and events experienced by aims to improve performance and risk prevention as close as possible employees when their safety was put at risk; to where the risks occur. Its integration in management processes In parallel with this initiative, in 2019 we launched the Ourway led us to expand the existing organisation by appointing a Health programme to keep pace with the Group’s expanded international & Safety Officer responsible for leading the strategy’s operational reach by promoting adoption of standard practices in all host countries. aspects in each business unit or entity; A health and safety alignment process is being developed and will be ● stakeholder identification and consultation. Another change has been deployed in 2020. to take the organisation’s ecosystem into account when determining health and safety risks. The aim is to increase the contribution of all stakeholders (managers, employees, suppliers, partners, employee Significant events in 2019 In Egypt, where we are working on a nuclear power plant project, we have begun developing an integrated health, safety and environmental management system (HSEMS). In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where our teams spent over 205,000 hours working on the KA Care project in 2019, we handed out certificates recognising all the project contributors’ good HSE performance. In Turkey, we pay particular attention to the HSE issues affecting the teams who are working on our behalf on the Akkuyu nuclear power plant project. To bring about a cultural change and encourage compliance with HSE guidelines and standards, we have organised brainstorming workshops involving local stakeholders. This collaborative approach is aimed at improving the project’s overall safety performance. 3.2.1.5 Guarantee a high quality human resources policy HR indicators snapshot of employees Target 2019 2018 Change Total Group employees, including: 5,993 5,608 ➚ ● Europe 4,707 4,301 ➚ ● Middle East 939 996 ➘ ● Asia 262 194 ➚ ● Africa 40 75 ➘ ● Pacific 45 42 ➙ % of women at 31 December 30% 27% 27% ➙ % of seniors(1) at 31 December n.a. 27% 25% ➚ % of employees with disabilities at 31 December (France boundary only) n.a. 2% 2% ➙ (1) Employees aged 45 and over. The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities; contractors in The members of management conduct regular negotiations, consultations the United Kingdom are excluded. and discussions with employee representatives on issues concerning the Group’s business and financial challenges. The topics may vary 3.2.1.5.1 SOCIAL DIALOGUE depending on the entity, but some concern the whole Group, such as Social dialogue is considered to be a driver of performance and financial and organisational challenges, gender equality, health and employee buy-in for corporate goals. As such, it is a powerful safety, working hours and conditions, and compensation. component of Assystem’s corporate identity. We work hard to maintain smooth communications between management, elected employee representatives, the trade unions and employees. 42 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The Group Committee chaired by the Senior Vice-President, Human and obtain insight about the Group’s strategy, its business and financial Resources, currently has nine members whose appointments were position, and the changes in its human resources needs. renewed in 2018. The Committee meets once a year to discuss all of In France, each Group entity has its own Social and Economic the Group’s businesses. The meetings are an opportunity for elected Committee, which has replaced the works council as the body employee representatives to hold discussions with Group management representing employees. Overview of collective agreements signed, amended or extended in 2019 in France by Group entities, excluding INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries: Topic covered by the agreement Number of agreements signed in 2019 Compensation 1 Social dialogue 2 Pre-electoral agreement 3 Working hours 1 Skills management and transmission 1 3 Some of these agreements contribute to managing the non-financial risks For engineers who have fi nished one engagement and are waiting discussed in this Universal Registration Document. Examples include the for a new one to begin, the period on the bench is an opportunity to gender equality agreement, the agreement concerning employees with explore other fields of knowledge. We propose an innovative solution disabilities, the agreement on home-working, the agreement on the to enable them to take advantage of this opportunity. Innovation is right to disconnect and the human resources planning and development part of Assystem’s DNA and we actively promote this culture within (GPEC) agreement. the organisation and through specific programmes. To stimulate team creativeness, engineers who are on the bench are invited to join the R&D 3.2.1.5.2 WORKPLACE WELLNESS unit and work on ground-breaking technological solutions such as the We are committed to offering our employees a safe, respectful and use of 3-D Building Information Modelling (BIM) in engineering projects. pleasant working environment. They can also devote the time to community outreach initiatives, such Our quality of work life initiatives cover three areas: improving work/ as the Handroide exoskeleton project to develop a wheelchair that life balance, preventing discrimination and promoting flexible working enables people with reduced mobility to pass obstacles more easily, arrangements. thereby facilitating their access to industrial sites. Improving work/life balance To ensure that all of these measures contribute to employees’ wellness The Work/Life Balance Charter signed in France in 2012 has been and ultimately strengthen their engagement, we conduct an engagement strengthened with the signature of several new collective agreements survey every two years. The resulting action plans are implemented in (see Section 3.2.1.5.1) on the right to disconnect (signed in 2017), all entities and are monitored by Group executive management. on home-working in support of a better work/life balance, and on the reorganisation and reduction of working hours. New Assystem for Me hotline in France In parallel, we have proposed initiatives that strengthen the agreements’ In 2019, we teamed up with the April insurance group to application. These include training in how to manage the work/life launch the Assystem for Me programme, giving employees balance, and a guide for working parents. access to teams of doctors, social workers, psychologists Fighting discrimination and assistance providers who offer help with administrative, Fighting discrimination and promoting diversity are central to our human legal, welfare and family matters as well as psychological resources policy. The gender equality agreement and the collective support whenever they need it. The service, which is available agreements in France on the employment of people with disabilities 24/7, enables employees to receive immediate psychological are just two examples of how we address these issues. assistance after an emotional trauma or stressful situation, or if they need support for stressful professional issues. The hotline Flexible working hours is anonymous and confidential. Several agreements have been signed to support the development of home-working throughout the Group. The aim is to give employees more flexibility and independence when it comes to organising their 3.2.1.5.3 PROTECTING PERSONAL DATA – GDPR working hours. As well as reducing stress and tiredness, this solution is We have implemented procedures and processes to ensure full also a factor of social inclusion, by making it easier to employ people compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The with disabilities or suffering from a chronic illness. identified risks mainly concern the processing of personal data relating to employees and candidates. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 43 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The human resources, hiring and mobility departments have implemented In France (74% of Group employees), part of employees’ health and specific GDPR-compliance measures. Information notices or consent death/disability insurance costs is paid by the Group and we also requests have been added to mobility files and are systematically used provide funding for the Social and Economic Committees’ activities for during the candidate hiring process, as well as being posted on the the benefit of employees. Group’s website. Employees in these departments have been made In Belgium, the high-quality health insurance plan offered to employees specifically aware of data protection issues. is a valuable benefit that can tip the balance in Assystem’s favour in Since our business is primarily BtoB, the protection of clients’ personal the competitive job market. data is not an issue. However, we have appointed a Data Protection Employees in all countries are offered health and death/disability Officer for our only BtoC business (INSIEMA). insurance. 3.2.1.5.4 COMPENSATION POLICY Equal pay We follow a merit and performance-based compensation policy Our engagement in favour of gender equality is reflected in our pay designed to attract and retain the best talents. Compensation and policy. Specifi c indicators comparing men’s and women’s average benefits packages are structured to reward personal investment while salaries by category and starting salaries for equivalent positions are also giving significant weight to collective performance. Each year, used to identify any gender pay gaps. The equal pay commitments are employees in France receive a document providing detailed information set out in a specific agreement that was rolled over in 2018. about their personal compensation package. In addition to their contractual fi xed salary, certain employees may 3.2.2 AN ETHICAL MARKET PLAYER receive variable compensation, as follows: We are convinced that high quality governance helps to drive business ● managers, experts and sales and marketing staff participate in a performance. For this reason, we have made commitments and set up bonus plan entitling them to an annual bonus based on personal an organisation that respond to our standards in terms of respect for and collective objectives; human rights and the management and control of ethics risks. ● employees may be awarded a performance-based bonus by their manager, as a reward for their hard work, good results or special These standards now extend to the protection of data given to us by efforts. clients in connection with contracts. We have developed an efficient information management system to ensure that this data is protected. Collective compensation In France, statutory profit-sharing schemes have been set up at Assystem 3.2.2.1 Respecting human rights Engineering and Operation Services and Assystem Care France, under which, if payments are made out of the special profit-sharing reserve In 2011, Assystem pledged to uphold the UN Global Compact which as allowed by law, they are shared equally among employees who sets out ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the are present throughout the year and on a prorated basis to employees environment and anti-corruption measures. present during only part of the year. The Group applies the conventions of the International Labour Employee benefits Organisation (ILO). We have affirmed our commitment to complying and to ensuring that our employees and stakeholders in our businesses Employee benefit plans vary from one country to another, based on comply with the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights local laws and regulations, particularly tax laws. We therefore follow at Work and its fundamental conventions on freedom of association a specific policy in each country. However, employees in all countries and collective bargaining, the elimination of discrimination in respect are covered by medical insurance. of employment and occupation, the elimination of forced or compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labour. 3.2.2.2 Preventing corruption and influence peddling 3.2.2.2.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Target 2019 2018 Change Risk analysis coverage (% of Group subsidiaries) 100% 100% 100% ➙ The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities The 2018 risk analysis was completed by due diligence reviews for each business acquisition carried out in 2019 and each joint venture created during the year. 44 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.2.2.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS ● optimise information systems security to avoid sensitive client or We conduct our business ethically and with integrity, in compliance internal data being compromised or leaked and prevent our systems with the applicable laws in our host countries. Employing fair business being put out of action due to a cyber-attack; practices is one of our key priorities. ● provide awareness-raising and other training to employees in order We apply a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of bribery and to instil a data security culture and practices that protect the integrity corruption and information peddling. The related risks, policies, of the data entrusted to us or that we manage. commitments and measures are described in Chapter 2, Section 2.2.8, 3.2.2.4.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS of this Universal Registration Document. In 2018, our information systems infrastructure was still shared with Expleo Group and was operated by Expleo Group on a decentralised 3.2.2.3 Limiting tax evasion risks basis under an agreement negotiated in 2017 when we sold our former We have not set up any vehicles, organisations or mechanisms for the GPS division. Last year, we took back ownership of the infrastructure and purpose of transferring profits to low-tax jurisdictions. The effective tax launched the Rivage project to toughen our IT infrastructure and systems rate paid by the Group consistently stands at over 20%, which is close security in order to thwart the growing number of cyber-attacks faced to the weighted average of the tax rates applicable in France and our by engineering firms. The project was carried out with the assistance other host countries on the contributions to consolidated profit of our operations in these countries. Our foreign entities that receive services of experts in this field, including France’s national cyber-security agency (ANSSI). 3 from and/or are owned by French entities pay management fees and In parallel with the Rivage project, we revisited our management system dividends (to the extent possible) to the French entities. and prepared a General Information Systems Security Plan (GISSP) to support the Group-wide deployment of the related measures. Information 3.2.2.4 Protecting business-related information system identity and access management protocols were redefined, and strict control procedures were introduced. Lastly, access to restricted 3.2.2.4.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR client areas (engineering platforms and secure sites installed on Group No quantitative performance indicator is disclosed concerning the premises) is strictly controlled in line with clients’ security policies. protection of business-related information due to the sensitive nature of A graduated approach to risk has been introduced in the GISSP, linked such disclosures, the fears the disclosures may generate, their possible to the criticality of the data used for client projects. This approach impact on the markets, on customers and competitors, and the risk of enables projects to be ranked from standard to highly sensitive, the disclosures being used by hackers. with even standard projects subject to substantial protections. Our 3.2.2.4.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS main operating entities deploy the most appropriate technical and organisational measures and procedures to protect the data entrusted Information systems security is a strategic challenge for Assystem. Due to them by clients and partners. to the nature of our businesses in the energy and infrastructure sectors, we have many clients that are considered by national governments as The main changes introduced in the GISSP are covered by an e-learning essential operators. These clients constitute a preferred target and are programme and are the subject of an awareness-raising campaign particularly at risk of cyber-attacks. For this reason, these operators targeting all Group employees, especially new hires. are the subject of closer supervision by the authorities who issue many Our organisation structure is both global and local, allowing us recommendations applicable not only by the operators but also by to address these systems security challenges at a strategic and an their partners. operational level: For sensitive contracts that are considered by national With our businesses’ shift towards digital engineering, our international governments as being in their country’s strategic interests, we have a expansion and the increasingly critical nature of the data that we local IT Security Officer and Correspondent responsible for defining, hold, our Group is becoming a potential target of cyber-attacks such deploying and overseeing compliance with local data protection as hacking and data theft. To address these new risks, we have requirements in connection with the contract. strengthened our information systems security strategy. Added to this, we leverage the expertise and know-how of our industrial Our policies and commitments in this regard aim to: cyber-security experts to build architectures, networks, communication vectors and solutions fulfilling our clients’ needs in terms of the security ● bolster the security of our infrastructure, buildings and sites; of their plants’ computer systems. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 45 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.3 CREATING VALUE FOR CLIENTS AND 3.2.3.1 Working towards digital engineering SOCIETY The engineering sector is experiencing a period of unprecedented Our performance is rooted in our ability to create value for clients and change driven by the digital revolution. Digital innovation and for society as a whole. This ambition is shaped by three challenges, transformation are changing partnership dynamics and our clients’ digitalisation, nuclear safety and client satisfaction. business logic. Engineering disciplines and expertise are evolving with the emergence of more collaborative working methods involving multiTo give clients the benefit of our best practices, we have firmly embraced disciplinary and international teams. digital engineering technology. We consider that this technology represents a powerful project accelerator and innovation driver that After deploying an initial programme to take our methods and practices allows us to transform power plants and reconcile potentially conflicting digital (Imagine programme), we embarked on a new phase in 2019 financial, environmental and social considerations. with the launch of the Engineering Powered By Digital programme to make digital engineering one of the pillars of our service offer. Nuclear safety represents a major challenge for the Group. By The related measures, organisation and initiatives are described in contributing to the development of the nuclear industry, we are helping Chapter 1, Section 1.4.1 “An innovative and digital group” of this to promote an affordable national and international carbon-free energy Universal Registration Document. source. To guarantee the lasting satisfaction of our nuclear clients, we offer 3.2.3.2 Considering nuclear safety as essential them our teams’ diverse skillsets, our expertise and our ability to deliver projects meeting the highest quality standards. For Assystem, nuclear safety risk is the risk of being unable to fulfil our commitments as an engineering fi rm, because this would affect our clients’ ability to achieve, comply with or maintain their plant’s safety performance. 3.2.3.2.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Target 2019 2018 Change Events reported to a nuclear safety authority for which Assystem is declared responsible (INES scale) 0 0 0 ➙ % of employees exposed to radiation levels greater than one-tenth of the maximum permissible amounts. < 5% 0.81% 0.15% ➚ The boundary for this indicator covers all Group entities concerned. Nuclear safety is recognised as being a priority concern for the Group. Our policies, procedures and initiatives in this area aim to: In 2019, Assystem was not subject to any claims of responsibility for any safety event or incident involving any nuclear power plant operated ● promote the development of a common nuclear safety culture based by a client. on International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) guidelines; Radiation exposure levels remained under control. Although the ● ensure a high degree of management involvement at all levels, with proportion of employees exposed to radiation levels in excess of rolled down rigour, control and duty of care objectives; one-tenth of the permissible amount increased significantly in 2019, ● develop a continuous improvement culture, based on the involvement it remained considerably below our target of a maximum of 5% of of all members of the organisation and guidelines that ensure employees monitored for radiation exposure (742 employees in 2019, compliance with local regulations and the plant operators’ standards; representing 12% of the total workforce). The observed increase ● maintain high internal and external expectations in these areas, in concerned fuel cycle activities in France and was due to a change in order to promote an exemplary nuclear safety culture. the type of services provided. These activities therefore represent the main focus of our radiation monitoring activities. This overall approach to nuclear safety is designed to guarantee that the concerns of stakeholders (including Assystem and its partners) about the 3.2.3.2.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS nuclear safety culture of operators and other clients are always taken We consider nuclear safety as a key driver of future growth. Historically, into account. These principles apply to all types of project and business our business was focused on nuclear plant commissioning activities, and to all of the Group’s host countries. but the business now includes technical design, operations support, The Risk Management Director reports to the Senior Vice-President, maintenance planning and decommissioning. This expansion of our Nuclear, to whom he submits annual reports on the management of service offer, combined with the more exacting standards imposed nuclear risks. The published report is also available to all interested by our clients and the nuclear safety authorities, have led us to adopt parties. He is the main contact for clients, the authorities and third an assertive and ambitious strategy to strengthen our nuclear risk parties for all nuclear safety matters and also represents Assystem with management systems. regard to these matters. 46 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.3.2.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS on a comprehensive quality assurance system and involve internal or Nuclear safety management requirements primarily concern engineering external audits, some of which are performed by clients. The nuclear activities. This is not only due to the fact that engineering processes safety culture is developed through a system of continuous improvement require considerable expertise, it is also a reflection of high level safety strongly rooted in quality assurance, safety and environmental protection performance these activities have to deliver. Nuclear operators impose principles. We make the greatest possible use of feedback and increasingly strict standards on their engineering service providers suggestions from employees, whatever their level of responsibility. because of their own obligations towards the nuclear safety authorities To accelerate the integration process, we decided to seek to meet increasingly ambitious objectives in terms of risk and disamenity ISO 19443:2018 certification of the quality assurance system, based reduction. on the IAEA’s GS-R standards. In addition, to respond to the constraints Our methods, practices and know-how are developed and deployed faced by international operators in these areas, we integrate in our to meet these standards. own database feedback from the main operators and members of the worldwide nuclear safety industry, as expressed through specific • Nuclear safety in systems engineering standards such as ASME NQA-1. As an engineering firm focused on innovation and digitalisation, we are working on a digital approach to nuclear infrastructure based • Protecting employees against nuclear risks on data systems and models. This systems engineering approach is combined with a functional process approach, in which continuous We have a duty to guarantee for our employees the highest level of protection against nuclear risks. This concerns not only radiological 3 improvement and compliance with nuclear safety requirements are protection, but also operational development of the nuclear safety essential, throughout the plant’s life cycle. Nuclear safety occupies a culture by paying constant attention to weak signals. In this regard, special place in the systems engineering approach, with the requirements listening and maintaining a caring attitude are a continuous concern identified by safety analyses having an impact on all the disciplines for management. involved. For example, systems engineering methods and processing In response to the current changes in the market and the nature of our of the related data contribute to improving the management of safety services, in 2019 we bolstered our radiological monitoring organisation and compliance issues. for the entities the most at risk. In the United Kingdom, a radio-protection • Nuclear safety, at the centre of our processes and expertise officer has been appointed. In France, the radio-protection unit has been strengthened with the creation of a dedicated pool of radioWe are involved at all stages in the approach and our engagement protection advisors. concerns not only nuclear safety risk management and control issues but also the overall nuclear safety culture. Our involvement in risk Managing nuclear risks ultimately extends from the very lowest level management mainly consists of deploying the required skills and contacts with the teams up to Assystem’s commitment as a member of the expertise. The skills and expertise are developed through the training nuclear industry and its participation in learned societies whose purpose provided by the Assystem Nuclear Institute (ANI) and by external training is to make the nuclear industry increasingly safe and, consequently, organisations leading to recognised qualifications. Controls are based more acceptable in the eyes of public opinion. Significant events in 2019 In Turkey, we signed a six-year contract with Rosatom for the supervision of the construction of facilities important to the nuclear safety of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant. Assystem will provide site inspection on all structures, systems and components important to such safety during construction and installation works ensuring it respects the nuclear safety regulation defined by the local authority, the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority (TAEK). In the United Kingdom, we helped to prepare the complex safety file for the decommissioning of the THORP plant at the Sellafield site. Our teams participated in developing innovative new inspection techniques to accurately assess the status of nuclear waste and materials without exposing operatives to radiological risks. Also in the United Kingdom, as a member of the UK-SMR (Small Modular Reactor) consortium, Assystem will develop SMR systems design and engineering methodologies. In France, as a member of the French Nuclear Industry Association (GIFEN) set up in 2018, we actively contributed to the work of its Nuclear Quality and Safety Commission. The Commission’s aim is to promote the recognised role of safety and quality as drivers of value creation. It proposes initiatives to help develop a safety culture, with the ultimate aim of building confidence in the nuclear industry, its sustainability and attractiveness, while also ensuring that the industry remains competitive. In 2019, Assystem joined the Nuclear Quality Standard Association (NQSA) set up in 2011 to promote adoption of a quality and safety culture throughout all nuclear industry supply chains. NQSA is currently turning its attention to promoting the application of ISO 19443: 2018. After becoming an NQSA member, we signed a cooperation agreement to establish a certification system under the aegis of NQSA. The certification process would be overseen by nuclear industry members (operators and equipment suppliers) based on application of the new international standard. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 47 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.3.3 Acting to ensure lasting client satisfaction relationships and the quality of our services. Both of these factors contribute to enhancing the Group’s image and reputation, helping us We consider that client satisfaction is key to our business’s sustainability. to attract and retain new clients. For this reason, we pay close attention to the quality of our client 3.2.3.3.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Target 2019 2018 Change Client satisfaction rate 90% 91% 89% ➙ The boundary for this indicator corresponds to Group entities working ability to swiftly adapt our organisation and resource allocation to in the nuclear sector. meet their needs, and to fulfil the demands and specifications that are essential to their project’s success. Our engineers support and partner This outcome is based on a survey of more than 600 nuclear industry complex projects. We therefore give priority to meeting the challenges clients in Europe. Based on 275 respondents selected at random, the of planning and executing these projects, managing the associated confidence interval correlated with other satisfaction rates is 4.5% (94% risks, and ensuring that the projects come in on time and on budget. EDF satisfaction rate based on service assessment forms), demonstrating our ability to meet clients’ expectations by delivering high quality To ensure proper execution of client projects, we have chosen to perform services. The resulting high client retention rate attests to our engagement our services in accordance with the highest standards. To this end, and our strategy built on long-term client relationships. we apply a certifi cation policy to all our main entities based on a combination of ISO 9001, ISO 45001 and ISO 14001. Our standards 3.2.3.3.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS are also aligned with specific client references, such as ASME NQA-1, We operate in sectors that set very high standards in terms of or industry benchmarks, such as ISO 27001 for information systems project management, service performance and skills assigned to the security and ISO 19443 for nuclear safety (see Section 3.2.3.2.3 engagement. This is the case not only for nuclear industry clients but above). also for French and international infrastructure projects. We understand As of the date of this Universal Registration Document, all operating these expectations and conduct our business with a constant focus subsidiaries held quality certifications for all of their sites. on delivering services that meet the highest quality and compliance standards. The challenge is to achieve consistently high levels of delivery quality and client satisfaction in all of the Group’s host countries. To preserve We have set up an organisation (Technical Department, Projects and our Made in Assystem quality, in 2019 we launched a project to align Quality Department), backed by quality management policies and our practices and quality systems through the Ourway programme that systems aligned with the most exacting international standards, including is accompanying our international expansion. A process to align project Project Management Institute standards. A graduated approach is quality systems is being developed and will be deployed in 2020. applied, depending on the projects’ criticality. The system is adapted to meet the challenges and escalate monitoring to the appropriate decision-making level. Detailed indicators and tools ensure that we fulfil 3.2.4 CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY TRANSITION the commitments given in respect of projects and contracts. Assystem is among the militants battling to prevent climate change. 3.2.3.3.3 Practices and action plans In 2019, we affirmed our commitment by signing the Engineering for Client satisfaction challenges are managed by: the Climate Charter promoted by our industry organisation, Syntec Ingénierie. The Charter’s signatories commit to taking concrete action ● Listening to clients and their needs. The Group is geared to listening in favour of energy transition through the projects performed on behalf to clients and acting as a source of ideas, thanks to an agile, crossof clients, sustainably reducing their businesses’ carbon footprint and functional marketing organisation focused on key accounts and the supporting their employees’ climate commitments. accurate overall vision of opportunities and needs provided by our CRM system. These three priorities structure our contribution to reducing global Client satisfaction levels are measured by means of an annual survey warming and to driving energy transition. carried out by an independent partner. Over the last fi ve years, over 1,000 clients in Europe – representing different levels in their 3.2.4.1 Acting in favour of energy transition through respective organisations – have been asked for their opinion on our client projects service performance. As well as rating our performance, respondents PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS are asked for their qualitative assessment of Assystem’s image and their perception of our service quality. Today, this represents an Combating climate change is a priority and a technological challenge essential instrument for our dialogue with clients. in the nuclear, energy, transport and infrastructure sectors. It requires industry to square the circle by combining financial performance with ● Providing assurance of project delivery. Fulfilling our delivery environmental performance. commitments is part of our corporate DNA. Clients recognise our 48 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The first pillar of the Engineering for the Climate Charter – involvement Adapting the way in which the Group conducts its engineering in the energy transition – goes to the heart of our strategy to promote engagements by developing new offers and methodologies addressing climate change issues enlightened energy choices that rapidly increase the contribution of A number of projects we are working on will ultimately have an impact carbon-free electricity to the global energy mix. on global warming. Clients are supported in their energy transition and We follow two approaches: in the drive to reduce their overall carbon footprint during all phases Developing global businesses in support of energy transition and of their projects through: efficiency ● our help in identifying and measuring the environmental impact or We are convinced that nuclear is an essential weapon in the battle energy performance of their future installations or their projects; against global warming and are working to promote development ● our broad vision of the regulatory and standards environment, and of this energy source throughout the world. Last year’s growth in our the health and safety challenges; international nuclear activities confirms our commitment in favour of a more sustainable energy mix. We are partnering countries in determining ● our ability to devise the most effi cient and cost-effective solutions their strategy for the development of their first nuclear power plants or in terms of materials, equipment and systems ready for seamless for the renewal of their existing nuclear programme. integration into an aligned project. Another highlight of 2019 was the growth in our engineering services for the rail transport sector, helping to develop and upgrade public Our solutions enable clients to meet their own challenges as well as achieving their environmental performance targets. 3 transport networks. We also contributed to improving the energy efficiency of manufacturing plants. Significant events in 2019 In Uzbekistan, we set up a joint venture – Uzenergoengineering-Assystem – to support the country’s energy transition. The official launch of the joint venture on 11 February was marked by an event in Tashkent attended by the country’s Energy Ministers, Isabelle Servoz-Gallucci, French Ambassador to Uzbekistan, and colleagues from Assystem. The event and the project attracted significant coverage in the local and regional media. In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Radicon is providing engineering, supply, construction management and commissioning services for the Jubail Plaschem plant under a 28-month contract with France’s Veolia. The waste-to-energy facility will process up to 30,000 tonnes of solid and liquid industrial waste per year and recover the heat from this process to generate steam and compressed air for use by tenants of the Plaschem industrial park. In the United Kingdom, Assystem is a member of the SME consortium led by Rolls Royce and also including BAM Nuttall, Laing O’Rourke, National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL), SNC Lavalin/Atkins, Wood, The Welding Institute (TWI) and Nuclear AMRC. The consortium is match-funding the £18 million that has been confirmed by the UK Government organisation, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). Assystem is leading the turbines and general installations sub-projects and is also contributing to other design areas. A full programme of power stations located at all existing UK nuclear sites is forecast to create up to 40,000 jobs in the United Kingdom and generate US$ 250 billion in export revenues. In France, our IncredibleFuture programme is promoting the emergence of innovative solutions. In 2019, we decided to develop an idea submitted for the internal innovation competition “Imagine our Smart Future in 2024”. The idea concerned a sustainable building design tool incorporating environmental criteria during the design phase, the utilisation phase and the decommissioning phase. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 49 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS 3.2.4.2 Sustainably reducing our businesses’ carbon footprint 3.2.4.2.1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Target 2019 2018 Change 5,728 Greenhouse gas emissions (TeqCO2) n.a. 3,791 3,991* ➘ 1.23 Greenhouse gas emissions per employee per year (TeqCO2/employee/year) n.a. 1.16 1.24* ➘ 2,328,759 Electricity use (in kWh) n.a. 1,605,419 1,765,162* ➘ * 2018 boundary The boundary for the measurement of CO2 emissions was expanded in Managing business travel solutions 2019. It now covers the main Group entities apart from INSIEMA and We continue to promote low-carbon mobility solutions through a travel MPH-GS and its subsidiaries, and the Belgian and Swiss subsidiaries policy recommending that the means of transport should be selected of Assystem Care Holding. These entities will be included in the according to the destination and distance. The rules governing business scope in 2020. The results for this expanded boundary are provided travel are designed to optimise the distances travelled and the choice for information purposes. To permit meaningful comparisons, 2019 of means of transport, including for the trip to and from the airport or performance has been analysed based on the 2018 boundary, covering railway station. For these “last mile” trips, agreements have been entered Assystem Engineering & Operation Services, Assystem Care France into with companies operating fleets of hybrid or electric taxis. We also and Assystem SA. have a policy of proactively replacing fleet vehicles. The 5% decrease in total emissions and the 6.5% decrease in emissions In addition, alternatives to business travel and commuting are promoted, per employee per year attest to our success in controlling our greenhouse such as collaborative tools. As a general principle, we endeavour to gas emissions in line with our commitment to reducing our environmental choose office locations that are well served by modern public transport footprint. They confirm the validity of our strategies to reduce business networks. travel and use lower-carbon means of transport, with a 21% reduction Infrastructure management in emissions from air travel and a 7% reduction in emissions from travel by car. All decisions about working space are measured against fi nancial, social and environmental yardsticks. We take specifi c measures to 3.2.4.2.2 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS improve the energy performance of our infrastructure, in particular by Our commitment in favour of the climate is also reflected in our internal renting office space in energy-efficient buildings and reducing office practices designed to reduce our own businesses’ carbon footprint. space per employee. When it comes to choosing new facilities, Meeting this objective involves limiting the impact of business travel, wherever possible we opt for low-energy buildings that comply with changing employees’ everyday practices and behaviours and tracking the latest environmental standards and are equipped with more efficient the impact of these measures on our carbon footprint. management systems such as smart HVAC meters. In practice, the commitment is reflected in our internal policies Tracking and managing our carbon footprint concerning business travel and car use. We have introduced and Each year, we prepare and publish a Bilan Carbone carbon footprint encourage the application of upstream measures designed to limit or report measuring the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our propose alternatives to business travel. Some of these are covered activities based on scopes 1, 2 and 3. The report covers the main by collective agreements (home-working) or discussed with employee direct and indirect CO2 emissions related to the Group’s offices and representatives (local transport plan). business travel. The Group does not have its own data centres and does not use any material dedicated data storage space. As a result, 3.2.4.2.3 PRACTICES AND ACTION PLANS IT-related electricity use and CO 2 emissions are not measured. The We deploy and encourage a series of consistent measures to limit the carbon footprint report covers all material subsidiaries in Europe, the impact of business travel and reduce the number of trips. We also take Middle East and the Pacific region, as described in Section 3.3.2.2. steps to limit the carbon footprint of our offices and work organisation. 50 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT METHODOLOGY NOTE Significant events in 2019 We intend to gradually replace our diesel-powered vehicles in order to rapidly operate a fleet consisting exclusively of clean hybrid or electric vehicles (CO2 emissions of less than 110g/km), in line with the general emissions objective set by Group management. 3.2.4.3 Supporting employees’ climate commitments The aim of the programme is to support the young generations’ clear interest in environmental issues. As a responsible corporate citizen, POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS we view this programme as a means of strengthening our employees’ In 2019, we launched the Incredible Future programme modelled on engagement, developing the Group’s attractiveness and contributing the Engineering for the Climate Charter. The programme coordinates to one of the biggest challenges facing the world, climate change. and supports internal energy transition initiatives both related to projects and also in the entities. Significant events in 2019 3 To mark European Waste Reduction Week, our specialist environment unit organised a challenge between most of our sites to raise awareness among as many employees as possible of the need to reduce waste. 3.3 METHODOLOGY NOTE 3.3.1 REPORTING STANDARDS ● the UN Global Compact, which sets out ten universal principles covering human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption The Group’s CSR commitments are based on the following standards: measures. ● the Non-Financial Performance Statement describes Assystem’s The Group pledged to uphold the Global Compact in 2011 and Corporate Social Responsibility strategy and the non-financial renewed its pledge in 2017. Within the Group, these principles are information required by Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105-1 to translated into mandatory behaviours and practices, as indicated in R. 225-105-3 of the French Commercial Code; the following cross-reference table: HUMAN RIGHTS Global Compact principles Sources Businesses should support and respect the ● Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions (declaration by Assystem Engineering and protection of internationally proclaimed Operation Services committing to comply and to ensuring that contractors comply with the ILO’s human rights 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work) Businesses should make sure that they are ● Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions not complicit in human rights abuses ● Sections on retaining talent, diversity and social dialogue ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 51 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT METHODOLOGY NOTE LABOUR Global Compact principles Sources Businesses should uphold the freedom of association ● Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions and the right to collective bargaining ● Section 3.2.1.5.1 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms ● Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions of forced or compulsory labour Businesses should uphold the effective abolition ● Application of OECD guidelines and ILO conventions of child labour Businesses should uphold the elimination ● Section 3.2.2.1 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Global Compact principles Sources Businesses should support a precautionary approach ● Section 3.2.4 to environmental challenges Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater ● Section 3.2.4 environmental responsibility ANTI-CORRUPTION Global Compact principles Sources Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ● Code of Conduct covering bribery and corruption and influence peddling including extortion and bribery ● Section 2.2.8 ● ISO 26000, for which the certification process is a driver of 3.3.2.1 HR indicators continuous improvement, particularly in international units; DEFINITIONS: ● Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); ● total number of Group employees: number of Group employees ● GS-R standards issued by the IAEA; at 31 December 2019 under permanent, fi xed term and project ● ISO 9001 quality management standard; contracts, and work-study contracts, excluding interns, temporary ● ISO 45001 and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety staff, subcontractors and UK contractors. Employees are presented management standards; by geographic area; ● ISO 14001 environmental management standard. ● flexibility: number of Group employees under permanent contracts at 31 December 2019; 3.3.2 INDICATORS AND REPORTING ● gender balance: employees on the payroll at 31 December 2019; METHODOLOGY ● seniors: employees aged 45 and over on the payroll at 31 December 2019; In 2011, we drew up a list of key indicators to be used to assess our CSR performance and the impact of the business on our environment ● employees with disabilities: employees whose possibility of finding and stakeholders. These indicators are tracked regularly and presented or keeping a job is reduced due to the alteration of one or more in an annual report. They are in addition to the Group key fi gures physical, sensory, mental or psychological functions. On the Group’s presented on pages 4 and 5 of this Universal Registration Document. payroll at 31 December 2019; The Non-Financial Performance Statement is prepared using input ● absentee rate: number of days’ absence (sick leave, work-related from the operations departments and business partners concerned. accident leave, maternity/paternity leave) divided by the theoretical These include the Human Resources, Legal & Compliance, Nuclear number of days worked. The absentee rate is calculated based on Risk Management, Safety Quality, Mobility & Workplace, Information the weighted average number of Group employees; Systems and Digital Innovation departments. ● hiring: cumulative number of new hires over the reporting period, excluding contractors in the United Kingdom. INSIEMA and MPHGS accounted for a significant proportion of total new hires and we therefore intend to continue excluding them from the analysis; 52 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT METHODOLOGY NOTE ● training: internal and external classroom and e-learning courses that ● data concerning electricity use by information systems, servers, enable employees to acquire the expertise needed to perform their computers and other digital tools is not separately identified and is jobs. The investment in training is measured based on (i) the number of included in total electricity use; employees trained during the year and (ii) training costs, including the ● the Group does not have its own data centres and does not use any cost of training materials, trainer payroll costs and related expenses, material dedicated data storage space; information systems electricity expressed as a percentage of the total payroll for 2019; use and greenhouse gas emissions are not taken into account in the ● employee resignations: number of resignations calculated as a report presented in Section 3.2.4. percentage of the average number of employees for the reporting BOUNDARY: period. The reported figures exclude contractors in the United Kingdom. INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries The environmental indicators defined in Section 3.3.2.2 above cover are also excluded due to the specific nature of their businesses and 74% of Group employees in 2019 (54% in 2018). The action taken contractual relationships with employees, which means that their enabled us to extend the calculation base to include material subsidiaries employee turnover rates are automatically higher; in Europe, the Middle East and the Pacific region. The data does not currently cover recent acquisitions (such as ASCO), the Belgian and ● work-related accidents: lost-time accidents caused by or that occur Swiss subsidiaries of Assystem Care Holding, INSIEMA, or MPH Global during the work of a Group employee, whatever the cause. Accident frequency and severity rates correspond to averages calculated based Services and its subsidiaries. In other countries, we are unable to obtain sufficiently reliable data for inclusion in the greenhouse gas emissions 3 on the rules set out in the French Labour Code (Code du Travail). They report due to the nature of the business and the fact that our offices are are determined by reference to the number of hours worked, based on spread over wide areas. the number of incidents recognised by the social security authorities as being work-related. The reported figures exclude INSIEMA and To permit meaningful comparisons, 2019 pro forma greenhouse gas MPH Global Services and its subsidiaries due to the specific nature emissions have also been calculated for the entities concerned in 2018, of their businesses. i.e. Assystem Engineering and Operation Services, Assystem Care France and Assystem SA. BOUNDARY: The HR indicators presented in this Universal Registration Document are 3.3.2.3 Other key indicators based on the Human Resources Department’s annual employee data report and have been calculated as of 31 December 2019. Definition: They cover 81% of Group employees, as defi ned in Section 3.3.2 ● risk analysis coverage: all Group subsidiaries are covered by the above. They do not cover INSIEMA and MPH Global Services and its risk analysis carried out for the application of France’s Sapin II subsidiaries, because their business model is different from the Group’s Act (concerning transparency, the prevention of corruption and core engineering services business. the modernisation of economic life). In the case of mergers and acquisitions and the creation of joint ventures, due diligence reviews 3.3.2.2 Environmental indicators are performed at the outset; ● information systems security: performance data concerning systems DEFINITIONS: security constitutes sensitive information. For this reason, no quantitative The environmental indicators presented in Section 3.2.4.2 of this data is disclosed concerning our performance in this area. Universal Registration Document are based on the 2019 greenhouse ● nuclear safety: performance is measured based on the annual number gas emissions report (BEGES) and cover the main scope 1, 2 and 3 of incidents reported to a nuclear safety authority for which Assystem direct and indirect emissions generated by the entities mentioned in the is considered as responsible. Incidents are classified based on the “Boundary” paragraph below: definitions used for the International Nuclear Event Scale (INES); ● some non-material energy use (electricity and gas) is not included in ● employee exposure to radiation: this indicator corresponds to the the calculation because the source data is not available; proportion of employees exposed to radiation levels in excess of ● travel expenses paid by the Company credit cards issued by a few one-tenth of the permissible amount in each country (%); units are not taken into account in CO2 emissions estimates because ● client satisfaction: this indicator corresponds to the proportion of the data is difficult to access; clients that rate the Group’s services as satisfactory or more than ● the CO2 emissions calculation factors are obtained from national satisfactory in the annual survey conducted by an independent firm databases similar to the ADEME database in France (see www. of consultants. The consultants work with Assystem to put together bilans-ges.ademe.fr). Where accurate information is not available, the questionnaire and select the client sample. The consultants then we use the factors for countries with a similar energy mix and similar conduct the survey according to their own protocols and analyse the energy generation resources; results using their proprietary statistical methods. With a response rate of around 50%, the consultants consider that the confidence interval for the satisfaction score is 4.5%. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 53 3 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY BOUNDARY: regardless of the subsidiary concerned. In 2019, 742 employees were Ethical practices indicators cover all consolidated companies. monitored for radiation exposure, representing 12% of total Group employees. Nuclear safety indicators cover all of the Group’s nuclear services performed for nuclear plant operators or suppliers of nuclear equipment. The client satisfaction indicator covers the Group’s nuclear businesses and is based on annual surveys of a sample of more than 600 clients, The indicator concerning the management of employee exposure including key accounts in France and the United Kingdom. The 2019 to radiation covers all employees whose exposure is monitored in customer satisfaction survey covered 70% of the revenue generated compliance with each country’s specific legal and regulatory obligations, by the Group’s nuclear activities, and 42% of consolidated revenue. 3.4 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY To the Shareholders RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT In our capacity as the independent third party, member of the THIRD PARTY Mazars network, certifi ed by the French Accreditation Committee On the basis of our work, it is our responsibility to express a limited (Comité Français d’Accréditation or COFRAC) under number 3-1058 assurance opinion about whether: (accreditation scope available at www.cofrac.fr.), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial performance statement for the year ● the Statement complies with the provisions of Article R. 225-105 of ended 31 December 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the the French Commercial Code; Group management report, in accordance with the legal and regulatory ● the information provided (hereinafter the “Information”) is fairly provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of presented in accordance with paragraph 3 of the sections I and II the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). of the Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code concerning policy outcomes, including key performance indicators and actions RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY relating to the main risks. However, it is not our responsibility to express an opinion on the entity’s It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a Statement compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions, including a particularly relating to Duty of Care and the fight against corruption presentation of the business model, a description of the main nonand tax evasion, or the compliance of products and services with fi nancial risks, a presentation of policies applied to mitigate these applicable regulatory provisions. risks and the outcomes of those policies, including key performance indicators. NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK The Statement has been prepared applying the Company’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the most significant aspects of which are We performed our work described below in compliance with presented in the Statement and are available upon request from the Articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, with the Company’s head office. professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes or CNCC) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000(1): INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL ● we gained an understanding of the activity of all companies in the Our independence is defined by the provisions of Article L. 822-11-3 consolidation scope and of the Company’s exposure to the main risks; of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics for ● we assessed the appropriateness of the Guidelines in terms of their independent third parties (Code de déontologie). Moreover, we have relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, by taking implemented a quality control system that includes documented policies into consideration, where relevant, the sector’s best practices; and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable ethical rules, professional standards, laws and regulations. ● we verified that the Statement covers every category of information required under Article L. 225-102-1, Paragraph III concerning social and environmental matters as well as respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; (1) ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information 54 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY ● we verified that the Statement presents the disclosures required under ● we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our Article R. 225-105, Paragraph II, of the French Commercial Code if understanding of all companies within the consolidation scope. they are relevant given the main risks or policies presented, and – if We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional applicable – an explanation of the reasons for the non-disclosure of judgment, is suffi cient to provide a basis for our limited assurance the information required under Article R. 225-102-1, Paragraph III, opinion. A higher level of assurance would have required us to carry second sub-paragraph; out more extensive procedures. ● we verified that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks relating to the activity of all companies in the consolidation MEANS AND RESOURCES scope, including – if relevant and proportionate – risks due to its business relationships, products or services, as well as policies, Our work drew on the skills of three individuals and was conducted actions and outcomes, including key performance indicators for the between January and March 2020 for a total working time of two main risks; weeks. ● we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to: We conducted a dozen interviews with the individuals responsible for ● obtain an understanding of the process for selecting and validating preparing the Statement, including representatives of the Safety Quality, the main risks, and assess the consistency of the outcomes and key performance indicators with the main risks and policies presented, Legal & Compliance, and Human Resources Departments. 3 and OPINION ● corroborate the qualitative disclosures (actions and outcomes) that we deemed the most important (see Appendix 1). Our procedures Based on our work, we have no material misstatements to report were carried out at Assystem’s headquarters; that would call into question the compliance of the Non-Financial ● we verified that the Statement covers all companies in the consolidation Performance Statement with the applicable regulatory provisions, or scope in accordance with Article L. 233-16 within the limits specified the fair presentation of the Information, taken as a whole, in accordance in the Statement; with the Guidelines ● we obtained an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and assessed COMMENTS the data collection process implemented by the Company to ensure Without qualifying our opinion, in accordance with Article A. 225-3 of the completeness and fair presentation of the Information; the French Commercial Code, we draw your attention to the following ● for key performance indicators and the other quantitative outcomes matters: that we considered the most important (see Appendix 1), we applied: ● the information systems security policy only covers France, representing ● analytical procedures to verify that collected data is correctly 74% of the Group’s total workforce. No key performance indicator is consolidated and that any changes to the data are consistent, presented for this policy due to the sensitive nature of this information. ● sample-based detailed testing procedures to verify that definitions and procedures are correctly applied and to reconcile data with supporting documents; the work was carried out at the level of AEOS France and covered between 51% and 100% of the consolidated data selected for these tests; Paris La Défense, 18 March 2020 The Independent Third Party Mazars SAS Edwige Rey CSR & Sustainable Development Partner ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 55 56 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4.1 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 59 4.2 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE 4.1.1 Members of the Board of Directors 59 OFFICERS 71 4.1.2 Conditions for the preparation and organisation of the work of the Board of Directors 69 4.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 79 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 57 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In June 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors decided to change Assystem’s governance structure is also intended to simplify the decisionits corporate governance reference framework from the AFEP/MEDEF making process, accelerate the implementation of the Group’s strategy, corporate governance code to the Middlenext corporate Governance strengthen the accountability of the Board of Directors, and create close Code as revised in September 2016 (the “Middlenext Code”). ties between the Board and Management. The Company considers that its practices comply with the In addition, the Board has two specialised Committees – an Audit recommendations in the Middlenext Code. Committee and a Nominations and Compensation Committee. The existence of these two Committees strengthens the balance of power On 22 May 2014, Assystem was converted into a société anonyme within the Company. (public limited company) with a Board of Directors chaired by Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO. At the date of this Universal Registration Document, the Group’s executive management team was headed by Dominique Louis (Chairman & CEO) The Board of Directors is guided in its work by its Rules of Procedure and also comprised Philippe Chevallier (CFO & Deputy CEO) and which define how it is organised and operates, as well as an Insider Stéphane Aubarbier (Chief Operating Officer). Trading Compliance Code. The Board regularly reviews its Rules of Procedure to ensure that they are constantly in compliance with the This report is made up of three Sections: (i) Section 4.1, relating to the applicable laws and regulations. The Board’s most recent update to the Board of Directors, (ii) Section 4.2, which sets out the compensation Rules of Procedure was on 27 June 2019, notably in order to reflect policy applicable to the corporate offi cers (1) and the report on the the new corporate Governance Code used by the Company as its corporate officers’ 2019 compensation, and (iii) Section 4.3, which reference framework for corporate governance matters. describes the terms and conditions for participating in General The Group’s governance structure – which was adopted based on the Shareholders’ Meetings as well as related-party agreements. industry benchmark – is in line with SBF 250 best practices. It offers All of the information required in a corporate governance report is a form of governance that is tightly structured around Management, cross-referenced in the table in Chapter 8 of this Universal Registration acting under the oversight of three independent directors who ensure a Document, indicating the related Chapter and page numbers. balance of power. This balance is enhanced by the fact that the powers of the Chairman & CEO and the CFO & Deputy CEO are delineated by the Rules of Procedure and the appointment decisions that fall within the remit of the Board. (1) For the purposes of this document, the term “corporate officer” means a director or officer of the Company. The term “executive officer” means a corporate officer who has an executive role within the Company and who may or may not be a member of Assystem’s Board of Directors. At 31 December 2019 Assystem had two executive officers: Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO and Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO. 58 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4.1 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4.1.1 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4.1.1.1 General information MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Dominique Louis Nathalie Font Chairman & CEO Employee representative director and a director MC Conseil Gilbert Lehmann (Michel Combes) Independent director Non-voting Board member X4 4 Virginie Calmels Miriam Maes Independent director Independent director X4 X Audit Committee 4 Nominations and Compensation Committee ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 59 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUMMARY TABLE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Nominations and Male/ Start of first term End of current term Number of years Compensation Age Female of office of office on the Board Audit Committee Committee Directors* Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO 68 M 4 February 1994 2020 AGM 25 Gilbert Lehmann 74 M 3 May 2004 2020 AGM 15 Chairman x Miriam Maes 63 F 12 May 2011 2020 AGM 9 x Chair Virginie Calmels 48 F 9 March 2016 2020 AGM 4 Nathalie Font 49 F 14 December 2018 2022 AGM 1 Non-voting Board member MC Conseil** N/A N/A 27 June 2019 2024 AGM 0 * At its meeting on 22 January 2020, the Board appointed Vincent Favier as a director to replace Tikehau Capital which resigned on 15 November 2019. The shareholders will be asked to ratify this appointment at the 26 June 2020 Annual General Meeting. ** At the 26 June 2020 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders will be asked to elect MC Conseil as a director, which would automatically result in its resignation as a non-voting Board member. SUMMARY OF EACH DIRECTOR’S ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS IN 2019 During the year ended 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors met seven times, the Audit Committee met six times and the Nominations and Compensation Committee met twice. Nominations and Board of Directors’ Audit Committee Compensation Attendance rates of each director in 2019 meetings meetings Committee meetings Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO 86% N/A N/A Gilbert Lehmann 100% 100% 100% Miriam Maes 100% 100% 100% Virginie Calmels 100% N/A N/A Nathalie Font 100% N/A N/A Tikehau Capital, represented by Vincent Favier 86% 86% 100% NUMBER OF DIRECTORS GENDER BALANCE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-17 of the French At 31 December 2019, the Board’s membership structure complied with Commercial Code, the Board comprises a minimum of three and a the requirement of French Act 2011-103 of 27 January 2011 relating maximum of eighteen members, elected for a renewable three-year term. to gender equality in the workplace and in particular concerning gender balance on corporate boards. At 31 December 2019, the Board comprised six members: ● Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO; INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS ● Gilbert Lehmann, independent director, Chairman of the Audit The Middlenext Code states that in order for a director to be deemed Committee and member of the Nominations and Compensation independent they must not: Committee; ● be – or have been in the past five years – an employee or executive ● Miriam Maes, independent director, member of the Audit Committee officer of the Company or any other Group entity; and Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee; ● have – or have had in the past two years – signifi cant business ● Virginie Calmels, independent director; relations with the Company or the Group (as a client, supplier, ● Nathalie Font, employee representative director; competitor, service provider, creditor, banker, etc.); ● MC Conseil, non-voting Board member, represented by Michel ● be a major shareholder of the Company or hold a significant Combes. percentage of its voting rights; 60 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ● have close links or close family ties to a corporate officer or major At its meeting on 9 March 2020, based on the recommendation of shareholder of the Company; or the Nominations and Compensation Committee issued following its ● have been a Statutory Auditor of the Company in the past six years. Committee Meeting held on that same day, the Board assessed the independence status of its members based on each of the above criteria. The Board’s conclusions are set out in the table below(1): Dominique Miriam Gilbert Virginie Nathalie MC Louis Maes Lehmann Calmels Font Conseil* Is not – or has not been in the past five years – an employee or executive officer of the Company or any other Group entity x x x x Has not – or has not had in the past two years – significant business relations with the Company or the Group (as a client, supplier, competitor, service provider, creditor, banker, etc.) x x x x x x Is not a major shareholder of the Company and does not hold a significant percentage of its voting rights x x x x Does not have close links or close family ties to a corporate officer or major shareholder of the Company x x x x Has not been a Statutory Auditor of the Company in the past six years x x x x x x Not Not Not Independence status independent Independent Independent Independent independent independent * MC Conseil was a non-voting Board member at 31 December 2019. The membership structure of the Board of Directors therefore complies Company’s securities and to refrain from trading in any of the Company’s 4 with the Middlenext Code which recommends that corporate boards securities they hold in a personal capacity during the closed periods should contain at least two independent directors. specified in the applicable regulations. In addition, the Audit Committee and the Nominations and Compensation The procedures for applying these trading rules are described in the Committee are both chaired by independent directors. Company’s Insider Trading Compliance Code. Each corporate officer is required to declare in writing that they have read this Code. In RESPONSIBLE DIRECTORS addition, each year the Company informs its corporate officers of the Conflicts of interest dates on which it intends to publish quarterly and half-yearly financial The Company is not aware of any potential conflicts of interest between information and the associated closed periods. the directors’ and executive managers’ duties to Assystem and their own This process applies to all of the Group’s key personnel who have personal interests and/or other obligations. access to inside information. Furthermore, to the best of the Company’s knowledge, none of its DIVERSITY POLICY corporate officers: The Board regularly assesses whether its own membership structure and ● has been convicted of fraud in the past five years; that of its Committees is balanced in view of the Company’s ownership ● has been associated with a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation structure and in terms of the diversity of the profiles of the Board and in the past five years; Committee members. At 31 December 2019, three of the Board’s ● has been publicly and officially incriminated and/or sanctioned by members were women (including one non-French member) and three statutory or regulatory authorities (including professional bodies); were men, including the non-voting member. Almost all of the Board’s members have experience working for an international structure and the ● has been disqualifi ed by a court from acting as a member of an aim is for the Board to achieve a balance between experience, skills, administrative, management or supervisory body of an issuer or from independence and ethics. taking part in the management or conduct of the business of any issuer in the past five years. The directors are selected based on the above criteria, and notably Lastly, there are no family ties between the members of the Board of for their experience and skills (particularly in terms of managing Directors. large international groups, understanding of specifi c issues related to Assystem’s business, knowledge of the Company’s markets, and Insider Trading Compliance Code financial skills). In compliance with the General Regulations of the Autorité des marchés Thanks to this balanced structure, the Board’s discussions and decisionfinanciers (AMF – the French securities regulator), members of the Board making processes are of the highest quality. of Directors are required to disclose any trades they carry out in the ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 61 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHANGES ON THE BOARD At its meeting on 22 January 2020, acting on the recommendation of The following changes to the Board’s membership took place in 2019: the Nominations and Compensation Committee, the Board appointed Vincent Favier as a director to replace Tikehau Capital, which had stood ● on 27 June 2019, two non-voting members were appointed: MC down. At the 26 June 2020 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders Conseil, represented by Michel Combes, and Tikehau Investment will be asked to ratify this appointment and elect Vincent Favier as a Management, represented by Henri Marcoux; director. ● on 15 November 2019, Tikehau Capital (represented by Vincent At the same meeting, shareholders will also be asked to elect Pierre Favier) resigned as a director, and Tikehau Investment Management Guénant, Julie Louis and MC Conseil (represented by Michel Combes) (represented by Henri Marcoux) resigned from its position as a nonas directors of the Company. voting Board member. 4.1.1.2 Information about the Company’s corporate officers DOMINIQUE LOUIS Chairman & CEO, Chairman of the Board of Directors and a director of Assystem Born in 1951 Profile A French national • A qualified engineer (ENSEM), Dominique Louis began his career as a test engineer with Atem, a company specialised in industrial and nuclear engineering. Business address: Several years later he created the company R’Data and subsequently, Alphatem, Assystem – Tour Égée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 a subsidiary formed jointly with Cogema. The amalgamation of Atem, R’Data and Alphatem gave rise to the creation of Assystem in 1994. Dominique Louis Courbevoie, France oversaw Assystem’s IPO in 1995 and since the Company’s formation has served as the Chairman of the Management Board and subsequently as the Chairman Date re-appointed as Chairman & CEO and re-elected as a director: of the Board of Directors. 16 May 2017 • Dominique Louis is a Knight of the French Legion of Honour. End of current term of office: Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements. At 31 December 2019, Dominique Louis held an indirect interest in the Company’s share capital as described in Chapter 1, Section 1.5 of this Universal Registration Document. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices posts Group companies Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Chairman & CEO and a director Assystem* None Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France Director Assystem Solutions DMCC None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Permanent representative of HDL as Chair HDL Development None Chairman HDL SAS Offices and posts held outside France Chairman Entreprises en Croissance SAS (EEC) None Chairman CEFID SAS Joint Legal Manager – Chairman of the Management Board H2DA Sarl Legal Manager SCI Les Grives Comtadines Observer Framatome Member of the Supervisory Board Expleo Group Offices and posts held outside France None * Listed company. 62 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER CFO & Deputy CEO Born in 1958 Profile A French national • A graduate of ESSEC Business School and Sciences Po, Philippe Chevallier began his career at Usinor (later ArcelorMittal) where he was director of Business address: financing and director of mergers & acquisitions. Assystem – Tour Égée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 • He subsequently held the post of Chief Financial Officer at Elior for 12 years, managing refinancing and equity transactions as well as acquisitions and Courbevoie, France divestments. After working as a senior adviser at the financial consulting firm June Partners, he was appointed CFO and General Counsel at Assystem on Date appointed as CFO & Deputy CEO: 5 June 2015 5 January 2015. End of current term of office: • Since 5 June 2015, Philippe Chevallier has been Assystem’s CFO & Deputy Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 CEO. financial statements. At 31 December 2019, Philippe Chevallier did not hold any Assystem shares. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group companies Offices and posts Group company 4 Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France CFO & Deputy CEO Assystem* None ASG Assistance Sécurité et Offices and posts held outside France Chairman Gardiennage None Chairman Bâtir Conseils Offices and posts Non-Group company Non-voting Board member Expleo Group Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held outside France None Director Assystem Solutions DMCC Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts Non-Group company None Offices and posts held in France None Offices and posts held outside France None * Listed company. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 63 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GILBERT LEHMANN A director of Assystem, Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Born in 1945 Profile A French national • After obtaining a degree in economic science and graduating from the Institut d’études Politiques in Paris, Gilbert Lehmann worked in several posts in the Business address: public banking sector before joining the Framatome Group in 1983, where he served as director of financing and corporate treasury, and then CFO (from Assystem – Tour Égée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 1990 to 1996) and Deputy CEO (from 1996 to 2001). He was subsequently Courbevoie, France appointed Deputy CEO of Areva when Areva was incorporated in 2001, a post he held until 2008. Date re-elected as a director: 16 May 2017 • Gilbert Lehmann has held several directorships in listed companies in France End of current term of office: and the United States. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 • He is also a director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Cadogan Plc and was a member of Assystem’s Supervisory Board from 2003 to 2014. financial statements. At 31 December 2019, Gilbert Lehmann held two Assystem shares. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director – Chairman of the Audit Committee – None member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director – Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors – member of the Audit Committee Eramet* Managing Partner Gilbert Lehmann Conseil Director Framapar* Offices and posts held outside France Director CNS Director – Chairman of the Audit Committee Cadogan Plc (London)* Chairman of the Supervisory Board Lina’s Developpement * Listed company. Offices and posts held outside France Director ST Microelectronics Holding BV Chairman and a director Sepi – Switzerland * Listed company. 64 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MIRIAM MAES A director of Assystem, member of the Audit Committee and Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Born in 1956 Profile A Dutch national • Miriam Maes holds a Business Administration degree from Nyenrode Business Universiteit in the Netherlands. She has 30 years’ experience of working for Business address: multinationals, more than 20 of which spent managing national and international profit centres. Assystem – Tour Egée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 • Miriam Maes began working in the energy sector in 2002, initially at Texas Courbevoie, France Utilities (TXU) as a member of the European Executive team and later at EDF where she served as Chief Operating Officer in charge of non-regulated Date re-elected as a director: 16 May 2017 networks and decentralised energy business. End of current term of office: • In 2007 she took on the role as Chair of Foresee, a consulting firm specialising Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 in sustainable development and energy management for businesses. financial statements. • In 2010 she was appointed as an adviser to the UK Secretary of State for Energy & Climate Change with the specific task of supporting the UK government’s At 31 December 2019, Miriam Maes did not hold any Assystem public sector energy and carbon emissions reduction programmes. shares. • Miriam Maes is currently Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Rotterdam and a director of Eramet and Urenco. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS 4 Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director, member of the Audit Committee and None Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director and Chair of the Audit Committee Vilmorin* Director, Offices and posts held outside France Chair of the Audit Committee and member of Sabien Technology Group Ltd the Compensation Committee Eramet* Chairman (United Kingdom) Offices and posts held outside France Non-executive director Elia System Operator – NV Chair of the Supervisory Board and member of Non-executive director Elia Asset – NV the Compensation Committee Port of Rotterdam Non-executive director Kiwi Power Ltd Director, member of the Audit Committee and Chair of the Sustainability Committee Urenco * Listed company. * Listed company. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 65 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS VIRGINIE CALMELS A director of Assystem Born in 1971 Profile A French national • Virginie Calmels began her career as an auditor with Salustro Reydel before becoming Chief Financial Officer of the Dutch start-up Sky Gate BV in 1999. Business address: She then joined the Canal+ group where she successively served as Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO and joint Chief Operating Officer between Assystem – Tour Egée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 2000 and 2002. Courbevoie, France • In 2003, Virginie Calmels was appointed CEO of Endemol France and was subsequently named Chair and CEO in 2007. She then became Chief Date re-elected as a director: 16 May 2017 Operating Officer of the Endemol group in 2012. She left the Endemol group End of current term of office: in 2013. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 • From 2013 to February 2017 she held the position of Chair of the Supervisory Board of Euro Disney of which she had been a member since 2011. She was financial statements. also an independent director of Technicolor from 2014 to 2016 and then a non-voting member of Technicolor’s Board from 2016 to 2017. At 31 December 2019, Virginie Calmels did not hold any Assystem • Virginie Calmels was Deputy Mayor of Bordeaux in charge of the Economy, shares. Employment and Sustainable Growth, and Vice-President of the Bordeaux Metropolitan Area from March 2014 until February 2019. • Since December 2015 she has been a regional councillor for the Nouvelle Aquitaine region. • Virginie Calmels has also been: – A director of Iliad (Free) since 2009. – Chair of SAS Shower Company since 2013, which itself is the Chair of SAS CVeducation (since January 2020). – Chair of the Strategy Committee of the Ouicare group since November 2019. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Director Assystem* None Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Chair SHOWer company SASU Eurodisney SCA and Eurodisney Chair of the Supervisory Board Associés SCA Director Iliad Chair of the Board of Directors EPA Bordeaux Euratlantique Chair of the Strategy Committee OuiCare group Centre d’étude et de Regional councillor for the Aquitaine Limousin Poitou-Charentes region Vice-President prospective stratégique (CEPS) Offices and posts held outside France Director MEDEF Paris None Director Technicolor SA * Listed company. Aéroport de Bordeaux Director Mérignac BGI Bordeaux Gironde Director Investissement Director Aerospace Valley Director Bordeaux Aéroparc SPL Director SAEML Régaz Offices and posts held outside France None 66 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS NATHALIE FONT Employee representative director on the Board of Directors of Assystem SA Born in 1970 Profile A French national • Having trained as an engineer at ESEM, Nathalie Font joined Assystem in 1996 (when it was still called Atem). Business address: • After spending two years in the technical operations unit as a Valves and Pumps Assystem – 10 Boulevard Ralli, 13008 Marseille cedex, France project manager, she joined Assystem’s Marseille office, working in the fields of engineering for nuclear power plants, decommissioning and environmental Date appointed as a director: 14 December 2018 protection within the Operations & Safety unit for pressurised water reactors (PWR). End of current term of office: • For ten years she was involved in operations management at the Marseille Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 office and oversaw the PWR Operations & Safety unit. financial statements. • In September 2019, Nathalie Font was appointed as Project Quality Engineer At 31 December 2019, Nathalie Font held 52 Assystem shares. for Assystem’s offices in Marseille and Lyon. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Employee representative director on the Board of Directors of Assystem SA Assystem* None Offices and posts held outside France 4 Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts Non-Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France None None Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None * Listed company. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 67 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MC CONSEIL, REPRESENTED BY MICHEL COMBES Limited company with a sole shareholder. Share capital €100. Registered office located at 3, rue de Téhéran, 75008 Paris, France. Registered with the Paris Trade and Companies Registry under no. 493,472,021. Non-voting member of the Board of Directors of Assystem SA Represented on Assystem SA’s Board of Directors by Michel Combes Business address: Profile Assystem – Tour Egée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 • MC Conseil provides consulting and assistance services to companies and other organisations, specifically in the domains of strategy, planning, organisation, Courbevoie, France management and internal control. Date appointed as a director by the Board: 27 June 2019 End of current term of office (subject to ratification of MC Conseil’s appointment as a director by Assystem SA’s shareholders at the 2020 Annual General Meeting): Annual General Meeting to be held in 2025 to approve the 2024 financial statements At 31 December 2019, MC Conseil held an indirect interest in the Company’s share capital via HDL Development, of which MC Conseil is an indirect shareholder. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Non-voting Board member Assystem* None Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France None Director HDL Development SAS Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France Member of the Business Advisory Committee McLaren None * Listed company. 68 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MICHEL COMBES Permanent representative of MC Conseil on Assystem’s Board of Directors Born in 1962 Profile A French national • A graduate of École Polytechnique, as well as École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications, and Paris Dauphine University, Michel Combes began his Business address: career at France Telecom. Assystem – Tour Egée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 • He then held several different posts, including in ministerial cabinets in the French government, before serving as Assystem’s Chief Executive Officer between Courbevoie, France 2001 and 2002. At 31 December 2019, Michel Combes held an indirect interest in the • Michel Combes subsequently continued his career in the telecommunications sector, holding executive positions in France Telecom, Télédiffusion de France Company’s share capital via HDL Development, of which MC Conseil (TDF), Vodafone and Alcatel-Lucent. In 2015, he was appointed Chairman of is an indirect shareholder. Numericable-SFR and Chief Executive Officer of Altice. • Michel Combes is currently Chief Executive Officer of Sprint, which he joined in 2018 as Chief Financial Officer. LIST OF OFFICES AND POSTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 LIST OF FORMER OFFICES AND POSTS HELD IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts Group company Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Permanent representative of MC Conseil as a None 4 non-voting Board member Assystem* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France None None Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts Non-Group companies Offices and posts held in France Offices and posts held in France Chief Executive Officer Alcatel Lucent* None Chief Executive Officer SFR-Numéricable* Offices and posts held outside France Offices and posts held outside France Director F5 Networks* Chief Executive Officer Altice Group Director and CEO Sprint* Director MTS Telecom * Listed company. * Listed company. 4.1.2 CONDITIONS FOR THE PREPARATION The Board has sole discretion for deciding how Assystem’s executive AND ORGANISATION OF THE WORK management should be carried out and who should head the executive OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS management team. This person, who is accountable to the Board, may be the Chairman of the Board or another individual appointed by the Board as Chief Executive Officer. 4.1.2.1 General information on the duties and work of the Board of Directors As stated at the beginning of this Chapter, the Board has two specialised Committees with advisory powers, tasked with studying and preparing In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the Board issues to be discussed and decided on by the Board. These Committees of Directors’ Rules of Procedure, the Board meets as often as required are: in the interests of the Company and at least four times a year. ● an Audit Committee, responsible for assisting the Board in carrying out The Board sets the strategic, economic and financial goals for Assystem’s its financial and audit-related duties and responsibilities. In particular, business activities and oversees their achievement. On the initiative this Committee’s roles include: of its Chairman, it examines all matters relating to the smooth running ● examining the half-yearly and annual parent company and of Assystem and makes all decisions – notably of a strategic nature consolidated financial statements, management reports and trading – regarding the Company, within the limits of the corporate purpose and earnings statements, and subject to the powers expressly vested in shareholders in General Meetings. ● verifying compliance with the accounting standards used for the parent company and consolidated financial statements, ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 69 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ● ensuring that the internal procedures for compiling and verifying the Company’s business activities, goals and challenges. They believed data are properly applied, that there were good-quality, regular discussions and contacts outside ● inspecting the quality and relevance of the information disclosed of Board meetings between the directors themselves and between the to shareholders, Board and the executive management team. ● examining the Company’s procedures for selecting its Statutory In 2019, the Board regularly organised discussions with representatives Auditors, particularly the way in which they are selected and the of Assystem’s operations teams in order to enhance its oversight of the underlying terms and conditions of their fees, and ensuring that Group’s business activities and overall strategy. the Statutory Auditors maintain their independence throughout the term of their engagement, 4.1.2.2 Work of the Board of Directors and the Board ● analysing the annual audit plans drawn up by the Statutory Auditors, Committees in 2019 ● reviewing the Board’s annual report on the Group’s risk exposure, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS particularly concerning financial and litigation risks, and significant The Board of Directors met six times in 2019 with a 95% average off-balance sheet commitments. attendance rate. ● A Nominations and Compensation Committee, responsible for: The main topics addressed by the Board during these meetings were: ● submitting proposals to the Board in relation to the election and reelection of Board members and the appointment or re-appointment ● recurring matters, including the parent company and consolidated of the Chairman & CEO, any future CEO and members of the Audit financial statements, the half-yearly financial statements, quarterly Committee (and the Committee is kept informed by the Chairman revenue, earnings and trading forecasts, the budget, executive of the Board about the appointment of other Group executives), compensation, the self-assessment of Board members, executive succession planning, the allocation of directors’ remuneration for their ● issuing recommendations to the Board on the overall amount for directorship duties, sureties, deposits and guarantees and reviewing directors’ remuneration to be submitted for approval at the Annual regulated related-party agreements and related-party agreements on General Meeting as well as on the methods used to calculate the routine transactions entered into on arm’s length terms; individual amounts allocated to the directors out of this overall sum, ● changes in the Group’s strategy and planned external growth ● issuing recommendations to the Board on the compensation of the transactions. Company’s executives. The Board’s work particularly covered the following: In order for the Board to properly perform its duties, prior to its meetings it is regularly and fully advised of matters submitted to it covering all ● on 22 July 2019, the Board decided to grant free shares to 91 agenda items, and particularly the running of the Company. In this Group employees; respect, the Board’s Rules of Procedure specify that: ● on 5 September 2019, the Board decided to grant free shares to ● it is the responsibility of the Chairman of the Board to decide on a Group manager. the agenda for each Board meeting and to send this agenda to all THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Board members in a timely fashion and by any appropriate means; The Audit Committee met six times in 2019 with a 94% average ● information about the agenda items must be sent on a timely basis attendance rate. to members prior to Board and Committee meetings; The main topics addressed by the Committee during these meetings ● in exceptional cases the Board is authorised to hold its meetings by were: videoconference or any other means of telecommunication. ● recurring matters including the forecast budget for the year, the parent In compliance with the Middlenext Code, the Board conducts regular company and consolidated financial statements, an analysis of risks assessments of its operating procedures, its organisation and its and the corresponding provisions, and the half-yearly and annual membership structure. financial reports for 2019; Accordingly, on 5 February 2019, a self-assessment questionnaire about ● the review of all draft financial press releases and analyst presentations. the Board was submitted to its members. The questionnaire covered the Board’s organisation and operating procedures, the relationship between During its meetings, the Committee’s work specifi cally covered the the Board and the executive management team, an appraisal of the following: Company’s governance, and an evaluation of individual contributions ● on 5 February 2019, it examined the 2019 budget and the draft to the work of the Board and its Committees. financial press release on 2018 revenue; In general, all of the directors thought that the Board’s organisation ● on 12 March 2019, it examined (i) the presentation of the annual was appropriate and in line with market practices. They felt that the parent company and consolidated financial statements for 2018 and presentations given and the discussions held demonstrated the Board’s the related accounting options selected, (ii) the Board of Directors’ spirit of cooperation and its collegiate nature. All of the directors draft management report for 2018 and significant events after the considered relations between executive management and the Board to be reporting date, (iii) the Board of Directors’ draft report on corporate good and most of the directors felt that they had a good understanding of governance, and (iv) the draft press release for the Group’s 2018 results and the draft of the related slideshow; 70 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS ● on 25 April 2019, it examined the draft financial press release on ● studied the principle of putting in place a performance share plan in first-quarter 2019 revenue as well as the related business review and 2019 and the related terms and conditions; reporting schedules at 31 March 2019; ● set the budget for directors’ remuneration for 2019; ● on 29 July 2019, it examined the draft financial press release on ● examined the independence criteria applicable to the members of first-half 2019 revenue and the related business review; the Board of Directors. ● on 5 September 2019 it examined the Group’s half-yearly Restrictions on the powers of the Chairman & CEO and the CFO & consolidated financial statements and half-yearly financial report at Deputy CEO 30 June 2019 as well as the draft press release and the draft of the The Company’s executive management team is headed by Dominique related slideshow; Louis, who was re-appointed as Chairman & CEO by the Board of ● on 29 October 2019, it examined the draft financial press release Directors at its meeting on 16 May 2017. At that same meeting the on third-quarter 2019 revenue as well as the related business review Board re-iterated its decision not to separate the roles of Chairman and and reporting schedules at 30 September 2019. Chief Executive Officer. In early 2020, the Audit Committee organised a meeting with the The Board has decided not to place any restrictions on the powers of Group’s Statutory Auditors without any members of the Group executive the Chairman & CEO other than the applicable statutory and regulatory team being present. restrictions and those set out in its Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure state that for internal procedural purposes, the Chairman & THE NOMINATIONS AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE CEO must obtain the Board’s prior authorisation before (i) carrying out The Nominations and Compensation Committee met twice in 2019 any acquisition or disposal or forming a joint venture where the total with a 100% attendance rate. value of the transaction exceeds €20 million, and (ii) carrying out any During these meetings, it: major internal restructuring(s). ● calculated and approved the variable compensation for the Company’s executive management team for 2018; The Company’s Articles of Association do not provide for any additional restrictions on the Chairman & CEO’s powers. 4 ● determined the criteria for setting the variable compensation of the On 5 June 2015, the Board decided that in his capacity as CFO & Company’s executive management team for 2019; Deputy CEO, Philippe Chevallier would have the same powers vis à vis ● drew up the information to be included in the shareholders’ say on third parties as the Chairman & CEO. However, for internal procedural pay votes; purposes, Mr. Chevallier has the powers set out in the Board’s Rules of Procedure, it being specified that his scope of responsibility is limited ● examined executive succession plans; to the Company’s financial, legal and compliance matters. 4.2 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Presentation of the say on pay procedure ● in application of Article L. 225-100 III of the French Commercial Code, an ex post vote by the shareholders at the Annual General The say on pay procedure in France was amended in 2019 by Meeting on the total compensation and benefi ts paid during, or French governmental order no. 2019-1234 of 27 November 2019 allocated for, the previous year to each executive officer. and Decree no. 2019-1235 of the same date, issued following Act no. 2019-486 of 22 May 2019 (known as the “Pacte Act”). This In order to make the resolutions as clear as possible, for the purpose of legislation also transposed into French law EU Directive no. 2017/828 the ex ante vote, the Company has voluntarily decided that at its Annual of 17 May 2017 (known as “SRD II”). General Meeting, as well as submitting the overall resolution on the compensation policy for corporate officers required under Article L. 225Following these amendments, the say on pay procedure now requires 37-2 of the French Commercial Code, it will also put forward specific the following: resolutions concerning the compensation policy for the Chairman & ● in application of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, CEO, the CFO & Deputy CEO and the non-executive directors. an ex ante vote by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the compensation policy for corporate officers for the current year, as 4.2.1 COMPENSATION POLICIES presented in the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance; FOR THE CORPORATE OFFICERS ● in application of Article L. 225-100 II of the French Commercial Code, an ex post vote by the shareholders at the Annual General The compensation policies for Assystem’s corporate officers are Meeting on the disclosures made pursuant to Article L. 225-37-3 I of defined by the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the French Commercial Code as presented in the Board of Directors’ the Nominations and Compensation Committee, and are submitted for report on corporate governance; shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting as required under the applicable regulations. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 71 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS The aim of these compensation policies is to ensure the Company’s The above-described compensation policy for non-executive directors long-term future by putting in place a compensation structure that is will be submitted to the shareholders for approval at the 26 June 2020 consistent with market practices so that Assystem can attract and retain Annual General Meeting (in the sixteenth and nineteenth resolutions), in high-quality profiles with the experience and expertise that will help the accordance with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code. Group to successfully implement its strategy. The compensation policies are in the Company’s best interests as they 4.2.1.2 2020 compensation policy for executive enable it to attract and retain talented corporate officers while being officers adapted to the level of responsibility of each one, as is the practice At 31 December 2019, the Company’s executive officers were: of comparable companies. They are also in line with the Company’s commercial strategy in view of the fact that executive officers’ ● Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO since 22 May 2014; compensation packages include variable compensation, which gives ● Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO since 5 June 2015. them an interest in the Group’s revenue and earnings. Principles and structure of the 2020 compensation As provided for under the applicable regulations, in exceptional policy for executive officers circumstances the Board of Directors may apply exceptions to the compensation policies described below. GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION POLICY 4.2.1.1 2020 compensation policy for the nonThe Board of Directors sets the general principles of the Company’s executive directors compensation policy for its executive offi cers, based on proposals put forward by the Nominations and Compensation Committee. This The compensation of Assystem’s non-executive directors is based on compensation policy takes into account the following principles: (i) the directors’ actual attendance at Board and Committee meetings and (ii) their level of responsibility. ● achieving a balanced structure between the various compensation components. To this end, the Nominations and Compensation At the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2019, the Company’s Committee must ensure that each compensation package is in the shareholders set the maximum total amount of remuneration payable Company’s best interests and that the underlying reasons for its to non-executive directors for their directorship duties at €200,000 components are disclosed; for 2019. ● ensuring that compensation packages are determined in a For the allocation of this overall remuneration among the individual comprehensive way, with all compensation components taken into non-executive directors for 2019, acting on the recommendation of the account for setting the overall amount; Nominations and Compensation Committee, on 12 March 2019, the Board of Directors decided on the following proportional weightings ● the Board of Directors and the Nominations and Compensation of remuneration based on each director’s responsibilities: Committee must take care to ensure that the interests of the executive management team are aligned with those of the Company’s ● Director (independent + Tikehau Capital) 1 shareholders; ● Member of the Audit Committee 1 +0.25 ● respecting the concept of comparability, whereby the Board of ● Chair of the Audit Committee 1 +1 Directors and the Nominations and Compensation Committee must ● Member of the Compensation Committee 1 +0.25 align executive officers’ compensation packages with market practices, taking into account each officer’s specific roles and responsibilities, ● Chair of the Compensation Committee 1 +0.5 the work they actually carry out and their performance; For the purpose of clarity, if a director holds several different Committee ● creating a clear framework. In other words, the Nominations and positions, the proportion allocated for their directorship is only counted Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors must ensure that once. the rules are straightforward, consistent and transparent and that the Absenteeism is taken into account in excess of one absence. If a performance criteria used correspond to the Company’s objectives director’s absentee rate is over 50% in any given year, they do not and are clear, exacting and – wherever possible – cover a suitably receive any directors’ remuneration for that year. long period; The remuneration due to the non-executive directors for their directorship ● complying with the principle of proportionality, namely striking the duties was paid in December 2019. right balance between the various compensation components and At its meeting on 9 March 2020, the Board of Directors decided that taking into account the best interests of both the Company and its at the upcoming Annual General Meeting it will ask shareholders to set stakeholders, as well as market practices and the performance of the aggregate maximum amount of remuneration payable to members of the executive officers; the Board of Directors for their directorship duties at €260,000 as from ● preventing conflicts of interest. Neither of the executive officers is a 2020. This increase is being proposed in order to take into account member of the Nominations and Compensation Committee; the new directors being put forward for election, which will raise the ● ensuring that the structure of the executive offi cers’ compensation total number of directors on the Board (fifteenth resolution). packages is consistent with the compensation and employment conditions of the Company’s employees. 72 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS STRUCTURE OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION PACKAGES FOR Variable compensation 2020 Dominique Louis does not receive any variable compensation for his The executive officers’ compensation packages comprise annual fixed roles as Chairman of the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer. and variable compensation, both of which are cash-settled (see below for details). Assystem’s executive officers do not receive any other form The above-mentioned agreements between HDL and HDL Development of compensation for the duties they perform and offices they hold within and between HDL Development and Assystem respectively provide for the Company or the Group. In certain highly specific circumstances, and (i) the payment by HDL Development to HDL of variable compensation in accordance with the principles set out in the Middlenext Code, the amounting to a maximum €800,000 (excl. VAT), and (ii) said variable Board may, on a discretionary basis, grant exceptional compensation compensation to be rebilled by HDL Development to Assystem. to any current or newly-appointed executive officers. In the same way At the Board of Directors’ meeting on 9 March 2020, acting on a as for variable compensation, the payment of any such exceptional recommendation issued on the same date by the Nominations and compensation would be subject to shareholder approval, as required Compensation Committee, the Board decided that HDL’s variable under Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code. compensation for 2020 would be based on two criteria, assessed by The executive officers may also be entitled to indemnities or benefits if reference to a pro forma scope of consolidation in order to neutralise the their duties are terminated, namely: effect of certain changes in the Group’s structure. These criteria are (i) the Company’s consolidated revenue, accounting for of two thirds of the ● a non-competition indemnity; maximum amount referred to below, and (ii) the Company’s consolidated ● a termination benefit. EBITA (including the share of profit of equity-accounted investees but If an executive officer is entitled to such an indemnity and/or benefit, excluding the share of profit of Expleo Group), accounting for one third in accordance with the recommendations of the Middlenext Code, the of said maximum amount. EBIT corresponds to operating profit (including aggregate amount payable may not exceed a cap corresponding to the share of profi t of equity-accounted investees whose business is two years’ worth of the fixed and variable compensation of the executive directly related to the business of the Company’s fully-consolidated officer concerned. entities) before share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains and losses 4 The Company’s compensation policy for its executive officers is regularly arising on business divestments, and non-recurring income and expenses adapted in line with market practices for listed companies. The structure resulting from unusual, atypical and infrequent events. of the executive officers’ compensation packages is reviewed each year by the Board of Directors – which sets the various components The amount actually payable in relation to these criteria will be of the packages based on the recommendations of the Nominations calculated on a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below and Compensation Committee – and will be submitted for shareholder which the criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. approval in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth resolutions of the the level at which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). The Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2020, in accordance fl oors and caps set for the criteria cannot be disclosed as they are with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code. strategically and financially sensitive. In accordance with the above-mentioned agreement between HDL 2020 COMPENSATION POLICY FOR THE CHAIRMAN & CEO and HDL Development, the total maximum amount of this variable Fixed compensation compensation for 2020 will be €800,000 (excl. VAT), unchanged Dominique Louis’ fixed compensation is set by the Board of Directors from 2019. The amount actually payable will be billed to Assystem based on recommendations issued by the Nominations and in accordance with the agreement between HDL Development and Compensation Committee. Assystem. Dominique Louis does not receive any fixed compensation for his role Long-term and exceptional compensation as Chairman of the Board of Directors or as Chief Executive Officer. Dominique Louis does not receive any compensation classified as “longFor the purposes of completeness, it should be noted that HDL and term”, such as performance shares, or any exceptional compensation HDL Development(1) have signed (i) a services agreement relating to in his capacity as a corporate officer of Assystem. HDL’s remuneration as Chair of HDL Development and (ii) a services agreement under which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL Directors’ remuneration Development involving strategy definition, management, organisation Dominique Louis does not receive any remuneration specifically for his and oversight for the Assystem Group (see Section 4.2.1.3. below). duties as a director of Assystem (formerly referred to as directors’ fees). Under this agreement, in 2019 HDL Development paid HDL fi xed compensation of €348,000 (excl. VAT), of which €174,000 (excl. VAT) was rebilled to Assystem in accordance with an agreement entered into between HDL Development and Assystem. (1) Dominique Louis owns 100% of HDL, which in turn controls HDL Development. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 73 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Compensation for termination of duties criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at ● Non-competition indemnity. which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). The floors and Dominique Louis is not eligible for any non-competition indemnity in caps set for the criteria cannot be disclosed as they are strategically connection with his corporate offi ce, as he is not subject to a nonand financially sensitive. competition clause. Philippe Chevallier may also receive additional compensation ● Termination benefit. amounting to a maximum of €60,000 for 2020 if the caps on the above performance criteria are exceeded. Consequently, the maximum Dominique Louis is not eligible for any termination benefit in connection aggregate potential amount of his variable compensation for 2020 is with his corporate office in the event of a forced departure from the €360,000. Company. The Board of Directors has also decided that if a new executive officer Employment contract were to be appointed, these same principles would apply to the variable Dominique Louis does not have an employment contract with the compensation of the person concerned. If the new executive officer Company. were appointed during the second half of a given year, the Board of Benefits in kind Directors may assess his or her performance on a discretionary basis. Dominique Louis has the use of a company car which represents a Long-term and exceptional compensation benefit in kind. Philippe Chevallier does not receive any compensation classifi ed Supplementary pension plan as “long-term”, such as performance shares, or any exceptional compensation in connection with any offices he holds within any Group Dominique Louis is not a member of an Assystem supplementary pension company. plan in his capacity as a corporate officer. Directors’ remuneration If a new Chairman & CEO were to be appointed or if these two positions were to be separated and a new Chief Executive Offi cer Philippe Chevallier does not receive any directors’ remuneration for any or Chairman of the Board of Directors appointed, the compensation directorships within the Group. principles described below in relation to the CFO & Deputy CEO would Compensation for termination of duties apply temporarily until a new compensation policy is approved by the ● Non-competition indemnity shareholders in accordance with the applicable legislation. Philippe Chevallier is not eligible for any non-competition indemnity in 2020 COMPENSATION POLICY FOR THE CFO & DEPUTY CEO connection with his position as a corporate officer of Assystem as he Fixed compensation is not subject to a non-competition clause. Philippe Chevallier receives annual gross fixed compensation of ● Termination benefit €336,000. On 9 March 2016, the Board of Directors agreed that if, for any Variable compensation reason, Philippe Chevallier’s term of office as CFO & Deputy CEO were to be terminated by the Company before the Annual General Meeting Philippe Chevallier receives annual gross basic variable compensation to be held in 2020 to approve the 2019 financial statements, then he of up to €300,000, depending on the achievement of objectives set would be entitled to a termination benefit of €500,000. The Board each year. felt that this benefit – which took retroactive effect from 5 June 2015 At the Board of Directors’ meeting on 9 March 2020, acting on a – was appropriate in view of the nature of Philippe Chevallier’s office. recommendation issued on the same date by the Nominations and Payment of this termination benefit was, however, subject to the following Compensation Committee, the Board decided that Philippe Chevallier’s conditions: variable compensation for 2020 would be based on two criteria, assessed by reference to a pro forma scope of consolidation in order ● the Statutory Auditors must have signed off on the consolidated to neutralise the effect of certain changes in the Group’s structure. These financial statements, without any reservations and within the legally criteria are (i) the Company’s consolidated revenue, accounting for two prescribed timeframe, throughout Philippe Chevallier’s term of office; thirds of the maximum amount referred to below, and (ii) the Company’s ● average ROCE (after standard-rate tax) must have amounted to at consolidated EBITA (including the share of profit of equity-accounted least 6% for the three financial years preceding his departure. investees but excluding the share of profit of Expleo Group), accounting The termination benefit was not payable in the event of gross negligence for one third of said maximum amount. EBIT corresponds to operating or wilful misconduct. profit (including the share of profit of equity-accounted investees whose business is directly related to the business of the Company’s fullyThis entitlement to a termination benefi t will not be renewed and consolidated entities) before share-based payment expense (free shares/ therefore Philippe Chevallier will no longer be eligible for the payment performance shares and stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains of a termination benefit in the event of a forced departure from the and losses arising on business divestments, and non-recurring income Group as from the 2020 Annual General Meeting. and expenses resulting from unusual, atypical and infrequent events. Employment contract The amount payable in relation to these criteria will be calculated on Philippe Chevallier does not have an employment contract. a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below which the 74 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Benefits in kind General Meeting are required to vote each year on (i) the disclosures Philippe Chevallier has the use of a company car which represents made pursuant to Article L. 225-37-3 I of the French Commercial Code, a benefi t in kind. Previously, he was covered by an unemployment notably relating to the total compensation and benefits paid during, insurance policy specifically set up for executive officers but this policy or allocated for, the previous year to all of the Company’s corporate was not renewed for 2020. officers, and (ii) the total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated for, the previous year to each executive officer. Supplementary pension plan Philippe Chevallier is not a member of an Assystem supplementary Consequently, at the 26 June 2020 Annual General Meeting, pension plan. shareholders will be asked to vote in favour (in the twentieth, twentyfi rst and twenty-second resolutions) of the following components of If one or more new Deputy CEOs were to be appointed, the principles compensation paid during, or allocated for, 2019 to the Company’s applicable to the CFO & Deputy CEO would apply for determining their corporate officers. compensation policy, although the amount could vary depending on the profile, experience and level of responsibility of the new Deputy CEO. COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION PAID DURING, OR ALLOCATED FOR, 2019 TO THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 4.2.1.3 Report on the corporate officers’ compensation The components of compensation paid during, or allocated for, 2019 for 2019 to the Company’s non-executive directors – which will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the 26 June 2020 Annual General Meeting In accordance with the new provisions of Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225in accordance with Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code 100 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders at the Annual – are as follows: Amounts paid during, or allocated Amounts paid during, or allocated Name Title for, 2018 (in €) for, 2019 (in €) Gilbert Lehmann Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the 69,107 69,231 4 Nominations and Compensation Committee Miriam Maes Director, Chair of the Nominations and Compensation Committee 53,750 53,846 and member of the Audit Committee Tikehau Capital Director, member of the Audit Committee and member of the 46,071 43,077 Nominations and Compensation Committee Virginie Calmels Director 30,714 30,769 Total 199,643 196,923 COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION PAID DURING, OR ALLOCATED FOR, agreement provided for the payment of variable compensation for 2019 2019 TO DOMINIQUE LOUIS AND PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER representing up to €800,000 (excl. VAT). As stated in the agreement DOMINIQUE LOUIS entered into between HDL Development and Assystem, if earned, this Following the formation of HDL Development and its successful takeover variable compensation was to be rebilled to Assystem, with its amount bid for Assystem shares, two related party agreements were signed on based wholly on Assystem’s consolidated EBITA (including the share 1 April 2014 between HDL and HDL Development: of profit of equity-accounted investees but excluding the share of profit of Expleo Group). The amount actually payable was determined on ● a services agreement relating to HDL’s compensation as Chair of a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e., the level below which the HDL Development. In 2019, €200,000 (excl. VAT) was paid to HDL criterion was deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level under this agreement; at which the criterion was deemed to have been fully met), it being ● a services agreement (amended on 1 October 2014, 29 April 2015, specified that EBITA corresponds to operating profit (including the share 7 March 2017 and 15 March 2018) under which HDL undertook of profit of equity-accounted investees whose business is directly related to provide services to HDL Development involving strategy definition, to the business of the Company’s fully-consolidated entities) before management, organisation and oversight for the Assystem Group in share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and return for compensation comprising a fixed and variable portion. stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains and losses arising on In accordance with this second agreement, HDL Development paid HDL business divestments, and non-recurring income and expenses resulting fixed compensation of €348,000 (excl. VAT) for 2019 (as for previous from unusual, atypical and infrequent events. years). Of this amount, €174,000 (excl. VAT) was rebilled to Assystem Acting on the recommendation of the Nominations and Compensation as provided for in an agreement signed between HDL Development Committee, and based on an analysis of the criterion that was set, at its and Assystem. meeting on 9 March 2020, the Board of Directors decided to award In addition, in application of the Board of Directors’ decision HDL variable compensation amounting to €423,000 (excl. VAT) for of 13 March 2019, taken on the basis of the Nomination and 2019. The payment of this variable compensation is subject to approval Compensation Committee’s recommendation of 12 March 2019, this of the twenty-first resolution that will be put the shareholders’ vote at the Annual General Meeting on 26 June 2020. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 75 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS No stock options or performance shares were awarded to Dominique At its 9 March 2020 meeting, acting on the recommendation of the Louis for 2019. Nominations and Compensation Committee, and based on an analysis of the criterion that was set, the Board of Directors decided to award PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER Philippe Chevallier variable compensation amounting to €300,000 for At its 9 March 2016 meeting, the Board unanimously decided to set 2019. The payment of this variable compensation is subject to approval Philippe Chevallier’s compensation as CFO & Deputy CEO as follows: of the twenty-second resolution that will be put the shareholders’ vote ● gross annual fixed compensation of €315,000; at the Annual General Meeting on 26 June 2020. ● gross annual variable compensation of up to €300,000 depending No stock options or performance shares were awarded to Philippe on the achievement of performance targets set each year. Chevallier for 2019. In application of the Board of Directors’ decision of 13 March 2019, taken on the basis of the Nominations and Compensation Committee’s Pay ratios for the executive officers in 2019 recommendation of 12 March 2019, Philippe Chevallier’s variable This Section of this report was drawn up pursuant to sub-section 6 of compensation for 2019 was based wholly on Assystem’s consolidated Article L. 225-37-3 I of the French Commercial Code. It presents, for EBITA (including the share of profit of equity-accounted investees but the past five years, the ratios between the total annual compensation excluding the share of profit of Expleo Group). The amount actually paid to the Company’s executive officers (including the amounts paid payable in relation to this criterion was determined on a straight-line to HDL via HDL Development) and (i) the average compensation of basis between a floor (i.e., the level below which the criterion was the Company’s employees, excluding the corporate officers (on a fulldeemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at which the time equivalent (FTE) basis) and (ii) the median compensation of the criterion was deemed to have been fully met), it being specified that Company’s employees, excluding the corporate offi cers (on an FTE EBITA corresponds to operating profit (including the share of profit of basis). equity-accounted investees whose business is directly related to the business of the Company’s fully-consolidated entities) before sharebased payment expense (free shares/performance shares and stock options), acquisition costs, capital gains and losses arising on business divestments, and non-recurring income and expenses resulting from unusual, atypical and infrequent events. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – Ratio – average median average median average median average median average median Executive employee employee employee employee employee employee employee employee employee employee officer compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation Dominique Louis N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* 1.85 1.92 1.38 1.39 Philippe Chevallier N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* 4.64 4.83 2.61 2.63 * In 2015, 2016 and 2017, the Company did not have any employees and the only compensation it paid was to the executive officers. 76 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Changes in compensation policies This Section of this report was drawn up pursuant to sub-section 7 of the average compensation of the Company’s employees excluding the Article L. 225-37-3 I of the French Commercial Code, and presents executive officers (on an FTE basis), and the pay ratios set out in the year-on-year changes in compensation, the Company’s performance, Section above, for the past five years: 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Annual compensation paid during the year Chairman & CEO Compensation €253,600 €253,600 €253,600 €253,600 €203,600 Change vs. previous year 0% 0% 0% -20% Ratio – average employee compensation N/A N/A 1.85 1.38 Change vs. previous year N/A N/A N/A N/A -25% Ratio – median employee compensation N/A N/A 1.92 1.39 Change vs. previous year N/A N/A N/A N/A -28% CFO & Deputy CEO Compensation €296,855* €571,196 €626,519 €635,959 €385,627 Change vs. previous year N/A* +10% +2% -39% Ratio – average employee compensation N/A N/A 4.64 2.61 Change vs. previous year N/A N/A N/A N/A -44% Ratio – median employee compensation N/A N/A 4.83 2.63 Change vs. previous year N/A N/A N/A N/A -46% Directors 4 Remuneration (formerly directors’ fees) €155,000 €193,846 €210,866 €199,643 €196,923 Change vs. previous year +26% +8% -5% -1% Company employees (FTE) Average compensation N/A N/A €137,184 €147,854 Change vs. previous year N/A N/A N/A N/A +8% Company performance EBITA N/A** €22.1m** €26.0m €26.6m €35.2m Change vs. previous year N/A** +18% +2% +32% * The CFO & Deputy CEO began his first term of office on 5 June 2015. He joined the Company on 1 January 2015 as CFO and Chief Legal Officer. The compensation presented for 2015 includes all of the compensation paid to him during the year. The variable compensation allocated to the CFO & Deputy CEO for 2015 was paid in 2016 and therefore in the table above is included in the compensation presented for 2016. ** 2016 EBITA corresponds to a pro forma EBITA figure restated to take into account the sale of the GPS division that took place in 2017. A pro forma EBITA figure for 2015 is not available. Summary of compensation paid during, or allocated Components of compensation of the Company’s for, 2019 to all of the Company’s corporate officers executive officers (disclosed in accordance with AMF recommendation no. 2014-14) The components of the compensation paid during, or allocated for, 2019, as set out in this Section 4.2.1.3, comply with the compensation The tables disclosing executive officers’ compensation, presented in policies which were approved by a very large majority of shareholders accordance with AMF recommendation no. 2014-14, are set out below. at the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting. The information contained in these tables was prepared by reference to the Middlenext Corporate Governance Code (revised version dated September 2016), which the Company adopted in June 2019 as its corporate governance reference framework in replacement of the AFEPMEDEF Corporate Governance Code. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 77 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS TABLE 1 – SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION DUE AND STOCK OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED TO EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO 2018 2019 Compensation due for the year (detailed in table 2) €253,600 €626,600 Valuation of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year None None Valuation of stock options granted during the year (detailed in table 4) None None Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year (detailed in table 6) None None Total €253,600 €626,600 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO 2018 2019 Compensation due for the year (detailed in table 2) €385,959 €635,627 Valuation of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year None None Valuation of stock options granted during the year (detailed in table 4) None None Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year (detailed in table 6) None None Total €385,959 €635,627 TABLE 2 – SUMMARY OF THE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER Amounts for 2018 Amounts for 2019 Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO Due Paid Due Paid Fixed compensation €250,000 €250,000 €200,000 €200,000 (paid by (i) HDL Development for HDL’s role as Chair of HDL Development and (ii) Assystem for Dominique Louis’ role as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Assystem) Variable compensation None None €423,000 paid None in 2020 for 2019* Exceptional compensation None None None None Directors’ remuneration None None None None Benefits in kind €3,600 €3,600 €3,600 €3,600 Total €253,600 €253,600 €626,600 €203,600 * Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting of 26 June 2020. Amounts for 2018 Amounts for 2019 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO Due Paid Due Paid Gross fixed compensation €315,000 €315,000 €315,000 €315,000 Variable compensation €50,000 paid in €300,000 paid in €300,000 paid in €50,000 paid in 2019 for 2018 2018 for 2017 2020 for 2019* 2019 for 2018 Exceptional compensation None None None None Directors’ remuneration None None None None Benefits in kind €20,959 €20,959 €20,627 €20,627 Total €385,959 €635,959 €635,627 €385,627 * Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting of 26 June 2020. 78 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TABLE 3 – REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY NON-EXECUTIVE TABLE 7 – PERFORMANCE SHARES THAT BECAME AVAILABLE DURING DIRECTORS THE YEAR FOR EACH EXECUTIVE OFFICER See Section 4.2.1.3 of this Universal Registration Document. None. TABLE 4 – STOCK OPTIONS AWARDED DURING THE YEAR TO EACH TABLE 8 – HISTORY OF STOCK OPTION AWARDS EXECUTIVE OFFICER None. None. TABLE 9 – STOCK OPTIONS AWARDED TO AND EXERCISED BY THE TABLE 5 – STOCK OPTIONS EXERCISED DURING THE YEAR BY EACH GROUP’S TEN EMPLOYEES (OTHER THAN EXECUTIVE OFFICERS) EXECUTIVE OFFICER WHO RECEIVED THE LARGEST NUMBER OF OPTIONS None. None. TABLE 6 – PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED TO EACH EXECUTIVE TABLE 10 – HISTORY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS OFFICER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN FORCE AT THE AWARD DATE None. None for the past three years. TABLE 11 – EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS, PENSION BENEFITS AND TERMINATION BENEFITS Eligible for compensation Eligible for compensation Supplementary pension in the event of termination under a non-competition Employment contract plan or a change in duties clause Executive officer Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Dominique Louis Chairman & CEO No No No No 4 Start of current term of office: 22 May 2014 End of current term of office: 26 June 2020 Philippe Chevallier CFO & Deputy CEO No No No No Start of first term of office: 5 June 2015 Renewal of term of office: 9 March 2020 End of current term of office: AGM to be held in 2023 to approve the 2022 financial statements 4.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The procedures for attending General Shareholders’ Meetings are Information on regulated related-party agreements and commitments is described in Chapter 6, Section 6.1 of this Universal Registration provided in Chapter 7 of this Universal Registration Document. Document. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 79 80 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.1 THE GROUP’S RESULTS 82 5.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT 5.1.1 Key figures 82 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 5.1.2 Revenue by division 82 5.1.3 Results of operations and financial position 82 5.1.4 Outlook for 2020 83 5.4 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130 Balance sheet 130 5.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Income statement 131 STATEMENTS 84 Notes to the parent company financial statements 132 5.2.1 Consolidated statement of financial position 84 5.4.1 Payment times 146 5.2.2 Consolidated income statement 86 5.4.2 Non-tax-deductible expenses 146 5.2.3 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 87 5.4.3 Five-year financial summary for Assystem SA 147 5.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows 88 5.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 89 5.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 5.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 81 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP’S RESULTS 5.1 THE GROUP’S RESULTS 5.1.1 KEY FIGURES Year-on-year In millions of euros 2019 2018 change Revenue 497.5 444.1 +12.0% Operating profit before non-recurring items – EBITA(1) 35.2 26.6 +32.3% % of revenue 7.1% 6.0% +1.1 pts Consolidated profit for the period(2) 27.9 19.9 +40.2% Net debt(3) 51.6 31.1 Dividend per share (in euros)(4) 1.00 1.00 (1) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) including share of profit of equity-accounted investees other than Expleo Group (€0.8 million in 2018 and €0.9 million in 2019). The Group’s first-time application of IFRS 16 had a €0.5 million positive impact on EBITA in 2019, adding 0.1% to EBITA margin. (2) Including profit attributable to non-controlling interests: €0.5 million in 2018 and €0.9 million in 2019. Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent therefore totalled €19.4 million in 2018 and €27.0 million in 2019. The Group’s first-time application of IFRS 16 had a €0.4 million negative impact on consolidated profit for 2019. (3) Debt less cash and cash equivalents and after taking into account the fair value of hedging instruments. The figure presented does not include lease liabilities recognized on the application of IFRS 16. (4) For 2019, the figure corresponds to the dividend that will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting on 26 June 2020. 5.1.2 REVENUE BY DIVISION Total year-on-yearIn millions of euros 2019 2018 change Group 497.5 444.1 +12.0% Energy & Infrastructure 446.2 391.3 +14.0% Staffing 43.8 44.2 -0.8% Other 7.5 8.6 Assystem’s consolidated revenue advanced 12.0% in 2019, breaking which solely affected the Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) division. EBITA down as 10.0% in like-for-like growth, a 1.0% increase due to changes margin widened considerably year on year, to 7.1% from 6.0%. in the scope of consolidation (consolidation of ASCO as from 1 October EBITA for the E&I division totalled €36.9 million (including the 2019 which operates in both the Nuclear and ET&I sectors) and a €0.5 million IFRS 16 impact) and EBITA margin was 8.3% (8.2% 1.0% positive currency effect. excluding IFRS 16), versus €27.3 million and 7.0% respectively in Revenue from the Energy & Infrastructure division climbed 14.0% to 2018. €446.2 million, with 12.2% like-for-like growth, a 1.2% favourable Staffing EBITA contracted to €1.2 million from €1.8 million in 2018 impact from changes in scope of consolidation and a 0.6% positive and its EBITA margin was 2.8% versus 4.0%. This division’s EBITA currency effect. Nuclear activities kept up a very brisk pace of growth, performance was adversely affected in 2019 by lower margins on its with revenue jumping 20.3% to €301.9 million (with 18.6% like-for-like highest-contributing contract. growth). Revenue for ET&I rose 2.9% to €144.3 million (with like-for-like growth of 0.9%). The Group’s “Holding company” expenses, net of the EBITA of the activities classified in the “Other” category, had a €2.9 million negative Revenue for the Staffing division edged down 0.8% to €43.8 million, impact on consolidated EBITA in 2019 versus a €2.5 million negative including a positive 4.1% currency effect. impact in 2018. Consolidated EBITDA (1)came to €48.4 million in 2019. Excluding 5.1.3 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND the impact of IFRS 16, it totalled €39.1 million (7.9% of revenue), FINANCIAL POSITION compared with €31.0 million in 2018 (7.0% of revenue). 5.1.3.1 Operating profit before non-recurring items 5.1.3.2 Operating profit and other income statement (EBITA) items Consolidated EBITA surged 32.3% to €35.2 million in 2019 from After taking into account €6.9 million in net non-recurring expense €26.6 million in 2018. The 2019 fi gure includes a €0.5 million for the year and €1.0 million in share-based payments, consolidated positive impact from the fi rst-time application of IFRS 16, “Leases”, operating profit totalled €27.3 million, versus €25.7 million in 2018. (1) EBITA before net depreciation expense and net additions to provisions for recurring operating items. 82 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP’S RESULTS Out of the overall net non-recurring expense figure for 2019, the bulk ● €22.2 million paid for acquisitions of shares and purchased goodwill – i.e. €6.1 million – corresponded to impairment losses recognised (including €7.0 million for ASCO and €12.5 million in additional against the residual goodwill of the Staffi ng division in view of its consideration on the stake acquired in Framatome); revenue and operating profit outlook. ● a €15.0 million dividend payment to Assystem’s shareholders; The contribution to Assystem’s consolidated profit by Expleo Group – in ● a €0.8 million net cash outfl ow for other movements, including which Assystem holds a 38.2% interest – was €13.6 million. This figure €2.4 million in dividends received on the Group’s stake in Framatome, breaks down as (i) €4.5 million for Assystem’s share of Expleo Group’s €1.7 million in interest paid on debt, €0.5 million paid out in relation profit taking into account a €6.0 million share of restructuring costs in to divested operations, and a net cash outfl ow for non-recurring France, Germany and the United Kingdom, and (ii) €9.1 million in income and expenses. coupons on Expleo Group convertible bonds Assystem recorded a net financial expense of €1.3 million in 2019, 5.1.3.4 Recommended dividend for 2019 including a €2.4 million dividend received by Assystem on its 5% stake At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2020, Assystem in Framatome. will recommend the payment of a dividend of €1.00 per share. If this After deducting €11.2 million in income tax expense, consolidated profit dividend is approved by the shareholders, it would represent a total for the period totalled €27.9 million, against €19.9 million in 2018. pay-out of €15 million(3). INFORMATION ON THE REVENUE AND EBITDA GENERATED IN 2019 BY EXPLEO GROUP 5.1.4 OUTLOOK FOR 2020 Revenue generated by Expleo Group in 2019 came in at On 9 March 2020, the Group communicated the following targets €1,084.1 million, versus €1,042.7 million in 2018. for 2020: The overall 4.0% year-on-year growth was almost entirely due to ● consolidated revenue of €530 million, excluding the effect of any changes in the scope of consolidation, notably the full-year effect in future acquisitions; 2019 of including the Quality Management Consulting segment (QMC, formerly SQS), which has been consolidated since 1 February 2018. ● EBITA margin on a par with 2019, with the operating leverage Expleo Group’s like-for-like growth was hampered in 2019 by the oneresulting from revenue growth offset by additional costs due to off effect of losing a contract in the aeronautics sector in the United the implementation of the Group’s new ERP system and IT security Kingdom and a change in QMC’s business mix. measures; Expleo Group’s EBITDA amounted to €128.2 million (including a €19.6 million positive impact of IFRS 16), compared with €99.0 million ● free cash flow representing 4.5% of revenue (excluding the IFRS 16 impact), taking into account further significant capital expenditure 5 on IT. in 2018. Excluding the IFRS 16 impact, EBITDA margin widened from 9.5% to 10.0% of revenue. In view of the business sectors and geographic regions in which the Group operates, it had not at that stage identified any potential 5.1.3.3 Free cash flow and net debt significant impacts of the Covid-19 epidemic on the achievement of its targets, although it did state that it could not provide assurance that At 31 December 2019, cumulative free cash flow(1) for the 24-month such an impact would not arise. period covering 2018 and 2019 totalled €61.3 million (breaking down On 20 March 2020, the Company issued a press release on the impact as €43.8 million for 2018 and €17.5 million for 2019, excluding the of Covid-19 – which had then become a pandemic – on Assystem’s positive impact of the application of IFRS 16 as from 1 January 2019). 2020 objectives. In this press release it stated that given the speed at This aggregate free cash flow figure represents 6.5% of total revenue which the pandemic was spreading, as well as the social distancing for the same 24-month period. The imbalance between the 2019 and and lockdown measures put in place by governments, particularly in 2018 fi gures mainly refl ects (i) the fact that a down payment was France, Assystem would not be in a position to meet the revenue, EBITA received for the K.A.CARE contract in late 2018, which was used in margin and free cash flow objectives for 2020 that it had announced 2019 and (ii) high capital expenditure incurred in 2019 for the Group’s on 9 March 2020. new ERP system and for strengthening its IT security (representing roughly €8.0 million in total). The press release went on to say that as the situation currently stood, Assystem was unable to measure the net impact on its consolidated Assystem had net debt of €51.6 million at 31 December 2019 versus revenue and earnings that will be caused by Covid-19, and by the €31.1 million at end-2018. This €20.5 million year-on-year increase measures taken in the Group’s various operating countries to halt the breaks down as follows: spread of the virus and alleviate its effects on companies. ● a €17.5 million decrease in debt as a result of free cash fl ow (2) (excluding the IFRS 16 impact); (1) Corresponding to net cash generated from operating activities less capital expenditure, net of disposals. The amount of free cash flow stated here does not include the free cash flow of the operations sold in 2017. (2) Free cash flow including the IFRS 16 impact amounted to €26.8 million. (3) Corresponding to €1.00 multiplied by the 14,997,576 outstanding shares carrying dividend rights at 31 December 2019. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 83 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Assystem will issue an update on this net impact as soon as it can be 2020, with the aim of enabling shareholders that wish to attend to do estimated with a sufficient degree of reliability. so. The per-share dividend for 2019 that will be put to the shareholder vote at this AGM will still be €1.00. If this dividend is approved, it will In addition, Assystem has decided to postpone its Annual General be paid in the first two weeks of July 2020. Meeting from its originally scheduled date of 14 May 2020 to 26 June 5.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS In millions of euros Notes 31/12/2019* 31/12/2018 Goodwill 3.3 84.6 82.8 Intangible assets 6.1 12.2 4.7 Property. plant and equipment 6.2 10.5 7.6 Right-of-use assets 1 34.4 Investment property 6.3 1.4 1.4 Equity-accounted investees 5.2 1.0 0.7 Expleo Group shares 6.4 91.2 88.1 Expleo Group convertible bonds 6.4 111.4 102.2 Expleo Group shares and convertible bonds 6.4 202.6 190.3 Other non-current financial assets 6.5 143.8 129.1 Deferred tax assets 12.3 4.5 4.7 Non-current assets 495.0 421.3 Trade receivables 5.1 160.8 150.8 Other receivables 5.1 30.0 40.6 Income tax receivables 1.6 1.1 Other current assets 0.5 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 29.2 32.4 Current assets 222.1 225.4 Total assets 717.1 646.7 * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 84 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES In millions of euros Notes 31/12/2019* 31/12/2018 Share capital 7.1 15.7 15.7 Consolidated reserves 353.7 351.6 Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 27.0 19.4 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 396.4 386.7 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.1 Total equity 396.7 386.8 Long-term debt and non-current financial liabilities 8.2 80.5 63.1 Lease liabilities 1 27.1 Pension and other employee benefit obligations 5.3.2 18.4 14.7 Liabilities related to share acquisitions 10 4.4 4.6 Long-term provisions 9.1 17.2 16.6 Other non-current liabilities 10 0.8 1.3 Deferred tax liabilities Non-current liabilities 148.4 100.3 Long-term debt and non-current financial liabilities 8.2 0.3 0.4 Lease liabilities 1 7.7 Trade payables 5.1 32.7 31.0 Due to suppliers of non-current assets 1.2 0.8 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 5.1 95.4 89.1 Income tax liabilities 2.7 2.2 Liabilities related to share acquisitions 10 1.1 Short-term provisions 9.1 3.0 3.7 Other current liabilities 5.1 29.0 31.3 Current liabilities 172.0 159.6 5 Total equity and liabilities 717.1 646.7 * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 85 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.2 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT In millions of euros Notes 2019* 2018 Revenue 5.1 497.5 444.1 Payroll costs 5.3.1 (351.2) (322.0) Other operating income and expenses 5.4 (97.7) (91.0) Taxes other than on income (1.1) (0.9) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 5.5 (13.2) (4.4) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) 5.6 34.3 25.8 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees 5.2 0.9 0.8 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 35.2 26.6 Non-recurring income and expenses 5.6 (6.9) (0.3) Share-based payments (1.0) (0.6) Operating profit 5.6 27.3 25.7 Share of profit/(loss) of Expleo Group 6.4 4.5 (6.2) Income from Expleo Group convertible bonds 6.4 9.1 8.3 Net financial expense on cash and debt 8.5 (1.8) (1.4) Other financial income and expenses 8.5 0.5 Profit from continuing operations before tax 39.6 26.4 Income tax expense 12 (11.2) (6.2) Profit from continuing operations 28.4 20.2 Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations (0.5) (0.3) Consolidated profit for the period 27.9 19.9 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 27.0 19.4 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.5 In euros Basic earnings per share 7.3 1.83 1.32 Diluted earnings per share 7.3 1.76 1.30 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 7.3 1.83 1.34 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 7.3 1.81 1.33 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 86 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.3 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME In millions of euros Notes 2019* 2018 Consolidated profit for the period 27.9 19.9 Items of other comprehensive income/(expense) that will not be reclassified to profit Remeasurement of net liability for employee benefit obligations 5.3.1 (2.6) 0.5 Income tax effect 0.3 (0.1) Remeasurement of the liability for employee benefit obligations (net of income tax effect) (2.3) 0.4 Items of other comprehensive income/(expense) that may be reclassified subsequently to profit Gains and losses on hedging instruments 8.3 (0.4) Income tax effect Gains and losses on hedging instruments (net of income tax effect) (0.4) Currency translation differences (0.4) (5.0) Total other comprehensive income/(expense) (2.7) (5.0) Total comprehensive income for the period 25.2 14.9 Attributable to owners of the parent 24.4 14.5 Profit for the period 27.0 19.4 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (2.6) (4.9) Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.8 0.4 Profit for the period 0.9 0.5 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (0.1) (0.1) * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 87 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In millions of euros Notes 2019* 2018 Cash flows from operating activities EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 35.2 26.6 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 5.5 13.2 4.4 EBITDA 48.4 31.0 Change in operating working capital requirement 5.1 8.1 31.5 Income tax paid (10.7) (4.8) Other cash flows (3.8) (7.4) Net cash generated from operating activities 42.0 50.3 O/w related to continuing operations 42.5 51.7 O/w related to discontinued operations (0.5) (1.4) Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of disposals, o/w: (15.8) (7.9) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.6 (16.0) (8.1) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.6 0.2 0.2 Free cash flow 26.2 42.4 O/w related to continuing operations 26.7 43.8 O/w related to discontinued operations (0.5) (1.4) Acquisitions of shares and purchased goodwill 3.2 (22.2) (4.8) Investment in Expleo Group in 2018 (60.7) Other movements, net 4.4 (7.9) Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (33.6) (81.3) O/w related to continuing operations (33.6) (81.3) O/w related to discontinued operations Cash flows from financing activities Net financial income received/(expenses paid) (1.7) (1.1) Proceeds from new borrowings 8.2 17.2 59.7 Repayments of borrowings and movements in other financial liabilities 8.2 (0.2) (0.1) Repayments of lease liabilities, including interest expense 1 (9.3) Dividends paid 7.4 (17.2) (15.7) Other movements in equity of the parent company 0.2 (5.9) Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (11.0) 36.9 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2.6) 5.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 8.1 32.1 27.3 Effect of non-monetary items and changes in exchange rates (0.4) (1.1) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2.6) 5.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at year-end 8.1 29.1 32.1 * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 88 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Remeasurement Equity of net liability Total other attributable for employee comprehensive Profit to owners NonShare Share benefit Hedging Translation income/ for the Other of the controlling Total In millions of euros capital premium obligations reserves reserve (expense) period reserves parent interests equity* At 1 January 2018 15.7 0.1 (5.5) (5.4) 404.1 (23.0) 391.4 0.3 391.7 Dividends paid (15.1) (15.1) (0.6) (15.7) Share-based payments and free share awards 0.4 0.4 0.4 Treasury share transactions (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) Total comprehensive income 0.4 (0.4) (4.9) (4.9) 19.4 14.5 0.4 14.9 Appropriation of prior-period profit (404.1) 404.1 Appropriation of items of other comprehensive income/ (expense) that will not be reclassified to profit (0.4) (0.4) 0.3 (0.1) (0.1) Transactions with noncontrolling interests without change of control 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other movements 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 15.7 (0.3) (10.4) (10.7) 19.4 362.3 386.7 0.1 386.8 Dividends paid (15.0) (15.0) (0.7) (15.7) Share-based payments and free share awards 1.0 1.0 1.0 Treasury share transactions (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) Total comprehensive income (2.2) (0.4) (2.6) 27.0 24.4 0.8 25.2 Appropriation of prior-period profit (19.4) 19.4 5 Appropriation of items of other comprehensive income/ (expense) that will not be reclassified to profit 2.2 2.2 (2.2) Transactions with noncontrolling interests without change of control (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) Other movements 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2019 15.7 (0.3) (10.8) (11.1) 27.0 364.8 396.4 0.3 396.7 * The Group applied IFRS 16 for the first time on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach. In accordance with this approach, comparatives for the 2018 reporting period have not been restated. The first-time application of this new standard had no impact on opening equity at 1 January 2019 (see Note 1 – Reporting entity and basis of preparation). The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 89 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.2.6 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS NOTE 1 REPORTING ENTITY AND BASIS OF PREPARATION 91 NOTE 7 EQUITY AND EARNINGS PER SHARE 113 7.1 Shares 113 NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 94 7.2 Treasury shares 113 NOTE 3 CONSOLIDATION, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 7.3 Earnings per share 114 AND GOODWILL 95 7.4 Dividend per share 115 3.1 Scope of consolidation 96 NOTE 8 FINANCING AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 115 3.2 Business combinations 96 8.1 Cash and cash equivalents 115 3.3 Goodwill 98 8.2 Debt and other financial liabilities 116 3.4 Impairment testing 99 8.3 Derivative instruments 117 NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 99 8.4 Net debt 117 8.5 Financial income and expenses 118 NOTE 5 OPERATIONAL DATA 101 8.6 Financial risk management 119 5.1 Revenue and working capital requirement (WCR) 101 5.2 Equity-accounted investees 103 NOTE 9 PROVISIONS 120 5.3 Payroll costs and employee benefit obligations 104 NOTE 10 LIABILITIES RELATED TO SHARE ACQUISITIONS 5.3.1 Breakdown of payroll costs in the consolidated income statement 104 (CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT) AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 121 5.3.2 Employee benefit obligations 105 5.3.3 Share-based payments 106 NOTE 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL 5.3.4 Related-party information 107 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 121 5.4 Other operating income and expenses 108 11.1 Accounting classification of financial assets and 5.5 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for liabilities 121 recurring operating items, net 108 11.2 Fair value hierarchy 122 5.6 Non-recurring income and expenses 108 NOTE 12 INCOME TAX 123 NOTE 6 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 109 12.1 Income tax recognised during the year 123 6.1 Intangible assets 109 12.2 Tax proof 123 6.2 Property, plant and equipment 110 12.3 Deferred taxes 124 6.3 Investment property 111 6.4 Expleo Group shares and convertible bonds 111 NOTE 13 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS 125 6.5 Non-current financial assets 112 NOTE 14 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS 6.6 Reconciliation of acquisitions of property, plant AFTER THE REPORTING DATE 125 and equipment and intangible assets recorded in the consolidated statement of cash flows 113 90 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 REPORTING ENTITY AND BASIS OF PREPARATION Reporting entity The Group has restated its leases relating to: The Assystem Group (hereinafter also referred to as the “Group”) is an ● real estate assets for which the lease and non-lease components had international leader in the field of engineering. not been separated; The Group’s parent company is Assystem SA (hereinafter also referred to ● vehicles for which a portion of the lease payments was allocated to as the “Company”) – a French public limited company (société anonyme) non-lease components (insurance, maintenance, etc.) governed by a Board of Directors, whose registered office is located at The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the Tour Égée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, 92400 Courbevoie, France. inception of a lease. The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at the present value of the remaining lease payments. Subsequent to initial The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December recognition, the asset is depreciated and impairment losses may also 2019, together with the accompanying notes, were approved by the be recognised. In addition, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset Company’s Board of Directors on 9 March 2020. They will be submitted may be adjusted in line with any remeasurements or reductions in the for approval by the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General lease liability. Meeting scheduled to be held on 26 June 2020. The Group exercised its judgement in determining the terms of its The consolidated financial statements reflect the accounting position leases, particularly for real estate leases. The term applied has a of Assystem SA and its subsidiaries. They are presented in millions of significant impact on the amount of the lease liability and right-of-use euros, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. asset recognised. For real estate leases, the term used for calculating the present value of lease payments corresponds to the longest term Basis of preparation within the enforceable period of a lease. In France, most leases for In compliance with Regulation 1606/2002/EC of the European office buildings have a nine-year term (known as “3/6/9” leases as Parliament and Council dated 19 July 2002, the consolidated financial they can be terminated by the lessee after three and six years). For statements of the Assystem Group for the year ended 31 December this type of lease, the Group considers that it is reasonably certain the 2019 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial entities concerned will not exercise their early termination options, and Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and related interpretations as adopted by therefore uses the residual term based on the initial nine-year lease the European Union at that date. These financial statements present period. For vehicle leases, the lease term corresponds to the duration two years of data. provided for in the lease contract. 5 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union differ in certain respects from The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of lease IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The Group nevertheless ensured that the payments due at the commencement date of the lease contract. The fi nancial information for the reported periods would not have been discount rates used to calculate the lease liability for both real estate substantially different had it applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB. and vehicle leases correspond to the Group’s incremental borrowing rate, i.e. the fixed interest rate the Group would have to pay to borrow NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING STANDARDS AND the funds to purchase the underlying asset rather than leasing it. INTERPRETATIONS WHOSE APPLICATION WAS MANDATORY FROM 1 JANUARY 2019 The carrying amount of the lease liability is subsequently increased to IFRS 16, “Leases” reflect the interest expense on the liability (recognised in the income IFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17, introduces a single lessee accounting statement under “Other financial income and expenses”) and reduced model, with leases recognised on balance sheet. Lessees are required to by the amount of the lease payments made, which are expensed as recognise a right-of-use asset representing their right to use the underlying incurred by the Group’s consolidated entities. The carrying amount of the leased asset and a lease liability representing their obligation to make lease liability is remeasured to reflect any reassessments or changes in lease payments. future lease payments, particularly as a result of (i) a change in an index or (ii) revised estimates of lease payments due to a lessee exercising The Group elected to apply IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective an option to renew or early terminate a lease. approach and has therefore: In the statement of cash flows, lease payments that were presented ● recognised the cumulative impact of applying the standard for the under “Cash flows from operating activities” prior to IFRS 16 are now first time as an adjustment to equity at 1 January 2019; presented under “Cash fl ows from fi nancing activities” both for the ● not restated comparative information for 2018; amount allocated to the repayment of the lease liability and the amount ● not restated leases of low-value assets (whose value as new is less corresponding to interest paid. The impacts of remeasuring the lease than €5,000) and leases which are reasonably certain to have a liability are not shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows. term of less than 12 months. The corresponding lease payments are recognised in “Other financial income and expenses”. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 91 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impacts of IFRS 16 on the consolidated financial statements Transition impacts For the purpose of its transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognised right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities in its statement of financial position. This recognition had no material effect on opening equity at 1 January 2019. The impacts of the IFRS 16 transition are summarised below: In millions of euros 1 January 2019 Right-of-use assets related to real estate leases 24.7 Right-of-use assets related to other leases 5.1 Total right-of-use assets 29.8 Total lease liabilities 29.8 The lease terms used to measure leases in accordance with IFRS 16 are affects real estate leases. In addition, off balance-sheet commitments significantly different from those used for measuring the off-balance sheet were not discounted whereas IFRS 16 lease liabilities are. commitments presented in Note 13.1 – Operating leases in Chapter 5 The table below shows a reconciliation between the above-mentioned of the 2018 Registration Document. This is because the terms used off-balance sheet commitments and the amount of total lease liabilities prior to IFRS 16 only corresponded to the non-cancellable periods of at 1 January 2019. the commitments concerned. However, in practice, the difference only In millions of euros 1 January 2019 Off-balance sheet commitments for operating leases at 31 December 2018, as presented in Assystem’s consolidated financial statements 13.3 Lease extension options reasonably certain to be exercised 14.9 Discounting impacts and other 1.6 Total lease liabilities 29.8 Impact on the 2019 financial statements The first-time application of IFRS 16 has significantly affected the consolidated financial statements, and notably the main performance indicators used by the Group (EBITDA, EBITA and free cash flow). The impacts of applying IFRS 16 are shown below. Consolidated statement of financial position The Group has elected to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities (both the non-current and current portions) in separate lines of the statement of financial position. Movements in these items were as follows during 2019: In millions of euros Right-of-use assets Lease liabilities Carrying amount for real estate leases 24.7 24.7 Carrying amount for other leases 5.1 5.1 Impact at 1 January 2019 29.8 29.8 New leases 13.4 13.4 Depreciation (8.8) Lease payments made (9.3) Interest expense 0.9 Total carrying amount at 31 December 2019 34.4 34.8 Carrying amount for real estate leases 31.0 Carrying amount for other leases 3.4 92 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement Consolidated Consolidated income statement income statement excl. impact of In millions of euros reported Impact of IFRS 16 IFRS 16 EBITDA 48.4 9.3 39.1 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net (13.2) (8.8) (4.4) Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) 35.2 0.5 34.7 Non-recurring income and expenses, including share-based payments (7.9) (7.9) Operating profit 27.3 0.5 26.8 Share of profit of Expleo Group 4.5 4.5 Income from Expleo Group convertible bonds 9.1 9.1 Net financial expense on cash and debt (1.8) (1.8) Other financial income and expenses 0.5 (0.9) 1.4 Income tax expense (11.2) 0.1 (11.3) Consolidated profit for the period 28.4 (0.3) 28.7 Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated Consolidated statement of cash statement of cash flows excl. impact In millions of euros flows reported Impact of IFRS 16 of IFRS 16 Operating profit before non-recurring items (EBITA) 35.2 0.5 34.7 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net 13.2 8.8 4.4 EBITDA 48.4 9.3 39.1 Other cash flows related to operating activities Net cash generated from operating activities (6.4) 42.0 9.3 (6.4) 32.7 5 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of disposals (15.8) (15.8) Free cash flow 26.2 9.3 16.9 Other cash flows related to investing activities (22.2) (22.2) Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (38.0) (38.0) Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 2.7 (9.3) 12.0 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6.7 6.7 The other new standards, amendments and interpretations that were NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE applicable by the Group as from 1 January 2019 were as follows: ● IFRS 17, “Insurance Contracts”; ● amendments to IFRS 9, “Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation”; ● amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28, “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture”; ● amendments to IAS 28, “Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures”; ● amendments to IFRS 3, “Definition of a Business”; ● annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2015-2017 Cycle: Amendments ● amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8, “Definition of Material”; to IFRS 3, “Business Combinations”, IFRS 11, “Joint Arrangements”, ● amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS IAS 12, “Income Taxes”, and IAS 23, “Borrowing Costs”; Standards; ● amendments to IAS 19, “Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement”; ● amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7, “Interest Rate Benchmark ● IFRIC 23, “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments”. Reform”; The application of the above amendments and interpretations did not The Group does not expect its first-time application of any of the above have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. standards and amendments to have a significant impact on its financial statements in future years. PRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND YEAR-ON-YEAR COMPARISONS The presentation of the financial statements was the same for 2019 as for 2018. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 93 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAIN SOURCES OF UNCERTAINTY ARISING FROM USE OF JUDGEMENT, may differ from the amounts originally provisioned, and may have an ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS impact on future profit. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires Figures relating to provisions are presented in Note 9 – Provisions. the use of judgement, estimates and assumptions that can affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities and income and expenses. The impact of any changes in estimates is accounted for on Impairment of trade receivables a prospective basis. The estimates are made by Management based A lower recoverability rate for a receivable than initially estimated or a on the going concern principle using information available at the default by a major client could adversely affect the Group’s future profit. reporting date. They may change, however, due to circumstances or Figures relating to impairment of trade receivables are presented in new information that could require a reconsideration of the context in Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital requirement. which they were prepared. Actual results may therefore differ from the estimates. The random nature of certain estimates may make it difficult to ascertain the Group’s economic outlook, particularly in relation to Deferred taxes asset impairment tests (see Note 3.3 – Goodwill). Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carryforward of unused tax The accounting items that are the most exposed to the risk of estimation losses and unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences uncertainty are described below. only to the extent that it is probable that the Company and/or its subsidiary(ies) concerned will have sufficient future taxable profit against Recognition of revenue from fixed-price contracts which the unused tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences can be utilised. As explained in Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital requirement, In assessing whether it will have suffi cient taxable profi t to recover revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognised using the percentagedeferred tax assets, the Group takes into account forecasts of future of-completion method. taxable profits, non-recurring expenses included in past losses which The percentage of completion and the revenue to be recognised should not be incurred again in the future, and its past history of taxable depends on numerous estimates based on the monitoring of contract profit for prior years. costs and past experience. The assumptions used and estimates of costs Figures for deferred taxes related to unused tax losses and temporary to completion may be updated throughout the life of the contract, which differences are presented in Note 12.3 – Deferred taxes. could significantly impact future profit. Provisions for losses on completion of contracts and Goodwill impairment project warranty costs The estimates used in the assumptions for calculating goodwill impairment are set out in Note 3.4 – Goodwill impairment testing. Provisions for expected losses on engineering contracts may be recognised when applying the percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 37 (see Note 5.1 – Revenue and working capital Employee benefit obligations requirement). When it becomes probable that total contract costs will The estimates and assumptions used for calculating employee benefit exceed total contract revenue a provision is immediately recognised obligations and the related sensitivity analyses are set out in Note 5.3.2 for the related loss, after deducting any previously recognised losses. – Employee benefit obligations. However, the loss actually recognised on completion of the contract NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR The following significant events took place in 2019: At 31 December 2019, the amount recognised in the consolidated financial statements (at fair value through profit or loss) for Assystem’s Additional consideration for the Framatome acquisition stake in Framatome, including the above-mentioned additional and Framatome dividend consideration, was €136.7 million (see Note 6.5 – Other non-current financial assets). In 2019, Assystem paid €12.47 million in additional consideration for the 5% interest it acquired in Framatome in late 2017. This In 2019, Assystem recorded in its consolidated income statement, amount represents Assystem’s share of the aggregate amount paid under “Other financial income and expenses” (see Note 8.5 – Financial by Framatome’s current shareholders to Areva NP pursuant to price income and expenses) a €2.4 million dividend payment from Framatome adjustment clauses in the contracts governing their acquisition of received during the year. In the consolidated statement of cash flows, Framatome’s entire share capital. this dividend was recognised in “Other movements, net” under cash flows from investing activities. 94 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS External growth The Group carried out further external growth transactions in France in 2019, strengthening its skills in the project management and nuclear engineering fields (see Note 3.2 – Business combinations). NOTE 3 CONSOLIDATION, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Consolidation methods Fully-consolidated subsidiaries Companies over which the Group exercises control are consolidated. IFRS 10 has introduced a single model of control based on three criteria: “an investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee”. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of consolidated subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. All inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. Non-controlling interests are presented separately in the financial statements. Joint ventures and joint operations (equity-accounted investees) IFRS 11 classifies joint arrangements into two types – joint ventures and joint operations. The Group determines the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by considering its rights and obligations in the arrangement, assessed based on the structure and legal form of the arrangement, the contractual terms agreed to by the parties to the arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties with joint control (“joint venturers”) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties with joint control (“joint operators”) have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. Joint arrangements that qualify as joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method (equity-accounted investees). 5 For joint operations, each of the joint operators must recognise the assets and the liabilities (and income and expenses) relating to its interest in the joint operation. Translation of foreign companies’ financial statements and foreign-currency denominated transactions Functional currency and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (i.e. in which the entity mainly generates and expends cash), which corresponds to its functional currency. The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Transactions and balances Foreign-currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when included in other comprehensive income as the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. Translation of financial statements of subsidiaries The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are translated into euros as follows: ● assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; ● income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period. All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in a separate line. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recognised in the entity’s functional currency and translated into euros at the closing rate. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 95 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Scope of consolidation The main Assystem SA. subsidiaries included in the scope of consolidation at 31 December 2019 were as follows: Registration Consolidation Company Country number % interest method French companies Assystem SA France 412076937 Parent FC Assystem Engineering and Operation Services France 444159164 100 FC Insiema France 572004372 100 FC Assystem Care France France 794087502 100 FC MPH Global Services France 499137610 100 FC Expleo Group France 831178785 38.16 Equity Euro Contrôle Projet and subsidiaries France 347621831 100 FC ASCO France 348998543 100 FC Non-French companies Assystem Energy & Infrastructure Ltd United Kingdom 100 FC Radicon Saudi Arabia 75 FC Assystem Care Holding Belgium 100 FC Assystem Care Belgium Belgium 100 FC Assystem Care Switzerland Switzerland 100 FC MPH Global Services’ non-French subsidiaries UAE/Qatar 100 FC Envy Turkey 100 FC FC: Fully consolidated Equity: Accounted for by the equity method 3.2 Business combinations Business combinations which occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009 were recognised in accordance with the requirements of the previous version of IFRS 3. Since 1 January 2010, business combinations have been recognised based on the requirements of the revised version of IFRS 3 (IFRS 3R). In accordance with IFRS 3R, when an entity over which the Group exercises exclusive control is consolidated for the first time: ● the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at fair value on the date when control is transferred to the Group. An assessment of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed (including client contracts and portfolios) is carried out on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis; ● any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree. At the date of a business combination, goodwill is measured as the excess of: ● the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and, for a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of any equity interest previously held in the acquiree; over ● the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value (“full goodwill method”) or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets (“partial goodwill method”). The initial accounting for business combinations must be completed within one year of the acquisition date (the “measurement period”). During this measurement period, the Group retrospectively adjusts the provisional amounts recognised at the acquisition date to reflect any new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognised as of that date. Any gain on a bargain purchase (negative goodwill) is recognised in profit immediately. 96 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses (see Note 3.3 – Goodwill). Additionally, the following principles apply to business combinations: ● any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, and any subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit; ● acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. In accordance with IFRS 10, when the proportion of the equity in a subsidiary held by non-controlling interests changes, the Group recognises directly in “Equity attributable to owners of the parent” any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CARRIED OUT IN 2019 revenue for 2019 was €4.6 million but it did not have any impact on In July 2019, the Group acquired all of the share capital of French EBITA during the year. company ASCO from its three founders for €7.0 million. Also during the year, the Group acquired two relatively small companies, The acquisition of ASCO has enabled the Group to reinforce its one of which is specialised in systems integration and the other in capabilities in the fields of project management and scheduling nuclear equipment qualification for nuclear power plants. Both of these power plant outages. ASCO’s contribution to Assystem’s consolidated companies were merged into Assystem Engineering and Operation Services in 2019. The fair value of the net assets acquired in these business combinations breaks down as follows: In millions of euros Total Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 Other current and non-current assets 6.0 Total assets 6.8 Financial liabilities 0.7 Other current and non-current liabilities Total liabilities 6.1 6.8 5 Net assets Goodwill related to the acquisitions, as determined using the full goodwill method, breaks down as follows: In millions of euros Total Portion of the purchase price paid in cash 8.4 Total purchase price 8.4 Fair value of net assets acquired Goodwill 8.4 The cash flows relating to the acquisitions can be analysed as follows: In millions of euros Total Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 Bank overdrafts (0.4) Net cash acquired 0.4 Purchase price of shares (8.4) Net cash outflow (8.0) In accordance with IFRS 3R, the Group will complete the initial In 2019, the Group completed the initial accounting for the acquisition accounting for the acquisition of ASCO within one year of the date it of EP-6 Consulting, which led to a €0.1 million increase in the goodwill acquired control of the Company, i.e. by the end of 2020. recognised for this company (see Note 3.3 – Goodwill). ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 97 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows related to acquisitions of shares were as follows in 2019 and 2018: In millions of euros 2019 2018 Net cash outflow for acquisitions (8.0) (4.1) Purchased goodwill (0.7) Payment for Assystem Care Holding shares (1.0) Payment of additional consideration for the stake in Framatome (12.5) Other (0.7) Acquisitions of shares (22.2) (4.8) 3.3 Goodwill In accordance with IFRS 3R, goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least once a year. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs. A CGU corresponds to the smallest identifiable Group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. The level of CGU used for goodwill impairment tests depends on the characteristics of the business or market of each operation. The Group carries out impairment tests at each year-end and whenever there is an indication of impairment, in order to estimate the CGU’s recoverable amount. Recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of the CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use (the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU). An impairment loss is recognised for a CGU if its recoverable amount is lower than its carrying amount. Impairment losses are allocated first to goodwill and then to the identifiable assets of the CGU on a pro rata basis. If a subsidiary is sold, the goodwill allocated to that subsidiary is taken into account in determining the proceeds of the sale. Goodwill arising on acquisitions of fully-consolidated companies is recognised as an asset under “Goodwill” in the consolidated statement of financial position. Goodwill related to companies accounted for by the equity method is presented in the lines of the statement of financial position concerning equity-accounted investees. The CGUs defined by the Group in accordance with IFRS are Energy & Infrastructure (complex infrastructure engineering) and Staffing (worldwide assignment of consultants specialised in Oil & Gas and Industry). They correspond to the operating segments presented in Note 4 – Segment reporting. In millions of euros Energy & Infrastructure Staffing Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 76.7 6.1 82.8 Increases related to business combinations 8.5 8.5 Impairment losses (6.1) (6.1) Currency translation differences (0.6) (0.6) Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 84.6 84.6 The €6.1 million impairment loss for the Staffing CGU in 2019 was The impacts of changes in scope of consolidation are described in recognised in order to write down its residual goodwill in view of its Note 3.2 – Business combinations. revenue and earnings outlook. The other assets making up capital employed were not affected by this write-down. 98 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Impairment testing The recoverable amounts of the CGUs were calculated based on their The cash flows used were based on budget forecasts drawn up by value in use. In order to determine value in use, the Group projects the operating management teams of the CGUs when determining their the future cash flows that it expects to derive from each CGU. These medium and long-term strategy. A standard weighted cost of debt was projections are based on four-year budgets and cash flows beyond this applied for the Group as a whole and a specific cost of equity for four-year period are estimated by extrapolating the projections using a each country for calculating WACC. The table below presents the main perpetuity growth rate (see below). This growth rate must not exceed assumptions applied for the impairment tests: the average long-term growth rate for the sector as a whole. The future cash flows are discounted using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of the sector. 2019 Perpetuity growth rate used for extrapolating CGU future cash flows beyond the projection period Discount rate Energy & Infrastructure 1.5% 9.0% Staffing 1.5% 10.2% 2018 Perpetuity growth rate used for extrapolating CGU future cash flows beyond the projection period Discount rate Energy & Infrastructure 1.5% 9.0% Staffing 1.5% 10.2% If any impairment is identified based on the calculation of discounted A 0.5% increase in the discount rate or a 0.5% decrease in the perpetuity future cash flows and/or market values of the assets concerned, or if growth rate assumptions used for the impairment tests carried out on there is a change in market conditions or in the cash flows that were the Energy & Infrastructure CGU would not result in the recognition of originally estimated, then previously recognised impairment losses may a goodwill impairment loss for this CGU. 5 need to be reviewed and adjusted. There were no significant changes in assumptions between 31 December 2018 and 2019 for the Energy & Infrastructure CGU. NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are components of the Group about which The main accounting policies used for operating segments are as separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly follows: by Group management in deciding how to allocate resources and ● each segment has its own resources and may share certain resources in assessing performance. The Group has two operating segments: with the other segment to create synergies. This sharing is carried Energy & Infrastructure (complex infrastructure engineering) and Staffing out through a reallocation of costs or through contractual relations (worldwide assignment of consultants specialised in Oil & Gas and between different legal entities; Industry). ● management costs that are directly attributable to the two operating segments are allocated to each segment concerned; ● the indicator, “EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees”, excludes non-recurring income and expenses. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 99 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Analysis by operating segment Assets and liabilities allocated by operating segment comprise operating ● trade receivables, other receivables and other current assets; assets and liabilities used by each division in its operating activities ● trade payables, amounts due to suppliers of non-current assets, and which are directly attributable to the segment or can be allocated accrued taxes and payroll costs, current liabilities related to share to the segment on a reasonable basis. They correspond to: acquisitions, short-term provisions and other current liabilities. ● goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment; 2019 Holding company and In millions of euros E&I Staffing Other Inter-segment Total Revenue 446.9 62.6 7.5 (19.5) 497.5 O/w inter-segment revenue (0.7) (18.8) 19.5 Total external revenue 446.2 43.8 7.5 497.5 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 36.9 1.2 (2.9) 35.2 Non-recurring income and expenses (0.7) (6.1) (1.1) (7.9) Operating profit/(loss) 36.2 (4.9) (4.0) 27.3 Net assets allocated by operating segment (CGU) 128.2 11.8 3.1 143.1 2018 Holding company and In millions of euros E&I Staffing Other Inter segment Total Revenue 391.3 56.7 8.6 (12.5) 444.1 O/w inter-segment revenue (12.5) 12.5 Total external revenue 391.3 44.2 8.6 444.1 EBITA including share of profit of equity-accounted investees 27.3 1.8 (2.5) 26.6 Non-recurring income and expenses (0.7) 0.4 (0.6) (0.9) Operating profit/(loss) 26.6 2.2 (3.1) 25.7 Net assets allocated by operating segment (CGU) 104.9 17.5 5.9 128.3 Analysis by geographic region Non-current assets allocated by geographic region correspond to The following table shows a breakdown of the Group’s revenue and goodwill, intangible assets and property plant and equipment which assets by region, based on the geographic location of consolidated are directly attributable to the region or can be allocated to the region companies: on a reasonable basis. 2019 Holding company, Other Asia Middle and other In millions of euros France Rest of Europe East Africa regions Group total Total external revenue 355.3 42.8 99.4 497.5 Non-current assets allocated by geographic region 88.6 15.5 37.3 0.3 141.7 2018 Holding company, Other Asia Middle and other In millions of euros France Rest of Europe East Africa regions Group total Total external revenue 329.7 37.7 76.7 444.1 Non-current assets allocated by geographic region 34.9 15.1 44.1 1.0 95.1 100 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 OPERATIONAL DATA 5.1 Revenue and working capital requirement (WCR) Revenue The Group’s consolidated revenue corresponds to the revenue generated by its two divisions – Energy & Infrastructure and Staffing – under two different types of contracts: ● time and materials contracts: the valuation of services rendered under these contracts depends on the resources used. Revenue is determined on a time-spent basis, agreed on with the client, and corresponds to an aggregate resulting from the multiplication of an hourly or daily rate; ● fixed-price contracts: these correspond to contracts under which the Group has a performance obligation and whose price is either (i) set at the outset for the project as a whole or (ii) set in a master agreement for each type of service ordered by the client. IFRS 15 states that revenue from contracts with customers must be recognised based on: ● when the entity satisfies the performance obligations in the contract, corresponding to when transfer of control over the service rendered passes to the customer; and ● the amount to which the seller expects to be entitled in exchange for the services rendered. Determining when transfer of control over a service passes to the customer is essential for recognising revenue. Control may be passed either over time (in which case the percentage-of-completion method is used) or at a point in time (with revenue recognised on completion). Revenue from time and materials contracts is recognised on a regular – generally monthly – basis, by reference to time spent. Revenue from fixed-price contracts is mostly recognised over time using the percentage-of-completion method as the Group considers that (i) the client simultaneously receives and consumes all of the benefits of the services rendered as the Group performs them, or (ii) the Group has an enforceable right to payment for services rendered to date. The criterion generally used for determining the percentage of completion during the lifetime of a contract is the proportion that costs already incurred represents out of the total estimated costs at completion. The work carried out by the Group’s entities is systematically based on contracts entered into with clients. Where a framework agreement 5 is in place, the Group considers that each successive order constitutes a contract within the meaning of IFRS 15 as it creates enforceable rights and obligations between the parties. Certain contracts signed by the Group include different types of service which may constitute separate performance obligations. In this case, revenue is recognised separately for each performance obligation that is considered to be distinct within the overall contract. Items of variable consideration in the Group’s contracts essentially correspond to penalties and volume discounts. As required by IFRS 15, these items are presented as a deduction from revenue. Variable consideration is not considered to have a material financial impact at Group level. In some cases, in order to propose an appropriate services offering, a Group entity may be required to set up a consortium with one or more other parties or to use one or more subcontractors. In this case, the entity ensures that it retains exclusive control over the services it provides to the client and that it does not play the role of agent or intermediary between the client and the third party. The costs of obtaining and fulfilling contracts are not material at Group level. Order book In applying IFRS 15, the Group has elected to use two of the practical expedients available in the standard, namely excluding from its order book disclosures (with “order book” corresponding to “remaining performance obligations” in IFRS 15) (i) contracts whose duration is less than one year, and (ii) services for which revenue will be recognised in the amount to which the entity has a right to invoice. Taking into account these two practical expedients, the total amount of the Group’s order book was not material at 31 December 2019. Impairment of trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at fair value less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses are recognised based on the expected credit losses over the lifetime of the receivables. Provisions for losses on completion A provision is recognised when it is probable that contract costs will exceed contract revenue. The amount of the provision is calculated by reference to the stage of completion less the loss already recognised, and it is recorded under “Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net”. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 101 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Government grants and tax credits Government grants and tax credits related to operating expenses are recognised in the income statement over the periods necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate. They are recorded either: ● as a deduction from the corresponding expense if they are intended to compensate an identified cost; or ● as a decrease in other operating expenses if they are granted for general purposes. TRADE RECEIVABLES In millions of euros 2019 2018 Trade receivables 113.1 107.1 Accrued revenue 15.2 16.7 Contract assets* 37.9 33.3 Gross value 166.2 157.1 Impairment (5.4) (6.3) Carrying amount 160.8 150.8 * A contract asset corresponds to revenue calculated on a fixed-price contract using the percentage-of-completion method but which has not yet been invoiced. The Group has put in place a factoring programme under which the 31 December 2019 and €10.0 million at 31 December 2018 – were receivables sales concerned meet the derecognition criteria in IFRS 9 derecognised at those two reporting dates. – Financial Instruments. Consequently, the factored receivables under this programme – which represented net amounts of €18.9 million at ANALYSIS OF CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT At beginning of Change related to In millions of euros year operations Other At year-end Trade receivables (1) 150.8 3.2 6.8 160.8 Contract liabilities (2)* (28.4) 6.0 (0.9) (23.3) WCR – Trade receivables (1+2) 122.4 9.2 5.9 137.5 Trade payables (3) (31.0) (1.3) (0.4) (32.7) Supplier prepayments (4) 2.1 (0.9) 1.2 Prepaid expenses (4) 4.4 1.1 0.2 5.7 WCR – Trade payables (3+4) (24.5) (1.1) (0.2) (25.8) Accrued taxes and payroll costs (5) (89.1) (2.2) (4.1) (95.4) Other current payables (5) (2.9) (2.7) 0.2 (5.4) Prepaid and recoverable taxes and payroll costs (6) 28.9 (10.0) 0.5 19.4 Other current receivables (6) 5.2 (1.3) (0.2) 3.7 WCR – Other (5+6) (57.9) (16.2) (3.6) (77.7) Total 40.0 (8.1) 2.1 34.0 * A contract liability corresponds to amounts invoiced and/or payments received under a contract, for which the performance obligations have not yet been satisfied by the Group. The amounts in the “Other” column notably include the impact of AGED RECEIVABLES changes in scope of consolidation and currency effects. Credit risk represents the risk of the Group incurring a financial loss if Supplier prepayments, prepaid expenses and other current receivables a client fails to fulfil its contractual obligations. constitute the “Other receivables” line of the statement of fi nancial position. Trade payables, deferred income and other current payables constitute the “Other current liabilities” line of the statement of financial position. 102 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below provides a breakdown of late payments for “Trade receivables” as a whole as well as the impairment losses recorded for disputed receivables and client defaults: Gross Impairment Gross Impairment In millions of euros 2019 % 2019 2018 % 2018 Not past due 135.4 81.4% 131.1 83.5% Up to 30 days past due 11.8 7.1% 10.2 6.5% Between 31 and 60 days past due 3.0 1.8% 2.8 1.8% Between 61 and 180 days past due 7.9 4.8% 0.1 3.5 2.2% More than 181 days past due 8.1 4.9% 5.3 9.5 6.0% 6.3 Total 166.2 100.0% 5.4 157.1 100.0% 6.3 5.2 Equity-accounted investees Movements in “Equity-accounted investees” were as follows in 2019 and 2018: In millions of euros 2019 2018 At 1 January 0.7 0.7 Dividends (0.7) (0.7) Share of profit 0.9 0.9 Other movements 0.1 (0.2) At 31 December 1.0 0.7 In view of the geopolitical environment in Yemen, at 31 December 2019 the Group maintained the full write-down of its investment in the joint venture in that country. KEY FIGURES CONCERNING EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Carrying amount 5 (in millions of euros) Company Country % interest % voting rights 2019 2018 Engage France 25 25 0.2 0.2 Alphatest France 49.84 49.84 0.5 0.5 Momentum France 33.33 33.33 N3A France 50 50 0.1 Uzernergoengineering Uzbekistan 49 49 0.2 MPH Yemen Limited Yemen 50 50 In millions of euros 2019 2018 Revenue 69.9 63.6 Profit for the period 2.3 1.7 Total comprehensive income 2.3 1.7 Non-current assets 0.2 0.2 Current assets 35.4 39.1 Non-current liabilities (1.7) (3.5) Current liabilities (31.3) (34.6) Net assets 2.6 1.2 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 103 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION ● HDL Development, which holds 74.17% of the Company’s exercisable The Group has defined four categories of related parties: voting rights and provides management services to the Group (see Note 5.3.4 – Related-party information); ● joint ventures (excluding Expleo Group, for which information is provided in Note 6.4 – Expleo Group shares and convertible bonds); ● Radicon’s minority shareholder, and RGCK – the joint operation owned by Radicon and Kentz. ● the members of Assystem’s Board of Directors and Assystem SA’s executive officers (see Note 5.3.4 – Related-party information); Transactions with related parties were as follows in 2019 and 2018: In millions of euros 2019 2018 Revenue 16.9 17.7 Other operating income and expenses 3.5 Trade receivables and other current assets 2.9 5.2 Trade payables and other current liabilities 2.6 1.4 Loans 0.2 0.8 The SNC Engage consortium has issued €11.6 million worth of guaranteed 33.33% of the overall amount (representing the proportion guarantees which have been counter-guaranteed by its shareholders of its interest in Momentum), corresponding to €2.0 million. in proportion to their interests in the company. Consequently, Assystem The Group has recognised a fi nancial liability for amounts owed has guaranteed 25% of the overall amount (representing the proportion to Radicon’s minority shareholder, which totalled €3.7 million at of its interest in Engage), corresponding to €2.9 million. 31 December 2019 and €3.6 million at 31 December 2018. The SNC Momentum consortium has issued €5.9 million worth of During 2019, Radicon recognised €3.5 million in revenue generated guarantees which have been counter-guaranteed by its shareholders in with RGCK (€3.2 million in 2018) and net trade receivables due from proportion to their interests in the company. Consequently, Assystem has RGCK but not yet settled amounted to €0.7 million at 31 December 2019 (€1.3 million at end-2018). 5.3 Payroll costs and employee benefit obligations 5.3.1 BREAKDOWN OF PAYROLL COSTS IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT In millions of euros 2019 2018 Wages and salaries (274.5) (257.9) Social security contributions (76.7) (64.1) Total (351.2) (322.0) 104 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group accounts for defined benefit and defined contribution post-employment benefit plans in accordance with the laws and practices of each country in which it operates. Defined contribution plans Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity (a fund) and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all of the benefits relating to the services rendered by employees prior to retirement. The actuarial risk (that benefits will cost more than expected) and the investment risk (that plan assets will be insufficient to meet expected benefits) are not borne by the employer entity. Contributions to government plans and other defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense for the period in which they are due. No provision is recorded as the Group’s obligation is limited to its contributions to the plans. Defined benefit plans All post-employment benefit plans other than defined contribution plans correspond to defined benefit plans. Under defined benefit plans the entity’s obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and former employees. The employer entity may either: ● pay contributions to a separate entity (a fund), but must pay further contributions (or pay unfunded benefits) if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all of the benefits relating to the services rendered by employees; or ● pay the benefits itself, funding them out of its own assets. Consequently, under defined benefit plans the employer entity bears both the actuarial risk and the investment risk. In accordance with IAS 19, “Employee Benefits”, actuarial valuations of post-employment benefit obligations under defined benefit plans are made using the projected unit credit method, based on assumptions for mortality rates, staff turnover and future salary projections. The net defined benefit liability recognised at the reporting date corresponds to the present value of the defined benefit obligation – i.e. the present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligation resulting from employee service in the current and prior periods – less the fair value of plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group’s defined benefit obligations consist mainly of statutory retirement bonuses payable in accordance with the Syntec collective 5 bargaining agreement applicable in France. These bonuses correspond to vested entitlements determined based on length of service. NET LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2019 2018 Present value of funded or partially-funded post-employment benefit obligations 18.4 14.7 Fair value of plan assets Provision recognised in the statement of financial position 18.4 14.7 CHANGE IN THE NET LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2019 2018 Net liability at 1 January 14.7 13.7 Current service cost 1.8 1.4 Interest expense 0.1 0.2 Remeasurement of the net liability recognised in equity 1.8 (0.4) Currency translation differences 0.1 0.1 Increases related to business combinations 0.4 0.4 Benefits paid (0.5) (0.7) Net liability at 31 December 18.4 14.7 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 105 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Current service cost is recognised under “Depreciation, amortisation The actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in other comprehensive and provisions for recurring operating items, net” and interest expense income mainly relate to the effect of changes in the discount rate. The is recorded under “Other financial income and expenses”. discount rate used for France in 2019 was 1% (versus 1.6% in 2018). The composite rate applied for 2019 was determined by reference to the Bloomberg and iBoxx rates. ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS In % 2019 2018 France Discount rate 1.0% 1.6% Projected rate of salary increases 1.8% 1.5% DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS In millions of euros 2019 2018 Amount expensed for defined contribution plans (12.8) (11.8) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The liability recognised for statutory retirement bonuses payable in The Group has chosen to present a sensitivity analysis for the discount accordance with the Syntec collective bargaining agreement is rate applicable for France, since any change in this assumption could calculated based on actuarial assumptions relating to the following: significantly affect equity (net of tax): mortality rate, staff turnover, future salaries and discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can impact the liability to a greater or lesser extent. 1% decrease 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 1% increase Impact on equity (in millions of euros) (1.1) (0.4) 1.0 1.6 Impact on equity (%) (0.3)% (0.1)% 0.3% 0.4% Impact on the net liability (%) 8.0% 2.9% (7.2)% (11.6)% 5.3.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS In accordance with IFRS 2, “Share-based Payment”, when the Group receives services from employees as consideration for sharebased payments, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the share-based payments is recognised as an expense. The total amount expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the benefits granted to the employees concerned under free share/performance share plans. The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Although the share-based payment expense – which is recognised as a non-recurring expense in the consolidated income statement – reduces profit for the period, it has no impact on total equity. 106 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FREE SHARE AWARDS WITH OR WITHOUT PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 2014 plan 2016 plan 2016 plan 2017 plans 2018 plans 2019 plans Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of free shares free shares free shares free shares free shares free shares Outstanding at 1 January 2018 3,500 7,000 156,940 85,650 Shares awarded during the year 51,000 Shares not awarded as performance level not achieved Shares forfeited during the year (7,000) (20,060) (15,900) (1,250) Shares delivered during the year (3,500) Shares cancelled during the year Outstanding at 31 December 2018 136,880 69,750 49,750 Shares awarded during the year 54,675 Shares not awarded as performance level not achieved Shares forfeited during the year (590) (2,750) (3,250) (750) Shares delivered during the year (1,000) Performance shares that lapsed during the year Shares cancelled during the year Outstanding at 31 December 2019 136,290 66,000 46,500 53,925 Year of vesting 2018 2018 2020 2020 2020/2021 2022 FAIR VALUE OF FREE SHARE AWARDS WITH OR WITHOUT PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 2019 2018 Weighted average fair value of free shares awarded during the year (in euros per share) 39.94 26.10 The share-based payment expense recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 was €1.0 million in 2019 (€0.6 million in 2018), with a corresponding increase in equity. 5 5.3.4 RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION Compensation and benefits granted to Assystem’s corporate officers (members of the Board of Directors and executive officers) break down as follows: In millions of euros 2019 2018 Salaries and other short-term benefits* (1.2) (0.7) Directors’ remuneration (0.2) (0.2) Share-based payments Total (1.4) (0.9) * Corresponding to the direct compensation (including payroll taxes) and indirect compensation paid to corporate officers. The amounts shown in the table above include services invoiced by HDL Development for €0.6 million. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 107 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4 Other operating income and expenses In millions of euros 2019 2018 Outsourced operations and purchases for contracts (52.0) (42.7) Cost of premises (4.2) (8.2) Transport and travel expenses (12.9) (11.6) Miscellaneous (28.6) (28.5) Total (97.7) (91.0) The “Miscellaneous” line mainly comprises IT costs, fees and commissions, and advertising and public relations costs. 5.5 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for recurring operating items, net In millions of euros 2019 2018 Depreciation and amortisation expense (3.7) (3.3) Depreciation of right-of-use assets (8.8) Net change in provisions (0.7) (1.1) Total (13.2) (4.4) 5.6 Non-recurring income and expenses ● capital gains or losses arising on business divestments, other than those accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5; Non-recurring income and expenses comprise: ● income and expenses related to unusual, atypical and infrequent ● share-based payment expense (free shares/performance shares and events, mainly comprising restructuring costs, asset impairment losses stock options); (including goodwill impairment), and other material income and ● acquisitionand divestment-related expenses (external fees for expenses. acquisitions and divestments); In millions of euros 2019 2018 Goodwill impairment losses (6.1) Company acquisition costs and other (0.8) (0.3) Total (6.9) (0.3) 108 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 6 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 6.1 Intangible assets In accordance with IAS 38, “Intangible Assets”, an intangible asset is recognised only if the cost of the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. The Group’s intangible assets mainly correspond to software, which are non-current assets with a finite useful life. These assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging between three and five years depending on the type of software concerned: ● management software: 5 years; ● production software: 3 to 5 years; ● office automation software: 1 to 3 years. As an exception to the above principle applicable to management software, the Group will amortise the intangible assets relating to its new ERP system on a straight-line basis over a period of 12 years as from 1 January 2020, as these assets constitute a long-term investment. No amortisation for the ERP system was recorded in either 2018 or 2019. For internally-generated intangible assets, development costs are capitalised when they meet the recognition criteria in IAS 38, i.e. when the Group can demonstrate: ● the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale; ● its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; ● its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; ● how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits; ● the current or future availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the project; ● its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development. The cost of an internally-generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, and prepare 5 the asset to be capable of being used in the manner intended by management. Selling, administrative and other general overhead expenditure are not components of the cost of an internally-generated intangible asset. Following initial recognition, these assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets are measured at amortised cost (historical cost on initial recognition plus any amortisable costs recognised subsequently and less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses). In millions of euros 2019 2018 At 1 January 4.7 1.6 Additions 8.4 4.6 Changes related to business combinations (0.7) Amortisation (0.9) (0.8) At 31 December 12.2 4.7 Gross value at 31 December 19.4 11.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at 31 December (7.2) (7.1) Intangible assets primarily correspond to software used by the Group. During 2019 the Group continued to develop the new ERP system for its financial management processes. The amount capitalised for this development totalled €6.5 million in 2019 (€2.5 million for 2018). ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 109 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, an asset is classified as property, plant and equipment if it is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes. These assets are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position if it is probable that the future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and if the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, as follows: ● fixtures, fittings and facilities: 3 to 10 years; ● vehicles: 3 to 5 years; ● office and IT equipment: 3 to 5 years; ● furniture: 10 years. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised (and either included in the carrying amount of an asset or recognised as a separate component) if the IAS 16 recognition criteria are met, i.e. if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group and the expenditure can be measured reliably. Routine repair and maintenance costs are expensed in the period they are incurred. The depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment is determined after deducting residual value if this value is deemed material. If significant parts of an item of property plant and equipment have different useful lives and therefore different depreciation periods they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Land, buildings, and fixtures and In millions of euros fittings IT equipment Other Total Gross value at 1 January 2018 10.3 7.9 4.2 22.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 1 January 2018 (6.2) (6.8) (2.7) (15.7) Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 4.1 1.1 1.5 6.7 Additions 1.0 1.3 1.2 3.5 Depreciation (1.3) (0.8) (0.4) (2.5) Currency translation differences (0.1) (0.1) Other movements (0.2) 0.3 (0.1) Gross value at 31 December 2018 11.1 9.2 5.1 25.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 2018 (7.5) (7.3) (2.9) (17.7) Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 3.6 1.9 2.1 7.6 Additions 0.3 2.4 3.4 6.1 First-time consolidations 0.1 0.1 Depreciation (1.0) (1.2) (0.9) (3.1) Disposals and retirements (0.2) (0.2) Other movements (1.3) (0.1) 1.4 Gross value at 31 December 2019 9.1 11.2 11.9 32.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses at 31 December 2019 (7.5) (8.2) (6.0) (21.7) Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 1.6 3.0 5.9 10.5 110 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Investment property IAS 40 defines investment property as property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Investment property is measured at fair value and any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement. The building recognised under “Investment property” at 31 December There have been no significant changes in the substance of the lease 2019 corresponds to a fully-owned property located in Equeurdreville, contract on the property since the last valuation was performed. France, which is measured at fair value. It was valued in February 2014 by an independent valuer who has no legal ties with the Group. In 6.4 Expleo Group shares and convertible bonds compliance with IFRS, the valuation method used was based on analysing recent transactions involving similar assets in the same market, Assystem’s interest in the equity and quasi-equity instruments of Expleo as well as a return-based approach. Major market trends were also Group is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position taken into consideration. under “Expleo Group shares and convertible bonds”. The Expleo Group convertible bonds held by Assystem are measured at fair value through At 31 December 2019, the value of this investment property was profit or loss. €1.4 million. In millions of euros 2019 2018 At 1 January 190.3 128.3 Expleo Group shares acquired* 30.4 Expleo Group convertible bonds acquired 30.3 Share of profit/(loss) 4.5 (6.2) Movements recognised in equity (0.5) 0.7 Income from convertible bonds Other comprehensive income/(expense) 9.1 (0.8) 8.3 (1.5) 5 At 31 December 202.6 190.3 Portion related to shares accounted for by the equity method 91.2 88.1 Portion related to convertible bonds 111.4 102.2 * Purchase price of the shares including transaction costs EXPLEO GROUP KEY FIGURES In millions of euros 2019 2018 Revenue 1,084.1 1,042.7 Profit/(loss) for the period 11.7 (16.3) Other comprehensive income/(expense) (2.3) (3.7) Total comprehensive income/(expense) 9.4 (20.0) Non-current assets 1,100.6 982.4 Current assets 426.3 401.9 Non-current liabilities (886.2) (806.5) Current liabilities (404.2) (357.7) Net assets 236.5 220.1 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 111 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS WITH EXPLEO GROUP In millions of euros 2019 2018 Revenue 2.9 5.9 Other operating income and expenses (2.1) (4.5) Financial income 9.1 8.3 Trade receivables and other current assets 3.5 2.5 Trade payables and other current liabilities 2.0 1.4 Expleo Group convertible bonds 111.4 102.2 6.5 Non-current financial assets Equity instruments In accordance with IFRS 9, shares held in non-consolidated companies are recognised at fair value. Fair value gains and losses on these financial assets, as well as gains and losses on their disposal, are recognised based on the business model used for their management, either in the income statement under “Other financial income and expenses” or in equity under “Total other comprehensive income/ (expense)” (in which case they are not recycled to profit). Other non-current financial assets The Group’s other non-current financial assets include loans and receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They typically arise when an entity provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Impairment losses are recognised for these assets using the expected credit loss method in application of IFRS 9. In millions of euros 2019 2018 At 1 January 129.1 128.6 Increases 2.1 0.7 Repayments (0.2) (0.2) Increases related to business combinations 0.1 Payment of additional consideration for the investment in Framatome 12.5 Changes in fair value 0.4 Other movements (0.2) At 31 December 143.8 129.1 The Group’s other non-current financial assets primarily correspond to its This item also includes amounts granted as loans by the Group as its investment in Framatome (see Note 2 – Significant events of the year), contribution to the effort à la construction French government housing which is measured at fair value through profit or loss. scheme. These loans are repayable by public bodies after a 20-year period and are discounted. They also include guarantee deposits granted to entities with which the Group enters into real estate lease arrangements. These deposits are returned to the Group at the end of the lease. The Group generally enters into lease arrangements with leading real estate market operators and therefore the corresponding credit risk is very limited. 112 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.6 Reconciliation of acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets recorded in the consolidated statement of cash flows In millions of euros 2019 2018 Change in operating loans and guarantee deposits (1.9) (0.5) Acquisitions of intangible assets (8.4) (4.6) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment (6.1) (3.5) Change in amounts due to suppliers of non-current assets 0.4 0.5 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (16.0) (8.1) The cash flows related to investments in the Group’s new ERP system (recorded under “Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets” in the consolidated statement of cash flows) amounted to €7.0 million. In millions of euros 2019 2018 Sale price of non-current assets 0.2 0.2 Change in receivables related to sales of non-current assets Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.2 0.2 NOTE 7 EQUITY AND EARNINGS PER SHARE 7.1 Shares Ordinary shares In number of shares At 1 January 2019 15,668,216 2018 15,668,216 5 Issue of shares following the share buyback offer Treasury shares (670,640) (667,336) At 31 December 14,997,576 15,000,880 Number of shares issued and fully paid up 15,668,216 15,668,216 Par value (in euros per share) 1.00 1.00 At 31 December 2019, Assystem SA’s shares broke down as follows: ● number of shares with single voting rights: 6,522,035; ● number of shares with double voting rights: 9,146,181. Each share gives its holder the same rights to dividend payments. 7.2 Treasury shares In accordance with IAS 32, shares in the Group’s parent company held by itself or any of its subsidiaries are recognised at cost as a deduction from equity. No fair value gains or losses are recognised on these shares. Post-tax gains or losses arising on the disposal of treasury shares are recognised directly in equity. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 113 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Treasury shares In number of shares 2019 2018 At 1 January 667,336 509,153 Purchases of treasury shares 71,413 229,084 Sales of treasury shares (67,109) (67,401) Treasury shares delivered to employees and corporate officers (1,000) (3,500) At 31 December 670,640 667,336 Value of treasury shares recognised in equity (in millions of euros) (15.8) (15.3) 7.3 Earnings per share BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 2019 2018 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 27.5 (0.5) 27.0 20.2 (0.3) 19.9 Basic earnings attributable to owners of the parent 27.5 27.5 20.2 (0.3) 19.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 15,004,957 15,004,957 15,004,957 15,089,319 15,089,319 15,089,319 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 1.83 1.83 1.34 1.32 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting (i) profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent for the impact of potentially dilutive instruments, net of the related tax, and (ii) the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding by assuming conversion into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding. Treasury shares deducted from consolidated equity are not taken into account in the calculation of basic or diluted earnings per share. The Group’s dilutive instruments correspond to free shares and performance shares. Dilutive instruments are only taken into account if their dilutive impact reduces earnings per share or increases loss per share. In accordance with IAS 33, if diluted earnings per share is higher than basic earnings per share, it is considered to be non-representative and is reduced to the same amount as basic earnings per share. 114 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Diluted earnings per share break down as follows: 2019 2018 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued In millions of euros operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 27.5 (0.5) 27.0 20.2 (0.3) 19.9 Interest expense related to Ornane and Odirnane bonds (net of income tax) Adjusted profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 27.5 (0.5) 27.0 20.2 (0.3) 19.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 15,004,957 15,004,957 15,004,957 15,089,319 15,089,319 15,089,319 Weighted average number of potential ordinary shares based on dilutive instruments outstanding during the year: Free shares and/or performance shares 193,075 110,640 303,715 144,060 112,320 256,380 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 15,198,032 15,115,597 15,308,672 15,233,379 15,201,639 15,345,699 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 1.81 1.76 1.33 1.30 7.4 Dividend per share 2020* 2019 2018 By Date of dividend payout from prior-year profit 16/07/2020 19/06/2019 21/06/2018 Date of dividend payout on prior-year profit proposed to shareholders at the AGM 26/06/2020 16/05/2019 16/05/2018 Total dividend (in millions of euros) paid out from prior-year profit ND 15.0 15.1 Dividend per share (in euros) paid out from prior-year profit* 1.00 1.00 1.00 5 * Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. NOTE 8 FINANCING AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 8.1 Cash and cash equivalents The “Cash and cash equivalents” line in the statement of financial position includes cash (cash in hand and demand deposits) and cash equivalents (highly liquid short-term investments readily convertible into a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of a change in value). Cash and cash equivalents do not include investments in listed shares, investments with an initial maturity of more than three months and no option of early divestment, and bank accounts subject to restrictions (blocked accounts). Net cash and cash equivalents presented in the statement of cash flows corresponds to cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts. In millions of euros 2019 2018 Cash 29.2 32.4 Cash equivalents Total 29.2 32.4 No restrictions have been placed on the use of the Group’s bank accounts. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 115 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A reconciliation between cash and cash equivalents presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows and the statement of financial position is shown in the table below. In millions of euros 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 32.4 28.2 Bank overdrafts (0.3) (0.9) Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 32.1 27.3 Cash and cash equivalents 29.2 32.4 Bank overdrafts (0.1) (0.3) Net cash and cash equivalents at year-end 29.1 32.1 8.2 Debt and other financial liabilities Debt and other financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost determined using the effective interest method. They are classified as “current” when the Group is required to settle them within twelve months after the reporting date and as “non-current” when the settlement is due beyond those twelve months. LONG-AND SHORT-TERM DEBT AND NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Effect of changes Currency At 1 January Year-on-year in scope of translation Other At 31 December In millions of euros 2019 Increases Repayments changes consolidation differences movements 2019 Bank borrowings 59.4 17.0 (0.2) 0.3 0.2 76.7 Sundry financial liabilities 3.7 0.1 3.8 Total non-current financial liabilities 63.1 17.0 (0.2) 0.3 0.1 0.2 80.5 Bank borrowings Sundry financial liabilities 0.4 0.2 (0.7) 0.4 0.3 Total current financial liabilities 0.4 0.2 (0.7) 0.4 0.3 Bank borrowings 59.4 17.0 (0.2) 0.3 0.2 76.7 Sundry financial liabilities 4.1 0.2 (0.7) 0.4 0.1 4.1 Total 63.5 17.2 (0.2) (0.7) 0.7 0.1 0.2 80.8 On 18 June 2019, Assystem signed a second addendum to its loan The revolving credit facility and the investment loan are both subject to agreement dated 28 September 2017 (as amended on 19 January a financial covenant, which was not amended by the above-mentioned 2018), which includes an investment loan and a revolving credit facility. second addendum. Any breach of this covenant would trigger early Pursuant to this addendum, Assystem (i) increased the investment loan repayment of all of the outstanding amounts classified as short-term debt by €30.0 million, raising its outstanding amount to €60.0 million, and and current financial liabilities at 31 December 2019. The covenant is extended its maturity to 28 September 2024, and (ii) repaid €30 million based on the consolidated gearing ratio (consolidated net debt/EBITDA in drawdowns made on the revolving credit facility. for the past 12 months as adjusted for acquisitions and divestments). This ratio is measured at the end of each half-year and annual period At the same time, the overall amount of the revolving credit facility and must not exceed 3.95 at 30 June and 3.75 at 31 December. was reduced from €150.0 million to €120.0 million, and the Group exercised the option provided for in the 28 September 2017 agreement At 31 December 2019, the Group’s gearing ratio was below the ceiling to extend the facility’s maturity to 28 September 2024. specified in the covenant. At 31 December 2019, the Group had drawn down €17.0 million of this revolving credit facility. 116 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.3 Derivative instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedged item. On inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. The Group also documents its estimates both on inception and prospectively to determine the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are used to hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability (or an identified portion of such an asset or liability) or a firm commitment to purchase or sell an asset at a pre-defined price, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit. Fair value gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. Cash flow hedges A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction and which could affect profit. The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the following conditions are met: ● there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship; ● the hedge is highly effective; and ● the forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge is highly probable and presents an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. If the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, cancelled or exercised, the gain or loss initially recognised in other comprehensive income continues to be recorded separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs. If the commitment no longer exists or the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that had been recognised directly in other comprehensive income 5 is reclassified to profit. CURRENCY DERIVATIVES During 2019 the Group pursued its currency hedging strategy (see At 31 December 2018 and 2019, the fair value of the Group’s currency Chapter 2, Section 2.2.3 of this Universal Registration Document – derivatives was not material. Financial risks) by setting up new hedges comprising currency forwards and swaps. 8.4 Net debt Cash and debt consist of (i) cash and cash equivalents and non-current and current derivatives (included in other financial assets) on the assets side of the statement of financial position, and (ii) debt and financial liabilities, and the fair value of derivatives on the liabilities side. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 117 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Net debt corresponds to gross debt (bond debt, other longand short-term debt and current and non-current financial liabilities and derivatives recorded under current and non-current liabilities) less cash and cash equivalents and derivatives recorded under current and non-current assets. Net debt breaks down as follows: Maturity schedule At 31 Dec. Due beyond In millions of euros 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 5 years Bank borrowings* 76.7 77.0 Sundry financial liabilities 4.1 0.3 3.8 Gross debt 80.8 0.3 77.0 3.8 Cash and cash equivalents 29.2 29.2 Cash, cash equivalents and derivatives recorded under assets 29.2 29.2 Net debt 51.6 (28.9) 77.0 3.8 * Unamortised borrowing costs of €0.3 million at 31 December 2019 have not been included in the maturity schedule of bank borrowings. The table below shows a breakdown of net debt by currency, converted at the closing rates: At 31 Dec. In millions of euros 2019 Euro Pound sterling US dollar Other currencies Net debt 51.6 66.1 (3.9) (4.4) (6.2) 8.5 Financial income and expenses Net financial expense on cash and debt “Net financial expense on cash and debt” corresponds to all income and expenses arising during the period on items making up net debt, including gains and losses on interest rate and currency hedges on debt. Fair value gains and losses on the above-mentioned categories of financial assets and liabilities are not included in this line in the income statement and instead are recognised in “Other financial income and expenses”. In millions of euros 2019 2018 Mediumand long-term credit facilities (1.1) (0.9) Interest expense on debt (1.1) (0.9) Currency effect 0.7 0.3 Other financial income and expenses arising on net debt (1.4) (0.8) Net financial expense on cash and debt (1.8) (1.4) Other financial income and expenses Other financial income and expenses correspond to income and expenses that are non-operational (e.g. financial income arising from the main business of the Company, a subsidiary or a division or financial income associated with a commercial activity) and which are not included in “Net financial expense on cash and debt”. They mainly consist of dividends from non-consolidated companies, impairment of available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets, gains and losses on disposals of AFS financial assets, impairment and losses on disposals of other current and non-current financial assets, the effect of discounting provisions, fair value gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities, and miscellaneous financial income and expenses. 118 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In millions of euros 2019 2018 Interest expense on lease liabilities (0.8) Effect of discounting (0.1) (0.1) Amortised cost of financial liabilities (0.2) (0.2) Framatome dividends 2.4 Foreign exchange gains and losses 0.7 Net gain/(loss) on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (0.4) 0.4 Miscellaneous financial income and expenses (0.4) (0.8) Total other financial income and expenses 0.5 The full €0.4 million net loss on financial liabilities at fair value through EXPOSURE TO RISKS RELATED TO THE TRANSLATION INTO EUROS OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES DENOMINATED IN A profit or loss relates to a revision of the assumptions used for calculating LOCAL CURRENCY the put options granted to non-controlling interests in the Turkish company, The Group is exposed to risks related to the translation into euros of Envy, and commitments to pay dividends to that company’s third-party the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries denominated in local shareholders (see Note 10 – Liabilities related to share acquisitions currency. The main risk exposure in this respect concerns the Turkish (current and non-current) and other non-current liabilities). lira (TRY), the Saudi Arabian riyal (SAR) and the pound sterling (GBP). 8.6 Financial risk management The net assets of the subsidiaries operating in the countries concerned are set out in the table below. The Group’s risk management strategy is described in detail in Chapter 2, Section 2.2.3 of this Universal Registration Document – Financial risks. This Note sets out the figures related to financial risk management. In millions of local currency TRY SAR GBP Non-current assets 78.0 107.5 4.8 Current assets Total assets 29.4 107.4 110.8 218.3 11.6 16.4 5 Non-current liabilities 1.0 30.7 4.0 Current liabilities 14.3 97.3 3.4 Total liabilities 15.3 128.0 7.4 Net assets at year-end in local currency 92.1 90.3 9.0 Net assets at year-end converted into euros 13.8 21.7 10.6 The year-on-year change in the exchange rates of these currencies was as follows: Year-on-year 2019 2018 change (in %) 1 TRY = x EUR 0.15 0.17 -9% 1 SAR = x EUR 0.24 0.23 +3% 1 GBP = x EUR 1.18 1.12 +6% EXPOSURE TO INTEREST RATE RISK Euribor for the period concerned, i.e. one and/or three months. If the The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk concerns the borrowings Euribor is negative the interest is deemed to be zero. The Group has set up on 28 September 2017 and amended twice since that date, set up an interest rate swap for a notional amount of €60.0 million, i.e. comprising (i) a €120.0 million revolving credit facility expiring in the amount of the investment loan. This swap – under which Assystem September 2024, of which €17.0 million had been drawn down at is a variable-rate lender with interest based on the 3-month Euribor with 31 December 2019, and (ii) a €60.0 million investment loan maturing a zero floor, and a fixed-rate borrower paying an annual interest rate in September 2024. Interest on these borrowings is indexed against the of 0.05% – runs from 30 June 2020 to 30 June 2023. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 119 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESIDUAL CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES A breakdown of the residual contractual maturities of the Group’s financial liabilities (including interest payments) is provided in the table below. The contractual cash flows presented – which cover coupons, interest payments and redemptions/repayments – have not been discounted. Carrying amount Contractual cash Due within Due in Due beyond In millions of euros at 31 Dec. 2019 flows 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Sundry financial liabilities 80.8 84.2 0.7 79.8 3.7 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 4.4 7.7 3.3 4.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.8 1.2 0.8 0.4 Trade payables 32.7 32.7 32.7 Other current liabilities* 29.0 29.0 29.0 Total contractual obligations 147.7 154.8 62.4 83.9 8.5 * Excluding accrued taxes and payroll costs and contract liabilities. NOTE 9 PROVISIONS In accordance with IAS 37, a provision is recorded when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be measured reliably. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a financial expense. Increases Reversals related to Reversals (used (unused business At 31 Dec. In millions of euros At 1 Jan. 2019 Additions provisions) provisions) combinations 2019 Employee-related risks and tax risks 16.6 0.4 (0.4) 0.6 17.2 Total long-term provisions 16.6 0.4 (0.4) 0.6 17.2 Guarantees for fixed-fee projects and losses at completion 0.4 0.4 (0.1) (0.4) 0.1 0.4 Restructuring costs 1.3 (1.1) (0.1) 0.1 Employee-related risks and tax risks 1.2 0.8 (0.3) (0.3) 0.1 1.5 Other 0.8 0.8 (0.2) (0.5) 0.1 1.0 Total short-term provisions 3.7 2.0 (1.7) (1.3) 0.3 3.0 Guarantees for fixed-fee projects and losses at completion 0.4 0.4 (0.1) (0.4) 0.1 0.4 Restructuring costs 1.3 (1.1) (0.1) 0.1 Employee-related risks and tax risks 17.8 1.2 (0.7) (0.3) 0.7 18.7 Other 0.8 0.8 (0.2) (0.5) 0.1 1.0 Total provisions 20.3 2.4 (2.1) (1.3) 0.9 20.2 In late 2014, the Company received notification of a €13.5 million The risk relating to this dispute was transferred by Assystem France to the tax reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised for 2010, Company at end-2016 in return for the payment by Assystem France of 2011 and 2012 by its subsidiary Assystem France, which is now an €7.3 million in compensation The Company recognised a provision in Expleo Group subsidiary but was a member of the Company’s tax its 2016 financial statements for the full amount of this compensation. group during the years concerned. The Company is fully contesting the validity of this reassessment. 120 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At end-2017, the Company received a payment notice from the tax At 31 December 2019 the provision amounted to €16.6 million, authorities for the reassessed amount and therefore recognised an including the amount recognised during the year for additional potential additional provision in its 2017 fi nancial statements. The provision late payment penalties. covers since then the full reassessed amount as well as the potential Also during 2019, the French tax authorities’ National and International late payment penalties. Audit Department carried out an audit on the Company’s accounts for 2016 and 2017. No tax reassessments were issued following this audit. LIABILITIES RELATED TO SHARE ACQUISITIONS (CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT) NOTE 10 AND OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES In some cases, the Group grants put options to minority shareholders of its subsidiaries in relation to their non-controlling interests held in those subsidiaries. The exercise price of these options may be fixed or based on a pre-determined formula. Where such put options are granted, the Group recognises a related financial liability. This liability is initially recognised at the present value of the exercise price, and at the end of subsequent reporting periods it is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares that would potentially have to be purchased if the exercise price is based on fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the put options are recognised in financial income or expenses. The Group also recognises a non-current liability for the discounted amounts relating to commitments to pay dividends to third-party shareholders. The €4.4 million recognised under non-current liabilities related to share In 2019 the Group paid €1.0 million to buy out the last remaining acquisitions at 31 December 2019 concerns the put options granted to minority shareholder of Assystem Care Holding (see Note 3.2 – Business the minority shareholders of Envy (€4.6 million at 31 December 2018). Movements in the liabilities related to Envy’s minority shareholders are combinations). 5 described in Note 8.5 – Financial income and expenses. NOTE 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 11.1 Accounting classification of financial assets and liabilities FINANCIAL ASSETS The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets over the past two years: 2019 2018 Financial assets designated as Financial assets at fair value at fair value Financial assets through profit through profit or at amortised Carrying In millions of euros Carrying amount or loss loss (mandatory) cost amount Investment property 1.4 1.4 1.4 Expleo Group convertible bonds 111.4 111.4 102.2 Other non-current financial assets 143.8 136.7 7.1 129.1 Trade receivables 160.8 160.8 150.8 Other receivables* 4.9 4.9 7.3 Other current assets 0.5 0.5 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 29.2 29.2 32.4 Total 452.0 248.1 1.4 202.5 423.7 * Excluding employee-related receivables, tax receivables and prepaid expenses. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 121 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial liabilities over the past two years: 2019 2018 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities designated as at at fair value fair value through through profit or Financial liabilities In millions of euros Carrying amount profit or loss loss (mandatory) at amortised cost Carrying amount Debt and current and non-current financial liabilities 80.8 80.8 63.5 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 4.4 4.4 5.7 Other non-current liabilities 0.8 0.6 0.2 1.3 Trade payables 32.7 32.7 31.0 Due to suppliers of non-current assets 1.2 1.2 0.8 Other current liabilities* 5.7 0.3 5.4 6.9 Total 125.6 5.3 120.3 109.2 * Excluding accrued taxes and payroll costs and contract liabilities. 11.2 Fair value hierarchy ● level 2: financial instruments whose fair value measurement is based on observable market inputs other than quoted prices included in The Group uses the fair value hierarchy established in IFRS which level 1; categorises financial instruments into three levels based on the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure their fair value as recognised ● level 3: fi nancial instruments whose inputs are unobservable (i.e. in the statement of financial position. These levels are as follows: inputs whose value does not result from the price of observable market transactions for the same instrument or from observable market data ● level 1: financial instruments for which there are quoted prices in an available at the reporting date) or inputs which are only partially active market; observable. At 31 December 2019, the fair value hierarchy levels for the Group’s financial instruments were as follows: Level 1 – Level 2 – Level 3 – Market price Observable market inputs Unobservable inputs Total Investment property 1.4 1.4 Expleo Group convertible bonds 111.4 111.4 Investment in Framatome 136.7 136.7 Total 249.5 249.5 Current and non-current liabilities related to share acquisitions 4.4 4.4 Other current and non-current liabilities 1.0 1.0 Total 5.4 5.4 122 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 INCOME TAX 12.1 Income tax recognised during the year In millions of euros 2019 2018 Current tax (10.7) (6.4) Deferred tax (0.5) 0.2 Total recognised in the income statement (11.2) (6.2) Tax payable on treasury shares (0.1) Tax recognised in other comprehensive income 0.4 (0.1) Total recognised directly in equity 0.3 (0.1) Current tax (10.7) (6.4) Deferred tax (0.2) 0.1 Total for the year (10.9) (6.3) 12.2 Tax proof The table below reconciles the Group’s actual income tax expense to the theoretical income tax expense based on the tax rate applicable to the profit of consolidated companies: In millions of euros 2019 2018 Profit before tax from continuing operations (excluding share of profit of equity-accounted investees, income from Expleo Group convertible bonds and goodwill impairment) 31.2 23.5 Theoretical income tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Theoretical income tax expense (10.7) (8.1) Permanent differences 3.1 4.0 Differences arising from applying different taxation rates Other taxes 0.9 (4.1) 2.1 (4.1) 5 Income or expense relating to changes in tax rates or the imposition of new taxes (0.2) Adjustments recognised during the year for prior years (0.2) 0.1 Benefits arising from tax losses and temporary differences not recognised in prior years Impact of tax losses and temporary differences not used during the year (0.2) Total adjustments (0.5) 1.9 Actual income tax expense (11.2) (6.2) Effective tax rate 35.90% 26.38% The amount shown under “Other taxes” mainly comprises the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (CVAE) for French subsidiaries. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 123 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.3 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are recognised using the liability method for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, apart from in the exceptional cases referred to in IAS 12. Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carryforward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences only to the extent that it is probable that the Group will have sufficient future taxable profit against which the unused tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences can be utilised. The following elements are taken into account when estimating whether the Group will have sufficient future taxable profit to recover deferred tax assets: ● forecasts of future taxable profits; ● non-recurring expenses included in past losses and which will not be incurred again in the future; ● past history of taxable profit for prior years. A deferred tax liability is recognised for taxable temporary differences relating to equity-accounted investees even if it is probable that there will be undistributed profits (as the Group does not control the investee and therefore cannot determine its profit distribution policy), unless there is an agreement requiring that the profits of the equity-accounted investee will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. When a deferred tax asset or liability relates to an item that is recognised directly in equity, then the related deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred taxes presented in the statement of financial position are grouped by tax units. However, the table below uses the presentation by type of deferred tax. NET DEFERRED TAXES PRESENTED IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION In millions of euros 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets 5.1 5.3 Recoverable within 1 year 0.8 1.8 Recoverable beyond 1 year 4.3 3.5 Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 0.6 Due within 1 year Due beyond 1 year 0.6 0.6 Net deferred tax assets 4.5 4.7 of which recoverable within one year 0.8 1.8 of which recoverable beyond one year 3.7 2.9 124 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MOVEMENTS IN DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Employee Net deferred benefit Tax loss Deferred tax Deferred tax tax assets In millions of euros obligations carryforwards Other assets (a) liabilities (b) (a-b) At 31 December 2017 3.1 2.0 5.1 (0.6) 4.5 Increases related to business combinations 0.1 0.3 (0.3) 0.1 0.1 Year-on-year changes recognised in the income statement 0.2 0.9 (0.9) 0.2 0.2 Deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) At 31 December 2018 3.3 1.2 0.8 5.3 (0.6) 4.7 Year-on-year changes recognised in the income statement 0.3 (0.9) 0.1 (0.5) (0.5) Deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 0.4 Deferred taxes recognised in equity (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) At 31 December 2019 4.0 0.3 0.8 5.1 (0.6) 4.5 Other deferred tax assets mainly concerned employee profit-sharing, and depreciation and amortisation. NOTE 13 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS At 31 December 2019, Management considered that there were no existing off-balance sheet commitments, other than those set out below, that would be likely to have a material impact on the current or future financial position of the Assystem Group. Commitments given Commitments received Deposits, guarantees Deposits, guarantees In millions of euros and sureties Collateral and sureties Unused credit facilities Holding company 19.7 0.1 103.0 5 France 2.4 Other European countries 0.1 AMEA 5.6 Other Total 27.8 0.1 103.0 NOTE 14 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE No significant events occurred after the reporting date that require disclosure in this Universal Registration Document. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 125 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2019 INDEPENDENCE This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence consolidated fi nancial statements of the Company issued in French rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 January 2019 to the and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European 537/2014 or in the French Code of Ethics (code de déontologie) for regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment Statutory Auditors. of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the information concerning the Group presented in the management report. Emphasis of Matter This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards We draw your attention to the following matter described in Note 1 applicable in France. “Reporting entity and basis of preparation” to the consolidated financial statements relating to the impact of the change in accounting policies To the Annual General Meeting of Assystem SA as mentioned in paragraph “IFRS16 – Lease contracts”. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Opinion In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying consolidated In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823financial statements of Assystem SA for the year ended 31 December 7 of the French Commercial Code relating to the justification of our 2019. These fi nancial statements were approved by the board of assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of directors on 9 March 2020 on the basis of the information available at material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most that date in a changing context of the health crisis linked to Covid-19. significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Group as at 31 December 2019 and of the results of its operations for consolidated fi nancial statements as a whole, prepared under the the year ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting conditions mentioned above, and in forming our opinion thereon, Standards as adopted by the European Union. and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the consolidated financial statements. Audit Committee. Basis for Opinion AUDIT FRAMEWORK We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” Section of our report. 126 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VALUATION OF GOODWILL Notes 1, 3.3 and 3.4 to the consolidated financial statements Risk Our response The acquisitions made by the Group led to the recognition of goodwill determined We have assessed the compliance of the Group’s impairment test methodology as being the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus with the accounting standards. the amount of any non-controlling equity interest in the company acquired and the We have conducted an assessment about the way the methodology was net amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. implemented and have notably assessed: Such goodwill is shown in the balance sheet for a net amount of 84.6 million of • the level of pooling of the CGU adopted for impairment testing and the euros as of 31 December 2019 for the Energy & Infrastructure (E&I) business and consistency of the items included in the carrying value of the CGU with the nil for the Staffing business further to a 6.1 million of euros impairment loss booked cash flows used to perform impairment tests; as of 31 December 2019. It was allocated to the cash-generating units (CGU) of • the reasonableness of the projected cash flows in consideration of the economic the businesses into which the companies acquired were integrated. and financial contexts in which the E&I and Staffing businesses operate; The Group conducts impairment tests at each year-end or whenever a triggering • the consistency of the budgetary data used with those presented to the Audit event is identified, in order to estimate the recoverable value of the CGU (defined Committee and approved by the Board of Directors, and the consistency of as the higher amount between the fair value net of any exit costs and the value in forecast data with budgetary assumptions; use corresponding to the discounted value of estimated future cash flows expected • the consistency of the assumptions used for determining the long term growth from the use of the CGU). An impairment loss is recognized at the level of a CGU if rate with the economic environment prevailing as at the financial statements its recoverable value is lower than its net book value and should firstly be allocated closing date; to the goodwill of the CGU. • the reliability of the estimation process by examining the root cause for the The recoverable value of the CGU was determined using its value in use. To differences highlighted between forecasts and actual data in relation to past determine the value in use, the Group has forecast the future cash flows it expects performances; to obtain from the CGU over a period of four years. The future cash flows generated • The reasonableness of the assumptions used for determining the discounting rate beyond this four years period were extrapolated by taking into account a growth with the assistance of our valuation specialists; rate which cannot exceed the average long-term growth rate of the overall business • the analyses of sensitivity of the value in use to a change in the main assumptions sector. The future cash flows are discounted using the Weighted Average Cost of used. Capital (WACC) of the sector. Finally, we have assessed whether the notes to the consolidated financial statements Furthermore, an unfavourable change in market conditions or the cash flows (notably the notes 1 “Reporting entity and basis of preparation”, 3.3 “Goodwill”, originally estimated may lead to the recognition of an additional impairment loss. and 3.4 “Impairment testing”) provided an appropriate information. The Group has fully depreciated the goodwill allocated to the Staffing CGU for 6.1 million of euros as of 31 December 2019 due to the turnover and profitability forecasts of this CGU. The methodology used in carrying out the impairment test as well as the detailed assumptions adopted are described in note 3.4. We have therefore considered the valuation of goodwill as a key audit matter given the high degree of estimates and judgements made by management, the sensitivity of the calculation of the recoverable values to changes in the forecasting assumptions and the weight of such caption in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 5 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 127 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RECOGNITION OF THE REVENUE AND MARGIN FROM FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS Notes 1, 5.1 and 9.1 to the financial statements Risk Our response Total revenue of the Assystem Group for the year ended 31 December 2019 We have reviewed and tested the internal control processes implemented by the amounted to 497.5 million of euros; net amount of trade receivables amounted to Group for the purpose of contracting, project monitoring, billing and accounting 160.8 million of euros as of the year end date. for contracts. As part of its operations, a certain portion of the Group’s revenue and results The other audit procedures which we carried out in connection with the evaluation derives from long-term service agreements. These “fixed price contracts” represent of the revenue to be recognized on fixed price contacts consisted of selecting, agreements through which the Group commits itself to an obligation of results and according to a multi-criteria sampling approach (volume of activity or level of workwhose sale price is either originally fixed for the whole project or defined, within in-progress on specific contracts, complexity of the projects, unusual variations noted a master agreement, for each type of services being ordered. between two periods or in comparison to the rules adopted by the Group, new Regarding fixed-price contracts, particularly related to E&I activities, revenues are contracts for the period…), certain contracts for which we have: recognized, in accordance with IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ • assessed the compliance of the accounting treatment applied with the contractual based on the transfer of the control of the service provided. documentation; These contracts give rise to the recognition of revenue in accordance with the • challenged the justification of the estimated results at completion and of the percentage-of-completion method. The criteria for determining the percentage of estimated stage of completion with our understanding of these contracts as completion may include, at a given date, the examination of the work already gained through the meetings we held with business unit management controllers carried out, the analysis of the services already rendered compared to the total and project managers, and in comparison with past performance obtained on amount of services to be provided, or the analysis of the costs already incurred similar contracts; compared to the total estimated costs at completion. The decision about the criteria • corroborated the financial position of these contracts with the relevant pieces to be used lies with the manager of the operational unit who will retain the most of documentation (contracts, orders, customer acceptance reports, time sheets); appropriate criteria for monitoring the project. • implemented analytical procedures on the evolution of revenue and income recognized over the financial year. Once a loss at completion is considered as likely, it is recorded by setting up Finally, we have checked that the notes to the financial statements (notably the a provision whose amount will be reduced by the amount of losses previously notes 1 “Reporting entity and basis of preparation”, 5.1 “Revenue and trade working recognized. capital requirement” and 9 “Provisions”) provided an appropriate information. The determination of the percentage of completion and of the revenue to be recognized is dependent on numerous estimates relying on contract costs monitoring and the experience of the management. Updating assumptions and estimates at completion may be made throughout the life of the contract and may significantly impact future results. We considered the correct cut-off related to the recognition of revenue and margin from fixed price contracts as a key audit matter as this process relies on judgements and estimates made by management as to the determination of the percentage of completion, the result at completion and the financial risks anticipated on these contracts. Specific Verifications Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS applicable in France, the specific verifications required by laws and We were appointed statutory auditor of Assystem SA by the Annual regulations of the information pertaining to the Group presented in the General Meeting held on 26 August 1999 for Deloitte & Associés and management report of the Board of Directors approved on 9 March on 30 April 2009 for KPMG. 2020. With regard to the events which occurred and the facts known after the date the financial statements were approved by the Board As at 31 December 2019, Deloitte & Associés and KPMG were in the of Directors relating to the impact of the crisis linked to Covid-19, twenty-first year and the eleventh year of total uninterrupted engagement the management indicated to us that they will be the subject of a respectively. communication to the Annual General Meeting called to approve the financial statements. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with Governance for the Consolidated Financial with the consolidated financial statements. Statements We attest that the consolidated non-fi nancial statement required by Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International commerce) is included in the information pertaining to the Group Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and presented in the management report, it being specified that, in for such internal control as management determines is necessary to accordance with the provisions of Article L. 823-10 of the Code, we enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are have verified neither the fair presentation nor the consistency with the free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. consolidated financial statements of the information contained therein. In preparing the consolidated fi nancial statements, management is This information should be reported on by an independent third party. responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. 128 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting ● assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or accounting and financial reporting procedures. conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit The consolidated fi nancial statements were approved by the Board evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future of Directors. events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the Consolidated Financial Statements audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein; Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ● evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated fi nancial consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material statements and assesses whether these statements represent the misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional presentation; standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. ● obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material information of the entities or business activities within the Group to if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected express an opinion on the consolidated purpose of expressing an to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; consolidated financial statements. ● financial statements. The statutor y auditor is responsible for As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a judgement throughout the audit and furthermore: description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, ● identifi es and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial 5 consolidated fi nancial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and reporting procedures that we have identified. obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, current period and which are therefore the key audit matters, that we misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; are required to describe in this audit report. ● obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confi rming our circumstances, but not for the Evaluates the appropriateness of independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting as they are set in particular by Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the estimates and related disclosures made by management in the French Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory consolidated financial statements; Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on, our independence and the related safeguards. Paris La Défense, 31 March 2020 The Statutory Auditors French original jointly signed by Eric ROPERT and Laurent GENIN, KPMG audit partners and Albert AÏDAN, Deloitte & Associés audit partner ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 129 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Depreciation, amortisation and In thousands of euros Gross provisions Net Net Intangible assets 865 731 134 10 Property. plant and equipment 2,752 2,658 94 530 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 424,272 23,137 401,135 385,881 Loans 12,950 12,950 12,715 Other long-term investments 121,349 121,349 112,766 Long-term investments 558,571 23,137 535,434 511,362 Fixed assets 562,188 26,526 535,662 511,902 Operating receivables 26,582 26,582 32,376 Intra-group receivables 11,451 1,061 10,390 6,406 Marketable securities 5,680 5,680 4,778 Cash at bank and on hand 6,076 6,076 7,467 Prepaid expenses 344 344 46 Deferred charges Unrealised foreign exchange losses 529 529 735 Current assets 50,662 1,061 49,601 51,808 Total assets 612,850 27,587 585,263 563,710 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share capital 15,668 15,668 Share premium 122 119 Legal reserve 1,567 1,567 Untaxed reserves and other reserves 4,414 4,417 Retained earnings 402,300 396,576 Profit for the period 6,751 20,728 Total equity 430,822 439,075 Provisions for contingencies and charges 22,321 21,629 Convertible bonds Bank borrowings 77,045 60,129 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 44,107 34,681 Trade payables 3,568 2,323 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 2,955 1,925 Due to suppliers of fixed assets 100 Other payables 4,345 3,947 Deferred income Unrealised foreign exchange gains 1 Total liabilities 132,120 103,006 Total equity and liabilities 585,263 563,710 130 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCOME STATEMENT In thousands of euros 2019 2018 Revenue 9,125 6,165 Reversals of provisions, expense transfers 66 989 Other income 1 Operating income 9,191 7,155 Purchases and external charges (7,267) (8,532) Taxes other than on income (157) (257) Wages and social security contributions (2,991) (1,851) Directors’ remuneration (246) (240) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions (82) (196) Operating expenses (10,743) (11,076) Operating profit/(loss) (1,552) (3,921) Financial income 18,273 32,148 Financial expenses (10,542) (15,201) Net financial income 7,731 16,947 Profit from recurring operations 6,179 13,026 Net non-recurring income/(expense) (143) 7,383 Income tax 715 319 Profit for the period 6,751 20,728 5 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 131 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The notes below relate to the balance sheet at 31 December 2019 – The financial year covered a period of twelve months from 1 January prior to the appropriation of the Company’s results – and the income to 31 December 2019. statement for the year then ended. The Company ended the year with All amounts are presented in thousands of euros unless otherwise total assets of €585,263 thousand and profit for the period amounting specified. to €6,751 thousand. SOMMAIRE DES NOTES ANNEXES NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 133 NOTE 11 OTHER DISCLOSURES 140 NOTE 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY OF NOTE 12 LIABILITIES 141 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 134 NOTE 13 DEFERRED CHARGES 141 NOTE 3 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 135 NOTE 14 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS 142 3.1 Movements in the gross value of fixed assets 135 NOTE 15 REVENUE 142 3.2 Movements in long-term investments 136 3.3 Movements in depreciation and amortisation 136 NOTE 16 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 142 NOTE 4 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES 137 NOTE 17 EXPENSE TRANSFERS 142 NOTE 5 PROVISIONS 138 NOTE 18 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 143 NOTE 6 RECEIVABLES 139 NOTE 19 NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSES 144 NOTE 7 ACCRUED INCOME 139 NOTE 20 INCOME TAX 144 NOTE 8 BREAKDOWN OF MARKETABLE SECURITIES 139 NOTE 21 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES 145 NOTE 9 PREPAID EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME 139 NOTE 22 INFORMATION ON THE CONSOLIDATING ENTITY 146 NOTE 10 SHARE CAPITAL 140 132 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR Changes in holdings in subsidiaries and affiliates HDL is wholly controlled by Dominique Louis, Assystem’s Chairman & CEO, who also directly owns 0.48% of the capital of HDL Development. ACQUISITIONS OF SHARES IN NEW SUBSIDIARIES The remaining 12.29% of HDL Development’s capital is held by On 28 June 2019, Assystem SA (the “Company”) acquired the managers and former managers of the Group. entire capital of Bâtir Conseils, corresponding to 526 shares, for €1,486 thousand. On December 20, 2019, Assystem Engineering Bank borrowings and Operations Services transferred to Bâtir Conseils all of the shares it held in Euro Contrôle Projet. The consideration paid to Assystem On 18 June 2019, Assystem reduced, from €150 million to €120 million, Engineering and Operations Services for this transfer was 8,077 Bâtir the amount of its revolving credit facility (RCF) set up in 2017, of which Conseils shares. Consequently, the Company’s equity interest in Bâtir €17 million had been drawn down at 31 December 2019. On the Conseils was reduced to 6.11% at 31 December 2019. same date it also increased the amount of the investment loan it set up in 2018 to €60 million from €30 million. The maturity dates of the On 8 July 2019, the Company acquired the entire capital of ASCO, RCF and the investment loan were extended from September 2023 corresponding to 220 shares, for €7 million. to September 2024 and September 2022 to September 2024, ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION FOR AN EQUITY INTEREST AND MINORITY respectively, with no repayments due before these maturity dates. The BUYOUT FOR AN EXISTING SUBSIDIARY other terms and conditions of these credit facilities remain unchanged. During 2019 the Company made two payments of additional The RCF and the investment loan are subject to a financial covenant, consideration for its December 2017 acquisition of a 5% interest in under which Assystem’s consolidated net debt/EBITDA ratio must not Framatome, representing an aggregate €12,470 thousand. exceed 3.75 at 31 December and 3.95 at 30 June each year. This On 30 June 2019, the Company acquired 15,300 shares in Assystem covenant was respected at 31 December 2019. Care Holding from its minority shareholder for €998 thousand. Since that date the Company has owned the entire capital of Assystem Care Changes in share capital and the issue premium Holding. account SALE OF SHARES AND LIQUIDATION OF A SUBSIDIARY At 31 December 2019, the Company’s share capital amounted to €15,668,216. On 13 June 2019, the Company sold 3% of the share capital of Eurosyn for €164 thousand, reducing its stake in Eurosyn to 51.76%. 5 Significant events after the reporting date On 4 January 2019, the Company liquidated its subsidiary Assystem Italia SPA. None Treasury shares Risk factors At 31 December 2019, the fair value of Assystem’s treasury shares TAX AUDITS was calculated based on the average market price of Assystem’s shares In late 2014, the Company received notification of a €13.5 million for the last month of the year. As this average market price was higher tax reassessment relating to research tax credits recognised for 2010, than the average purchase price of the treasury shares, no provision 2011 and 2012 by its subsidiary Assystem France, which is now an for impairment was recognised against these shares at 31 December Expleo Group subsidiary but was a member of Assystem SA’s tax group 2019. during the years concerned. Assystem SA is fully contesting the validity A €5,680 thousand provision has been recognised for the seven of this reassessment. free share/performance share plans set up in 2016, 2017, 2018 The risk relating to this dispute was transferred by Assystem France to and 2019 for employees of Group entities other than Assystem S.A., the Company at end-2016 in return for the payment by Assystem France with the same amount recognised in accrued income. The provision of €7.3 million in compensation The Company recognised a provision recognised relating to beneficiaries of these plans who are employees for the full amount of this compensation in its 2016 financial statements. of the Company amounts to €3 thousand. At end-2017, the Company received a payment notice from the tax authorities for the reassessed amount and therefore recognised an Ownership structure of the Assystem Group additional provision in its 2017 fi nancial statements. The provision The Company is controlled by HDL Development, which held 57.14% covers since then the full reassessed amount as well as the potential of its capital at 31 December 2019 and 74.17% of its exercisable late payment penalties. voting rights. At 31 December 2019 the provision totalled €16.6 million, including At 31 December 2019, HDL Development was 87.23%-controlled by the amount recognised during the year for additional potential late HDL (51.85% directly and 35.38% through CEFID, H2DA and EEC). payment penalties. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 133 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Also during 2019, the French tax authorities’ National and International and (ii) a €60.0 million investment loan maturing in September 2024. Audit Department carried out an audit on the Company’s accounts for Interest on these borrowings is indexed against the Euribor for the period 2016 and 2017. No tax reassessments were issued following this concerned, i.e. one and/or three months. If the Euribor is negative the audit. interest is deemed to be zero. The Group has set up an interest rate swap for a notional amount of €60.0 million, i.e. the amount of the EXPOSURE TO INTEREST RATE RISK investment loan. This swap – under which Assystem is a variable-rate The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk concerns the borrowings set up lender with interest based on the 3-month Euribor with a zero floor, and on 28 September 2017 and amended twice since that date, comprising a fixed-rate borrower paying an annual interest rate of 0.05% – runs (i) a €120 million revolving credit facility expiring in September 2024, from 30 June 2020 to 30 June 2023. of which €17.0 million had been drawn down at 31 December 2019, NOTE 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Assystem’s parent company fi nancial statements for the year ended At each year-end, the Company calculates the value in use of its shares 31 December 2019 have been prepared in accordance with French in subsidiaries and affiliates and recognises a provision for impairment generally accepted accounting principles, including the principle of if their value in use is lower than their carrying amount. The Company segregation of accounting periods. They are presented on a going uses one of the following two methods for measuring value in use, concern basis and accounting policies have been applied consistently depending on the type of business carried out by the subsidiary or from one year to the next. affiliate: (i) a financial approach (based on projected cash flows or EBIT multiples), or (ii) a net asset approach (based on the Company’s Accounting entries are based on the historical cost convention. share of the equity of the subsidiary or affiliate). Fixed assets Main sources of estimation uncertainty Intangible assets are carried at cost, excluding fi nancial expenses, The preparation of financial statements involves the use of estimates and which are not capitalised. assumptions that may affect the carrying amounts of certain items in Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, corresponding to either the balance sheet and/or income statement as well as the disclosures purchase cost (including incidental expenses but excluding transaction in the notes. costs), or production cost. Assystem regularly reviews these estimates and assumptions and adjusts Interest on borrowings specifically used to finance property, plant and them where necessary to take into account past experience and other equipment is not included in production cost. factors believed to be reasonable in light of the prevailing economic Depreciation and amortisation are determined on a straight-line basis conditions. over the estimated useful lives of the assets concerned as follows: As the estimates, assumptions and judgements applied are based on ● software 1 to 5 years the information available and circumstances existing on the date when the fi nancial statements were prepared, they may not refl ect actual ● patents 4 years future events. ● fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years The main estimates made concern provisions for contingencies and ● vehicles 3 to 5 years charges, and the assumptions applied mostly relate to the preparation ● office equipment 3 to 5 years of business plans used for assessing the value of shares in subsidiaries ● office furniture 5 to 10 years and affiliates. ● buildings 20 years Transaction costs on acquisitions of shares in Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates subsidiaries and affiliates Shares in subsidiaries and affi liates are stated at historical cost or These costs are expensed as incurred. contribution value. For tax purposes, they are added back in the year in which the shares Disposals of these shares are measured on the basis of cost price, are acquired and then deducted over a period of five years as from and capital gains or losses are calculated using the carrying amount the acquisition date. of the shares sold. 134 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other long-term investments Provisions for contingencies and charges Other long-term investments are recognised at their nominal value. Provisions for contingencies and charges are recognised in compliance with French GAAP. Receivables Provisions for statutory retirement bonuses Receivables and payables are stated at nominal value. Provisions are recorded to cover any risk of non-recovery of receivables. A provision is recognised for the Company’s obligation to pay statutory retirement bonuses, based on employees’ length of service and the The majority of the receivables recognised by the Company correspond probability that they will still be with Assystem when they retire. The to amounts due from related companies amount of the provision is calculated using an actuarial method taking into account assumptions relating to employee turnover, future salary Debt issuance costs levels and retirement ages. Debt issuance costs are fully expensed in the year in which they are The main actuarial assumptions used for 2019 were follows: incurred. ● discount rate: 1%; Marketable securities ● projected rate of salary increases: 1.80%; ● median employee turnover rate: 10%/15%; Marketable securities are stated at the lower of cost (excluding incidental expenses) and fair value. ● mortality table: INSEE 2018 Foreign currency transactions Provisions for risks relating to subsidiaries Income and expenses denominated in foreign currency are translated into A provision is recognised for subsidiaries in relation to which the euros using the transaction-date exchange rates. Payables, receivables Company is exposed to a risk. and cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the year end. Foreign Hedging transactions exchange gains and losses resulting from the translation of these assets As the Company’s acquisition in 2016 of Envy (a Turkish company) and liabilities at year-end exchange rates are recognised in the balance was carried out in foreign currency, it took out a swap to hedge the sheet under “Unrealised foreign exchange gains” or “Unrealised foreign foreign exchange rate risk. exchange losses”. A provision for contingencies is recognised for the The amount recognised in the balance sheet in relation to gains on 5 full amount of any unrealised foreign exchange losses that are not offset by unrealised foreign exchange gains. derivatives is €1,201 thousand. NOTE 3 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 3.1 Movements in the gross value of fixed assets Gross value Gross value In thousands of euros at 1 January Increases Decreases at 31 December Intangible assets 758 179 72 865 Property. plant and equipment 4,359 12 1,619 2,752 Long-term investments 529,738 38,467 9,634 558,571 Total 534,855 38,658 11,325 562,188 At 31 December 2019, intangible assets broke down as €850 thousand Year-on-year changes in long-term investments, as set out in Note 3.2 in software and €15 thousand corresponding to a fully-amortised patent. below, primarily relate to the acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates referred to in Note 1 above, as well as new loans granted to Property, plant and equipment broke down as €2,004 thousand in subsidiaries, and treasury share transactions. buildings, fixtures and fittings; €532 thousand in office furniture and equipment; and €216 thousand in works of art. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 135 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 Movements in long-term investments Gross value Gross value In thousands of euros at 1 January Increases Decreases at 31 December Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates(1) 404,257 21,954 1,939 424,272 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates(2) 12,715 845 610 12,950 Deposits and guarantees 11 11 Convertible bonds (including accrued interest) 102,244 13,291 4,151 111,384 Treasury shares 10,511 2,377 2,934 9,954 Total 529,738 38,467 9,634 558,571 (1) Increases in the gross value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates reflect: • the acquisition of ASCO shares (€7 million); • additional consideration paid for Framatome shares (€12,470 thousand); • the acquisition of Bâtir Conseils shares (€1,486 thousand); • the acquisition of Assystem Care Holding shares (€998 thousand). The amount recorded under decreases in the gross value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates reflects the derecognition of Assystem Italia shares. (2) The Company granted an aggregate €845 thousand in loans to its subsidiaries in 2019. Repayments of loans to subsidiaries and affiliates totalled €610 thousand in 2019. The movements presented in the table above are based on the exchange rates prevailing on the recognition date for all of the loans. Currency translation differences related to loans to subsidiaries and affiliates corresponded to an aggregate €207 thousand unrealised foreign exchange gain. The table below shows a summary of movements in treasury shares during 2019: In thousands of euros Number of shares Book value Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2018 667,336 15,290 Purchases (liquidity contract) 58,575 1,824 Purchases (mandate to purchase Assystem SA shares) 12,838 368 Sales (liquidity contract) (67,109) (1,823) Deliveries of free shares (1,000) (25) Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2019(1) 670,640 15,634 (1) Treasury shares are recognised in the balance sheet under “Long-term investments” (€9,954 thousand) and “Marketable securities” (€5,680 thousand). 3.3 Movements in depreciation and amortisation Amount Amount In thousands of euros at 1 January Increases Decreases at 31 December Amortisation Other intangible assets 720 11 731 Sub-total 720 11 731 Depreciation Buildings on own land 1,884 1,884 Other buildings, fixtures and fittings 444 68 510 2 General fixtures 781 317 987 111 Office equipment, furniture and IT 546 58 117 487 Sub-total 3,655 443 1,614 2,484 Total 4,375 454 1,614 3,215 136 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Loans and advances granted (excl. tax Other consolidation Deposits, Subsidiaries equity and intraguarantees and affiliates (including % Gross book Net book group current and (In thousands Share profit/(loss) ownership value of value of and term endorse2019 2019 Dividends of euros) capital for 2019) interest shares held shares held accounts) ments given net revenue profit/(loss) received Eurosyn 40 1,696 51.76% 7,471 1,093 702 ASG 76 228 100.00% 432 229 (21) Assystem Engineering and Operation Services 3,242 81,449 99.23% 97,058 97,058 11,185 277,376 17,177 SCI du Pont Noir 322 260 99.99% 1,065 1,065 115 (18) Assystem Care Belgium 600 227 0.30% 27 27 9,583 (375) MPH Global Services 15,805 14,985 100.00% 32,471 15,800 1,067 9,132 596 ASM Technologies 572 313 99.99% 787 (45) Assystem Australia 0 (447) 100.00% 380 (25) Eradma ND ND 4.04% 120 ND ND Assystem Solutions DMCC 24 (583) 100.00% 20 1,409 99 Assystem Investissements 5 28 100.00% 15 (6) Envy 258 2,376 51.00% 14,018 8,700 7,873 1,313 1,601 Bâtir Conseils Expleo Group 662 242,398 14,702 262,242 6.11% 38.16% 1,486 92,500 1,486 92,500 14,882 11,342 (4) 5 Assystem Energy Infrastructure Ltd UK 5,971 8,672 100.00% 5,514 5,514 4,610 28,595 365 Assystem Care Holding 21,385 23,927 100.00% 35,560 35,560 2,384 1,300 Assystem Conseils 3 (10) 100.00% 3 13 (5) Framatome ND ND 5.00% 136,196 136,196 ND ND 2,356 ASCO 69 26 100.00% 7,000 7,000 603 19,370 (1,500) 424,271 401,134 19,267 5,959 Assystem has set aside provisions for impairment in value against the shares held in certain subsidiaries following impairment tests carried out at 31 December 2019 in accordance with the accounting policies described above. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 137 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 PROVISIONS Amount Increases Decreases Amount In thousands of euros at 1 January (additions) (reversals) at 31 December Provisions for foreign exchange losses 2 2 2 2 Other provisions for contingencies and charges(1) 21,627 1,541 849 22,319 Total provisions for contingencies and charges 21,629 1,543 851 22,321 Provisions for impairment in value of intangible assets 28 28 Provisions for impairment in value of property, plant and equipment 174 174 Provisions for shares in subsidiaries and affiliates(2) 18,376 6,700 1,939 23,137 Provisions for loans Provisions for treasury shares Sub-total: Provisions for fixed assets 18,578 6,700 1,967 23,311 Provisions for impairment in value of trade receivables Provisions for impairment in value of intra-group receivables(3) 1,026 35 1,061 Provisions for impairment in value of sundry debtors Sub-total: Provisions for current assets 1,026 35 1,061 Total provisions for impairment in value 19,604 6,735 1,967 24,372 Total provisions 41,233 8,278 2,818 46,693 (1) Additions to and reversals of provisions for contingencies and charges in 2019 break down as follows: • an additional €1,186 thousand provision for free share/performance share plans for which the related expense will be rebilled to the Group subsidiaries whose employees are beneficiaries of the plans concerned; • an additional €326 thousand provision for tax risks, corresponding to potential late payment penalties following a tax reassessment; • a €26 thousand provision for statutory retirement bonuses for employees; • a €3 thousand provision for free shares/performance shares granted to employees of Assystem SA; • a €358 thousand reversal of the provisions set aside in 2016 and 2018 for costs related to free share plans; • a €312 thousand reversal of the provision set aside for costs related to a tax dispute; • a €179 thousand reversal of the provision for subsidiary-related risks concerning Assystem Italia. (2) The main additions to and reversals of provisions for shares in subsidiaries and affiliates concerned the following companies: • MPH Global Services SAS: €6,700 thousand addition. This provision has been recognised to reflect the revised revenue and earnings forecasts of the Staffing division, as MPH Global Services SAS is the division’s holding company. • Assystem Italia: €1,939 thousand provision reversal. (3) The €35 thousand increase in this item in 2019 breaks down as €22 thousand for Assystem Australia and €13 thousand for Assystem Conseils. 138 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 6 RECEIVABLES Due Due In thousands of euros Gross amount within one year beyond one year Receivables recognised as fixed assets Expleo Group convertible bonds (including accrued coupons) 111,384 111,384 Loans 12,950 12,950 Other long-term investments 11 11 Treasury shares(1) 9,954 9,954 Sub-total 134,299 9,954 124,345 Operating receivables Doubtful or disputed receivables Other trade receivables 3,380 3,380 Prepaid and recoverable payroll taxes 1,151 1,151 Prepayments to suppliers Prepaid and recoverable income tax 13,211 6,523 6,688 Prepaid and recoverable VAT 457 457 Sundry debtors(2) 8,383 8,383 Sub-total 26,582 19,894 6,688 Intra-group receivables 11,451 11,451 Prepaid expenses 344 344 Total 172,676 41,643 131,033 (1) Representing 368,675 Assystem SA shares. (2) Including €5,680 thousand in accrued income related to the free share/performance share plans set up for employees of Group subsidiaries. 5 NOTE 7 ACCRUED INCOME ● Accrued trade receivables: €2,835 thousand ● Tax receivables: €367 thousand ● Employee-related receivables: €1,191 thousand ● Sundry debtors: €5,849 thousand NOTE 8 BREAKDOWN OF MARKETABLE SECURITIES In thousands of euros At 1 January Purchases Sales At 31 December Treasury shares(1) 4,778 1,186 284 5,680 Total 4,778 1,186 284 5,680 (1) Corresponding to 301,965 Assystem S.A. shares valued at their purchase price and held for allocation under free share/performance share plans. NOTE 9 PREPAID EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Prepaid expenses and deferred income only relate to operating activities. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 139 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 10 SHARE CAPITAL The Company’s share capital totalled €15,668,216 at 31 December 2019, made up of shares with a par value of €1 each. Number of shares 1 Shares outstanding at beginning of year 15,668,216 2 New shares issued during the year 3 Shares cancelled during the year 4 Shares outstanding at year-end 15,668,216 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY In thousands of euros 2019 2018 Amount at beginning of year 439,075 433,427 Profit for the period 6,751 20,728 Dividend payouts/contribution premium repayments (15,004) (15,080) Changes in capital • capital increase • capital reduction Changes in share premium account, reserves, retained earnings and untaxed provisions • increase 20,731 387,997 • decrease (20,731) (387,997) Amount at year-end(1) 430,822 439,075 (1) For 2019, including €406,714 thousand in retained earnings and other reserves, i.e., 26 times higher than the purchase cost of treasury shares owned. NOTE 11 OTHER DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2019, all of the Company’s potentially dilutive instruments corresponded to the 302,715 shares not yet delivered under outstanding free share/performance share plans. 140 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 LIABILITIES Due Due Due In thousands of euros Gross amount within 1 year in 1 to 5 years beyond 5 years Bank borrowings 77,045 77,045 Deposits and guarantees received 31 31 Intra-group financial liabilities 44,076 44,076 Trade payables 3,568 3,568 Employee-related liabilities 1,020 1,020 Accrued payroll taxes 1,478 1,478 Accrued income taxes 379 379 Other accrued taxes 78 78 Due to suppliers of fixed assets 100 100 Other payables 4,345 4,345 Total liabilities 132,120 55,044 77,076 In thousands of euros Beginning of year Increases Decreases Year-end Bank borrowings Investment loan and RCF 60,000 17,000 77,000 Bank overdrafts 9 5 9 5 Accrued interest 17 40 17 40 Treasury instruments 103 103 Total bank borrowings 60,129 17,045 129 77,045 Other borrowings and financial liabilities Deposits and guarantees received Current accounts with subsidiaries 31 34,650 9,426 31 44,076 5 Total other borrowings and financial liabilities 34,681 9,426 44,107 Debt-related income and expenses Expenses Income Interest on borrowings (786) Income and expenses related to Group cash management(1) (67) 324 (1) Financial income and expenses relating to interest on current accounts with subsidiaries and intra-group cash pooling. NOTE 13 DEFERRED CHARGES ● Accrued trade payables: €2,800 thousand ● Accrued taxes and payroll costs: €2,704 thousand ● Accrued interest on borrowings and financial liabilities: €40 thousand ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 141 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 14 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Commitments given (in thousands of euros) Amount Sureties and guarantees 19,628 Commitments received Amount Unused revolving credit facility 103,000 LEASE COMMITMENTS Payments due by period Due Due Due Obligations (in thousands of euros) Total in less than 1 year in 1 to 5 years beyond 5 years Operating leases vehicles 141 74 67 premises 2,636 217 1,551 868 Total 2,777 291 1,618 868 Derivative financial instruments The accounting principles applicable to forward financial instruments and hedging transactions were changed pursuant to regulation no. The Company uses currency hedges (mainly in the form of forward 2015-05 issued by the French Accounting Board on 2 July 2015, sales or purchases) in order to safeguard its operating margins on which Assystem has applied since 31 December 2016. major contracts denominated in foreign currency. It also uses currency swaps to hedge significant intra-group financing in foreign currency. The re-measurement in the balance sheet of all of Assystem’s forward sale hedges at end-2019 resulted in the recognition of a €107 thousand asset under treasury instruments. NOTE 15 REVENUE Revenue comprises income received for administrative, management and specialist services, which are mainly provided to Assystem Group subsidiaries. It would not be relevant to provide a breakdown of revenue by business segment or by geographic region. NOTE 16 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT The Company’s average headcount corresponded to eight employees in 2019. The executive who receives compensation from the Company does not have an employment contract and only receives compensation in his capacity as a corporate officer. NOTE 17 EXPENSE TRANSFERS Benefits in kind: €38 thousand 142 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 18 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES In thousands of euros 2019 Financial income from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 5,959 Dividends received 5,959 Income from other securities and receivables recognised as fixed assets 208 Loan interest 208 Other interest income 10,452 Income related to Group cash management 324 Other financial income(1) 10,128 Provision reversals and expense transfers 673 Reversal of provisions for foreign exchange losses 2 Reversal of provision for long-term investments(2) 671 Positive foreign exchange differences 981 Foreign exchange gains 981 Total financial income 18,273 Amortisation and provisions recognised under financial expenses (7,926) Additions to provisions for contingencies and charges relating to financial assets(2) (7,924) Additions to provisions for foreign exchange losses (2) Interest expense (1,659) Interest on borrowings (786) Expenses related to Group cash management (67) Other financial expenses (806) Negative foreign exchange differences (957) Foreign exchange losses Total financial expenses (957) (10,542) 5 Net financial income 7,731 (1) Including €9,140 thousand in interest income on convertible bonds. (2) Including: • reversals of provisions related to the following, recorded in financial income: (i) free share plans (€359 thousand), (ii) a tax dispute (€133 thousand), and (iii) subsidiary-related risks (€179 thousand); • additions to provisions related to the following, recorded in financial expenses: (i) impairment in value of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates (€6,700 thousand), (ii) impairment in value of subsidiaries’ current accounts with Assystem SA (€35 thousand), and (iii) free share plans (€1,189 thousand). ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 143 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 19 NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSES In thousands of euros 2019 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 601 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment Proceeds from disposals of long-term investments(1) 164 Gains on sales of treasury shares 437 Provision reversals and expense transfers 2,117 Total non-recurring income 2,718 Non-recurring expenses on management transactions (32) Net value of divested intangible assets (27) Net value of divested property, plant and equipment (5) Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions (2,105) Net value of divested long-term investments (1,939) Losses on sales of treasury shares (166) Exceptional additions to depreciation, amortisation and provisions(2) (724) Addition to provisions for contingencies (724) Total non-recurring expenses (2,861) Net non-recurring expense (143) (1) Corresponding to the €164 thousand in net proceeds from the sale of Eurosyn shares. (2) Breaking down as (i) €326 thousand added to the provision for the tax dispute described in Note 1 and (ii) €398 thousand in exceptional depreciation recognised when the Company returned its former headquarters premises. NOTE 20 INCOME TAX Analysis of income tax The breakdown of income tax between the portion related to profit from recurring operations and the portion related to non-recurring items was determined by analysing the nature of the underlying income and expenses. The effect of tax consolidation has been included in the portion related to non-recurring items. In thousands of euros Before tax Tax After tax Profit from recurring operations 6,179 616 6,795 Net non-recurring expense (143) 99 (44) Profit for the period 6,036 715 6,751 Tax consolidation Under the tax consolidation agreement, the methods for calculating the income tax due by each entity in the tax group are determined based Assystem SA is the head of a tax group that includes the following on the applicable tax rules in force at the reporting date and as if each entities: Assystem Engineering and Operation Services, SCI Pont Noir, entity were taxed on a stand-alone basis. ASG, Insiema, Assystem Conseils, Assystem Investissements, Assystem Care France, MPH International and MPH Global Services. 144 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred taxes In thousands of euros Deferred tax liabilities (calculated at a rate of 32.02%) 2019 tax base Amount of tax None Total Deferred tax assets (calculated at a rate of 32.02%) 2019 tax base Amount of tax Provision for retirement benefit obligations 26 (8) Unrealised foreign exchange gains Provisions for impairment in value 175 (56) Acquisition-related expenses 1,142 (366) Tax losses Other expenses 171 (55) Total 1,514 (485) NOTE 21 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES Amount concerning Entities in which the Company has an equity In thousands of euros Related companies interest Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 172,439 228,696 Loans Other long-term investments 12,950 9,965 5 Trade receivables 2,959 49 Intra-group receivables 11,451 Convertible bonds 111,384 Intra-group payables (44,076) Trade payables (1,222) (4) Financial income from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 3,603 2,356 Income from convertible bonds 7,904 Other financial income 532 1,236 Financial expenses (67) Assystem has not identified any other transactions with related parties that were entered into on non-arm’s length terms or which materially impact the financial statements. Consequently, no additional disclosures are required pursuant to Article R. 123-198, para. 11 of the French Commercial Code. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 145 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 22 INFORMATION ON THE CONSOLIDATING ENTITY Assystem SA is the consolidating parent company of the Assystem Group. Assystem SA (ISIN: FR0000074148-ASY) is listed on Euronext Paris. 5.4.1 PAYMENT TIMES In accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code, the tables below provide a breakdown of the payment times for trade payables and receivables, showing invoices received and issued but not settled at the reporting date and which are past due. TRADE PAYABLES: In thousands of euros 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days and over Total Number of invoices concerned 11 6 5 51 73 Total amount (incl. VAT) of invoices concerned 77 1 7 48 133 % of total amount of purchases for the year (excl. VAT) 0.8% 0.0% 0.1% 0.6% 1.6% TRADE RECEIVABLES: In thousands of euros 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days and over Total Number of invoices concerned 27 4 3 42 76 Total amount (incl. VAT) of invoices concerned 154 72 66 255 547 % of total amount of revenue for the year (excl. VAT) 1.6% 0.8% 0.7% 2.7% 5.8% The payment times used to calculate late payment interest correspond to the legally applicable periods. No invoices related to disputed or unrecognised payables or receivables have been excluded from the above tables. 5.4.2 NON-TAX-DEDUCTIBLE EXPENSES The aggregate amount of non-tax-deductible expenses as referred to in Article 39-4 of the French Tax Code amounted to €58,800 for 2019, generating income tax of €20,245 (disclosure made in application of Articles 223 quater and quinquies of said Code). 146 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4.3 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR ASSYSTEM SA Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 I. Capital at year-end Share capital 22,218,216 22,218,216 15,668,216 15,668,216 15,668,216 Number of shares issued 22,218,216 22,218,216 15,668,216 15,668,216 15,668,216 Number of convertible bonds 6,861,795 807,438 None None None II. Results of operations Net revenue 11,342,261 11,974,072 10,057,485 6,165,476 9,124,924 Profit/(loss) before tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 50,292,852 (6,401,391) 387,980,428 22,463,384 11,912,056 Corporate income tax 5,315,395 7,143,932 (2,115,209) 318,927 714,783 Profit/(loss) after tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 93,212,545 (16,350,387) 387,767,535 20,797,944 6,751,478 Dividends paid 16,992,599 21,164,539 15,080,723 15,004,647 * III. Per share data Earnings per share after tax but before depreciation, amortisation and provisions 2.50 0.03 24.63 1.45 0.81 Earnings/(loss) per share after tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions 4.20 (0.74) 24.75 1.32 0.43 Dividend per share 0.80 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00* IV. Employee data Number of employees 0 0 0 4 8 Total payroll 1,468,064 685,571 606,598 1,320,554 2,067,114 Social security contributions 578,586 268,782 238,507 529,670 923,236 * Dividend to be recommended at the next Annual General Meeting. 5 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 147 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 5.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the Basis for opinion financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. AUDIT FRAMEWORK This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the management report and obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. other documents provided to shareholders. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in the “Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards Statements” Section of our report. applicable in France. INDEPENDENCE To the Annual General Meeting of Assystem SA, We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1st January 2019 to the date of Opinion our report, and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual or in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. General Meetings, we have audited the accompanying fi nancial statements of Assystem SA for the year ended 31 December 2019. These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters 9 March 2020 on the basis of the information available at that date in In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823a changing context of the health crisis linked to Covid-19. 7 of the French Commercial Code relating to the justification of our In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of at 31 December 2019 and of the results of its operations for the year most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. period, as well as we addressed those risks. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial Audit Committee. statements as a whole, prepared under the conditions mentioned above, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. 148 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND OTHER NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Notes 3.2, 4 and 5 to the financial statements Risk Our response As at 31 December 2019, the net book value of the investments held in subsidiaries For each investment, we have highlighted the method used by the Company for and other non-controlling interests amounted to 401.1 million of euros, accounting calculating the value in use of the investment and have assessed whether the method for 69% of the Company’s balance sheet total. used was appropriate with regards to the economic characteristics of the investment. As mentioned in Note 2 “Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting When the approach based on projected cash flows was used, we have: policies Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates” to the financial statements, the • assessed the consistency of the budgetary data used with those presented to the Audit investments are recorded at cost at the date of acquisition or at their contribution Committee and approved by the Board of Directors, and the consistency of forecast value. At each year-end, the Company estimates the value in use of its investments data with budgetary assumptions; in order to determine whether the value in use of each investment is lower than its • checked the consistency of the assumptions made for the long term growth rate with carrying value. the economic environment prevailing as at the financial statements closing date; An impairment is recognised when the value in use appears to be lower than the • checked, with the assistance of our evaluation specialists, the reasonableness of the carrying value. assumptions used in determining the discounting rate; For the purpose of estimating the value in use, and depending on the nature of • compared the forecasts used in the past with the actual performance shown with a the business operated by the investment, the Company uses one of the following view to assessing whether past objectives were met or not; methods: an economic approach (based on projected cash flows or on the EBIT • checked that the value resulting from the cash flow forecasts was adjusted by the multiples method) or a patrimonial approach (based on the percentage held in the amount of indebtedness of the investment concerned. investment’s net equity). When the approach based on EBIT multiples was used, we have: We have considered the valuation of investments in subsidiaries and other non• assessed the consistency of the aggregate used with the financial statements and controlling interests as a key audit matter, given their materiality to the Company’s the rationale behind the multiples used in comparison with those applied in similar balance sheet, the high degree of estimation and judgement required from business sectors; management in choosing the calculation method for the value in use and the • checked that the value resulting from the EBIT multiples approach was adjusted by sensitivity, depending on the calculation method adopted, of this value to changes the amount of indebtedness of the investment concerned. in forecast assumptions. When a patrimonial approach was implemented, we have checked that the net equity data used were in line with the financial statements of the investments concerned, either audited or subject to agreed-upon procedures, and that the restatements made to the net equity, if any, were supported by a relevant documentation. Should have these investments been made close to the year end date, we have examined the available documentation used in the determination of the shares purchase price. We have also assessed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the notes 3.2 “Movements in long-term investments”, 4 “List of subsidiaries and affiliates” and 5 “Provisions” to the financial statements. Specific verifications commitments made in their favour, we have verifi ed its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used 5 We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards to prepare these financial statements and, where appropriate, with the applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French laws information obtained by your company from controlling and controlled and regulations. companies. Based on these procedures, we attest the accuracy and INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND IN THE OTHER fair presentation of this information. DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PROVIDED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS With respect to the information relating to items that your company considered likely to have an impact in the event of a public purchase We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the offer or exchange, provided pursuant to Article L. 225-37-5 of the French consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the Commercial Code, we have agreed these to the source documents management report of the Board of Directors approved on 9 March communicated to us. Based on our work, we have no observations to 2020 and in the other documents with respect to the financial position make on this information. and the financial statements provided to the Shareholders. With regard to the events which occurred and the facts known after the date the OTHER INFORMATION financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors relating to In accordance with French law, we have verifi ed that the required the impact of the crisis linked to Covid-19, the management indicated information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling to us that they will be the subject of a communication to the Annual interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting General Meeting called to approve the financial statements. rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. We attest the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information relating to payment terms, required under Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code. APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We were appointed as Statutory Auditors of Assystem SA by the Annual We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance General Meeting held on 26 August 1999 for Deloitte & Associés and sets out the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225on 30 April 2009 for KPMG. 37-4 of the French Commercial Code. As at 31 December 2019, Deloitte & Associés and KPMG were in the Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements twenty-first year and the eleventh year of total uninterrupted engagement of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code relating to respectively. remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 149 5 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 Responsibilities of Management and those Charged ● obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit with Governance for the Financial Statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on Management is responsible for the preparation and the fair presentation the effectiveness of the internal control; of the fi nancial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines is ● evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. by management in the financial statements; ● assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going In preparing the fi nancial statements, management is responsible concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit the Company or to cease operations. evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit accounting and financial reporting procedures. report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein; Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the ● evaluates the overall presentation of the fi nancial statements and Financial Statements assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a taken as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will deficiencies in internal controls regarding the accounting and financial always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can reporting procedures that we have identified. arise from fraud or error, and are considered material if, individually Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period statements. and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, describe in this report. our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confi rming our As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of judgement throughout the audit and furthermore: the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss ● identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be brought to statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; Paris la Défense, 31 March 2020 The Statutory Auditors French original jointly signed by Eric ROPERT and Laurent GENIN, KPMG audit partners and Albert AÏDAN, Deloitte & Associés audit partner 150 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 6.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 6.3 STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID ABOUT THE COMPANY 152 BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 163 6.2 INFORMATION 6.3.1 Statutory audit 163 ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE 6.3.2 Statutory Auditors 163 CAPITAL 155 6.3.3 Statutory Auditors’ fees in 2019 163 6.2.1 Assystem and its shareholders 155 6.2.2 Assystem’s share capital 156 6.2.3 Share performance 157 6.4 SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE 6.2.4 Additional information about the Company’s share SHARES AND PERFORMANCE SHARES 164 capital 159 6.4.1 Free share and/or performance share awards 6.2.5 Stock options 160 decided by the Company’s Board of Directors 164 6.2.6 Free share and performance share awards 160 6.4.2 Free shares and/or performance shares awarded during 2019 by related companies as defined in 6.2.7 Treasury share transactions carried out by the Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code 164 Company in 2019 (Article L. 225-211 of the French Commercial Code) 160 6.4.3 Free shares and/or performance shares awarded by controlled companies as defined in 6.2.8 Changes in share capital over the last three years 162 Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code 164 6.5 SPECIAL REPORT ON STOCK OPTIONS 164 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 151 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 6.1 GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY Company name and address ● participating in any operation related to its corporate purpose, by creating new companies, subscribing for or purchasing shares, taking Company name: Assystem part in mergers or joint ventures, or by any other means; Registered office: Tour Égée, 9-11 allée de l’Arche, La Défense, 92400 ● carrying out any financial, commercial, industrial or civil business Courbevoie, France activities or any transactions involving movable or immovable assets, Telephone: +33 (0) 1 41 25 29 00 which may be directly or indirectly associated with the Company’s corporate purpose or which may be likely to further its development, www.assystem.com on the Company’s own account or on behalf of third parties, or All of Assystem’s corporate documents may be consulted free of charge through any form of ownership interest whatsoever. at the Company’s registered office. The Company’s role with regard to its subsidiaries Statutory Auditors Assystem SA is a holding company whose assets are essentially The Company has two Statutory Auditors appointed in compliance with composed of equity securities. The Group’s operational assets are held Article L. 225-228 of the French Commercial Code. Further information by the Company’s subsidiaries. about the Statutory Auditors is provided in Section 6.3 below. Assystem SA directly or indirectly provides services for companies in the Group, notably in the areas of finance, accounting and general Date of incorporation and term and administrative management. Date of incorporation: 26 April 1997. A list of the main consolidated companies as at 31 December 2019 is Expiry date of Company’s term: 26 May 2096. set out in Chapter 5 of this Universal Registration Document (Note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements) and a simplified organisational chart of the Assystem Group is provided in Chapter 1. Registration particulars The financing for Group subsidiaries is carried out in a centralised way The Company is registered with the Nanterre Trade and Companies by the Company, which enables them to benefit from the favourable Registry under number 412,076,937. Its French business identifi er market conditions obtained by Assystem SA from lenders. This also (NAF) Code is 7010 Z (head office activities). allows Assystem SA to offset the lender and borrower positions of its various entities. Legal form and applicable legislation At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2014, the shareholders Financial year modified the Company’s administration and management structure. The Company has a 12-month financial year, commencing on 1 January Originally incorporated in the form of a société anonyme (public limited and ending on 31 December. company) with a Management Board and a Supervisory Board, as from 22 May 2014 Assystem adopted the form of a société anonyme Profit distribution with a Board of Directors, governed by the provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code and by the Company’s Articles of Association. Profi t or loss for the year represents the difference between total income and total expenses, including charges to and reversals from depreciation, amortisation and provisions. Corporate purpose Five percent of profit for the year, less any losses carried forward from As set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association, the Company’s previous years, is transferred to the legal reserve, until such time as that corporate purpose can be summarised as follows: reserve represents one tenth of the Company’s share capital. Further ● acquiring equity interests – by way of subscription, contribution, transfers are made on the same basis if the legal reserve falls to below purchase or otherwise – and exercising any and all associated rights, one tenth of the share capital. in any enterprise operating in a technological, technical, IT, electronic Profit available for distribution consists of profit for the year plus retained or mechanical field, and more specifically: earnings from previous years, less any losses brought forward from ● consultancy, research and engineering, previous years and any amounts transferred to reserves in accordance ● training, support and maintenance, with the law or the Company’s Articles of Association. On the ● systems and network operation and facilities management; recommendation of the Board of Directors, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting determine the portion of profi t to be allocated to ● developing and distributing products, equipment, hardware and shareholders in the form of a dividend, and the portion to be allocated to software; general or special reserves, with the remaining balance being allocated ● effectively leading the Group and determining its overall strategy; to retained earnings. 152 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY However, except in the case of a capital reduction, no dividend may ● vote remotely; or be paid to shareholders if the Company’s equity represents – or would ● send a proxy to the Company without indicating a specific named represent after the planned dividend payout – less than the sum of its proxy. share capital plus any reserves which, under the applicable law or the Subject to the conditions stipulated by the applicable law and Company’s Articles of Association, are not available for distribution. regulations, the Board of Directors may decide that shareholders may In addition, the shareholders may resolve to distribute amounts taken participate and vote at General Meetings by videoconference or by from discretionary reserves, either to pay all or part of an ordinary other means of telecommunication that enable them to be identified. If dividend or as a special dividend. If amounts are taken from reserves the Board of Directors decides to use this option for a General Meeting, to pay a dividend, the related resolution must stipulate the reserve the decision must be stated in the preliminary and/or final notice of accounts from which the dividend is to be deducted. the meeting concerned. However, dividends are deducted in priority from distributable profit Shareholders taking part in General Meetings by videoconference for the year. or by any other means of telecommunication as indicated above, The revaluation reserve may not be distributed, but all or part of it may depending on the choice of the Board of Directors, are considered to be incorporated into the Company’s capital. be in attendance for the purposes of quorum and majority calculations. General Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Timeframe for claiming dividends Directors, or in his or her absence, by the CEO, by a Deputy CEO if he or she is a director, or by a director specifically appointed for this Any dividends not claimed within five years of the date of their payment purpose by the Board. Failing this, the General Meeting elects its own revert to the French State. Chairman. Registrar and paying agent The role of scrutineers at a General Meeting is carried out by the two shareholders present at the meeting who hold or represent the largest The Company’s registrar and paying agent is Société Générale number of voting rights and who agree to take on the role. The meeting Securities Services, 32 rue du Champ de Tir CS 30812 -44308 officers thus appointed then appoint a Secretary, who need not be a Nantes Cedex 3, France. shareholder. An attendance register containing all of the information provided for Stock exchange by law is kept for each General Meeting. Assystem SA shares are listed on compartment B of the Euronext Paris An Ordinary General Meeting held on first call is only validly constituted market under ISIN FR 0000074148 and are included in the CAC Allif the shareholders present or represented hold at least one fifth of the Tradable index and the MID & SMALL 190 index. They are eligible for shares with voting rights. An Ordinary General Meeting held on second equity savings schemes (PEA) and the deferred settlement service (SRD). call is validly constituted irrespective of the number of shareholders present or represented. LEI Code (Legal Entity Identifier) Resolutions in Ordinary General Meetings are adopted by a straight Assystem SA’s LEI Code is 9695008GTTDJGF00CT88. majority vote of the shareholders present or represented. An Extraordinary General Meeting held on fi rst call is only validly 6 General Meetings constituted if the shareholders present or represented hold at least The specific procedures relating to shareholder participation in General one quarter of the shares with voting rights. An Extraordinary General Meetings are described in Article 19 of the Company’s Articles of Meeting held on second call is only validly constituted if the shareholders Association. present or represented hold at least one fifth of the shares with voting rights. General Meetings are held at the Company’s registered office or any other location specified in the notice of meeting. Resolutions in Extraordinary General Meetings are adopted by a twothirds majority vote of the shareholders present or represented. The right to participate in General Meetings is governed by the applicable law and regulations. In particular, in order for a shareholder Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings exercise their respective to participate in a General Meeting their shares must be recorded in powers in accordance with the conditions stipulated by law. their own name or in the name of the bank or broker that manages the shareholder’s securities account by 00:00 (Paris time) on the second Voting rights business day preceding the Meeting. If the shares are held in registered The Company’s Articles of Association do not provide for any limitations form, they must be recorded in the share register kept by the Company on voting rights. In accordance with Article L. 225-110 of the French (or its agent) and if they are in bearer form, they must be recorded in Commercial Code, if Assystem shares are held by a legal owner (“nua bearer share account kept by an accredited intermediary. propriétaire”) and a beneficial owner (“usufruitier”), the corresponding If a shareholder cannot personally attend a General Meeting, he or voting rights are exercised by the beneficial owner in Ordinary General she may select one of the following three options, each subject to the Meetings and the legal owner in Extraordinary General Meetings. conditions stipulated in the applicable law and regulations: ● appoint a named proxy under the conditions authorised by the applicable law and regulations; ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 153 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY Double voting rights Dependency All fully-paid shares registered in the name of the same holder for at Assystem’s business does not currently depend on any patents or least two years carry double voting rights. production processes belonging to third parties or on any specifi c procurement contracts. In addition, in the event of a capital increase carried out by capitalising reserves, profit or share premiums, the bonus shares allotted in respect of registered shares carrying double voting rights will also carry double Existence of agreements whose implementation could voting rights as from the date of issue. lead to a change in control of the Company or could have the effect of delaying, postponing or preventing a Double voting rights may be cancelled if the shares concerned are change in control converted to bearer shares or transferred to another shareholder, except if registered shares are transferred to another registered shareholder To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no agreements currently exist in the case of inheritance or inter vivos donations to a spouse or other whose implementation could result in a change in control. eligible family member (as provided for in Article L. 225-124 of the In addition, there are currently no provisions in the Company’s French Commercial Code). Memorandum or Articles of Association, or in any charters or bylaws, that would have the effect of delaying, postponing or preventing a Disclosure thresholds stipulated in the Company’s change in control. Articles of Association In addition to the applicable statutory disclosure obligations, any Agreements entered into by the Company which would physical or legal person, whether acting alone or in concert (within be amended or terminated in the event of a change in the meaning of Article L. 223-10 of the French Commercial Code), control of the Company that comes to hold a number of shares representing 2% or more of the At 31 December 2019, the Group had access to a €120 million Company’s share capital or voting rights or a multiple thereof, is required revolving credit facility with a sufficient maturity (28 September 2024) to inform the Company of the total number of shares and voting rights to finance its operating requirements. A total of €17 million had been that they hold, by registered mail with recorded delivery, within four drawn down on this facility at that date. trading days from the crossing of the threshold. In early 2018 the Group took out a €30 million investment loan in the The same disclosure formalities must also be followed each time a form of a bullet loan with a final maturity date of 28 September 2024. shareholder’s interest is reduced to below any 2% threshold. The amount of the loan was increased to €60 million in June 2019. In the event of a failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the request The related financing agreements provide that the banking pool can of one or several shareholders with combined holdings representing demand, at any time, full early repayment of any outstanding amounts at least 5% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights (with said in the event of a change in control of the Company. For this purpose, request recorded in the minutes of the General Meeting at which the a change in control is defi ned as Dominique Louis or his heirs and request is made), the shares in excess of the undisclosed threshold will successors ceasing to directly or indirectly control the Company. be stripped of voting rights as provided for in Article L. 233-14 of the Dominique Louis or his heirs and successors are deemed to have control French Commercial Code. if he or they directly or indirectly own at least 40% of the Company’s These provisions apply in addition to the statutory disclosure threshold capital and voting rights and no other group of individual or corporate provisions set out in Article L. 233-7 of the French Commercial Code. shareholders acting in concert own over 34% of the capital and voting rights. No other provision in the Articles of Association affects shareholders’ rights, which can only be amended in accordance with the conditions stipulated by law. Measures in place to ensure that control is not abused The Company is controlled as defi ned in Article L. 233-3 of the Shareholder identification French Commercial Code, as shown in the ownership structure table in Section 6.2.2 below. In compliance with Article L. 228-2 of the French Commercial Code, the Company may, at any time, ask the central securities clearing body, or The measures put in place by the Company in order to avoid control an intermediary as referred to in Article L. 211-3 of the French Monetary being exercised in an abusive manner are described in the following and Financial Code, to provide it with certain information, including Sections of this Universal Registration Document: the identity of holders of securities carrying immediate or future voting ● Chapter 2, Section 2.1, concerning internal control and risk rights at General Meetings as well as the number of securities held by management procedures put in place by the Company related to each one, and, where appropriate, the restrictions applicable to any preparing and processing accounting and financial information; such securities. ● Chapter 4, Section 4.1, concerning the presence of independent directors on the Board of Directors and Board Committees; ● Chapter 4, Section 4.1: paragraph on “Conflicts of interest”. 154 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL Factors that could have an impact in the event of a PROVISIONS IN THE COMPANY’S ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION CONCERNING RESTRICTIONS ON EXERCISING VOTING RIGHTS AND DOUBLE VOTING public offer RIGHTS In accordance with the disclosure requirements of Article L. 225-100-3 As stated in Section 6.1 above, some of the Company’s shares carry of the French Commercial Code, the factors that could have an impact in double voting rights. the event of a public offer for the Company’s shares are set out below. AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO BY THE COMPANY WHICH WOULD BE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AMENDED OR TERMINATED IN THE EVENT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY The Company’s ownership structure is shown in the table in Section 6.2.2 The Company’s financing agreements contain early repayment clauses, below that gives a breakdown of the Company’s share capital and whereby the Company may have to repay its borrowings in advance of voting rights at 31 December 2019. term if certain events occur, including if there is a change in control of the Section 6.2.2 also includes a list of the notifications received by the Company. See above for a description of the change in control clause. Company from shareholders who crossed the applicable disclosure OTHER DISCLOSURES thresholds in 2019 in terms of their holdings of the Company’s shares and voting rights. Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. There are no specific agreements in place that provide for a termination benefit to be paid in the event that a director’s term of office is terminated. 6.2 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 6.2.1 ASSYSTEM AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 2020 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 5 February 2020 After stock market close of trading 2019 revenue release 9 March 2020 After stock market close of trading 2019 annual results release 10 March 2020 8.30 a.m. Presentation of 2019 annual results 30 April 2020 After stock market close of trading Q1 2020 revenue release 26 June 2020 9.30 a.m. Annual General Meeting 30 July 2020 After stock market close of trading Q2 2020 revenue release 8 September 2020 9 September 2020 After stock market close of trading 8.30 a.m. First-half 2020 results release Presentation of first-half 2020 results 6 27 October 2020 After stock market close of trading Q3 2020 revenue release Closed periods ● the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s half-yearly results press release; In accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation (Regulation (EU) no. 596/2014) and the related position statement (2016-08) issued ● the 15 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s by the AMF, the Company has defined the periods during which certain quarterly, half-yearly and annual revenue press releases. persons are prohibited from carrying out transactions in Assystem shares. For 2020, these periods correspond to: These periods apply to “insiders”, i.e. persons who hold, or are deemed ● 21 January to 5 February (inclusive); to hold, inside information that may put them at an advantage compared ● 8 February to 9 March (inclusive); with the general public. ● 15 April to 30 April (inclusive); Insiders include all persons who discharge managerial responsibilities (notably executives and senior managers) as well as any other persons ● 15 July to 30 July (inclusive); who have access to inside information on either a regular or occasional ● 9 August to 8 September (inclusive); basis. ● 12 October to 27 October (inclusive). The closed periods applicable for Assystem – based on the financial Insiders may only carry out trades in the Company’s shares as from the calendar set out above – are as follows: trading session following the publication of the press release concerned ● the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of the Company’s and provided that the insider carrying out the trade does not hold any annual results press release; other inside information. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 155 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL Access to information public, on subjects of signifi cant importance for understanding the Company’s strategy. The Company also holds periodic meetings for All shareholders have access to full, transparent and clear information, financial analysts and journalists to explain, in an interactive way, the which is tailored to their specifi c needs and provides an objective Group’s goals, services and results. assessment of Assystem’s growth strategy and results. This fi nancial communication policy aims to ensure that all shareholders have The annual report, presented and fi led as a Universal Registration information in compliance with usual business practices. Document with the AMF, as well as the half-yearly financial report, are widely distributed within the financial community. The Company publishes a wide variety of documents, including those issued for regulatory information purposes, covering the Company’s business and strategy and financial information. These documents – 6.2.2 ASSYSTEM’S SHARE CAPITAL which include the Universal Registration Document, the half-yearly All of the Company’s shares represent share capital. fi nancial report, quarterly revenue releases, the Company’s Articles of Association and the Board of Directors’ Rules of Procedure – are At 31 December 2019, the Company’s share capital amounted to available on the Group’s website at www.assystem.com, in French €15,668,216, divided into 15,668,216 shares with a par value of and English. €1 each. Assystem publishes notifications in the Bulletin des annonces légales The breakdown of Assystem’s share capital and voting rights at obligatoires (BALO) (French legal gazette) and the Journal d’Annonces 31 December 2019 is shown in the table below, which sets out the Légales (JAL), and it issues the periodic and annual information required number of theoretical voting rights and the number of actual voting for listed companies (regulatory information) via GlobeNewswire. rights exercisable at General Meetings excluding shares that do not have voting rights, such as treasury shares. The financial information issued by the Company is supplemented by press releases for the fi nancial community and, more generally, the AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 % of share Exercisable Theoretical Shares capital voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 8,953,118 57.14 17,906,236 74.17 17,906,236 72.16 HDL 54,607 0.35 54,607 0.23 54,607 0.22 Free float 5,989,851 38.23 6,182,914 25.61 6,182,914 24.92 Treasury shares 670,640 4.28 670,640 2.70 Total 15,668,216 100 24,143,757 100 24,814,397 100 A table showing the changes in the Company’s share capital over the business development strategy over the long term, which corresponds to last three years is provided in Section 6.2.8 below. the duration of the business cycles in the markets where it has a distinct competitive edge (particularly the nuclear market), and (ii) its commitment At the date this Universal Registration Document was filed, the Company to continue to implement a responsible human resources policy. was controlled by HDL Development(1), which has been the Company’s stable and long-term controlling shareholder since the takeover bid At 29 February 2020, HDL Development held 8,953,118 Assystem launched in the first quarter of 2014. shares, representing 57.14% of the Company’s share capital and 74.17% of its voting rights. The Company’s shareholding structure helps guarantee its independence and ensure its sustainability, both in terms of (i) its ability to pursue its (1) HDL Development is 87.23%-controlled by HDL (51.85% directly and 35.38% through CEFID, H2DA and EEC). In turn, HDL is wholly controlled by Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO of Assystem, who also directly owns 0.48% of the capital of HDL Development. The remaining 12.29% of HDL’s capital is held by managers and former managers of the Group. 156 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL Pledged shares of the Company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2019 Conditions for Number of the Company’s % of the Company’s Shareholder Beneficiary Pledge start date Pledge expiry date releasing pledge shares pledged capital pledged 15 November 16 December HDL Development LCL 2019 2024 Loan repayment 3,192,000* 20.37% * Following a €66.5 million medium-term loan granted to HDL Development by a banking pool on 15 November 2019. Crossing of disclosure thresholds The following crossings of disclosure thresholds provided for in the Articles of Association were notified to the Company in 2019: Above/ Number % Date threshold below Threshold Reference Reference of shares % voting Date of notification Shareholder crossed threshold crossed capital voting rights owned capital rights letter Norges bank Threshold of 2% Investment Management 21/06/2019 Above of capital 15,668,216 24,824,129 318,375 2.03% ND 24 June 2019 Threshold of 38% of voting HDL 15/11/2019 Above rights 15,668,216 24,815,299 39.64% 51.18% 15 November 2019 Threshold of 2% Tikehau of capital and Capital 15/11/2019 Above voting rights 15,668,216 24,156,112 575,659 3.67% 2.38% 19 November 2019 Threshold of 2% Caisse des dépôts of capital and et consignations 05/12/2019 Above voting rights 15,668,216 24,143,757 496,816 3.17% 2.00% 10 December 2019 To the best of the Company’s knowledge, at the date this Universal Investment Management, Tikehau Capital and Caisse Dépôts et Registration Document was prepared, apart from the Company’s Consignations directly or indirectly held, alone or in concert, more controlling shareholder, no shareholder other than Norges Bank than 2% of the Company’s share capital and/or voting rights. Transactions in the Company’s securities carried out by executives (on the basis of disclosures submitted to the AMF by the Company’s executives) Executive Date Type of transaction Unit price (in €) Volume Total (in €) Stéphane Aubarbier 26/03/2019 Sale 32.00 4,637 148,384.00 Stéphane Aubarbier 27/03/2019 Sale 32.0460 1,970 63,130.62 Stéphane Aubarbier 29/03/2019 Sale 32.3210 2,714 87,719.194 6 Philippe Chevallier 12/07/2019 Sale 38.00 1,000 38,000 6.2.3 SHARE PERFORMANCE In 2019, Assystem’s share price rose by 21.63%, amounting to €32.90 at the year-end compared with €27.05 at the end of 2018. Assystem shares are listed on compartment B of the Euronext Paris Average monthly trading volumes for 2019 were 91,801 shares and market of NYSE Euronext. €3,002,658. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 157 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 6.2.3.1 Share price and trading volume (source: Euronext) High Low Closing price Trading volume Trading volume Date (in euros) Date of High (in euros) Date of Low (in euros) (in no. of shares) (in euros) January 2019 29.80 16/01/2019 25.75 08/01/2019 28.40 88,867 2,447,086 February 2019 32.00 25/02/2019 28.20 04/02/2019 31.85 104,416 3,166,365 March 2019 33.10 29/03/2019 30.70 15/03/2019 32.50 117,316 3,720,384 April 2019 35.35 15/04/2019 32.50 01/04/2019 35.10 102,567 3,529,798 May 2019 35.70 02/05/2019 31.80 29/05/2019 32.30 43,199 1,449,195 June 2019 35.70 28/06/2019 31.90 03/06/2019 35.70 68,078 2,309,927 July 2019 40.55 19/07/2019 35.80 01/07/2019 38.30 79,377 3,048,110 August 2019 39.00 20/08/2019 35.95 07/08/2019 38.15 37,412 1,413,108 September 2019 39.90 06/09/2019 35.40 27/09/2019 35.50 50,927 1,944,042 October 2019 35.80 02/10/2019 33.00 28/10/2019 33.15 47,819 1,645,745 November 2019 34.50 07/11/2019 29.75 22/11/2019 31.35 276,404 8,710,294 December 2019 32.90 31/12/2019 29.10 04/12/2019 32.30 85,237 2,647,843 Source: Euronext – This data is provided for information purposes only. ISIN: FR0000074148. Share included in the CAC All-Tradable index. 6.2.3.2 Market data 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 Market capitalisation at year-end €424m €501m Share price • High €33.05 €40.55 • Low €24.50 €25.75 Share price at year-end €27.05 €32.30 6.2.3.3 Dividends Number Dividend paid Year of eligible shares for the year 2017 15,143,811 €1.00 per share 2018 15,002,917 €1.00 per share 2019 14,960,460* €1.00 per share * Estimated number of eligible shares based on the number of shares making up the Company’s capital at 29 February 2020 less the number of treasury shares held at that date, and subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting of 26 June 2020. In accordance with Article 2224 of the French Civil Code, any 6.2.3.4 Dividend policy dividends not claimed within five years of the date of their payment Assystem’s dividend policy is determined by its corporate governance revert to the French State. bodies, based on the Group’s dividend payment capacity, financial At the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2019, the shareholders position and financing requirements. approved the payment of a dividend of €1 for each share making up Dividend payouts may change compared with previously paid amounts the Company’s share capital (excluding treasury shares). and will always remain in line with the Group’s business plan. At the next Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2020, a dividend payment of €1 per share will be proposed. 6.2.3.5 Per-share data In euros 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 Diluted earnings per share 19.09 1.30 1.76 The calculation of the diluted average weighted number of shares used to determine diluted earnings per share is explained in Note 7.3 to the consolidated financial statements (in Chapter 5 of this Universal Registration Document). 158 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 6.2.4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL Authorised share capital The table below provides a summary of the authorisations in force concerning capital increases and reductions, as voted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2019, as well as their use during 2019. AGM at which Maximum amount of capital the resolution Authorisations increase/reduction Duration was approved Use in 2019 To reduce the Company’s capital through the cancellation of shares Cancellation capped at 10% of 18 months (up to 16/05/2019 No purchased under share buyback programmes. the shares making up the Company’s 16/11/2020) (13th resolution) capital at the transaction date To increase the Company’s capital through the issuance of shares Maximum nominal amount of 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No and/or securities carrying rights to shares, with pre-emptive capital increase(s): €4,500,000 16/07/2021) (14th resolution) subscription rights. To increase the Company’s capital through the issuance of shares Maximum nominal amount of 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No and/or securities carrying rights to shares, without pre-emptive capital increase(s): €3,000,000 16/07/2021) (15th resolution) subscription rights To increase the Company’s capital through the issuance of shares Maximum nominal amount of 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No and/or securities carrying rights to shares, without pre-emptive capital increase(s): €1,500,000 16/07/2021) (16th resolution) subscription rights, by way of a private placement. To set the issue price for issues of shares and/or securities carrying 10% of the Company’s capital per 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No rights to shares carried out without pre-emptive subscription rights, 12-month period, and subject to the 16/07/2021) (17th resolution) subject to a ceiling of 10% of the Company’s capital as well as the ceilings provided for at the AGM ceilings provided for at the AGM. To increase the amount of issues carried out with or without preUp to 15% 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No emptive subscription rights pursuant to the 19th to 21st resolutions. of the original issue 16/07/2021) (18th resolution) To set a blanket ceiling for the overall amount by which the €4,500,000 maximum nominal 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No Company’s capital may be increased (pursuant to the 19th to amount of capital increase(s) and 16/07/2021) (19th resolution) 21st resolutions). €45,000,000 maximum nominal amount for issues of debt securities To increase the Company’s capital by capitalising share premiums, Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No reserves, profit or other eligible items. increase(s): €15,000,000 16/07/2021) (20th resolution) To award free shares/performance shares (existing or newly-issued 3% increase in the nominal 38 months (up to 16/05/2019 Yes shares) amount of the Company’s capital 16/07/2022) (21st resolution) (see at the award date Section 6.2.6) To issue BSAAR or BSA stock warrants (without pre-emptive €470,046, representing a maximum 18 months (up to 16/05/2019 No subscription rights) to employees and corporate officers of the total of 470,046 shares, i.e. 3% 26/11/2020) (22nd resolution) Company and its subsidiaries of the Company’s capital To set a blanket ceiling on the issues carried out pursuant to the 21st and 22nd resolutions. Ceiling: Same period as that in 16/05/2019 940,092 shares the resolution concerned (23rd resolution) No 6 To increase the Company’s capital through the issuance of shares Maximum nominal amount of 1% 26 months (up to 16/05/2019 No and/or securities carrying rights to shares for members of a of the Company’s capital 16/07/2021) (24th resolution) company or Group savings plan. at the issue date Potential share capital At the date this Universal Registration Document was filed, potential share capital comprised free shares and performance shares. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 159 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 6.2.5 STOCK OPTIONS No stock options were awarded in 2019. 6.2.6 FREE SHARE AND PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS The Board of Directors awarded the following free shares and performance shares in 2019: 07/2019 plan 09/2019 plan Date of AGM 16/05/2019 16/05/2019 Date of award (Board of Directors meeting) 22/07/2019 05/09/2019 Number of free shares or performance shares awarded 54,175 500 Number of beneficiaries 91 1 Vesting date 31/07/2022 31/07/2022 Date of availability 31/07/2022 31/07/2022 Number of free shares or performance shares vested Number of free shares or performance shares not yet vested 53,425 500 The table below provides a summary of the free share and performance share plans put in place by the Group. 07/2016 07/2017 07/2017 07/2017 09/2017 AP 2018 AGA 2018 September 2018 plan (T1) plan plan (NT2) plan (T3) plan plan plan AGA plan Date of AGM 24/05/2016 16/05/2017 24/05/2016 24/05/2016 16/05/2017 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 Date of award (Board of 04/07/2016 26/07/2017 26/07/2017 26/07/2017 07/09/2017 04/07/2018 04/07/2018 06/09/2018 Directors meeting) 06/09/2018 Number of free shares 68,250 3,000 91,800 66,750 10,500 36,000 9,250 6,000 or performance shares awarded Number of beneficiaries 89 1 89 89 13 49 7 1 Vesting date 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 31/07/2021 31/07/2021 30/09/2020 Date of availability 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 30/04/2020 31/07/2021 31/07/2021 30/09/2020 Number of free shares or performance shares vested Number of free shares 57,750 3,000 78,540 56,500 6,500 33,000 7,500 6,000 or performance shares not yet vested 6.2.7 TREASURY SHARE TRANSACTIONS The shares purchased under the buyback programme may be used for CARRIED OUT BY THE COMPANY IN 2019 the following purposes: (ARTICLE L. 225-211 OF THE FRENCH ● to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares under a liquidity COMMERCIAL CODE) contract entered into with an investment services provider that In the twelfth resolution of the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, complies with a Code of Conduct recognised by the AMF; as permitted under Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, ● to honour obligations associated with stock option and/ Assystem’s shareholders granted the Company an eighteen-month or free share/performance share plans, employee savings authorisation (expiring on 16 November 2020) to buy back its own schemes or other share allotments made to employees shares. and officers of the Company or related companies; for allocation on exercise of rights attached to securities redeemable, This authorisation superseded the previous authorisation granted for convertible, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable for the Company’s the same purpose at the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018. shares; The shares bought back under the programme may not represent over 10% of the Company’s capital and the maximum per-share purchase price set by the Company’s shareholders is €37.50 (excluding costs). The overall ceiling on the programme is €12,500,000. 160 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL ● to be held and subsequently used in exchange or as payment in In the event of a corporate action, such as the capitalisation of reserves connection with external growth transactions; and a bonus share allotment, a stock split or reverse stock split, the ● for subsequent cancellation; or prices indicated above will be adjusted accordingly. ● more generally, for any purpose authorised by law or any market If the Company buys back its own shares without subsequently cancelling practice that may be permitted by the market authorities in the future, them, this may have an impact on its taxable earnings if the shares are provided that in such a case the Company notifies its shareholders then sold or transferred at a different price than their purchase price. by way of a press release. Summary of treasury share transactions carried out in 2019 The table below provides a summary of Assystem’s use of its share buyback programme during 2019: Treasury shares held at 31/12/2018 667,336 Number of shares used per end-purpose Liquidity contracts and share buyback mandate: • Shares purchased under the liquidity contract 58,575 • Shares purchased under the share buyback mandate 12,838 • Shares sold under the liquidity contract 67,109 • Shares cancelled during the year Shares sold outside the scope of the liquidity contract Shares allocated to employees or corporate officers: • Shares delivered under free share/performance share plans 1,000 Shares used for external growth transactions: • Shares used as payment in connection with external growth transactions Shares cancelled: • Shares cancelled during the year • Shares cancelled during the past 24 months Treasury shares held at 31 December 2019 670,640 Value of shares held at 31 December 2019 at the average purchase price 15,635,836 Additional information (in euros): • Average purchase price 32.42 • Average sale price 33.40 • Transaction costs 42,736 6 Liquidity contract At 31 December 2019, the liquidity account held the following assets: Assystem has a liquidity contract with Kepler Cheuvreux covering its ● 13,419 shares; ordinary shares. This contract – which complies with the AMAFI Code ● €692,274.05 in cash. of Conduct approved by the AMF on 21 March 2011 – has been in effect since 1 December 2016, originally for a one-year term then Share buybacks outside the scope of the liquidity automatically renewable for further one-year periods. contract The following assets were allocated to the liquidity account when the On 8 April 2019, the Company gave Natixis a mandate to acquire liquidity contract was set up: by 31 December 2019 on Euronext Paris, in successive purchases, ● 22,970 Assystem shares; either on the open market or in block trades, up to 300,000 Assystem shares at a maximum per-share price of €29. By way of an addendum ● €923,444.41 in cash. to the mandate agreement dated 12 November 2019, this per-share The shares purchased under the liquidity contract are used to maintain purchase price was increased to €30. the liquidity of the Company’s shares and to enable the Company to implement and honour its obligations under stock option and/or free During 2019, Natixis purchased 12,838 shares under this mandate share/performance share plans as well as other share allotments made for a total of €368,197.51. to employees and corporate officers of the Group. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 161 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL 6.2.8 CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL OVER THE ● the exact amount of the capital increase or reduction (in euros); LAST THREE YEARS ● the issue premium or amount charged to the issue premium account; The table below presents the changes in Assystem’s share capital over ● the number of shares issued or cancelled; and the last three years, showing: ● the new amount of the share capital after the capital increase or reduction (with the number of shares equalling the amount of the ● the governance body that took the decision concerned and the date share capital in view of the fact that the shares have a par value of the relevant meeting of that body was held; €1 each). ● the type of transaction; Amount charged to the issue Number New amount EGM/Board of Directors’ meeting Type of transaction Capital reduction premium account of shares cancelled of share capital Capital reduction following 21 December 2017 Assystem’s share buyback offer €6,550,000 €239,075,000(1) 6,550,000 €15,668,216 (1) The amount stated corresponds to the difference between the purchase price of the shares bought back and the par value of the cancelled shares. Based on the information notified to the Company, Assystem’s ownership structure at the end of the last three financial years was as follows: AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 % Exercisable Theoretical Shares of share capital voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 8,953,118 57.14 17,906,236 74.17 17,906,236 72.16 HDL 54,607 0.35 54,607 0.23 54,607 0.22 Free float 5,989,851 38.23 6,182,914 25.61 6,182,914 24.92 Treasury shares 670,640 4.28 670,640 2.70 Total 15,668,216 100.00 24,143,757 100.00 24,814,397 100.00 AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 % Exercisable Theoretical Shares of share capital voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 9,611,013 61.34 19,222,026 77.32 19,222,026 75.30 HDL 54,468 0.35 54,468 0.22 54,468 0.21 Free float 5,335,399 34.05 5,583,172 22.46 5,583,172 21.87 Treasury shares 667,336 4.26 667,336 2.61 Total 15,668,216 100.00 25,859,666 100.00 25,527,002 100.00 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Exercisable Theoretical Shares % voting rights % voting rights % HDL Development 9,611,013 61.34 19,222,026 76.86 19,222,026 75.32 Free float 5,548,050 35.41 5,787,791 23.14 5,787,791 22.68 Treasury shares 509,153 3.25 509,153 2.00 Total 15,668,216 100.00 25,009,817 100.00 25,518,970 100.00 162 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 6.3 STATUTORY AUDIT AND FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 6.3.1 STATUTORY AUDIT For 2019, the fees paid by the Group for audit engagements amounted to €388 thousand for KPMG and €373 thousand for Deloitte & Associés. In compliance with French commercial law, Assystem’s Statutory Auditors A table setting out the fees recognised by Assystem and its fully certify the financial statements of the Company and the Group and, consolidated subsidiaries in 2019 for work carried out by the Statutory through members of their networks, examine the accounts of the majority Auditors is provided below. of fully consolidated subsidiaries. 6.3.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS Statutory Auditors Date last appointed End of current term KPMG Represented by Eric Ropert Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta – CS 60055 Annual General Meeting to be called 92066 Paris-La Défense, France 22 May 2015 to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2020 Deloitte & Associés Represented by Albert Aidan 6, place de la Pyramide Annual General Meeting to be called 92908 Paris-La Défense, France 16 May 2017 to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2022 Substitute Auditor Salustro Reydel Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta – CS 60055 Annual General Meeting to be called 92066 Paris-La Défense, France 22 May 2015 to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2020 6.3.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES IN 2019 Deloitte & Associés KPMG Statutory Auditors Network Statutory Auditors Network In thousands of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Certification of consolidated and separate financial statements and limited review of half6 yearly financial statements Issuer 176 33% 186 49% Controlled entities 46 9% 151 100% 167 44% 35 100% Sub-total 222 99% 151 100% 353 94% 35 100% Services other than certifying financial statements Issuer* 2 1% 22 6% Controlled entities 1 Sub-total 1% 23 6% Total 224 100% 151 100% 376 100% 35 100% * Including various tax consultations, which did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 163 6 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE SHARES 6.4 SPECIAL REPORT ON AWARDS OF FREE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE SHARES Annual General Meeting of 26 June 2020 At its meeting on 5 September 2019, the Board of Directors used the authorisation granted by shareholders in the 21st resolution of the Annual To the Shareholders, General Meeting of 16 May 2019 to grant: In accordance with Article L. 225-197-4 of the French Commercial ● 500 free shares to one beneficiary. The vesting period for these shares Code, we hereby report to you on free share and performance share ends on 31 July 2022 and they are not subject to a lock-up period. awards made in 2019 (i) to corporate officers and certain employees of Assystem, and (ii) within Assystem’s subsidiaries. 6.4.2 FREE SHARES AND/OR PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED DURING 2019 BY 6.4.1 FREE SHARE AND/OR PERFORMANCE RELATED COMPANIES AS DEFINED IN SHARE AWARDS DECIDED BY THE ARTICLE L. 225-197-2 OF THE FRENCH COMPANY’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMERCIAL CODE In the year ended 31 December 2019 None. At its meeting on 22 July 2019, the Board of Directors used the 6.4.3 FREE SHARES AND/OR PERFORMANCE authorisation granted by shareholders in the 21st resolution of the Annual SHARES AWARDED BY CONTROLLED General Meeting of 16 May 2019 to grant: COMPANIES AS DEFINED IN ARTICLE ● 54,175 free shares to 91 beneficiaries. The vesting period for these L. 233-16 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL shares ends on 31 July 2022 and they are not subject to a lock-up CODE period. None. 6.5 SPECIAL REPORT ON STOCK OPTIONS No stock options were awarded in 2019. 164 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 7.1 AGENDA 166 7.3 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED 7.1.1 Ordinary business 166 RESOLUTIONS 174 7.1.2 Extraordinary business 166 7.3.1 Ordinary resolutions 174 7.1.3 Ordinary and extraordinary business 167 7.3.2 Extraordinary resolutions 178 7.3.3 Ordinary and extraordinary resolution 188 7.2 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 167 7.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS 189 7.2.1 Ordinary resolutions 167 7.4.1 Information about the Statutory Auditors’ reports 189 7.2.2 Extraordinary resolutions 170 7.4.2 Special Statutory Auditors report on the regulated 7.2.3 Ordinary and extraordinary resolution 174 agreements 189 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 165 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 AGENDA 7.1 AGENDA 7.1.1 ORDINARY BUSINESS ● Nineteenth resolution – Approval of the compensation policy for 2020 applicable to the non-executive directors. ● The Board of Directors’ management report, including the report on ● Twentieth resolution – Approval of the information on the 2019 the Group’s operations in 2019 and the corporate governance report, compensation of each corporate officer disclosed in accordance with the presentation by the Board of Directors of the parent company and paragraph I of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code. consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019. ● Twenty-first resolution – Approval of the fixed and variable components making up the total compensation and benefi ts paid during, or ● Statutory Auditors’ reports on the parent company and consolidated allocated for, the year ended 31 December 2019 to the Chairman financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019. & CEO, Dominique Louis. ● Statutory Auditors’ report on the related-party agreements governed ● Twenty-second resolution – Approval of the fixed and variable by Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. components making up the total compensation and benefits paid ● Report of the independent third party on the non-financial performance during, or allocated for, the year ended 31 December 2019 to the statement. CFO & Deputy CEO, Philippe Chevallier. ● First resolution – Approval of the parent company financial statements ● Twenty-third resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to for the year ended 31 December 2019. carry out a share buyback programme. ● Second resolution – Approval of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019. 7.1.2 EXTRAORDINARY BUSINESS ● Third resolution – Discharge given to the Board of Directors for its duties performed in 2019. ● Twenty-fourth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s capital by cancelling treasury shares. ● Fourth resolution – Appropriation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2019 and approval of a dividend payment of one ● Twenty-fifth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to euro per share. increase the Company’s capital – on an immediate or deferred basis – by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €4,500,000 by ● Fifth resolution – Re-election of Dominique Louis as a director. issuing ordinary shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares, ● Sixth resolution – Re-election of Gilbert Lehmann as a director. with pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. ● Seventh resolution – Re-election of Virginie Calmels as a director. ● Twenty-sixth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to ● Eighth resolution – Re-election of Miriam Maes as a director. increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €3,000,000 by issuing ordinary shares and/or other ● Ninth resolution – Election of Julie Louis as a director. securities, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing ● Tenth resolution – Election of Pierre Guénant as a director. shareholders, through a public offer (excluding private placements ● Eleventh resolution – Election of MC Conseil as a director. as defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary ● Twelfth resolution – Ratification of the appointment of Vincent Favier and Financial Code). as a director. ● Twenty-seventh resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors ● Thirteenth resolution – Election of Vincent Favier as a director. to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €1,500,000 by issuing ordinary shares and/or ● Fourteenth resolution – Approval of related-party agreements. other securities, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing ● Fifteenth resolution – Setting the aggregate amount of directors’ shareholders, through a private placement, as defined in paragraph 1 remuneration. of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. ● Sixteenth resolution – Approval of the compensation policies for 2020 ● Twenty-eighth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors applicable to the Company’s corporate officers(1). to set the issue price for issues of shares or other securities carried ● Seventeenth resolution – Approval of the compensation policy for out without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, 2020 applicable to the Chairman & CEO. subject to a ceiling of 10% of the Company’s capital and the ceilings ● Eighteenth resolution – Approval of the compensation policy for 2020 set at the Annual General Meeting. applicable to the Deputy CEO(s). (1) For the purposes of this document, the term “corporate officer” means a director or officer of the Company. The term “executive officer” means a corporate officer who has an executive role within the Company and who may or may not be a member of Assystem’s Board of Directors. At 31 December 2019, Assystem had two executive officers: Dominique Louis, Chairman & CEO and Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO. 166 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● Twenty-ninth resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to ● Thirty-fifth resolution – Authorisation to increase the Company’s capital increase the amount of issues of ordinary shares or other securities by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to the Company’s carried out with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shares to employees who are members of a company or Group shareholders pursuant to the twenty-fifth to twenty-seventh resolutions. employee savings plan. ● Thirtieth resolution – Blanket ceilings for the authorisations granted to ● Thirty-sixth resolution – Amendment to Article 8 of the Company’s the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital. Articles of Association. ● Thirty-first resolution – Authorisation to increase the Company’s capital ● Thirty-seventh resolution – Amendment to Article 11.1 of the by a maximum nominal amount of €15,000,000 by capitalising Company’s Articles of Association. share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. ● Thirty-eighth resolution – Amendment to Article 12 of the Company’s ● Thirty-second resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to Articles of Association. grant new or existing shares free of consideration. ● Thirty-ninth resolution – Amendment to Article 15 of the Company’s ● Thirty-third resolution – Authorisation for the Board of Directors to issue Articles of Association. stock warrants (BSAAR and BSA) to employees and corporate officers ● Fortieth resolution – Amendment to Article 16 of the Company’s of the Company and its subsidiaries, without pre-emptive subscription Articles of Association. rights for existing shareholders. ● Thirty-fourth resolution – Blanket ceiling for issues carried out pursuant 7.1.3 ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY to the thirty-second resolution (free share grants) and the thirty-third BUSINESS resolution (stock warrant issues). ● Forty-first resolution – Powers to carry out formalities. 7.2 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 7.2.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the first, second and third resolutions, the shareholders are invited to approve Assystem’s parent company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 and to give full discharge to the Board of Directors for the performance of its duties in 2019. FOURTH RESOLUTION – APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT AND APPROVAL OF A DIVIDEND PAYMENT In the fourth resolution, the shareholders are invited to appropriate the Company’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2019 and to approve a dividend payment of one euro per share. 7 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 167 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, EIGHTH, NINTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH, TWELFTH AND THIRTEENTH RESOLUTIONS – RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS, ELECTION OF NEW DIRECTORS, AND RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR In the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh resolutions, the shareholders are asked to (i) re-elect Dominique Louis, Gilbert Lehmann, Virginie Calmels and Miriam Maes as directors, and (ii) elect Julie Louis, Pierre Guénant and MC Conseil (represented by Michel Combes) as new directors. In the twelfth and thirteenth resolutions the shareholders are invited to ratify the appointment of Vincent Favier as a director and to elect him as a director. FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION – APPROVAL OF RELATED-PARTY AGREEMENTS i) Following the formation of HDL Development and its successful takeover bid for Assystem shares, on 1 April 2014, HDL and HDL Development signed a services agreement under which HDL undertook to provide services to HDL Development involving strategy definition, management, organisation and oversight for the Assystem Group. Another related-party agreement was also signed between HDL Development and Assystem SA concerning the rebilling of these services. At its meetings on 15 March 2018 and 6 September 2018, the Board of Directors authorised the signature of two riders (riders 2 and 3) to this rebilling agreement in view of the scale of the strategic services provided. The two riders stated that the services provided in 2019 would be remunerated as follows: ● a fixed portion of €174,000 (excl. VAT), i.e. 50% of the annual amount previously applicable; ● a variable portion representing a maximum annual amount of €800,000 (excl. VAT), entirely based on Assystem’s consolidated EBITA (including the share of profit of equity-accounted investees but excluding the share of profit of Expleo Group) expressed as a percentage of revenue. The amount actually payable based on this criterion was to be determined on a straight-line basis between a floor (i.e. the level below which the criterion is deemed not to have been met) and a cap (i.e. the level at which the criterion is deemed to have been fully met). At its meeting on 9 March 2020, based on an analysis of the applicable criterion, the Board decided to award HDL Development variable compensation amounting to €423,000 for 2019. ii) Philippe Chevallier, CFO & Deputy CEO, is eligible for a termination benefit in the event that he is removed from office by the Company. However, this eligibility expires at the close of this Annual General Meeting and has not been renewed. FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION – SETTING THE AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION In the fifteenth resolution, the shareholders are asked to set the aggregate annual amount of directors’ remuneration at €260,000 for 2020 and subsequent years, until decided otherwise by the shareholders in a General Meeting. SIXTEENTH, SEVENTEENTH, EIGHTEENTH AND NINETEENTH RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION POLICIES FOR 2020 APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S CORPORATE OFFICERS In the sixteenth resolution, in accordance with paragraph II of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders are asked to approve the compensation policies for 2020 applicable to the Company’s corporate officers, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled “Compensation policies for the corporate officers”). In the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth resolutions, in accordance with the recommendations of the Autorité des marchés financiers (the French securities regulator) the shareholders are asked to approve the compensation policies for 2020 applicable respectively to the Chairman & CEO, the Deputy CEO(s) and the non-executive directors. 168 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTIETH, TWENTY-FIRST AND TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTIONS – APPROVAL OF THE REPORT ON COMPENSATION FOR 2019, AND THE FIXED AND VARIABLE COMPONENTS MAKING UP THE TOTAL COMPENSATION OF THE CHAIRMAN & CEO AND THE CFO & DEPUTY CEO, PAID DURING, OR ALLOCATED FOR, THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 In the twentieth resolution, in accordance with paragraph II of Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders are asked to approve the information disclosed pursuant to paragraph II of Article L. 225-37-3 of said Code relating to the 2019 compensation for each of the Company’s corporate officers, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled “Report on the corporate officers’ compensation for 2019”). In the twenty-first and twenty-second resolutions, in accordance with paragraph III of Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders are invited to approve the fixed and variable components making up the total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated for, 2019 to the Chairman & CEO and the CFO & and Deputy CEO, respectively, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled “Report on the corporate officers’ compensation for 2019”). TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION – SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAMME In the twenty-third resolution, the shareholders are invited to renew, for an 18-month period, the authorisation for the Board of Directors to buy back Assystem shares on behalf of the Company, either directly or indirectly, for a maximum purchase price of €32 per share. The total amount that could be invested in this share buyback programme would be €12,500,000 and the shares bought back could not exceed 10% of the Company’s capital. The objectives of the share buyback programme are listed in the twenty-third resolution below and in the description of the programme available on the Company’s website. This new authorisation would supersede the authorisation previously granted for the same purpose. 7 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 169 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 7.2.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS SUMMARY TABLE OF AUTHORISATIONS SOUGHT AT THE 26 JUNE 2020 AGM Authorisation Ceiling Duration (expiry date) To reduce the Company’s capital by cancelling shares purchased under share buyback programmes Cancellation capped at 10% of the 18 months (up to (24th resolution) shares making up the Company’s 16/11/2021) capital at the transaction date To increase the Company’s capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares, Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to with pre-emptive subscription rights increase(s): €4,500,000 16/07/2022) (25th resolution) To increase the Company’s capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares, Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to without pre-emptive subscription rights, through a public offer (excluding private placements as increase(s): €3,000,000 16/07/2022) defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) (26th resolution) To increase the Company’s capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares, Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to without pre-emptive subscription rights, through a private placement as defined in paragraph 1 of increase(s): €1,500,000 16/07/2022) Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (27th resolution) To set the issue price for issues of shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares carried out 10% of the Company’s capital per 26 months (up to without pre-emptive subscription rights, subject to a ceiling of 10% of the Company’s capital and 12-month period, and subject to the 16/07/2022) the ceilings set at the AGM ceilings set at the AGM (28th resolution) To increase the amount of issues carried out with or without pre-emptive subscription rights pursuant 15% of the original issue 26 months (up to to the 25th to 27th resolutions 16/07/2022) (29th resolution) To set blanket ceilings for issues carried out pursuant to the 25th, 26th, 27th and 29th resolutions Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to (30th resolution) increase(s): €4,500,000 16/07/2022) Maximum nominal amount of issues of debt securities: €45,000,000 To increase the Company’s capital by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible Maximum nominal amount of capital 26 months (up to items increase(s): €15,000,000 16/07/2022) (31st resolution) To award free shares/performance shares (existing or newly-issued shares) 3% increase in the nominal amount of 38 months (up to (32nd resolution) the Company’s capital at the award 16/07/2023) date To issue BSAAR or BSA stock warrants (without pre-emptive subscription rights) to employees and €470,046 increase in the nominal 18 months (up to corporate officers of the Company and its subsidiaries amount of the Company’s capital 16/11/2021) (33rd resolution) To set a blanket ceiling on issues carried out pursuant to the 32nd and 33rd resolutions Ceiling: Same period as that in (34th resolution) 940,092 shares the resolution concerned To increase the Company’s capital by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares to Maximum nominal amount of 1% of 26 months (up to members of a company or Group savings plan the Company’s capital at the issue 16/07/2022) (35th resolution) date TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION TO REDUCE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY CANCELLING TREASURY SHARES At the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to cancel, on one or more occasions and at its sole discretion, all of some of the Assystem shares purchased under the share buyback programme and to reduce the Company’s capital accordingly. The ceiling on the number of shares cancelled pursuant to this authorisation was 10% of the Company’s capital. In the twenty-fourth resolution, the shareholders are asked to renew this authorisation for a period of 18 months. Under the new authorisation, the total number of shares cancelled in any 24-month period may not represent more than 10% of the Company’s capital (as adjusted for any corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting). 170 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY ISSUING ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES CARRYING RIGHTS TO SHARES, WITH PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS In order to fi nance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €4,500,000, corresponding to approximately 30% of the total capital at 31 December 2018. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the twenty-fifth resolution, the shareholders are invited to give the Board of Directors a new authorisation to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €4,500,000, corresponding to approximately 30% of the total capital at 31 December 2019, by issuing, on one or more occasions, ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities. Existing shareholders would have pre-emptive rights to subscribe for the securities issued pursuant to this resolution, pro rata to their existing holdings. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. TWENTY-SIXTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY ISSUING ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES CARRYING RIGHTS TO SHARES, WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS, THROUGH A PUBLIC OFFER (EXCLUDING PRIVATE PLACEMENTS) In order to finance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €3,000,000. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the twenty-sixth resolution, the shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €3,000,000 by issuing on one or more occasions, ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. TWENTY-SEVENTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY ISSUING ORDINARY SHARES AND/ OR SECURITIES CARRYING RIGHTS TO SHARES, WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS, THROUGH A PRIVATE PLACEMENT In order to finance the Group’s expansion capital expenditure, at the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorised the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €1,500,000. This authorisation, which was given for a 26-month period, has not been used. In the twenty-seventh resolution, shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum nominal amount of €1,500,000 by issuing, on one or more occasions, ordinary shares and/or dilutive hybrid securities through a private placement (i.e. an offer to qualified investors or a restricted group of investors), without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. This authorisation would be valid for a period of 26 months. 7 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 171 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTY-EIGHTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO SET THE ISSUE PRICE OF ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR OTHER SECURITIES At the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders granted the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to set the issue price of ordinary shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares issued, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, through a public offer or a private placement as defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Under this authorisation, for issues representing up to 10% of the Company’s capital in any given 12-month period, the Board was entitled not to apply the pricing conditions specified in the resolutions concerned and to set the issue price of the securities at an amount at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the pricing date, less a discount of up to 20%. This authorisation has not been used. In the twenty-eighth resolution, the shareholders are invited to renew this authorisation for a further 26-month period, i.e. to authorise the Board not to apply the pricing conditions set in the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh resolutions and to set the issue price of securities issued in accordance with those resolutions at an amount at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the pricing date or the start of the public offer period, less a discount of up to 20%. The new authorisation would be subject to the same ceiling of 10% of the Company’s capital in any given 12-month period. TWENTY-NINTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT OF ISSUES CARRIED OUT PURSUANT TO THE TWENTY-FIFTH, TWENTY-SIXTH OR TWENTY-SEVENTH RESOLUTIONS In the twenty-ninth resolution, the shareholders are asked to grant the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to increase the amount of issues of ordinary shares and/or other securities carried out, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, pursuant to the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth or twenty-seventh resolutions, provided that the additional shares or securities issued do not represent more than 15% of the original issue. THIRTIETH RESOLUTION – BLANKET CEILINGS FOR THE AUTHORISATIONS GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL In the thirtieth resolution, the shareholders are invited to set overall ceilings (“blanket ceilings”) for the authorisations given in the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh and twenty-ninth resolutions at the following maximum aggregate nominal amounts: ● €4,500,000 for capital increases; ● €45,000,000 for debt securities. THIRTY-FIRST RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL BY CAPITALISING SHARE PREMIUMS, RESERVES, PROFIT OR OTHER ELIGIBLE ITEMS At the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders gave the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €15,000,000 by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. This authorisation has not been used. In the thirty-first resolution, the Board of Directors is seeking a new 26-month authorisation to increase the Company’s capital by a maximum aggregate nominal amount of €15,000,000 by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items. 172 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 PURPOSES OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS THIRTY-SECOND RESOLUTION – FREE SHARE GRANTS The purpose of the thirty-second resolution is to renew the authorisation given to the Board of Directors in 2019 to grant free shares to employees and executive officers of the Group with a view to making Assystem’s compensation packages more attractive. The new authorisation would be given for a period of 38 months and the features of the free share grants would be as follows: ● beneficiaries: employees and/or executive officers; ● ceiling: 3% of the Company’s capital (2% for executive officers); ● potential vesting conditions: requirement for the beneficiary to still form part of the Group on the vesting date and/or performance conditions; ● vesting period: minimum of one year (minimum of two years for combined vesting period and lock-up period). THIRTY-THIRD RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE STOCK WARRANTS TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS At the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders gave the Board of Directors an 18-month authorisation to issue stock warrants (BSAAR and/or BSA) exercisable for a maximum of 470,046 shares, representing 3% of the Company’s capital. This authorisation has not been used. In the thirty-third resolution, the Board of Directors is asking the shareholders to renew, for 18 months, the authorisation to issue stock warrants (BSAAR and/or BSA) exercisable for a maximum of 470,046 shares, representing 3% of the Company’s capital. THIRTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION – BLANKET CEILING ON THE NUMBER OF SHARES ISSUED PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORISATIONS GIVEN IN THE THIRTY-SECOND AND THIRTY-THIRD RESOLUTIONS In the thirty-fourth resolution, the shareholders are invited to set a blanket ceiling on the number of shares issued pursuant to the thirtysecond and thirty-third resolutions, corresponding to 940,092 shares with a par value of €1 each, i.e. 6% of the Company’s capital. THIRTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION – AUTHORISATION FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SECURITIES TO MEMBERS OF A COMPANY OR GROUP EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN At the 16 May 2019 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders gave the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation to carry out one or more capital increases by issuing securities to members of a company or Group employee savings plan, subject to a ceiling of 1% of the Company’s capital. This authorisation has not been used. In the thirty-fifth resolution, the Board of Directors is seeking a new 26-month authorisation to carry out one or more capital increases 7 by issuing securities to members of a company or Group employee savings plan, subject to a ceiling of 1% of the Company’s capital. THIRTY-SIXTH, THIRTY-SEVENTH, THIRTY-EIGHTH, THIRTY-NINTH AND FORTIETH RESOLUTIONS – AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPANY’S ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION In the thirty-sixth, thirty-seventh, thirty-eight, thirty-ninth and fortieth resolutions, the shareholders are asked to amend Articles 8, 11.1, 12, 15 and 16 of the Company’s Articles of Association in order to align them with recent regulatory changes and notably with the provisions of French Act no. 2019-486 of 22 May 2019 (the “Pacte Act”) relating to business growth and transformation. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 173 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 7.2.3 ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTION FORTY-FIRST RESOLUTION – POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES The forty-first resolution is a standard resolution giving the necessary powers to carry out legal filing and other formalities after the Annual General Meeting. 7.3 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 7.3.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FOURTH RESOLUTION Appropriation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2019 and FIRST RESOLUTION approval of a dividend payment of one euro per share Approval of the parent company financial statements for the year ended Having noted that: 31 December 2019 ● the Company’s profit for 2019 totalled €7,951,477.57; and Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report and the ● the retained earnings account amounts to €402,298,528.79; Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements, the shareholders: the shareholders place on record that distributable profit for 2019 totals €410,250,006.36, and in accordance with the Board of Directors’ ● Approve the parent company financial statements for the year ended recommendation, resolve: 31 December 2019, as presented, together with the transactions reflected in said financial statements and summarised in said reports. ● to pay a dividend of one euro (€1) per share for 2019, representing an aggregate payout of €14,960,460, based on the number of ● Approve the amount of non-tax-deductible expenses referred to in the shares making up the Company’s capital at 29 February 2020 Board of Directors’ report, corresponding to €58,800. (excluding the 707,756 shares held in treasury at that date); and SECOND RESOLUTION ● to appropriate the balance of distributable profit to the retained earnings Approval of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended account, which will subsequently amount to €395,289,546.36 31 December 2019 Consequently, the shareholders give full powers to the Board of Directors Having considered the Board of Directors’ management report and the to proceed with the above dividend payment by 30 June 2020 at the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, the latest. shareholders approve the consolidated financial statements for the year At the time of the dividend payment, the amount actually paid out will ended 31 December 2019, as presented, together with the transactions be calculated taking into account the exact number of treasury shares reflected in said financial statements and summarised in said reports. bought back under the share buyback programme. If the number of THIRD RESOLUTION treasury shares held at the date of the dividend payment is not the Discharge given to the Board of Directors for its duties performed in 2019 same as at 29 February 2020, the difference will be accounted for by increasing or decreasing the amount allocated to the retained earnings The shareholders give full discharge to the members of the Board account. of Directors for the performance of their duties in the year ended 31 December 2019. The dividends paid for the last three years were as follows (information disclosed in accordance with Article 243 bis of the French General Tax Code). 174 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Amounts eligible for tax relief Year Dividends Other distributed profit 2017 €1/share None 2018 €1/share None 2019 €1/share None FIFTH RESOLUTION NINTH RESOLUTION Re-election of Dominique Louis as a director Election of Julie Louis as a director Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to re-elect Dominique Louis as a director for a three-year term resolve to elect Julie Louis as a director for a three-year term expiring at expiring at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the approve the fi nancial statements for the year ending 31 December financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2022. 2022. TENTH RESOLUTION SIXTH RESOLUTION Election of Pierre Guénant as a director Re-election of Gilbert Lehmann as a director Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to elect Pierre Guénant as a director for a three-year term resolve to re-elect Gilbert Lehmann as a director for a three-year term expiring at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to expiring at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the fi nancial statements for the year ending 31 December approve the fi nancial statements for the year ending 31 December 2022. 2022. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION SEVENTH RESOLUTION Election of MC Conseil as a director Re-election of Virginie Calmels as a director Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to elect MC Conseil as a director for a three-year term expiring resolve to re-elect Virginie Calmels as a director for a three-year term at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the expiring at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2022. approve the fi nancial statements for the year ending 31 December TWELFTH RESOLUTION 2022. Ratification of the appointment of Vincent Favier as a director EIGHTH RESOLUTION Having considered the report of the Board of Directors, the shareholders Re-election of Miriam Maes as a director resolve to ratify the Board of Directors’ 22 January 2020 decision to Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders appoint Vincent Favier as a director to replace Tikehau Capital – a resolve to re-elect Miriam Maes as a director for a three-year term corporate director that resigned from its position on the Board – for the expiring at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to remainder of Tikehau Capital’s term of office, i.e. until the close of the approve the fi nancial statements for the year ending 31 December Annual General Meeting called to approve the financial statements for 2022. the year ended 31 December 2019. 7 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 175 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION Election of Vincent Favier as a director Approval of the compensation policy for 2020 applicable to the Chairman & CEO Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to elect Vincent Favier as a director for a three-year term expiring Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in at the close of the Annual General Meeting to be called to approve the accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2022. shareholders approve the compensation policy for 2020 applicable to the Chairman & CEO, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Approval of related-party agreements Section entitled “Compensation policies for the corporate officers”). Having considered the Statutory Auditors’ special report on relatedEIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION party agreements governed by Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Approval of the compensation policy for 2020 applicable to the Deputy Commercial Code, the shareholders place on record said report, which CEO(s) does not identify any new related-party agreements. Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders approve the compensation policy for 2020 applicable Setting the aggregate amount of directors’ remuneration to the Deputy CEO(s), as described in the 2019 Universal Registration In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-45 of the French Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Commercial Code, the shareholders resolve to set the aggregate annual Section entitled “Compensation policies for the corporate officers”). amount of directors’ remuneration at €260,000 for the year ended 31 December 2020 and subsequent years, until decided otherwise by NINETEENTH RESOLUTION the shareholders in a General Meeting. Subject to the adoption of the Approval of the compensation policy for 2020 applicable to the nonsixteenth resolution of this Meeting, the Board of Directors will divide executive directors this amount among its members based on the principles and criteria Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in Chapter 4 – accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled “Compensation the shareholders approve the compensation policy for 2020 applicable policies for the corporate officers”). to the non-executive directors, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION in the Section entitled “Compensation policies for the corporate officers”). Approval of the compensation policies for 2020 applicable to the Company’s corporate officers TWENTIETH RESOLUTION Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in Approval of the information on the 2019 compensation of each corporate accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, officer disclosed in accordance with paragraph I of Article L. 225-37-3 of pursuant to paragraph II of Article L. 225-37-2 of said Code, the the French Commercial Code shareholders approve the 2020 compensation policies for the corporate Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in officers, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled pursuant to paragraph II of Article L. 225-100 of said Code, the “Compensation policies for the corporate officers”). shareholders approve the information disclosed on the 2019 compensation of each of the Company’s corporate officers in accordance with paragraph I of Article L. 225-37-3 of said Code, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Section entitled “Report on the corporate officers’ compensation for 2019”). 176 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION ● through block trades (without limitation) or via multilateral trading Approval of the fixed and variable components making up the total facilities or systematic internalisers, compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated for, the year ended Resolve that the shares purchased under the buyback programme may 31 December 2019 to the Chairman & CEO, Dominique Louis be used for the following purposes: Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, ● to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares under a liquidity pursuant to paragraph III of Article L. 225-100 of said Code, the contract entered into with an investment services provider that shareholders approve the fixed, variable and exceptional components complies with a Code of Conduct recognised by the AMF; making up the total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated ● to honour obligations associated with stock option and/or free share/ for, the year ended 31 December 2019 to the Chairman & CEO, performance share plans, employee savings schemes or other share Dominique Louis, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration allotments made to employees and executive officers of the Company Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the or related companies; Section entitled “Report on the corporate officers’ compensation for ● for allocation on exercise of rights attached to securities redeemable, 2019”). convertible, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable for the Company’s TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTION shares; ● to be held and subsequently used in exchange or as payment in Approval of the fixed and variable components making up the total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated for, the year ended connection with external growth transactions, in accordance with 31 December 2019 to the CFO & Deputy CEO, Philippe Chevallier market practices approved by the AMF; Having considered the corporate governance report drawn up in ● for subsequent cancellation, subject to the adoption of the twentyaccordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, fourth resolution below, and the conditions set out therein; or pursuant to paragraph III of Article L. 225-100 of said Code, the ● more generally, for any purpose authorised by law or any market shareholders approve the fixed, variable and exceptional components practice that may be permitted by the market authorities in the future, making up the total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated provided that in such a case the Company notifies its shareholders for, the year ended 31 December 2019 to the CFO & Deputy CEO, by way of a press release. Philippe Chevallier, as described in the 2019 Universal Registration Document (in Chapter 4 – “Corporate Governance Report”, in the Set the maximum per-share purchase price (excluding fees and Section entitled “Report on the corporate officers’ compensation for transaction costs) at €32 and the maximum amount that the Company 2019”). may invest in the share buyback programme at €12,500,000. The maximum per-share purchase price may, however, be adjusted in TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION order to take into account any corporate actions carried out while Authorisation for the Board of Directors to carry out a share buyback this authorisation is in force (including a bonus share issue paid up by programme capitalising reserves or a stock-split or reverse stock-split). Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders: Resolve that the number of shares purchased under the buyback Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be programme may not exceed 10% of the total number of shares making delegated as provided for by law – to buy back Assystem shares on up the Company’s capital at any given time (as adjusted for any behalf of the Company, either directly or indirectly, in accordance corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting). When shares with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and are bought back to maintain the liquidity of the Company’s shares, in market practices approved by the French securities regulator (Autorité compliance with the AMF’s General Regulations, the number of shares des marchés financiers – AMF). taken into account to calculate this 10% ceiling will correspond to the number of shares purchased less the number of shares sold during the Resolve that under this share buyback programme, shares may be period covered by this authorisation. In addition, the number of shares purchased, sold or otherwise transferred by any method in accordance with the applicable stock market regulations and market practices purchased for subsequent delivery as payment or in exchange for shares in another company in connection with a merger, demerger or asset 7 approved by the AMF, and notably: transfer may not represent more than 5% of the total number of shares ● through public purchase or exchange offers; making up the Company’s capital. ● through the use of options or other forward fi nancial instruments traded via regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities, systematic internalisers or over the counter, through the allocation of shares on conversion, redemption exchange or exercise of securities carrying rights to the Company’s shares, or by any other method, either directly or via an investment services provider; ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 177 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Give full powers to the Board of Directors – which may be delegated as This authorisation is given for a period of 18 months as from the date provided for by law – to use this authorisation, and notably to (i) decide of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously granted when to launch the buyback programme and set the applicable terms for the same purpose. and conditions, (ii) place any and all buy and sell orders, (iii) sign any TWENTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION sale or transfer deeds, (iv) enter into any and all agreements, including liquidity contracts and option contracts, (v) allocate the purchased shares Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s to the various specified purposes, (vi) carry out any and all filings with capital – on an immediate or deferred basis – by issuing ordinary shares and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the the AMF and any other organisation, and (vii) generally do whatever Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying is necessary. rights to new shares, with pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders This authorisation is given for a period of 18 months as from the date Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory of this Meeting and supersedes the unused portion of any authorisation Auditors and having noted that the Company’s capital is fully paid up, previously granted to the Board of Directors for the same purpose. in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-129-4, L. 225-134, L. 228-91, L. 228-92 and L. 228-93 of the French Commercial Code, 7.3.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS the shareholders: Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be delegated TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s capital by issuing, Authorisation for the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s capital on one or more occasions, (i) ordinary shares of the Company, and/ by cancelling treasury shares or (ii) equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Company or to the allocation of debt securities, and/or (iii) securities Auditors, and subject to the adoption of the twenty-third resolution (including any and all debt securities) carrying rights to new shares above, the shareholders: of the Company or of any entity that directly or indirectly owns over Authorise the Board of Directors, in accordance with Article L. 225half of the Company’s capital or in which the Company directly or 209 of the French Commercial Code, to cancel, on one or more indirectly owns over half of the capital. The Board of Directors or occasions, all or some of the Assystem shares bought back by the its duly authorised representative will have full discretionary powers Company, and to reduce the Company’s capital accordingly. The total to determine the amount and timing of such issue(s), which may be number of shares cancelled in any 24-month period may not represent carried out in France or abroad and may be denominated in euros, more than 10% of the Company’s capital, as adjusted, where necessary, foreign currency or any monetary unit determined by reference to a for any corporate actions carried out subsequent to this Meeting. basket of currencies. The issue(s) may be paid up either in cash or by capitalising receivables. Resolve that any difference between the buyback price and the par value of the cancelled shares will be charged against the share premium Expressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue account or any other available reserves, including the legal reserve, preference shares. provided that the legal reserve is not reduced to below 10% of the Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) Company’s capital after the capital reduction. carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or deferred Grant the Board of Directors full powers – which may be delegated as basis – may not exceed €4,500,000 (representing approximately 30% provided for by law – to carry out the capital reduction(s) by cancelling of the Company’s capital at the date of this Meeting), it being specified shares, and notably to (i) determine the amount and terms and conditions that this ceiling does not include the par value of any additional shares of the capital reduction(s), (ii) place on record the capital reduction(s), that may be issued to protect, in accordance with the applicable laws (iii) charge the difference between the carrying amount of the cancelled and regulations and any contractual stipulations, the rights of holders of shares and their par value against the share premium account or any securities and other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. other available reserves, (iv) more generally, undertake any and Resolve that the aggregate par value of any capital increase will be all actions, formalities and fi lings required to complete the capital included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below or in reduction(s) carried out pursuant to this authorisation, and (v) amend the the overall ceiling set in any resolution issued for the same purpose, Company’s Articles of Association to reflect the new capital. and covering the same period, as this present resolution. 178 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities carrying Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers to use this rights to shares that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation may authorisation, in accordance with the conditions set down by law, and not exceed €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount for issues notably (but not exclusively) to determine (i) the timing and other terms denominated in foreign currency), it being specified that this ceiling: of the issue(s), including the type and characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with or without a premium), (ii) the amounts of the ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; issue(s), (iii) the cum-rights date (which may be retroactive) of the issued ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below securities and the method by which they will be paid up, (iv) the exercise or in any subsequent resolution adopted for the same purpose during period and exercise price of any rights attached to the issued securities the period in which this authorisation is valid; and (v) the terms and conditions for exercising the rights attached to ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares (i.e. any exchange, referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of conversion, redemption or allocation rights), all within the limits provided Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may for in this resolution. be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of may be delegated – to implement this resolution and to carry out the said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in above-described issue(s), on one or several occasions and at the times compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. and in the amounts it deems appropriate, as well as to suspend any Resolve that the shareholders will have pre-emptive rights to subscribe issue where appropriate, enter into any and all agreements in order to for the ordinary shares and other securities issued pursuant to this complete the planned issue(s), place on record the capital increase(s) resolution, which may be exercised in accordance with the applicable resulting from each issue, amend the Company’s Articles of Association laws and regulations. to reflect the new capital, and more generally: Resolve that if certain shareholders elect not to exercise their pre● determine, in accordance with the applicable laws, the terms and emptive rights, the Board of Directors may offer the unsubscribed conditions for making any adjustments to the rights to the Company’s securities to the other shareholders, with each shareholder having the shares attached to the securities issued pursuant to this resolution; right to acquire the number of securities applied for unless the issue is ● suspend, where appropriate, the exercise of the rights attached to oversubscribed, in which case the securities will be allocated pro rata the securities, for a period not exceeding three months; to shareholders’ existing interests. ● charge any amounts against the share premium account, particularly Resolve that if any issue is not taken up in full by shareholders exercising issuance costs; their above-mentioned pre-emptive rights, the Board of Directors may take one or more of the following courses of action, in the order of ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance with the its choice: applicable laws and regulations and any contractual stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and other instruments ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided carrying rights to the Company’s shares; that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; ● take all necessary measures and carry out all the requisite formalities ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities; for listing the issued securities on Euronext Paris or any other market ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities for subscription on on which the Company’s shares are listed at that time. the open market. Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report Resolve that if warrants to subscribe for the Company’s shares are thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with issued they may be offered for cash subscription or allocated among the applicable laws and regulations. holders of existing shares without consideration. Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from In the latter case, the Board of Directors will have full discretionary the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously powers to decide that rights to fractions of warrants will be nontransferable and non-tradable and that the corresponding warrants granted for the same purpose. 7 will be sold. ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 179 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS TWENTY-SIXTH RESOLUTION Note that this authorisation automatically entails the waiver by Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares to capital – on an immediate or deferred basis – by issuing ordinary shares be issued on exercise of the rights to shares attached to any securities and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the issued in accordance with this resolution. Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) shareholders, through a public offer (excluding private placements as defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or deferred Financial Code) basis – may not exceed €3,000,000 (representing approximately 20% Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory of the Company’s capital at the date of this Meeting), it being specified Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 to L. 225-129-6 that this ceiling does not include the par value of any additional shares and Articles L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and that may be issued to protect, in accordance with the applicable laws notably Articles L. 225-136, L. 225-148 and L. 228-91 et seq, the and regulations and any contractual stipulations, the rights of holders of shareholders: securities and other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be delegated Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s capital by issuing, carried out pursuant to this authorisation will be included in the on one or more occasions, through a public offer, (i) ordinary shares of blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below or in any subsequent the Company, and/or (ii) equity securities carrying rights to other equity resolution adopted for the same purpose during the period in which securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities, and/or this authorisation is valid. (iii) securities (including any and all debt securities) carrying rights to new Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities carrying shares of the Company or of any entity that directly or indirectly owns rights to shares that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation may over half of the Company’s capital or in which the Company directly not exceed €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount for issues or indirectly owns over half of the capital. The Board of Directors or denominated in foreign currency), it being specified that this ceiling: its duly authorised representative will have full discretionary powers ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; to determine the amount and timing of such issue(s), which may be carried out in France or abroad and may be denominated in euros, ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below foreign currency or any monetary unit determined by reference to a or in any subsequent resolution adopted for the same purpose during basket of currencies. Except for differences in cum-rights dates any the period in which this authorisation is valid; new shares issued pursuant to this resolution will rank pari passu with ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities existing shares. This authorisation may notably be used to issue ordinary referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of shares or securities carrying rights to ordinary shares as payment for Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may securities tendered to the Company as part of a public exchange offer be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance that complies with the conditions set out in Article L. 225-148 of the with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of French Commercial Code (including an offer for securities issued by said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in the Company). compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code, Expressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue Resolve that if any issue is not taken up in full, the Board of Directors preference shares. may, in accordance with the law and in the order of its choice, take one or more of the following courses of action provided for in Article L. 225Expressly note that this authorisation may not be used to carry out a 134 of the French Commercial Code: private placement as defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (i.e. an offer to qualified investors ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided or a restricted group of investors). that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; Resolve that the securities issued pursuant to this authorisation may ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities among the consist of debt securities, or may be issued jointly with debt securities, investors of its choice; or else allow the issue thereof as intermediate securities. ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities on the open market Resolve to waive shareholders’ pre-emptive rights to subscribe for in France and/or abroad. the ordinary shares and/or other securities to be issued pursuant to Resolve that the issue price of the shares and other securities that may this authorisation. However, the Board of Directors may offer existing be issued pursuant to this resolution will be set by the Board of Directors shareholders a priority right to subscribe for all or part of any issue, for in accordance with Article L. 225-136-1 and Article R. 225-119 of the a specified period and subject to terms and conditions to be set by the French Commercial Code. For information purposes, as at the date of Board pursuant to Article L. 225-135 of the French Commercial Code. this Meeting, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the issue This priority subscription right will not be transferable or tradable and price of shares issued pursuant to this resolution must correspond to at will be exercisable in proportion to shareholders’ existing interests. If least the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s certain shareholders elect not to exercise this right, the Board may offer shares over the three trading days preceding the start of the public offer the unsubscribed securities to the other shareholders. period, less a potential discount of up to 10% and adjusted for any 180 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS differences in the cum-rights dates of the new shares. The issue price ● more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any of securities carrying rights to shares must be set in such a way that the commitments and carry out any formalities required for the successful amount received by the Company at the time of issue plus the amount completion of the issue(s) and the resulting capital increase(s), and to be received on conversion, exchange, redemption or exercise of amend the Company’s Articles of Association to refl ect the new said rights is, for each share issued, at least equal to the issue price capital. defined above. Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which may the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously be delegated as provided for by law – to use this authorisation in granted for the same purpose. accordance with the conditions set by law and the Company’s Articles TWENTY-SEVENTH RESOLUTION of Association, and notably to: Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s ● determine the timing and other terms of the issue(s), including the capital – on an immediate or deferred basis – by issuing ordinary shares type and characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with or and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the without a premium); Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new shares, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing ● set (i) the amounts of the issue(s), (ii) the cum-rights date (which may shareholders, through a private placement (as defined in paragraph 1 of be retroactive) of the issued securities and the method by which they Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) will be paid up, and (iii) the terms and conditions for exercising the Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory rights attached to shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, (i.e. any exchange, conversion, redemption or allocation rights); L. 225-129-4, L. 225-135, L. 225-136 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code as well as paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance with the of the French Monetary and Financial Code, the shareholders: applicable laws and regulations and any contractual stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and other instruments Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be delegated carrying rights to the Company’s shares; as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s capital by issuing, ● suspend, where appropriate, the exercise of the rights attached to on one or more occasions and without pre-emptive subscription rights the securities, for a period not exceeding three months; for existing shareholders, (i) ordinary shares of the Company, and/ or (ii) equity securities carrying rights to other equity securities of the ● in the case of securities issued as payment for securities of another Company or to the allocation of debt securities, and/or (iii) securities company tendered as part of a public exchange offer: (including any and all debt securities) carrying rights to new shares ● prepare the list of securities tendered to the offer, of the Company or of any entity that directly or indirectly owns over ● set the terms and conditions of issue, the exchange ratio and any half of the Company’s capital or in which the Company directly or balance to be paid in cash, without applying the pricing method indirectly owns over half of the capital. The Board of Directors or described in this resolution, its duly authorised representative will have full discretionary powers to determine the amount and timing of such issue(s), which may be ● determine how the securities will be issued, and carried out in France or abroad and may be denominated in euros, ● more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any and all foreign currency or any monetary unit determined by reference to a agreements, and apply for the admission to trading of the securities basket of currencies. The issue(s) may be paid up either in cash or by issued pursuant to this resolution. capitalising receivables. Resolve that the Board of Directors may: Expressly note that this authorisation may not be used to issue ● at its sole discretion, and when it deems appropriate, charge the preference shares. costs and fees resulting from the capital increase(s) carried out in Resolve that this authorisation may be used to carry out private accordance with this resolution against the related premiums and placements as defined in paragraph 1 of Article L. 411-2 of the French deduct from said premiums the amounts necessary to increase the legal reserve to 10% of the new capital after each operation; Monetary and Financial Code (i.e. an offer to qualified investors or a restricted group of investors). 7 ● take any and all decisions relating to the admission to trading of the Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases issued securities on Euronext Paris; and carried out pursuant to this authorisation – on an immediate or ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 181 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS deferred basis – may not exceed either (i) €1,500,000 (representing of the French Commercial Code. For information purposes, as at the approximately 10% of the Company’s capital at the date of this Meeting), date of this Meeting, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the or (ii) the ceiling provided for in the laws and regulations in force at issue price of shares issued pursuant to this resolution must correspond the date of the issue(s). For information purposes, as at the date of this to at least the weighted average of the prices quoted for the Company’s Meeting, issues of equity securities offered under private placements shares over the three trading days preceding the start of the public offer as defined in paragraph 1 Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary period, less a potential discount of up to 10% and adjusted for any and Financial Code may not exceed 20% of the Company’s capital in differences in the cum-rights dates of the new shares. The issue price any given 12-month period, based on the amount of the capital at the of securities carrying rights to shares must be set in such a way that the date of the Board’s decision to carry out the issue(s). Neither of these amount received by the Company at the time of issue plus the amount ceilings include the par value of any additional shares to be issued to be received on conversion, exchange, redemption or exercise of pursuant to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations to said rights is, for each share issued, at least equal to the issue price protect the rights of existing holders of securities and other instruments defined above. carrying rights to the Company’s shares. Note and resolve that this authorisation automatically entails the waiver Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increase(s) by shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares to carried out pursuant to this authorisation will be included in the be issued on exercise of the rights to shares attached to any securities blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below or in any subsequent issued in accordance with this resolution. resolution adopted for the same purpose during the period in which Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers – which may this authorisation is valid. be delegated as provided for by law – to use this authorisation in Resolve that the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities carrying accordance with the conditions set by law and the Company’s Articles rights to shares that may be issued pursuant to this authorisation may of Association, and notably to: not exceed €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount for issues ● determine the timing and other terms of the issue(s), including the denominated in foreign currency), it being specified that this ceiling: type and characteristics of the securities to be issued (either with or ● does not include any above-par redemption premiums; without a premium); ● is included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below ● set (i) the amounts of the issue(s), (ii) the cum-rights date (which may or in any subsequent resolution adopted for the same purpose during be retroactive) of the issued securities and the method by which they the period in which this authorisation is valid; will be paid up, and (iii) the terms and conditions for exercising the ● is separate to and does not include the amount of any debt securities rights attached to shares and/or securities carrying rights to shares referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A and paragraph 3 of (i.e. any exchange, conversion, redemption or allocation rights); Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial Code whose issue may ● decide on and make any adjustments required in accordance with the be decided or authorised by the Board of Directors in accordance applicable laws and regulations and any contractual stipulations in with either (i) the conditions provided for in Article L. 228-40 of order to protect the rights of holders of securities and other instruments said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by the Company in carrying rights to the Company’s shares; compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. ● suspend, where appropriate, the exercise of rights attached to the Resolve to waive shareholders’ pre-emptive rights to subscribe for securities, for a period not exceeding three months. the ordinary shares and/or other securities issued pursuant to this Resolve that the Board of Directors may: authorisation, in accordance with the applicable legislation. ● at its sole discretion, and when it deems appropriate, charge the Resolve that if any issue is not taken up in full, the Board of Directors costs and fees resulting from the capital increase(s) carried out in may, in accordance with the law and in the order of its choice, take one accordance with this resolution against the related premiums and or more of the following courses of action provided for in Article L. 225deduct from said premiums the amounts necessary to increase the 134 of the French Commercial Code: legal reserve to 10% of the new capital after each operation; ● limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, provided ● take any and all decisions relating to the admission to trading of the that at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up; issued securities on Euronext Paris; and ● freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities among the ● more generally, take all necessary measures, enter into any investors of its choice; commitments and carry out any formalities required for the successful ● offer all or some of the unsubscribed securities on the open market completion of the issue(s) and the resulting capital increase(s), and in France and/or abroad. amend the Company’s Articles of Association to refl ect the new capital. Resolve that the issue price of the shares and other securities that may be issued pursuant to this resolution will be set by the Board of Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report Directors in accordance with Articles L. 225-136-1 and R. 225-119 thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. 182 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from TWENTY-NINTH RESOLUTION the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the amount of issues granted for the same purpose. of ordinary shares or other securities carried out with or without preemptive subscription rights for existing shareholders pursuant to the TWENTY-EIGHTH RESOLUTION twenty-fifth to twenty-seventh resolutions Authorisation for the Board of Directors to set the issue price for issues of Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory ordinary shares and/or equity securities carrying rights to other equity Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, securities of the Company or to the allocation of debt securities and/or L. 225-135-1, L. 228-91, L. 228-92 and L. 228-93 of the French securities carrying rights to new shares, carried out without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, subject to a ceiling of 10% of Commercial Code, the shareholders: the Company’s capital and the ceilings set at the Annual General Meeting Authorise the Board of Directors to increase the number of securities Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the issued in the event of issues carried out with or without pre-emptive Statutory Auditors, in accordance with Article L. 225-136 of the French subscription rights pursuant to the twenty-fifth to twenty-seventh resolutions Commercial Code, the shareholders: above, in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in Grant the Board of Directors a 26-month authorisation as from the date Articles L. 225-135-1 and R. 225-118 of the French Commercial Code of this Meeting – which may be delegated – whereby for issues carried (at the date of this Meeting said Articles provide that the additional out pursuant to the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh resolutions above, securities must be issued within thirty days of the close of the original it will have full powers to decide not to apply the pricing conditions subscription period, at the same price as for the original issue, and may provided for in said resolutions and instead to set the issue price of not represent more than 15% of the original issue amount). Any shares the securities concerned in accordance with the conditions described issued pursuant to this authorisation will rank pari passu with existing below. The issues for which the Board of Directors may set the issue shares, except for differences in cum-rights dates. price in this way will be subject to a ceiling representing 10% of the Resolve that the nominal amount of any capital increase(s) carried out Company’s capital (as at the issue date) in any given 12-month period. pursuant to this resolution will be included in the €4,500,000 blanket The applicable conditions will be as follows: ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution below for the capital increases that ● the issue price of ordinary shares must be at least equal to the may be carried out under the twenty-fifth to twenty-seventh resolutions lower of either: (i) the weighted average of the prices quoted for of this meeting. This ceiling does not include the nominal amount of the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the any additional shares or other securities that may be issued pursuant to pricing date or (ii) the weighted average of the prices quoted for the the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations in order to protect Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the start the rights of holders of securities and other instruments carrying rights of the public offer period, less a maximum discount of 20% in both to the Company’s shares. cases. In all circumstances the amount received for each share must be Note that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, it will report at least equal to the par value. For issues of securities carrying rights thereon at the following Annual General Meeting in accordance with to shares, the issue price of the shares resulting from the exercise, the applicable laws and regulations. conversion or exchange of the rights attached to the securities may Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from be set, at the discretion of the Board, using a calculation formula the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously chosen by the Board and applicable subsequent to the issue of said granted for the same purpose. securities (for example at the time of their exercise, conversion or exchange). In such a case, if the Board deems it appropriate, the THIRTIETH RESOLUTION above maximum discount may be assessed at the date on which the Blanket ceilings for the authorisations granted to the Board of Directors calculation formula is applied rather than the pricing date; to increase the Company’s capital ● the issue price of securities carrying rights to shares must be set in Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders such a way that the amount received by the Company at the time resolve that: of issue plus the amount to be received on conversion, exchange, redemption or exercise of said securities is, for each share issued, ● the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases carried out 7 pursuant to the authorisations granted in the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, at least equal to the issue price defined above. twenty-seventh and twenty-ninth resolutions above may not exceed Resolve that the Board of Directors will have full powers to use this €4,500,000 (representing approximately 30% of the Company’s authorisation in accordance with the terms and conditions provided for capital at the date of this Meeting). This ceiling does not include in the resolution(s) used to carry out the issue(s) concerned. the nominal amount of any additional shares or other securities that may be issued pursuant to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of securities and other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares; ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 183 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS ● the aggregate nominal amount of debt securities that may be Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from issued pursuant to the above-mentioned resolutions may not exceed the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously €45,000,000 (or the equivalent of this amount at the issue date granted for the same purpose. for issues denominated in foreign currency). This amount does not THIRTY-SECOND RESOLUTION include any above-par redemption premiums and does not apply to any debt securities referred to in Articles L. 228-40, L. 228-36-A Authorisation for the Board of Directors to grant new or existing shares and paragraph 3 of Article L. 228-92 of the French Commercial free of consideration Code whose issue may be decided or authorised by the Board of Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Directors in accordance with either (i) the conditions provided for in Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Article L. 228-40 of said Code, or (ii) the conditions determined by Commercial Code, the shareholders: the Company in compliance with Article L. 228-36-A of said Code. Authorise the Board of Directors to grant, on one or more occasions THIRTY-FIRST RESOLUTION and free of consideration, existing shares (notably treasury shares purchased under a buyback programme) or new shares of the Company, Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital by capitalising share premiums, reserves, profit or other eligible items to benefi ciaries designated by the Board in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations from among: Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, and L. 225-130 of the French (i) the employees, or certain categories of employees, of the Company Commercial Code, the shareholders: and/or of entities or economic interest groupings that are directly or indirectly related to the Company, as defined in Article L. 225Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be 197-2 of the French Commercial Code; or delegated as provided for by law – to increase the Company’s capital on one or several occasions, to be paid up by capitalising all or part of (ii) executive officers of the Company and/or of entities that are directly the Company’s reserves, profit or share premiums, and to subsequently or indirectly related to the Company, as defined in Article L. 225issue bonus shares and/or raise the par value of existing shares. The 197-2 of the French Commercial Code, Board of Directors will have full powers to determine the timing and Resolve that the total number of free shares granted may not represent terms and conditions of such capital increase(s), which may not exceed more than 3% of the Company’s capital at the grant date, it being an aggregate amount of €15,000,000. This ceiling (i) is separate specified that: from the ceilings set for capital increases carried out pursuant to the (i) the total number of free shares that may be granted to executive other resolutions above, and (ii) does not include the par value of any officers who fall within the scope of paragraphs 1 and 2 of additional shares to be issued pursuant to the applicable laws and Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French Commercial Code may not any contractual stipulations in order to protect the rights of holders of represent more than 2% of the total number of free shares granted securities and other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. by the Board of Directors under this resolution; Note that the total amount of any capital increases carried out using (ii) any free shares granted to executive officers who fall within the this authorisation may not exceed the amount of the Company’s reserves, scope of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French share premiums or profit existing at the time of the capital increase(s). Commercial Code will be subject to the terms and conditions set Resolve that if the Board of Directors uses this authorisation, in out in Article L. 225-197-6 of said Code; compliance with Article L. 225-130 of the French Commercial Code, (iii) the Board of Directors may adjust the number of shares granted, any rights to fractions of shares will be non-transferable and non-tradable subject to the ceiling specifi ed above, following any corporate and the corresponding shares will be sold in accordance with the actions that may be carried out; and applicable regulations, with the proceeds of such sale allocated to the (iv) the number of free shares that may be granted under this authorisation holders of the rights within the timeframe provided for in the regulations will be included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirty-fourth resolution in force at that date. below, but no issue carried out pursuant to this resolution will be Give full powers to the Board of Directors to use this authorisation and, included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution above. more generally, take any and all necessary measures and carry out all the formalities required in order to complete each capital increase. 184 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Resolve that the shares granted will vest after a period of at least one ● take all necessary measures to ensure that the beneficiaries respect year (the “Vesting Period”), provided any pre-defined conditions and the Lock-up Period; and criteria set by the Board have been met (notably performance conditions ● more generally, do everything required to use this authorisation, in and the condition that the beneficiary remains with the Group during accordance with the applicable legislation. the Vesting Period). The benefi ciaries of the vested shares may be Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 38 months as from required to hold their shares for a period set by the Board of Directors the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously (the “Lock-up Period”) which, combined with the Vesting Period, may granted for the same purpose. not be less than two years. Each year, the Board of Directors will report to the Annual General Resolve that, as an exception to the above, the shares may vest before Meeting on the share grants made pursuant to this resolution, in the end of the Vesting Period if a beneficiary suffers from a disability accordance with Article L. 225-197-4 of the French Commercial Code. classified in the second or third categories provided for in Article L. 3414 of the French Social Security Code. THIRTY-THIRD RESOLUTION Resolve that in the event of a beneficiary’s death or if a beneficiary Authorisation for the Board of Directors to issue stock warrants (BSAAR suffers from a disability classified in one of the above categories of and/or BSA) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing the French Social Security Code, the vested shares will become freely shareholders transferable following a request made by the beneficiary in the event Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory of disability or by his or her heirs in the event of death. Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-138 and Resolve that the durations of the Vesting Period and any Lock-up L. 228-91 of the French Commercial Code, the shareholders: Period will be set by the Board in accordance with the above minimum Grant the Board of Directors an authorisation – which may be timeframes. delegated as provided for by law – to issue, on one or more occasions, Note that, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French stock warrants (“BSA warrants”) and/or redeemable stock warrants Commercial Code, in the case of grants of new shares, this resolution (“BSAAR warrants”). automatically entails the waiver by existing shareholders of their preResolve that the aggregate nominal amount of any capital increases emptive rights to subscribe for any such shares and that the corresponding carried out as a result of this authorisation, on an immediate or deferred capital increase will take place at the end of the applicable vesting basis, may not exceed €470,046, corresponding to a maximum of period. 470,046 shares with a par value of €1 each and representing 3% of Note that this resolution automatically entails the waiver by shareholders the Company’s capital. This ceiling does not include the par value of any of their entitlement to the portion of reserves, profit or share premiums additional shares to be issued pursuant to the applicable laws and any that will be capitalised if new shares are issued at the end of the Vesting contractual stipulations to protect the rights of holders of securities and Period, and that the Board will have full powers to carry out such issues other instruments carrying rights to the Company’s shares. The number of new shares. of BSA and BSAAR warrants that may be issued under this authorisation Grant the Board of Directors full powers – which may be delegated as will be included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirty-fourth resolution provided for by law – to use this authorisation and notably to: below, but no issue carried out under this resolution will be included in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution above. ● place on record that there are sufficient reserves to pay up the new shares to be granted, and where necessary, at the time of each grant, Resolve to waive the pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders to transfer the amounts necessary for said purpose to a blocked reserve; subscribe for the BSA and BSAAR warrants in favour of the employees and corporate offi cers of the Company and its French and foreign ● set any eligibility conditions and draw up a list of the names of the subsidiaries (the “Beneficiaries”). benefi ciaries and the number of shares that may be granted free of consideration to each beneficiary subject to the above ceilings; Authorise, in accordance with Article L. 225-138-I of the French ● set any conditions (notably performance and/or presence conditions) Commercial Code, the Board of Directors to draw up the list of Beneficiaries and to set the maximum number of BSA and/or BSAAR 7 that must be met for the shares to vest at the end of the Vesting Period, warrants that may be subscribed by each Beneficiary. it being specified that these conditions may vary from one grant and/ or one beneficiary to another; ● take the decision to carry out the corresponding capital increase(s) when the shares granted free of consideration correspond to new shares; ● acquire any shares required for delivering to beneficiaries when the shares granted free of consideration correspond to existing shares; ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 185 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Grant the Board of Directors full powers to determine all of the THIRTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION characteristics of the BSA and BSAAR warrants, notably the subscription Blanket ceiling for issues carried out pursuant to the thirty-second price – which will be set based on the opinion of an independent valuer resolution (free share grants) and the thirty-third resolution (stock by reference to factors influencing their value (such as exercise price, warrant issues) lock-up period, exercise period, triggering threshold and redemption Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory period, interest rate, dividend payment policy, trading price and Auditors, the shareholders resolve that the aggregate number of (i) the volatility of the Company’s shares) – as well as the methods of the shares issued for the purpose of granting shares free of consideration issue and terms and conditions of the issue contract. pursuant to the thirty-second resolution above and (ii) the shares issued on exercise of warrants issued pursuant to the thirty-third resolution Resolve that for as long as the Company’s shares are listed on Euronext above, may not exceed 940,092 shares with a par value of €1 each. Paris or another stock market, the exercise price of the BSA and BSAAR This ceiling (i) does not include any additional shares to be issued warrants – which will be set by the Board of Directors at the issue date pursuant to the applicable laws and any contractual stipulations in order – must be at least equal to the weighted average of the prices quoted to protect the rights of holders of securities or other instruments carrying for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the rights to the Company’s shares and (ii) is separate from and not included warrant issue date, it being specified that each BSA or BSAAR warrant in the blanket ceiling set in the thirtieth resolution. will be exercisable for one share of the Company. Resolve that this authorisation is given for a period of 18 months as from THIRTY-FIFTH RESOLUTION the date of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously Authorisation for the Board of Directors to increase the Company’s capital granted for the same purpose. by issuing shares and/or securities carrying rights to the Company’s shares to employees who are members of a company or Group employee Resolve that in accordance with Articles L. 228-91 and L. 225-132 savings plan of the French Commercial Code, this authorisation automatically entails Having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory the waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for Auditors, in accordance with Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-129-6, any shares issued on exercise of the BSA or BSAAR warrants. L. 225-138 and L. 225-138-1 of the French Commercial Code as Give full powers to the Board of Directors – which may be delegated well as Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code, the as provided for by law or the applicable regulations – to: shareholders: ● issue and allocate the BSA and BSAAR warrants and set their Give the Board of Directors full powers – in accordance with Articles L subscription price, exercise conditions and final terms, in accordance 225-129 and L 225-138-1 of the French Commercial Code and with the provisions of this resolution and the ceilings set herein; Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code – to increase the Company’s capital on one or more occasions by issuing shares and/or ● draw up the list of Beneficiaries and determine the number of BSA securities carrying rights to the Company’s shares to employees who are and/or BSAAR warrants to be granted to each Beneficiary; members of an employee savings plan (Plan d’Épargne d’Entreprise) set ● set the issue price of the shares for which the warrants will be up by the Company or any French or foreign related entity as defined in exercisable, in accordance with the terms and conditions described Article L 225-180 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3344above; 1 et seq. of the French Labour Code, subject to a ceiling of 1% of ● place on record the number of shares issued on exercise of the BSA the Company’s capital as at the date this authorisation is used. This and BSAAR warrants and undertake, either directly or through an ceiling is separate from and not included in the blanket ceilings set in authorised representative, any actions and formalities required to the thirtieth and thirty-fourth resolutions. complete any capital increase(s) that may be carried out on exercise Resolve that the subscription price of the shares or securities carrying of the warrants and amend the Articles of Association to reflect the rights to shares will be set in accordance with the conditions and new capital; ceilings provided for in the applicable laws and regulations, notably ● take all measures required to protect the rights of the holders of BSA Article L. 3332-19 of the French Labour Code. and BSAAR warrants in the event of a corporate action relating to the Authorise the Board of Directors to grant the subscribers, free of Company, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations; consideration, new or existing shares or securities carrying rights to and shares, in accordance with Article L. 3332-21 of the French Labour ● more generally, carry out all measures and formalities required in Code. The Board of Directors may (i) use such grants to replace all or order to use this authorisation. part of a discount on the issue price in accordance with the ceilings provided for in the applicable laws and regulations, or (ii) deduct the value of such grants from the total amount of an employer’s top-up payment, or (iii) use both of the possibilities provided for in (i) and (ii). 186 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS Give full powers to the Board of Directors to use this authorisation securities held correspond to units or shares in a collective investment and to: vehicle, the name and registration number of the organisation that sold such units or shares to the holder.” ● draw up the list of entities whose employees will be entitled to subscribe for the shares or other securities; The rest of the article remains unchanged. ● set the seniority conditions required for employees to subscribe for THIRTY-SEVENTH RESOLUTION the issue(s), subject to the limits provided for in the applicable laws, and set the maximum number of shares that may be subscribed for Amendment to Article 11.1 of the Company’s Articles of Association by the employees concerned; Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to align Article 11.1 of the Company’s Articles of Association, ● set the number of new shares to be issued and their cum-rights date; entitled “Membership structure of the Board of Directors”, with the ● set the issue price of the new shares in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article L. 225-27-1 of the French Commercial Code, by: laws as well as the period during which employees’ subscription rights may be exercised; ● amending the twelfth paragraph of Article 11.1 of the Articles of Association to read as follows (with the amended wording emphasised ● set the terms and conditions and timeframes for payment of the in bold): subscription price; “If the total number of Board members, as calculated in accordance ● place on record the capital increase(s) and amend the Articles of with the law, is eight or lower, one director representing employees Association to reflect the new capital; must be appointed by the Group Works Council. If the total number ● if it deems appropriate, charge the issue costs against the related of Board members (not including the employee representative premiums and deduct from the premiums the amount necessary to director) is increased to more than eight, then a second employee increase the legal reserve to 10% of the Company’s new capital representative director must be appointed by the Group Works after each issue; Council or the European Works Council if such a council exists, ● carry out any and all actions and formalities required in connection provided that the total number of Board members (not including with the capital increase(s). employee representative directors) still exceeds eight at the date of This authorisation automatically entails the waiver by shareholders of said appointment (which must take place within six months of the their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for any shares or other securities date on which the eight-member threshold is exceeded). If, during the issued pursuant to this resolution. term of office of an employee representative director, the total number of Board members falls to eight or below (not including employee This authorisation is given for a period of 26 months as from the date representative directors), the second employee representative director of this Meeting and supersedes any authorisation previously granted will remain on the Board for the length of his or her scheduled term for the same purpose. of office.” THIRTY-SIXTH RESOLUTION ● adding a new paragraph after the twelfth paragraph of Article 11.1 of the Articles of Association, as follows (added text emphasised in Amendment to Article 8 of the Company’s Articles of Association bold): Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders resolve to amend paragraph 8.2 of Article 8 of the Company’s Articles “The employee representative directors are not taken into account of Association, entitled “Share transfers – Identification of shareholders for (i) the calculation of the minimum and maximum number – Disclosure thresholds”, to read as follows (with the amended wording of directors as provided for in Article L. 225-17 of the French emphasised in bold): Commercial Code, or (ii) the application of the first paragraph of Article L. 225-18-1 of said Code.” “In accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory conditions, The rest of the article remains unchanged. the Company is entitled to request from any competent body or organisation, at any time, in exchange for a fee, the name/corporate name, nationality/country of domicile, year of birth/year of formation, THIRTY-EIGHTH RESOLUTION Amendment to Article 12 of the Company’s Articles of Association 7 and the postal address and/or email address of holders of securities Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders carrying immediate or deferred voting rights at its General Shareholders’ resolve to amend Article 12 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Meetings, as well as the number of securities held and details of any entitled “Meetings of the Board of Directors”, by adding, in accordance restrictions that may apply to the securities. Moreover, in accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, a new with the applicable regulations, the Company may request each paragraph 12.8, as follows (added text emphasised in bold): holder of its securities to provide the following additional information if such information is available: (i) the registration number or legal “The Board of Directors may also take the following decisions by entity identifier (LEI) of corporate holders of securities, (ii) the national way of written consultation of the directors: (i) decisions that fall identity number of individual holders of securities, (iii) the date since within the Board’s specific remit as defined in Article L. 225-37 of the the securities have been held, (iv) whether or not the securities holder French Commercial Code, and (ii) decisions to relocate the Company's is a professional investor as defined in Article L. 533-16 of the French registered office within the same geographic département.” Monetary and Financial Code, (v) the code indicating the principal The rest of the article remains unchanged. business activity exercised by the securities holder, and (vi) if the ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 187 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 TEXT OF THE PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS THIRTY-NINTH RESOLUTION authorised and entered into, and for each one must provide the Amendment to Article 15 of the Company’s Articles of Association reasons why that agreement is in the interests of the Company and has been approved by the Board, in order to enable the Statutory Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders Auditor to draw up the report required in the third paragraph of resolve to align Article 15 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Article L. 225-40 and Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial entitled “Non-voting directors”, with the provisions of Article L. 225-45 Code. of the French Commercial Code, by amending the fi nal paragraph of said Article 15 to read as follows (with the amended wording If the Company has not appointed a Statutory Auditor, the Chairman emphasised in bold): of the Board of Directors must draft the special report on relatedparty agreements. “The Board of Directors may allocate compensation to the non-voting directors out of the total annual amount of directors’ remuneration These agreements must be submitted for the shareholders’ approval approved at the Annual General Meeting.” at the Annual General Meeting at which said report is also submitted for approval. Any person directly or indirectly concerned by such The rest of the article remains unchanged. an agreement may not take part in the shareholder vote and their FORTIETH RESOLUTION shares are not included for the purpose of calculating the applicable majority. Amendment to Article 16 of the Company’s Articles of Association Having considered the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders The above provisions do not apply to (i) agreements relating to routine resolve to amend paragraph 16.2 of Article 16 of the Company’s operations entered into by the Company on arm’s length terms, or Articles of Association, entitled “Agreements requiring approval by (ii) agreements relating to operations entered into between the the Board of Directors” to read as follows (with the amended wording Company and another entity when either one of the parties directly emphasised in bold): or indirectly owns all of the share capital of the other party, after deducting the minimum number of shares required to meet the conditions “Any agreements entered into directly, or through a third party, of Article 1832 of the French Civil Code or Article L. 225-1 of the between the Company and its Chief Executive Officer, a Deputy Chief French Commercial Code. Executive Officer, a director, a shareholder holding more than 10% of the Company’s voting rights, or if that shareholder is a company, When any related-party agreements as referred to above have the company that controls the shareholder within the meaning of been entered into and approved in a prior year and remained in Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, are subject to prior force in the last fi nancial year, the Statutory Auditor (where one approval by the Board of Directors. has been appointed) must be informed thereof within a month of the year-end. Such agreements are examined each year by the The same applies to agreements that indirectly concern any one of the Board of Directors and disclosed to the Statutory Auditor (where afore-mentioned parties. one has been appointed) for the purpose of drawing up the report The Board’s prior approval is also required for any agreements entered required under the third paragraph of Article L. 225-40 of the French into between the Company and another entity if the Company’s Chief Commercial Code. Said report must state any information useful to Executive Officer or any one of its Deputy Chief Executive Officers shareholders for assessing whether it is in the Company’s interests or directors is the owner, a general partner, legal manager, director, for the agreements to remain in force, as well as the importance of member of the Supervisory Board or, more generally, an executive, of the goods or services provided and the amount of the sums paid or said entity. received during the year for the performance of the agreements”. Where such prior approval is given, the Board must give its reasons The rest of the article remains unchanged. therefor and explain how the agreement is in the Company’s interests, notably by setting out the related financial conditions. 7.3.3 ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY Any person directly or indirectly concerned by such an agreement RESOLUTION must inform the Board as soon as they are aware of the agreement requiring the Board’s prior approval, and may not take part in either FORTY-FIRST RESOLUTION the Board’s discussions or vote relating to the approval. Powers to carry out formalities The Chairman of the Board of Directors must notify the Company’s The shareholders give full powers to the bearer of a copy or extract Statutory Auditor (where a Statutory Auditor has been appointed) of the minutes of this Meeting to carry out any and all filing and other of each related-party agreement (as referred to above) that is formalities required by the applicable law and regulations. 188 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS 7.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS 7.4.1 INFORMATION ABOUT THE STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS The Statutory Auditors’ reports on the parent company and consolidated financial statements are set out in Chapter 5, Sections 5.3 and 5.5 of this Universal Registration Document. Any additional reports issued by the Statutory Auditors will be published within the applicable legal timeframes on the Company’s website at www.assystem.com, in the “Regulated information” Section. 7.4.2 SPECIAL STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THE REGULATED AGREEMENTS This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements with third parties that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by the French Commercial Code and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards. To the Annual General Meeting of Assystem SA, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present our report on the regulated agreements. Based on the information given to us, it is our responsibility to report to you on the main terms and characteristics and the reasons justifying the interest for the Company of the agreements notified to us, or that we discovered during our audit without having to comment on their appropriateness or on their merits or to look for the existence of other agreements. It is your responsibility, under the terms of Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code, the benefits to evaluate resulting from these agreements prior to their approval. Furthermore, it is our responsibility, as appropriate, to provide you with the information provided in Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the performance, in the past financial year, of agreements already approved by the General Meeting. We conducted the procedures we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. Agreements submitted for approval of the General Meeting AGREEMENTS AUTHORISED AND ENTERED INTO IN THE PAST FISCAL YEAR We inform you that we have not been advised of any agreements authorised and entered into which should have been subject to the approval of the General Meeting under the terms of Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements already approved by the General Meeting AGREEMENTS APPROVED IN PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEARS AND PERFORMED DURING THE PAST FISCAL YEAR Under the terms of Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we have been informed that the performance of the following agreement, already approved by the General Meeting in previous fiscal years was continued during the past fiscal year. 7 Amendments n° 2 and 3 to the re-invoicing contract signed between HDL development S.A.S. and Assystem SA for services being rendered in connection with the strategy definition, management, organisation and control of the Assystem Group ● Interested parties: Dominique Louis, CEO and Director of your Company and the representative of HDL S.A.S., Chairman of HDL Development S.A.S.. ● Nature and terms and conditions: In compliance with the amendments n° 2 and 3 to the re-invoicing contract concluded between HDL Development S.A.S. and your Company for the services rendered by HDL S.A.S. in favour of HDL Development S.A.S in connection with the strategy definition, management, organisation and control of the Assystem Group, whose signature was authorised by your Board of Directors in its meetings held on 15 March 2018 and 6 September 2018, these services are remunerated as from the year ended 31 December 2018 as follows: ● a fixed fee paid amounting to 174,000 euros (tax excluded); ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 189 7 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 26 JUNE 2020 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS ● a variable portion amounting to a maximum of 800,000 euros (tax excluded), based on the ratio, expressed as a percentage, of the consolidated ROPA (including the share of the Group in the results of the all associated companies excluding Expleo Group) on the consolidated net sales. The amount due in application of this criterion was to be determined by linear interpolation between a lower limit (at the level or below which the criterion is considered unmet) and an upper limit (at the level or above which the criterion is considered fully met). Your Board of Directors held on 9 March 2020 decided, in consideration of the above criteria, no variable portion to award an amount of 423,000 euros to HDL Development S.A.S. for the year ended 31 December 2019. Moreover, based on the information given to us, we report to you on the following commitment relating to Mr Philippe Chevallier, Chief Financial Officer of your Company, which corresponded to a regulated commitment as per Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code until the enactment of the decree n° 2019-1234 on 27 November 2019: SEVERANCE PAYMENT DUE IN CASE OF TERMINATION OF THE MANDATE OF MR. PHILIPPE CHEVALLIER AT THE INITIATIVE OF THE COMPANY ● Nature and terms and conditions: During its meeting of 9 March 2016, your Board of Directors approved the implementation to the benefit of Mr Philippe Chevallier, Chief Financial Officer of your Company since 5 June 2015, of a termination indemnity of 500,000 euros in case his dismissal would be initiated by your Company without any cause prior to the General Meeting to be held in 2020 and approving the financial statements of 2019. The payment of such severance indemnity shall be conditional upon: ● the certification, without qualifications and within the legal deadlines, of the consolidated financial statements throughout his mandate; ● the achievement of an average Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) ratio (net of a normative tax expense) of at least 6% over the last three fiscal years. It should be noted that the said severance pay is not due in case of gross negligence or wilful misconduct. Such commitment was not executed in the course of 2019. Paris la Défense, 31 March 2020 The Statutory Auditors French original jointly signed by Eric ROPERT and Laurent GENIN, KPMG audit partners and Albert AÏDAN, Deloitte & Associés audit partner 190 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8.1 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 192 8.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 193 Cross-reference table for disclosures required in accordance with Annex 1 of European Commission delegated regulation 8.2 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN (EU) 2019/980 of 14 March 2019 supplementing NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 192 regulation (EU) 2017/1129 (the prospectus regulation) 193 Cross-reference table for information required in the management report 196 8.3 STATEMENT BY THE PERSONS Cross-reference table for disclosures required RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 2019 in the annual financial report 198 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 192 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 191 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION MATERIAL CONTRACTS 8.1 MATERIAL CONTRACTS To date, Assystem has not entered into any material contracts, other than those entered into in the ordinary course of its business, that would give rise to a significant obligation or commitment for the Group as a whole. 8.2 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES At the date of this Universal Registration Document, Assystem held a 38.16% interest in Expleo Group (formerly Assystem Technologies Groupe) and a 5% interest in Framatome. 8.3 STATEMENT BY THE PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT We hereby state that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that Universal Registration Document presents a fair view of the business, such is the case, the information contained in this Universal Registration results and fi nancial position of the Company and its consolidated Document is, to the best of our knowledge, in accordance with the facts entities and contains a description of the main risks and uncertainties and contains no omission likely to affect its import. to which they are exposed. We further state that, to the best of our knowledge, the fi nancial We obtained a completion letter from the Statutory Auditors confirming statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable that they have read the whole of the Universal Registration Document accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, and verified the information about the Group’s financial position and liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and the the accounts contained therein. consolidated Group as a whole and that the management report as referred to in the cross-reference table on pages 196 et seq. of this Courbevoie, 2 April 2020 French original signed by: Dominique Louis Philippe Chevallier Chairman & CEO of Assystem SA Person in charge of financial information CFO & Deputy CEO 192 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 8.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR DISCLOSURES REQUIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX 1 OF EUROPEAN COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2019/980 OF 14 MARCH 2019 SUPPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2017/1129 (THE PROSPECTUS REGULATION) The following cross-reference table identifies the information contained in this Universal Registration Document that is required in accordance with Annex 2 of European Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Persons responsible 1.1 Persons responsible for the Universal Registration Document 8.3 192 1.2 Statement by the persons responsible for the Universal Registration Document 8.3 192 2 Statutory Auditors 2.1 Information about the Statutory Auditors 6.3 163 2.2 Information relating to any resignation or non-reappointment of the Statutory Auditors 6.3 163 3 Risk factors 2 17-28 4 Information about the issuer 4.1 Legal and commercial name of the Company 6.1 152-155 4.2 Place of registration and registration number of the Company 6.1 152-155 4.3 Date of incorporation and term of the Company 6.1 152-155 4.4 Registered office and legal form of the Company and legislation under which it operates 6.1 152-155 5 Business overview 5.1 Principal activities 1.4 10-13 5.1.1 Description of the issuer’s operations and its principal activities 1.4 10-13 5.1 82-84 5.1.2 Presentation of new products/services introduced on the market 1.4 10-13 5.2 Principal markets in which the issuer operates 1.3 10 5.3 Important events in the development of the issuer’s business Message from the Chairman & CEO, 2-3 1.1 8-9 5.1.3.2 82-83 5.4 Strategy and objectives of the issuer Message from the Chairman & CEO, 2-3 5.1.4 83 5.5 Extent to which the issuer is dependent on patents or licences, industrial, commercial or financial N/A contracts or new manufacturing processes 5.6 Basis for any statements made by the issuer regarding its competitive position 1.3 10 5.7 Investments 5.2.6 Note 6 109-113 5.7.1 Description of principal investments 5.2.6 Note 6 109-113 5.7.2 Description of the Company’s principal investments that are in progress and their geographic location 5.2.6 Note 6 109-113 5.7.3 Information concerning the Company’s principal future investments N/A 5.7.4 Description of any environmental issues that may affect the issuer’s use of its property, plant and N/A equipment 6 Organisational structure 14 6.1 Description of the Group 1.5.1 13 6.2 7 List of significant subsidiaries Operating and financial review 1.5.2 14 8 7.1 Financial position 5.1.3, 82-83 5.2.1 84-85 7.2 Operating results 5.1.3, 82-83 5.2.2 86 7.2.1 Factors affecting the issuer’s income from operations 5.1.3 82-83 7.2.2 Explanation of the reasons for significant changes in net sales and/or revenues 5.1.2 82 7.2.3 Presentation of any governmental, economic, fiscal, monetary or political policies or factors that have Message from 2-3 materially affected, or could materially affect, the issuer’s operations the Chairman & CEO, 2 17-28 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 193 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 8 Cash flows and capital resources 8.1 Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 5.2.5, 89 5.2.6 Note 7 113-115 8.2 Sources, amounts and a description of the issuer’s cash flows 5.2.4, 88 5.2.6 Note 8 115-119 8.3 Information on the issuer’s borrowing requirements and funding structure 5.2.6 Note 8 115-119 8.4 Information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources that have materially affected, or N/A could materially affect, the issuer’s operations 8.5 Information regarding the anticipated sources of funds needed to fulfil commitments 5.2.6 Note 8 115-119 9 Regulatory environment 2.2.6 27 10 Trend information 5.1.4 83 11 Profit forecasts or estimates N/A 12 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 12.1 Information concerning members of the Company’s administrative, management or supervisory bodies 4.1.1.2 62-69 12.2 Conflicts of interest of members of the Company’s administrative, management or supervisory bodies 4.1.1.1 59-62 and senior management 13 Compensation and benefits 13.1 Amount of compensation paid and benefits in kind granted to members of the Company’s 4.2 71-79 administrative, management or supervisory bodies and senior management 13.2 Total amounts set aside or accrued by the issuer or its subsidiaries to provide for pension, retirement or 4.2 71-79 similar benefits 14 Board practices 14.1 Expiry dates of current terms of office 4.1.1.1 59-62 14.2 Information about service contracts with the members of the administrative, management or supervisory 4.2.1.2 62-69 bodies 14.3 Information about the issuer’s Audit Committee and compensation committee 4.1.2.2 62-69 14.4 Statement of compliance with the applicable corporate governance regime(s) Introduction to Chapter 4 58 14.5 Changes in governance (membership structure of the Board of Directors) 4.1.1.1 59-62 7.2 167-174 7.3 174-188 15 Employees 15.1 Number of employees Key figures, 3.2.1.5 5 36-44 15.2 Shareholdings and stock options 3.2.1.5.4 44 6.2.6 160 15.3 Description of any arrangements for involving the employees in the capital of the issuer 3.2.1.5.4 44 16 Major shareholders Key figures, 4-5 6.2.8 162 16.1 Shareholders owning more than 5% of the issuer’s share capital 6.2.8 162 16.2 Existence of different voting rights 6.1. 152-155 6.2.2 156 16.3 Ownership or control of the issuer 6.2.2 156 16.4 Description of any arrangements whose implementation may at a subsequent date result in a change in 6.1 152-155 control of the issuer 17 Related-party transactions 5.4 Note 21 145 5.2.6 Note 5.3.4 107 18 Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets and liabilities, financial position and profits and losses 18.1 Historical financial information 5.4.3 147 18.2 Interim financial information N/A 18.3 Auditing of historical annual financial information 5.3 126-129 5.5 148-150 18.4 Pro forma financial information N/A 18.5 Dividend policy 6.2.3.3 158 18.6 Legal and arbitration proceedings 2.2.6 27 18.7 Significant change in the issuer’s financial position 5.1.4 83 194 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Information Chapter(s) Page number(s) 19 Additional information 19.1 Share capital 6.2 155-162 19.1.1 Amount of issued capital and information about each class of shares 6.2.2 156 19.1.2 Number and characteristics of any shares not representing capital N/A 19.1.3 Number, book value and par value of shares in the issuer held by or on behalf of the issuer itself or by 6.2.2 156 subsidiaries of the issuer 19.1.4 Amount of any convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 6.2.4 159 19.1.5 Information about and terms of any acquisition rights and/or obligations over authorised but unissued 6.2.4 159 capital or any undertaking to increase the capital 19.1.6 Information about any capital of any member of the Group which is under option or agreed 6.2.4 159 conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option 19.1.7 History of share capital for the period covered by the historical financial information 5.4 Note 1 133-134 19.2 Memorandum and Articles of Association 6.1 152-154 20 Material contracts 8.1 192 21 Documents available to the public 6.2.1 155-156 In accordance with European Commission Delegated Regulation ● the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December (EU) 2019/980 of 14 March 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2017, the accompanying notes, the Statutory Auditors’ report and 2017/1129 (the Prospectus Regulation), the following information is the related management report, presented from pages 91 to 136, incorporated by reference into this Universal Registration Document: 137 to 141 and 37 to 42 of the Registration Document filed with the AMF on 11 April 2018 under number D. 18-0316 (see: https:// ● the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December www.assystem.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/registration2018, the accompanying notes, the Statutory Auditors’ report and document-2017_3490.pdf) the related management report, presented from pages 92 to 132, 133 to 137 and 90 to 91 of the Registration Document filed with the AMF on 10 April 2018 under number 19-0302 (see: https:// www.assystem.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/Registrationdocument-2018-Assystem.pdf); 8 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 195 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR INFORMATION REQUIRED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT The following cross-reference table identifies the information contained in this Universal Registration Document that constitutes Assystem’s management report, as required in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and in particular Articles L. 225-100 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. Following the press release issued by the AMF on 23 March 2020, the introduction to Chapter 2 and Chapter 5, Section 5.1.4, “Outlook”, have been updated subsequent to the 9 March 2020 Board of Directors’ meeting at which the management report was approved. Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Information about the business of the Company and the Group 1.1 Business overview for the Company and the Group during the past financial year 5.1. 82-83 1.2 Analysis of the business, results and financial position (notably debt) of the Company and the Group 5.1 82-83 1.3 Outlook of the Company and/or Group 5.1.4 83 1.4 Key financial and non-financial indicators of the Company and the Group Key figures, 4-5 Business model 6 5.1.1 82 1.5 Significant events after the reporting date affecting the Company and the Group 5.2.6 Note 14 125 1.6 Equity interests and controlling interests acquired during the year in companies registered in France 5.2.6 Note 3 95-99 1.7 Revenue and earnings of the Group by division 5.1.2 82 1.8 Branches of the Company N/A 1.9 Information about the R&D activities of the Company and the Group 1.4 10-13 1.10 Information about the Company’s locations and operations 1.4 10-13 1.5 14 2 Risk factors and internal control procedures 2.1 Description of the main risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.2 17-28 2.2 Information about financial risks related to climate change and the measures taken by the Company and 3.2.4 18-50 the Group to reduce these risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy in all aspects of its business 2.3 Hedging objectives and policy for each main category of transaction carried out by the Company and 2.2.3 26 the Group 2.4 Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk for the Company and the Group 2.2.3 26 2.5 Main characteristics of the internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the Company 2.1 17-23 and the Group relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information 3 Information about the Company’s capital 3.1 Name of the persons or entities owning, directly or indirectly, over 5% of the Company’s capital or voting 6.2.2 156 rights, and changes in such shareholders’ ownership interests in the past financial year 3.2 Name of entities controlled by the Company and the Company’s ownership interests in those entities 6.2.2 156 3.3 Information about the Company’s purchase of its own shares (share buybacks) 6.2.7 160 3.4 Summary of transactions in the Company’s securities carried out by executives and persons related to them 6.2.2 156 4 Other accounting, financial and legal information 4.1 Information about payment times 5.4.1 146 4.2 Amount of dividends paid for the past three financial years 6.2.3.3 158 4.3 Injunctions or fines for anti-competitive practices N/A 196 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 5 Non-financial performance statement 5.1 Business model Business model 6 5.2 Main non-financial risks 3.1.4.3 35 5.3 Policies and procedures for being a responsible corporate citizen 3.2 36-50 5.4 Publication of key performance indicators 3.2 36-50 5.5 Impact on society of the Group’s activities 3.2.1 36-43 5.6 Impact on the environment of the Group’s activities 3.2.4 48-50 5.7 Respect of human rights 3.2.2.1 44 5.8 Anti-corruption measures 2.2.8 28 3.2.2.2 44 5.9 Measures for combatting tax evasion 3.2.2.3 45 5.10 Impact on climate change of the Company’s activities 3.2.4 48-50 5.11 CSR commitments related to promoting the circular economy 3.2.3 46-47 5.12 Collective bargaining agreements 3.2.1.5 42-43 05:13 Combating discrimination and encouraging diversity 3.2.1.1 36-37 5.14 Measures taken to help people with disabilities 3.2.1.1.2 37 5.15 CSR commitments related to fighting food waste N/A 5.16 CSR commitments related to fighting food insecurity N/A 5.17 CSR commitments related to animal welfare N/A 5.18 CSR commitments related to responsible, fair, and sustainable food N/A 05.19 CSR commitments related to sustainability 3.2.4 48-50 6 Corporate governance report 6.1 Information on the compensation policies for corporate officers 4.2.1 71-78 6.2 Total compensation and benefits paid during, or allocated for, the past financial year to each of the 4.2.1.3 75-78 Company’s corporate officers 6.3 Lock-up conditions for free shares awarded to executive officers N/A 6.4 Exercise conditions for stock options awarded to corporate officers and lock-up conditions on the shares N/A received 6.5 List of all the offices and posts held by each corporate officer in any company during the financial year 4.1.1.2 62-69 6.6 Agreements entered into between any of the Company’s corporate officers and any Company subsidiary(ies) N/A 6.7 Summary table of authorisations to carry out capital increases 6.2.4 159 6.8 Executive management procedures 4.1.2.2 71 6.9 Membership of the Board of Directors and the conditions for preparing and organising its work 4.1.1 59-69 4.1.2 69-71 6.10 Description of the diversity policy applied to members of the Board of Directors 4.1.1.1 61 06.11 Any restrictions placed by the Board of Directors on the Chief Executive Officer’s powers 4.1.2.2 71 6.12 Corporate Governance Code used by the Company as its reference framework Introduction to Chapter 4 58 8 6.13 Procedures relating to shareholders’ participation in Annual General Meetings 6.1 153 6.14 Factors that could have an impact in the event of a public offer 6.1 155 Appendices Five-year financial summary for the Company 5.4.3 147 Opinion issued by the independent third-party responsible for verifying the social and environmental data 3.4 54-55 in the management report (non-financial performance statement) ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 197 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR DISCLOSURES REQUIRED IN THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT The following cross-reference table identifies the information contained in this Universal Registration Document that constitutes Assystem’s annual financial report, as required in accordance with Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 222–3 of the AMF’s General Regulations. Topic Chapter(s) Page number(s) 1 Statement by the persons responsible for the annual financial report 8.3 192 2 Management report 2.1 Analysis of the business, results and financial position (notably debt) of the Company and the Group 5.1.3 82-83 2.2 Key financial and non-financial indicators of the Company and the Group Key figures, 4-5 5.1.1 82 2.3 Information about financial risks related to climate change and description of the measures that the 3.2.4 48-50 Company takes to reduce these risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy in all aspects of its business 2.4 Information about the use of financial instruments, including financial risks, market risks, credit risks, liquidity 5.2.6 115-120 risks and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group Note 8 2.5 Main risks and uncertainties of the Company and the Group 2.2 23-28 2.6 Main characteristics of the internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the Company 2.1 17-23 relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information 2.6 Treasury share transactions (share buyback programmes) 6.2.7 160-161 3 Financial statements and reports 3.1 Parent company financial statements 5.4 130-147 3.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements 5.5 148-150 3.3 Consolidated financial statements 5.2 84-125 3.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 5.3 126-129 4 Other information 4.1 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 6.3.3 163 4.4 Description of the share buyback programme 7.2.1, 177-178 23rd resolution 198 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 199 200 ASSYSTEM UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 WWW.ASSYSTEM.COM
