Corporate Social Responsibility Roadmap & Report Terma’s CSR journey continues with a new strategy In Terma we hold the belief that we play a significant role in improving our world – both by providing the technologies we develop and by conducting our business in a sustainable way. In this light, we have therefore revisited our approach to CSR and developed a new CSR strategy, which supports our continued commitment to the UN Global Compact. Hence this year’s Corporate Social Responsibility report both outlines a new strategy and gives an update on our progress so far. This report is an important component of our CSR efforts, as we aim to be transparent with what we have achieved, our possible shortcomings, and what we intend to do going forward. Increasing geopolitical tension and an accelerating deterioration of the natural environment pose monumental challenges. The need We want Terma to be a company where our employees are safe for securing people and safeguarding our resources is more relevant at work and where they thrive professionally and personally. We than ever. It is paramount that we all take responsibility and conwant to be a global workplace, where everyone feels motivated tribute toward mitigating and solving these challenges. and empowered to take daily responsibility toward reaching both our business as well as our CSR goals. In this report you can read how the leadership of Terma has actively worked with developing this new strategy and the targets for the I am always impressed by Terma’s ability to combine innovation with next years. global partnerships. This capability is a big part of our organizational DNA and an important factor in ensuring Terma’s position as a global The Terma leadership team are proud to present our new CSR strategy high-tech company. Every day, we are confronted with complex under the headline: Allies in Responsibility. challenges facing the societies in which we operate. We want to be a company that continues to develop and deliver innovative I look forward to sharing our progress as we take the next steps forward. technology to solve the challenges of today as well as tomorrow. We shall continue to address these challenges and meet the expectations of our stakeholders with integrity. We want to conduct Jes Munk Hansen, our business the right way. By operating globally and responsibly, CEO and President we work towards a more secure and sustainable future – in strong collaboration with our partners and customers. Table of Content Terma’s CSR journey continues with a new strategy 2 Employee Health & Mental Well-being 14 Accounting Policies 3 Employee Safety 16 Our Business Model 4 Human Rights 18 Developing Terma’s new CSR Strategy 5 Responsible Supply Chain Management 20 Allies in Responsibility 8 Environment 22 Anti-Corruption 10 Reporting Channels 23 Diversity 12 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORD FROM THE CEO Accounting Policies This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report encompasses Terma’s Leased cars CSR efforts in our locations in Denmark, the US, Netherlands, Germany, Emissions from leased cars are calculated using the International Energy Belgium, France, Singapore, UAE and India. The data in this report covers Agency Emission Factors (2019), where the emission factor for gas/diesel the financial year from the 1 March 2019 till 29 February 2020. oil for leased cars is 3,2kgCO2/kg fuel. In accordance with sections §99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Business travel Statements Act, the report represents our statements on CSR and underTerma makes use of the external travel agency CWT for business travel represented gender in Terma A/S and Terma Aerostructures A/S. bookings. Therefore, the data for our business travel emissions are provided and calculated by CWT. They make use of DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors The report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN (2019). The data covers our offices in Denmark, Germany, India, NetherGlobal Compact. lands, Singapore, and US. The data for Singapore and the US does not cover a full financial year, as they have implemented CWT during the course of FY2019/20. Therefore, the data for Singapore covers 9 months and for the US 1 month, which is the length of time they have made use of CWT. Waste The data covers emissions from waste disposal from all three Danish locations and is calculated using DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors (2019). Emission factors used for combusted commercial and industrial waste and wood is 21,364kg CO2. Emission factors used for recycled/closed loop electrical and electronic equipment, metal, paper, and board is 21,364kg CO2. Emission factor used for commercial and industrial landfill disposal is 99,759kg CO2. CO2 emissions Finally, emission factors used for open loop batteries is 64,637kg CO2. This year the International Energy Agency Emission Factors (2019) and DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors (2019) were used to calculate our CO2 emissions, Employees at Terma as Klimakompasset, which we have used the previous years, is no longer The employee data in this report comes from our internal HR systems. available. Total number of employees To categorize our CO2 emissions, we make use of the Greenhouse Gas Number of employees in total, excluding consultants, and divided by gender Protocol (GHG) scope 1, 2 and 3. and age. The data is stated per 29 February 2020. Scope 1: Sick leave Our scope 1 data covers direct emissions from Terma’s own consumption Sick leave is calculated as follows: Absence in %: ((Number of hours absent)/ including fuel from company-owned cars and generation of heating. These (number of possible work hours)) x 100. The data does not include child sick are calculated using International Energy Agency Emission Factors (2019). leave. Emission factor used for natural gas that covers generation of heating is 230,3gCO2/kWh and emission factor used for gas/diesel oil for companyLost Time Injuries owned cars is 3,2kgCO2/kg fuel. Terma measures Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) as work-related incidents per 1 million working hours resulting in work-related illness Scope 2: causing absence from work. The LTFR is calculated as follows: ((absence in Our scope 2 data covers our indirect emissions from purchased electricity hours)/(total hours worked in accounting period)) x 1,000,000. and heating. These are calculated using International Energy Agency Emission Factors (2019). Emission factors used for Denmark are 158,6 gCO2/kWh for Gender diversity in management electricity and 134,4 gCO2/kWh for heat. For Germany, it is 408,8 gCO2/kWh Covers people managers with regular staff excl. students and consultants for electricity (heating is part of the rent and therefore not part of the data). and is calculated as follows: ((Count of female managers)/(total count of managers)) x 100. For the rest of Terma’s international offices, Belgium, France, India, Netherlands, Singapore, UAE, and the US, the purchase of electricity, heating, and Reporting channels cooling is part of rent and therefore not part of the data. As 85% of Terma’s Terma’s two reporting channels, Ethics Line and Tell us your concerns, are employees and our production facilities are located in Denmark, the data hosted by an external third party Got Ethics A/S. They do not have access expressed in scope 2 is representative of our emissions. to any of the data but merely hosts the channels. The Group Head of CSR and Compliance is the only one with access to the data in both systems and Scope 3: extracts statistical data regarding the number of reported cases and their Our scope 3 data covers indirect emissions from leased cars, business travel, topics for the CSR report. and waste disposal. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3 Our Business Model 9 COUNTRIES ON 3 CONTINENTS 1639 EMPLOYEES OWNED BY THE THOMAS B. THRIGE FOUNDATION OPERATING IN THE AEROSPACE, DEFENSE, AND SECURITY SECTORS AERONAUTICS Airborne solutions and manufacturing of electronics and aerostructures. SECURING SPACE PEOPLE THROUGH SUPPORT & SERVICES Mission-critical ADVANCED Maintenance, products, software, TECHNOLOGY support, service, and services for test equipment, and space missions. consumables. SURVEILLANCE & MISSION SYSTEMS Radar surveillance to secure national borders and critical infrastructure. 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR BUSINESS MODEL Developing Terma’s new CSR Strategy In August 2019, Terma’s Executive Management and CSR Board participated 10 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS in a full day materiality assessment workshop which purpose was to define the focus areas of Terma’s upcoming CSR strategy. The development of the strategy was divided into 4 distinct phases: research, materiality assessment, action plans, and implementation. 12 11 12 5 5 Customers End-users Governments Universities NGOs 1. Research The first step in all strategy planning is research. It is vital that we understand who our stakeholders are, what they expect of us, what the main CSR trends are, and what the issues are that could create opportunities or risks to our business. Therefore, through a triangulation of data collected from the general CSR discourse, preliminary stakeholder desktop research, as well as key 12 7 10 1639 1 CSR topics presented by members of the CSR Board as important to their Competitors Industry Banks Terma Thomas and peers associations and credit employees B. Thrige business area, a list of 30 relevant CSR topics emerged. These 30 CSR institutions Foundation topics were then prioritized, resulting in 18 topics being chosen for our materiality assessment workshop. This led to an extensive research period, where stakeholders within 10 stakeholder groups were analyzed. The results of the research were translated into topic briefs describing the key expectations for each stakeholder group and the impact on our business for each of the 18 CSR topics. The topic brief would be the foundation for the discussions at the materiality workshop. Employee Circular Climate Community Health & Anti-Corruption Diversity Economy Change Engagement Mental Well-being Energy & Partnerships – Recycling Employee Hazardous Resource Human Rights Which Create & Waste Safety Chemicals Optimization Shared Value Management Responsible Sustainable Responsible Responsible Responsible Supply Chain Development Water Lobbying Sourcing Tax Management Goals The 18 CSR topic chosen to be part of the materiality assessment workshop. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DEVELOPING TERMA’S NEW CSR STRATEGY 5 2. Materiality assessment 3. Action plans The purpose of the workshop was to determine the materiality of each The next step was then to develop action plans for each of the 6 focus topic and define which topics were the most material ones for Terma and areas based on the ambition level chosen for each of these. In close our stakeholders. The most material topics would become the focus areas collaboration with relevant departments, activities, and measurable targets of our strategy and an ambition level would be given for each of them. were defined for each focus area. The 6 focus areas form the core of our CSR strategy, Allies in Responsibility, and guide our work for the coming 3 years. To structure the workshop, a physical materiality assessment board was developed, and the participants were asked to assess the materiality 4. Implementation of each topic and place them on the board. Each topic was discussed A strategy is just a hollow statement if it is not implemented properly. thoroughly, and by the end of the workshop, there were 6 topics that were Employees need to relate to the strategy and see themselves being able deemed the most material ones. These were: Anti-Corruption, Diversity, to contribute to its fulfilment. Therefore, a lot of work has gone into Employee Health & Mental Well-being, Employee Safety, Human Rights, creating awareness of the strategy and tailoring the communication to and Responsible Supply Chain Management. These 6 topics were then each department. classified into 2 ambition levels: compliance and increased focus. A global strategy launch was planned for the beginning of our new fiscal year in March 2020 that involved employee engagement. Details of the launch will be described in our next CSR report which covers that period. 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DEVELOPING TERMA’S NEW CSR STRATEGY Anti-Corruption C O M P L Human Rights I A N C E Responsible Supply Chain Management 2 AMBITION LEVELS I N Employee C Safety R E A S E Diversity D F O Employee Health & C Mental U Well-being S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DEVELOPING TERMA’S NEW CSR STRATEGY 7 Allies in Responsibility We are proud to present our new CSR strategy Allies in Responsibility. We work actively with Corporate Social Responsibility to ensure that our work is strategic and value-adding. Taking a business-driven approach, we have throughout the year worked to develop an ambitious and suitable strategy. Allies in Responsibility is the formulation of the next 3 years’ key corporate social responsibility (CSR) ambitions, action points, and commitments. This will ensure that we: Have a solid foundation within CSR and compliance Are recognized as a company that invests in human capital Are able to attract a diverse workforce The strategy contains 6 focus areas: Anti-Corruption, Diversity, Employee Health & Mental Well-being, Employee Safety, Human Rights, and Responsible Supply Chain Management. Allies in Responsibility is a means to support the collective discourse and become a trusted partner within the sustainable development agenda. Therefore, all 6 focus areas are carefully aligned with specific UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This will cement Terma’s position as a valued and trusted employer, business partner, and customer. We support the UN Sustainable Development Goals Strategy Targets 03/20 02/23 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being All employees in high and medium Establish local targets for diversity Increase employee survey score for risk job functions have undergone 5% annual increase in number of Satisfaction & Motivation by 3 points extended anti-corruption training female applicants and Immediate Manager by 2 points Train all Terma’s external 4% annual increase in number of Develop additional leadership courses marketing consultants female applicants hired for all leadership levels Reach as a minimum Band C in the next 3% annual increase in the female Train all managers within publication of Transparency International composition of leadership well-being and stress management Defense Anti-Corruption Index Reduce female sick leave absence to maximum 4.2% 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ALLIES IN RESPONSIBILITY Allies in Responsibility strategy model EMPLOYEE HEALTH & ANTI-CORRUPTION DIVERSITY MENTAL WELL-BEING UN Sustainable De velo pm en oals tG ALLIES IN RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY EMPLOYEE SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS CHAIN MANAGEMENT Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Reach a world class safety Conduct human rights impact All active Terma suppliers have level in Terma assessments undergone our responsible Improve safety culture and behavioral Organize global human rights supply chain management due safety to a high performing awareness campaigns diligence process “interdependent” safety culture Secure sustainable improvements by implementing a new Safety Management Framework (Terma Safety Excellence) Decrease Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by 50% CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ALLIES IN RESPONSIBILITY 9 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption is one of the 6 focus areas of Terma’s new 3-year CSR Strategy Allies in Responsibility. A strong and solid compliance culture and mindset is vital to ensure a company’s license to operate. We aim to ensure compliance with international and national anti-corruption legislation. Risk assessment and training In Terma, we take our role in the fight against corruption seriously and see it as an issue where everyone can make a difference. Training and knowledge are vital for employees to make informed and considerate decisions. Last year, we launched basic anti-corruption training as part of our Code of Conduct training. In relation to our risk profiling of job functions, we decided in the course of this year to prioritize a more thorough approach to risk assessment. As a result, each of Terma’s 1639 employees have now been given an anti-corruption risk profile connected to their specific job function. The assessments were conducted through interviews by our Head of CSR & Compliance with business area managers who together analyzed the specific job function and assessed an appropriate risk profile according to the employee’s exposure, interaction with third parties, level of responsibility and influence, as well as specific tasks. The Defense Companies Anti-Corruption Index Thereafter, all risk profiles were uploaded to our HR system. The system Through the past couple of years, we have chosen to focus our efforts on imlinks the appropriate training to the risk profiles of all employees and proving our communication and transparency by publicly disclosing our work allows the compliance function to monitor whether the relevant training within anti-corruption. Therefore, we have been looking forward to reading has been taken. The risk profiles and types of training are visually depicted Transparency International Defense and Security’s (TI DS) Anti-Corruption in the model below. Index, scheduled to be published Q3 2019. Unfortunately, TI’s final assessment is delayed, but is expected to be ready by mid-2020. Gifts and hospitality During the year, we updated our Gift & Hospitality procedure and developed a global uniform registration system to support the procedure. Risk profile Type of mandatory training Frequency of training Low Employee Code of Conduct Every 2 years Medium Employee Code of Conduct Every 2 years Anti-corruption e-learning Every year High Employee Code of Conduct Every 2 years Anti-corruption e-learning Every year Face-to-face Every year The level of anti-corruption training corresponds to each employee’s job function risk profile. 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION SDGs Anti-Corruption represents our commitment to reach peace, justice, and strong institutions formulated in the UN Sustainable Development Goal 16 OUR AIM Our aim is to be in compliance with relevant international and national anti-corruption legislation MAIN ACTIVITIES FY2020/21 Strengthen the Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Update due diligence procedures for Terma’s third parties Develop and launch e-learning for medium and high-risk job functions Conduct mandatory anti-corruption training workshops for high-risk employees in all Terma’s locations globally Strengthen monitoring and internal control function Strengthen trust in and awareness of Ethics Line and Tell us your concerns Develop annual wheel for the Anti-Corruption Compliance Program FY2021/22 Continue strengthening the Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Continue developing and updating due diligence procedures for Terma’s third parties Conduct mandatory anti-corruption training workshops for high-risk employees at all Terma’s locations globally Monitoring and internal control Annual enterprise risk management on anti-corruption FY2022/23 Monitoring and internal control Maintenance of the program and processes TARGETS FY2020/21 All employees in high and medium risk job functions have undergone extended anti-corruption training Train all Terma’s external marketing consultants Reach as a minimum Band C in the next publication of Transparency International Defense Anti-Corruption Index CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION 11 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Diversity We are expanding, and diversity is a key enabler for our globalization journey. Diversity varies and can take numerous forms. Therefore, you cannot simply Therefore, Diversity was chosen as one of the 6 focus areas of Terma’s CSR determine that you lack one specific attribute alone in your organization. strategy Allies in Responsibility. Each department or location has its own diversity challenge. There is a need to look at the specific team, some might be unbalanced concerning age, High performing teams while others need more gender or skill diversity. Consequently, the first Diverse teams perform better and are more innovative. They possess activity we will focus on is defining local targets for diversity. knowledge about the society they are part of. When entering into new markets and with customers, it is important to have an understanding of Another activity is appointing women ambassadors. We believe this will the values and business culture belonging to that market. Therefore, it is help attract more female applicants, as the women ambassadors will act key to have a diverse workforce that reflects the composition of the various as spokespersons and role models. societies Terma is present in. Moreover, we will strengthen our recruitment training. This means that we Diversity encompasses a wide range of visible and invisible attributes; e.g. will train managers and relevant employees on how to best recruit diverse age, gender, race, national or ethnic origin, religion, language, political teams and challenge managers to be more diversity focused. beliefs, sexual orientation, physical ability as well as diversity of talents, skills, experience, and abilities. Finally, we will engage in closer collaboration with initiatives supporting women within the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). To ensure a future pool of qualified female talent within Religion the fields of STEM, it is important to support initiatives that motivate women to choose to educate themselves and work within these fields. Language Ethnicity Gender Distribution in Management Levels Operating in a traditionally male dominated industry, we believe it is even Personal Race style more important for us to continuously attract more women to Terma. This year we have had a slight decrease in the management positions held by women. One of the targets within diversity is to have a 3% annual increase Work in the female composition of leadership. experience Gender 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Gender distribution in Socioeconomic Personality level management across the Group 20% 21% 22% 20% Sexual Education orientation For Terma A/S the gender distribution in management was 19% for FY2019/20 and for Terma Aerostructures A/S it was 31% for FY2019/20. Terma’s focus As visually illustrated on the right hand page, we have defined activities 1 out of 4 of our Terma A/S Board members is female, and we will continue and targets for the next 3 years that will help us reach our aim. to strive to have more gender representation at this level. Terma Aerostructures A/S’ Board of Directors consists of Terma A/S Executive We aim to be an attractive workplace with high Management. In his capacity as new CEO for Terma A/S, Jes Munk Hansen replaced the former CEO Jens Maaløe during the fiscal year as Chairman of performing diverse teams and the ability to attract the Board of Directors of Terma Aerostructures A/S. Therefore, the Board of new diverse talents. Terma Aerostructures A/S is still comprised of 3 male board members. We aim for one female board member within 2024. 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY SDGs Diversity represents our commitment to reduce inequality formulated in the UN Sustainable Development Goals 5 and 10 OUR AIM Our aim is to be an attractive workplace with high performing diverse teams and the ability to attract new diverse talents MAIN ACTIVITIES FY2020/21 Recruitment training to ensure diversity FY2022/23 HR to challenge managers during hires to push for more diversity Define local targets for diversity Specific branding campaigns highlighting the need for and current diversity in Terma Closer cooperation with initiatives supporting women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) areas Encouraging women in Terma to be ambassadors Review compensation and benefits procedure and update to appeal more broadly to a diverse talent pool (paternity leave, relocation, cultural training/integration etc.) Ensure broad appeal in language, pictures, and messages in Employer Branding TARGETS FY2020/21 Establish local targets for diversity FY2022/23 5% annual increase in number of female applicants 4% annual increase in number of female applicants hired 3% annual increase in the female composition of leadership CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY 13 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Employee Health & Mental Well-being Our employees are the backbone of our organization, and it is our responWe will also develop a toolbox for managers with guidance, advice, and sibility to take good care of them while they are in our employment. best-practice on how to create high performing teams. Employee Health and Mental Well-being is therefore one of the 6 focus areas of Allies in Responsibility, where we want to increase our efforts. Empowering employees Employees are the second group we need to empower. It is important that Healthy and motivated employees employees can actively contribute to making Terma a good place to work. The health survey that Terma launched last year, showed an overall health score above benchmark, but also pointed to two areas where there is a We will develop a pixie book with good advice on how to prevent, avoid, need to increase focus. The two areas were Leadership and Physical welland handle stress. Moreover, we will hold annual awareness campaigns being, especially related to pain in the back and shoulder regions. on topics such as: good tone at work, stress, collaboration, and respecting diversity of opinions. With involvement of both our collaboration committee (Samarbejdsudvalg) and work environment organization, as well as an external advisor, these Finally, we will implement various health initiatives across the organization. results has been used to define which health initiatives are meaningful for We will for instance establish walk and talk lanes at locations to encourage us to implement globally over the next 3 years. employees to hold meetings away from the meeting rooms and thereby get some fresh air and exercise. Retention rate and sick leave The measurement of retention rate and sick leave are good indicators of how our employees are doing. Last year, we highlighted that our female employees’ sick leave absence was considerably higher than that of our male employees. We have therefore in our strategy and this focus area defined a target to reduce female sick leave absence to maximum 4.2%. Sick leave absence by gender and age 1 Average 1 Below 35 35 to 55 Above 55 total 12017/18 Men 2.9 % 2.6 % 2.8 % 2.7 % 1 Women 5.2 % 4.6 % 5.6 % 4.9 % 12018/19 Men 3.3 % 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 1 Women 6.1 % 5.1 % 4.5 % 5.1 % 12019/20 Men 3.0 % 2.2 % 2.6 % 2.7 % We aim to increase and strengthen our employees’ 1 Women 3.7 % 4.8 % 4.8 % 4.9 % health and mental well-being and thereby increase motivation and performance. The above figures are for all of Terma’s locations globally and include pregnancy related sickness. However, child sickness is not included in the figures. To reach our aim, we will focus on both empowering managers and employees as it is essential to focus on both to truly make an impact. The data above shows a slight decrease in overall absence, especially in the group of women below the age of 35. However, we continue to have Empowering managers an above benchmark absence among our female employees in general. We The first group we need to empower is managers as they are role models have identified this to mainly be related to our blue-collar workers in our and set the direction and tone at the workplace. High quality leaders are manufacturing facilities. According to benchmarks from the Confederation essential for high performing and motivated teams. of Danish Industries, there is a tendency for higher absence levels among female employees working in blue collar functions such as assembly and We believe that training is one of the key elements to empowering them. machine operators. Taking this fact into consideration, we will focus on We will develop additional leadership training courses covering all leadership increasing their well-being and hence reducing absence levels. levels. We will thereby train our managers within employee well-being, including prevention, assessing, and handling stress. 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE HEALTH & MENTAL WELL-BEING SDGs Employee Health & Mental Well-being represents our commitment to promote decent work and sustainable economic growth formulated in the UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 OUR AIM Our aim is to increase and strengthen employees’ health and mental well-being and thereby increase motivation and performance MAIN ACTIVITIES Activities should be undertaken on two levels: FY2020/21 Empowering and providing tools to managers FY2022/23 Empowering and providing tools to employees Empowering managers Activities to be conducted: Continue with present leadership training courses Develop additional leadership training courses covering all leadership levels Leadership training focused on creating well-being, including avoidance, assessing, and handling of stress Develop a toolbox for leaders with guidelines, advice, and best practice on how to create high performing stress-free teams Empower employees Activities to be conducted: Implement various health activities across our locations Annual awareness campaigns on among others: good tone at work, collaboration and respecting diversity of opinions, stress, etc. Develop pixie book with good advice on how to prevent and handle stress Establish walk and talk lanes on all locations TARGETS FY2020/21 FY2022/23 Increase employee survey score for Satisfaction & Motivation by 3 points and Immediate Manager by 2 points Develop additional leadership courses for all leadership levels Train all managers within well-being and stress management Reduce female sick leave absence to maximum 4.2% CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE HEALTH & MENTAL WELL-BEING 15 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Employee Safety As a responsible company with production facilities, it is our responsibility We want to move from a dependent culture to an interdependent culture, to ensure a strong safety culture as part of our DNA. Employee Safety is a where it is an intentional choice for both employees and the company to material issue for Terma and therefore one of the 6 focus areas of Allies in avoid accidents. Responsibility. Safety culture is a journey where employees’ mindset and maturity evolve. Bridging status quo with strategy In the Dependent phase, external compliance affects our behavior and Based on the positive results achieved through Terma Grenaa’s Safety motivation. We establish rules, procedures, and protocols and follow the Excellence Program, which we continued in FY2019/20, it was natural that rules because we have to. The belief in this phase is that zero accidents the next step was to spread some of the key lessons, processes, and safety are a dream. initiatives across Terma globally. When moving towards the interdependent phase, our motivation and efforts Therefore, a range of activities have been planned over the next 3 years to go from being compliance-driven towards being driven by internal comreach our aim and targets. mitment. We follow the rules because we want to, and we believe that zero accidents are not just a dream, but a choice. Leadership is present and inspires employees to engage and influence behavior. We aim to provide our employees with a safe working Lost Time Injuries environment, free from accidents and injuries. For the first time in our production in Grenaa, we had a whole year without any Lost Time Injuries (LTI), which are injuries with absence per 1 million working The first activity is to decide on one common approach and one common hours. This milestone was celebrated and illustrates that our employees’ safety measurement system for Terma. This will ensure that we can measure our culture mindset has shifted. progress regardless of whether we look at our production or offices. Moreover, a common approach also ensures alignment across the organization and Throughout the whole of Terma, we globally had 37 working accidents of that all employees work in the same direction and towards the same goals. which 2 accidents resulted in absence from work. Thereafter, there is a need to establish a governance structure and dedicate 1 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 resources so there is transparency regarding roles and responsibilities. 1Lost Time Injuries Moreover, we need to assess Terma’s various sites to determine their current 1(LTI) Frequency Rate 4.5 4.3 7.4 4.5 0.9 safety level and what is required to reach the ambition set. This will enable us to implement concrete safety initiatives targeted to the safety challengLTI Frequency Rate is calculated as follows: (Absence in hours/ (total hours es each location might have. worked in accounting period) x 1,000,000. Shifting our safety culture By developing one transparent measuring system for all Terma, we will be A key element to ensuring safety is a sound safety culture and mindset able to document and monitor whether we are succeeding in making safety among managers and employees. To strengthen our safety culture, we have an integral part of our daily safety behavior in all our locations. been inspired by the Bradley Curve™ developed by DuPont, depicted below. NA External Motivation Internal Motivation Source: TUR COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE AL I Bradly CurveTM NST IN CTS Rules, Procedures, Protocols Leadership, Role Modeling, Dupont Influencing >> Engagement INJURY RATES SUPE RVISI ON SELF TEAMS Reactive Dependent Independent Interdependent • Safety by natural instinct • Management commitment • Personal knowledge • Help others conform • Compliance is the goal • Condition of employment • Commitment & standards • Being other’s keeper • Delegated to safety manager • Fear / procedures • Internalisation • Networking contributor • Lack of management • Supervisor control goals • Personal value • Care of others • Value all people • Care for self • Organizational pride • Training • Practice & habits • Individual recognition “I follow the rules because I have to” “I follow the rules because I want to” 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE SAFETY SDGs Employee Safety represents our commitment to promote decent work and sustainable economic growth formulated in the UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 OUR AIM Our aim is to provide our employees with a safe working environment, free from accidents and injuries MAIN ACTIVITIES FY2020/21 Establish a governance structure and dedicate resources FY2022/23 Assess Terma’s various sites to determine their current safety level and what is required to reach the ambition set Implement safety initiatives in the various locations Continuously monitor and evaluate the safety culture and behavior, as well as performance TARGETS FY2020/21 Reach a world class safety level in all Terma FY2022/23 Improve safety culture and behavioral safety to a high performing “interdependent” safety culture Secure sustainable improvements by implementing a new Safety Management Framework (Terma Safety Excellence) Decrease Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (TLIFR) by 50% CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE SAFETY 17 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Human Rights Human Rights is one of the 6 focus areas of Terma’s new 3-year CSR strategy The authorities perform a thorough due diligence which may include: Allies in Responsibility. the specific function of the product, potential use of the product, Human rights are the basic rights and freedoms that belong to every person in end-user country, the world, from birth until death. They apply regardless of where you are from, receiving customers, etc. what you believe, or how you choose to live your life. Everyone has 48 basic universal human rights, as defined in the International Bill of Human Rights. Moreover, authorization for exports are based on the EU Common Position on arms export controls (2008/944/CFSP) of 8 December 2008, which is a set of minimum requirements that the national export control system of We aim to be in compliance with the procedural each EU member state must meet. This includes among others: Respect for human rights in the country of final destination as well as requirements set forth by the UN Guiding Principles. respect by that country of international humanitarian law The internal situation in the country of final destination Preservation of regional peace, security and stability UN Guiding Principles To comply with the procedural requirements of the UN Guiding Principles In Denmark, the Danish Business Authority is the authority in charge of the (UNGP), we need to update our current human rights policy, conduct human administration of the international export control rules that apply to dual-use rights impact assessments, and assess our current remediation systems. products and technology. The Ministry of Justice administers the export All the below elements are included in our roadmap visualized on the right control rules in relation to arms. In the process the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hand page. can be consulted with assessments of the political situation in the country. Human rights due diligence The majority of Terma’s products are subject to export control. Terma relies on the due diligence performed by the authorities when applying for export licenses. In our overall strategy process and business development we ongoingly evaluate our products and markets we serve, and how they fit our vision, Export controls are based on international cooperation for the purpose of mission and values. maintaining peace and security. They are the legal rules, which regulate the export of products and technologies which have or could have a military In addition, we will, as part of our CSR strategy and our work with the application, with the purpose of ensuring that such strategic products or UNGPs, identify and assess human rights impacts that Terma may cause, technologies are not exported to the wrong users. contribute to or be linked with. Having a diverse product portfolio, Terma operates in various business areas as a global player in the aerospace and Export license decisions are solely made by the Danish authorities based defense industry. Consequently, the challenges and opportunities connected on foreign and security considerations and adherence of international to human rights will vary according to the specific area. Therefore, we will guidelines and export control commitments (EU, UN, OSCE). conduct human rights impact assessments for each business area. Create awareness During the next 3 years, we will focus on training and awareness to ensure that Terma employees are familiar with their human rights, as they can seem unspecific and intangible. Therefore, as part of our strategy, we have an ambition to translate all 48 human rights into concrete everyday examples relevant for our employees at all locations. UK Modern Slavery Act This is the fourth year we publish our annual statement, pursuant to Section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act. The statement describes our efforts in addressing the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking in our own business as well as in our supply chain. 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RIGHTS SDGs By respecting human rights, we contribute to fulfilling the UN Sustainable Development Goals as 92% of the 169 targets of the SDGs are linked to human rights OUR AIM Our aim is to be in compliance with the procedural requirements set forth by the UN Guiding Principles MAIN ACTIVITIES FY2020/21 Conduct human rights impact assessment and due diligence FY2021/22 Update human rights policy in accordance with the requirements of the UNGPs Support training of Global Supply Chain and Quality in human rights as part of the Responsible Supply Chain Management Program Assess whether Terma’s grievance mechanisms, such as Ethics Line and Tell us your concerns, are in alignment with the UNGPs Prepare communication material with results of the assessment and findings to be internally and externally communicated Communicate assessment and findings internally and externally FY2022/23 Develop and organize human rights awareness sessions and campaigns, for instance in connection with UN’s official Human Rights Day on 10 December Continue human rights due diligence Process maintenance TARGETS FY2020/21 Conduct human rights impact assessments FY2022/23 Organize global human rights awareness campaigns CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RIGHTS 19 Anti-Corruption Diversity Employee Health & Mental Well-being Employee Safety Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Management Responsible Supply Chain Management Responsible Supply Chain Management is one of the 6 focus areas of Terma’s we already have the daily contact with our suppliers. But we also acknowledge CSR strategy Allies in Responsibility. the resources and time needed, not just to receive the data, but to receive a certain level of data quality for it to be useful in our due diligence work. Companies’ supply chains are increasingly complex and are composed of a We have therefore included these experiences and lessons learned in our multitude of suppliers spread all over the world. This increasing complexity approach to driving responsible supply chain management and our due and globalization create increasing risks of negative impacts in companies’ diligence efforts, which are being strengthened over the next 3 years as supply chains. part of our CSR strategy. At Terma, it is important that we source responsibly and set CSR requirements Roadmap towards our suppliers. A 3-year roadmap has been developed to enable us to achieve our target: all required active Terma suppliers have undergone our responsible supply chain management due diligence process. We aim to be in compliance with requirements and It is comprised of an overall responsible supply chain management program that have robust processes in place to manage our supply includes various processes such as defining a risk landscape of our suppliers, chain responsibly. strengthening conflict mineral processes, and due diligence mechanisms. We want our suppliers not to employ behaviors that negatively impact The data received in the assessments gathered by the previously mentioned anti-corruption, the environment, and human rights. external third party will also be analyzed to gain knowledge of the type of questions our suppliers have difficulty answering and if there is a need, for Assessment of suppliers instance, for capacity building suppliers and relevant internal stakeholders Last year, we hired a specialized third-party consultant to assess the majority within specific areas. of our key suppliers that we use in our production process. The consultant is one of the recognized leaders within this field and one of its core compeOnce all processes and procedures are finalized, we need to implement the tences is the process of collecting assessments for customers. They have program, so all relevant internal and external stakeholders are aware of a huge database over suppliers and collected assessments which was one the processes and requirements set. Hence, one important element of the of the main reasons for choosing them as they could tap into the database implementation is training for relevant departments and employees. instead of asking all suppliers again. Even with all their experience and knowledge, they still had difficulties in receiving the responses from the The development of our responsible supply chain management program is suppliers, who were asked to document their processes within human a close collaboration between our Global Supply Chain Department, our trafficking and slavery, anti-corruption, and conflict minerals. Quality Department, and our CSR & Compliance Department. We believe that this collaboration is key to ensuring that we can integrate due diligence When evaluating the process, we concluded that we have the needed setup mechanisms and various processes into existing work flows and processes, internally to both reach out and follow-up on collection of assessments, as and thereby render the process more effective and intuitive. 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SDGs Responsible Supply Chain Management represents our commitment to promote decent work and economic growth, ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns, as well as reach peace, justice, and strong institutions formulated in the UN Sustainable Development Goals 8, 12, and 16. OUR AIM Our aim is to be in compliance with requirements and have robust processes in place to manage our supply chain responsibly MAIN ACTIVITIES FY2020/21 Develop a Responsible Supply Chain Management Program including processes and due diligence mechanisms. These will be aligned and integrated into existing supplier processes in close collaboration with among others Quality FY2021/22 Roll-out the Responsible Supply Chain Management Program and supporting processes and initiate internal training and capacity building of the Global Supply Chain and Quality Departments Complete Terma’s Conflict Mineral Reporting Template FY2022/23 Conduct CSR supplier audits Continue conducting supplier due diligence Maintain the processes TARGETS FY2020/21 All required active Terma suppliers have undergone our responsible supply chain management FY2022/23 due diligence process CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 21 Environment Adhering to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 9, Industry, Innovation, Danish environmental authorities are part of the process and support the and Infrastructure, Terma shares the belief that investment in technological plan to continue monitoring the spill closely and stay ready with preventive innovation is a crucial driver to economic growth and development. methods, should the percentage of chromium level increase further. At the same time, we are also aware that growth inevitably takes its toll on Data and transparency planetary well-being. Therefore, as a production company, Terma naturally Environmental transparency is key for understanding our environmental impact holds a vital obligation to measure, disclose, manage, and share environand help reduce overall emissions. Without data and transparency, we mental and climate impacts as well as minimize our environmental and would be unaware of climate change and environmental impacts. climate footprints. By documenting and monitoring Terma’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, Energy we continuously strengthen our capacity for internal policy and actions. During the year, we have extended surveillance of our energy consumption This is the second year we use Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Scope 1, 2, even further by monitoring bi-meters and established an internal work group and 3 to disclose our environmental data. concerning energy optimization covering all locations. Defining and collecting data for Scope 3 is challenging, as we are Another activity this year was looking at optimization of Terma’s facilities dependent on data from our customers and suppliers. However, we believe by inviting external consultants to identify possibilities for improvement that Scope 3 is important as it shows the indirect emissions that incur in our within our three Danish locations Lystrup, Grenaa, and Herlev in collaboration value chain, both upstream and downstream. Therefore, we continuously with Terma’s Head of Facilities Management. Energy efficiency initiatives, strive to strengthen our efforts within Scope 3 reporting, which this year as well as a better working environment, were the main focal points of the has led to reporting on an additional category under scope 3: waste generated assessment. in operations. Energy efficiency audit According to EEC´s directive 2012/27, audits regarding energy efficiency Greenhouse Gas are mandatory for all companies larger than 250 employees. The audit must (GHG) Emissions 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 be conducted every fourth year as a minimum. Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions in During this financial year, Terma´s Danish locations will complete an audit metric tons of CO2 equivalent 332 339 220 which will highlight key areas where energy optimization could be possible. Scope 2 Based on the audit, a prioritization plan will be made with the improvements Energy indirect GHG emissions and investments we will make over the next years. in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 3,064 3,133 3,146 Substitution of hazardous chemicals Scope 3 This year, we continued the process of substituting hazardous chemicals to Other indirect GHG emissions minimize risks on human health and environment as required in the EU legislain metric tons of CO2 equivalent 366 1,480 20,071* tion REACH. We succeeded in removing 7 chemical substances of very high concern, which are subject to authorization under REACH. *The increase in scope 3 compared to the previous years is due to the inclusion of waste in the scope 3 data. Last year, we experienced a leakage of chromate from our treatment bath, which resulted in a spill of liquid to the underground under our treatment facility in Grenaa. Following this incident, we have continued to analyze the groundwaThe key areas where we emit the most CO2 emissions concern our use ter in the area beneath the surface treatment facility on a regular basis. of electricity in our production facilities in Denmark, as well as the waste generated in our production processes. Moreover, our CO2 emissions from Since the incident, analyses have demonstrated a general decrease of business travel activities is also a key contributor. To a great extent, this is chromium levels in all 9 ground water wells. The analyses also show that due to global travel by Terma technicians working to maintain and update reactive compounds in the water and soil nearly a year after the incident our products, i.e. radars. have transformed around 99% of the dangerous hexavalent chromium into non-toxic trivalent chromium. We continuously look at the data and assess if there are any patterns and areas where we can focus our efforts and provide solutions that would Since October 2019, a slight increase of total chromium has been registered minimize our emissions. in some of the monitored wells, most likely caused by higher ground water level during the winter season, but overall the situation is stable due to the mentioned reactive compounds in the soil and groundwater. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT Reporting Channels It is important to regularly take our compliance temperature to strengthen America Board, have access to the reported cases. The Ethics Committee compliance culture and mindset. Therefore, in addition to training, monitoring comprises Terma’s General Counsel, Head of CSR & Compliance, and Terma and internal control, the received cases in the reporting channels enable us North America’s General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. to assess if there are any processes we need to strengthen or any gaps we need to close. Awareness From November to February, we ran an awareness campaign to strengthen all employees in the five topics of our Employee Code of Conduct: AntiCorruption & Business Ethics, Human Rights, Security, Environment, and Global Trade Compliance. It has been a year since Terma launched our two global reporting channels: Ethics Line and Tell us your concerns. Since then, we have witnessed a growing interest in the reporting channels. Therefore, the campaign ended with a feature video that presents each of the reporting channels, their scope, and guidance on when to use these. Reported cases All cases are confidential, regardless of whether the cases are reported to Tell us your concerns Ethics Line or Tell us your concerns. An annual report, limited to the number Terma’s internal reporting channel Tell us your concerns, solely dedicated of reported cases and their topics, is sent to the Boards of Directors and to Terma employees, has received 28 cases during the year. The system is Executive Management. for all concerns, incidents, and issues which do not classify to be reported via Terma’s Ethics Line. Ethics Line During the financial year 2019/20, Terma has received two whistleblower Only the specific investigator and the Head of CSR & Compliance have cases via Ethics Line. Only Terma’s Ethics Committee and the Chairman of access to the reported cases which are treated in a confidential and the Terma A/S Board, and when relevant the Chairman of the Terma North professional manner. Image: ESA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING CHANNELS 23 We value your feedback We welcome any questions or comments you might have to this report and our performance. Please send your feedback to the CSR & Compliance department: Terma A/S Vasekær 12 2730 Herlev You can also send an e-mail to: responsibility@terma.com www.terma.com/csr www.terma.com
