Communication on Progress Report 2019 -2020 Wissol Group Wissol Group is one of the largest business groups in Georgia. With the largest chain of petrol and CNG stations being the leading player in the country's energy sector. The group is represented in the tire, lubricants and car service, real estate, construction and advertising industries as well and is currently engaged in the development of food supermarket chain in Georgia under brand Smart and American Restaurant chains of Wendy’s and Dunkin’. Daughter brands:  Wissol Petroleum Georgia  Wissol Gas  Car and tire service chain Vianor Georgia  Auto Service centers of G Energy  Supermarket Chain Smart  American Restaurant chain Wendy's Georgia  American Restaurant chain Dunkin’  Advertising company Alma  Real Estate and Construction Company MP Development Wissol Group’s Five Core Values: 1. Focus on quality The strategic goal of Wissol is to get established as a brand distinguished with its superior quality petroleum products. Wissol offers the latest European standard fuel and the highest quality services, thus the company strives to create unique “Wissol experience“ for customers. Every employee of Wissol Group is eager to fulfill the promises of “Wissol” brand. Professional approach of Wissol staff provides ability to offer valuable relation to customers. 2. Quest for development Wissol is an innovator in the Georgian petroleum industry. All new products and services for individual or corporate clients in the Georgian oil sector are pioneered by Wissol. Quest for introduction of innovative technologies is every day job inspiration for Wissol employees. 3. Social Responsibility Wissol believes that, wherever it operates Georgian-wide, the company activities should generate economic benefits and opportunities and enhance quality of life of all its stakeholders. 4. Justice Wissol operates its business in a transparent and responsible manner. Wissol Group strongly believes that its activities should be conducted in full respect of the society in which the Group operates. 5. Patriotism Wissol contributes to the economic development of Georgia. The Company is one of the biggest taxpayers and the biggest employer in the country. Besides, Wissol makes considerable investments contributing not only to the Georgian economy but supporting development and promotion of national values, culture and sport. Wissol Group’s CSR Vision We believe that, wherever we operate Georgian-wide, our activities should generate economic benefits and opportunities and enhance quality of life of our stakeholders; that our conduct should have a positive influence; that our relationships should be honest and transparent; and that we should be held accountable for all our actions. Our CSR policy focuses on six areas:  Marketplace and Customers  Employees  Community and Society  Health, Safety and Environmental Performance  Business Partners  Control and Finance Marketplace and Customers o We run businesses applying business code of conduct approved and signed at the auspices of the Association of Petroleum Product Importers and strive to set European standards in our country. o Quality I Trust is the slogan of Wissol Group. Therefore, the most modern quality control technologies are applied at every daughter brand of the Group and we try to consider the right of the customer at every step of our performance. o We have implemented the best practices of corporate governance and transparently run the business processes. o Through Wissol's website, customers are able to receive transparent information of company and contact on hotline. Wissol hotline *1000 works for 24/7 to give customers any necessary information or help. Up to 3000 people call at hot line per year and all of them receive necessary feedback. o Wissol Petroleum Georgia conducts the full cycle of quality control of its products and services. The company operates three labs at its oil terminals and the express lab is the last chain of the quality control system. The quality control department of Smart Supermarket guarantees the consistent quality of products and services offered in the supermarkets through constant quality control procedures and internal laboratories. o Introducing innovative products and service technologies Wissol strives to create unique Wissol experience and offer comfortable and time saving relations to customers while making purchase at Wissol Group daughter companies. o Wissol Quality Control Expert gives advice to physical and corporate clients on recommended fuels for their vehicles that gives them opportunity to decrease their fuel. o At the End of each year, Wissol Group evaluates the year and reports over business developments and social projects implemented by the Group. The purpose of the report is to maintain an active and fully transparent communication with the consumers and wider society. o We have implemented the best practices of corporate governance and transparently run the business processes. In reaching requests of our valuable customers, since 2014 Wissol Group is the exclusive importer of Greek top quality fuel, Euro 5 standard EKO super, EKO premium and EKO diesel. http://www.hellenic-petroleum.gr/online/generic.aspx?mid=30 o Wissol Group strives to reward loyal customers for their loyalty, Accordingly, only in Wissol Oil Station and Smart's supermarket, you can not only earn bonus points, but also buy products with points. o Wissol started to develop self-service stations in Georgia opening first of its kind at Marshal Gelovani Avenue in 2019 and now the company operates two selfservice stations and plans further development of network to allow customers buy fuel with a big discount and experience new service behavior. o Wissol develops E car charging services stations in the country as well. o During Covid 19 Wissol Group has not stopped operations of its brands -Wissol, Smart and adapted its restaurants to delivery services creating cloud kitchens in different parts of the country thus providing necessary products and services to overcome crises. Employees o Wissol Group is one of the largest employer in the country, the company employees more than 5000 people. o Every year Wissol Group allocates millions of GEL for the social benefit packages of its employees. o Wissol Group supports professional development of employees. Therefore, in 2011 the company created Wissol Group Academy, where each employee of Wissol Group has an opportunity to raise qualification, develop new skills and competences and be promoted. o The company gives equal opportunity of promotion to all its employees. o Wissol practices the reward and bonus systems to motivate the staff. o Wissol Group is involved in the employment projects of governmental and nongovernmental organizations and gives job opportunities to socially vulnerable groups. o The company enforces a non-discriminatory policy when hiring its employees, and treats its employees equally irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, or religion. o For the effective internal communications Wissol Group operates intranet and releases electronic and printed corporate newsletters. o Wissol Group tries to involve its staff in company’s social projects and sport activities. o Wissol Group participates in the annual Wings for Life World Run charity sporting event. o Wissol Group employees traditionally participate in annual Tbilisimarathon contributing to solving different social problems addressed by the organizers every year. o The “Employee of the year” nomination dates back to the initial establishment of Wissol Group. Among the evaluation criteria to reveal the winner the company considers not only the ability of the employee to precisely follow responsibilities listed in job description, but their initiatives to generate innovative ideas to support business development or refine working conditions for effective performance. Various queries are used as the main assessment tool. Apart from this status of “The Employee of the year”, employees receive numerous encouraging financial bonuses, diplomas and other gifts (e.g. improved insurance package) to boost their motivation. o Covid 19 was a challenge for Wissol Group as for the whole world and employees were the most vulnerable group to care as most of them could not work from distance and were at a high risk to get infected and constantly under stress due to the new regulations and obstacles enforced by the Government or health case organizations. Therefore, Wissol Group tried to consider all the health care recommendations to prevent its people from Covid 19 and to reduce stress and make them more prepared to take all the necessary prevention efforts Wissol partnered EVEX clinics and their Infectiologist were visiting Wissol Group gas stations and supermarkets to train our staff and provide psychological assistance as well. o Community and Society o Wissol Group undertakes social investments, makes charity and implements community projects for well-being of the society at large. o Wissol Group tightened cooperation with the NGO sector regarding employment of socially vulnerable people and while selection of applicants for existing vacancies the group gives priorities to the people who are most in need to have jobs. o Wendy’s and Dunkin support employment of people with disabilities at its restaurants caring for their career development. o To promote internal tourism, Wissol has launched a campaign with “Travel with Wissol” aimed at developing tourism in Georgia and increasing the popularity places of unknown to many. The campaign is organized by Wissol Group and the Agency of Protected Areas of the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture. As part of the project, 16 video blogs have already been prepared about Georgia's unique biodiversity protected areas. Blogs have over 2 million views on the social network. Blog anchors inform the public of both popular routes and hiking trails and help them discover new destinations. Furthemore, the blogs aimed at raising awareness about safety issues while traveling. o On December 3, 2019, Wissol Group held a Student Employment Forum at Fabrika , with the opportunity of a job and Internship opportunity for young people at Wissol Group's affiliates Wissol, Smart, Wendy's, Dankin and Vianor. Students also had a chance to listen master classes from famous trainer Paata Papava and founders of company and Leading Professionals of Wissol Group shared with students their own career advancement experience and the skills needed. o During Covid 19 most of our businesses has not stopped operations and under the necessary health safety recommendations from international or local Health Authorities provided fuel to people who needed to travel while there was no public transport and food and daily products from supermarkets and American restaurants. Gas Stations and Supermarkets worked regularly as before and Restaurants went on delivery services creating cloud kitchens to have nonstop supply. o To support small businesses that were effected by Covid 19 most like those involved in hospitality industry Wissol started promotional campaign to raise awareness about 10 family hospitality business representatives in different regions of Georgia. The company created story telling campaign providing interesting content about Museum/Winery in Kakheti Numisi, Wine cellar of The Aslanikashvili’s in Lechkhumi, Village Museum Gogolati in Racha, Otia’s Ezo House Museum/Winery in Imereti and others for social media reaching out to thousands of local potential tourists that had no information about them. Besides Wissol allocated 20 outdoor billboards throughout the country to give adverting space to small businesses with no financial resources to plan promotional campaigns during the crises giving them opportunity to be known among local tourists who had no opportunity to travel abroad while pandemic. Georgian National Tourism Administration was the partner of the project and those who were inspired by the stories about the family hospitality businesses have an opportunity to plan a visit through partner local tourism agencies like Georgia Travel Group and Living Roots. o Elderly people are the most at risk while Covid 19. Therefore during the first lockdown in March Wissol and Smart together with volunteers from NGO Megobroba and Tbilisi Mayor’s Office provided food products to 2000 socially vulnerable elderly people during 40 days making the easier living while crises. o In the frames of Wissol and Smart Christmas Charity Campaign we will feed 300 elderly people who cannot leave their houses for food during nearly a month help them overcome the second lockdown feeling the celebration period and that they are not alone. Volunteers from Enkenia and Tkhilis Guli will halp in distribution of lunch boxes to elderly people in the capital city. Health, Safety and Environment o We fully accept our responsibility for the health and safety of our customers, employees and the community in which we operate; therefore, Wissol has put in place Company Health, Safety and Environmental Policy o Wissol service stations are built according to all international safety standards. o From 2007 Wissol offers environmentally friendly Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) at its integrated service stations Georgian-wide. o Storage tanks at Wissol service stations are equipped with filters against oil evaporation and spill. o Oil products are transported by special fleet equipped with separate pipes for each six products available at Wissol and filters against oil evaporation. o All Wissol employees have health insurance. o Pump attendants at Wissol service stations are dressed in nonflammable clothing. o We have never had a case of traumas at work. o Wissol is constantly developing a network of E car charging stations country – wide. o On June 5, each year, Wissol traditionally celebrates International Environment Day and engages in a healthy lifestyle promotion campaign. o On June 5, 2019 World Environment Day Wissol opened fast charging station for e cars at Rest and Service Complex on the highway near Gori. o Covid 19 period is the time when Wissol Group as other businesses and society care about health safety most thus local or international health safety regulations became a Bible for the brands. Business partners We believe in long-term relationships built upon understanding and trust to achieve mutual prosperity. Control and Finance o Wissol operates its business in a responsible manner and does not get engage in any corruption practices. o The company contributes to the economic development of Georgia. o Wissol is one of the biggest taxpayers in the oil sector. o Wissol has transparent financial management and displays its financial highlights audited by independent international auditors on its website as well as through mass media. o No cash payments are practiced. Wissol is engaged in electronic transfers. Contacts Wissol Group Head Office 74B, Chavchavadze Ave. Tbilisi, Georgia Phone: +995322 291 53 15 Fax: +995322 291 56 15 E-mail: office@wissol.ge; pr@wissol.ge
