Sustainability Report 2019 This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken was founded in 1871. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. We have a decentralised way of working with a strong local presence and a long-term approach to our customer relations. Our goal is to have better profitability than the average of peer competitors in our home markets. We mainly achieve this goal by having more satisfied customers and lower costs. Over Handelsbanken More satisfied was founded in 1871 750 branches in our six customers than the sector average in all six of our home markets. home markets.* * According to EPSI Rating/SKI (Swedish Quality Index). Since SKI’s surveys began in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers of the four major Swedish banks: Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. Contents 40 % of managers in the Group 90 % of mutual fund Conversation between the CEO and the Head of Sustainability Sustainability at Handelsbanken The Sustainable Development Goals The Bank’s concept and working 2 4 6 methods 8 are women. volumes are managed Material sustainability topics 10 with enhanced The Bank and its customers 12 sustainability criteria. The Bank’s role in the community 16 Responsible ﬁnancing 26 Responsible investment 29 The Bank as an employer 36 The Bank’s business culture 40 The Bank as an investment 44 Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes 48 In-depth sustainability information 53 Summary of corporate governance 53 Organisational structure for sustainability 54 Handelsbanken and the Sustainable Development Goals 54 Stakeholder dialogue 54 Sustainability risk 56 Key ﬁgures for sustainability 57 Facts: The Bank and its customers 59 Facts: The Bank’s role in the community 59 Facts: Responsible ﬁnancing 62 Facts: Responsible investment 63 Facts: The Bank as an employer 65 Facts: The Bank’s business culture 68 Handelsbanken Facts: The Bank as an investment 69 Global Reporting Initiative indexes 70 arranged green bonds Deﬁnitions and explanations 73 Contact details 75 for SEK 16.3 billion Offprint Auditor’s Report from Handelsbanken’s Annual Report 2019 in 2019. Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com This report is also available in Swedish. About this report The Sustainable This report describes how Handelsbanken works on its most important sustainability topics. The Sustainability Report covers activities and results in 2019. The ﬁrst part of the Development Goals Report follows the structure of Handelsbanken’s work on its material sustainability topics. Supplementary information and data are provided in the part titled In-depth sustainability information. We work with the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable This is Handelsbanken’s 10th Sustainability Report in Development Goals. The following goals are in focus accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting. This report has been prepared in at Handelsbanken. accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and has been reviewed by the Bank’s external main auditors. See the auditor’s report on page 241 of the Annual Report. A comprehensive GRI index can be found on pages 70–72. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Handelsbanken’s statutory sustainability report can be found on pages 43–61 of the Group’s Annual Report. 1 CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE CEO AND THE HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY Look forward and see the opportunities In 2019, we implemented even stricter sustainability criteria for how our mutual funds invest. We also made it possible for people who live in an environmentally certified building to take out a green mortgage at Handelsbanken. These are a couple of examples of achievements we are particularly proud to have implemented in the past year. In 2020, we will strive to become even better, as our customer expectations rise and employee ambition levels continue to grow. “ There is an This is how Handelsbanken’s President and Group This means that, just like other industries, we need to Chief Executive, Carina Åkerström, and Acting Head look at sustainability from several perspectives. But expectation that of Sustainability, Camilla Johansson, view some of one of our most important tasks is also to help our the financial the opportunities and challenges ahead and what customers, as it may not be easy for them to know sector should they mean for Handelsbanken. how to act in a sustainable way. At least that’s how I feel, and I think it’s a feeling I share with a lot of other contribute to Carina: I’ll start with the foundation of our business people. That’s why we’ve developed green loans, not the solutions.” culture, in other words, our long-term approach, taking just for companies, but also for private individuals who responsibility and our local presence. They mean that have invested in climate-smart housing. sustainability has long been a natural part of the Bank’s operations. The fact that we have a long-term Carina: If Handelsbanken can help its customers to approach to all our relationships means, for example, make sustainable choices, then we can beneﬁt both that we can keep a steady course, regardless of the the customer and society. Our customers know that state of the business cycle or the world around us. we always take a long-term approach and have their This gives us a stable foundation on which to build our best interests in mind, so it’s only natural that we also sustainability work. help them in this respect. In addition to mortgages, many customers would like their savings to contribute Camilla: Sustainability is a very broad topic, though to a more sustainable society. This is why we have the main focus today is on the environment and climate. chosen to make the requirements stricter for all our Alongside the climate, the main challenges range from funds, rather than creating individual funds with a human rights and corporate governance to the imporsustainability focus. tance of preventing corruption and money laundering. Camilla: This is the result of determined efforts that led to us implementing a common baseline of sustainability criteria for our funds in 2019. We exclude controversial sectors and aim to ﬁnd companies that work to resolve the sustainability challenges. Not only is this good for sustainability, it also makes ﬁnancial sense, because the winners of the future will be companies with sustainability embedded in their business models. Carina: We’ve made great progress with our savings business, and we are increasingly talking to corporate customers about how we can also help them to be more sustainable. For example, during advisory services for new investments, operational changes or credits where the interest rate is linked to speciﬁc sustainability goals. “ Irrespective of whether we meet our customers at our branches or digitally, we must make it easy for them to make sustainable choices.” 2 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 19 CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE CEO AND THE HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY “ We have chosen to make the requirements stricter for all our funds, rather than creating individual funds with a sustainability focus.” Camilla: The success of our sustainability work also affects our reputation and customer satisfaction levels. Carina: I’m proud of the fact that independent surveys show that the Bank has satisﬁed customers and a good reputation in all our home markets. I hear this when talking to customers – they appreciate personal meetings. As usual, colleagues at our branches are important because they know both the customers and the local market, and can see potential opportunities. Carina: I believe that without international agreements, The fact that we have chosen to retain a widespread it will be difﬁcult to move forward with the major sustainbranch network in all our home markets was also one ability challenges. One important event during the autumn of the reasons we received the award of Sweden’s most was Handelsbanken becoming one of 130 banks to sustainable listed company in banking and ﬁnance. By sign the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB). talking to customers, branches can identify their needs Our endorsement of the PRB is just as natural as our and engage with them in a way that wouldn’t be possible continued support and work with international initiatives if our sustainability work was only run from head ofﬁce. such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda, the United Nations Global Compact Camilla: Our branches are an important part of the and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). community in the towns where they are located, and It is also completely in line with our way of working. they become involved in many different ways. Often it’s a matter of sharing knowledge, such as visiting schools Camilla: The fact that so many banks chose to and talking about day-to-day ﬁnances, but also about become signatories shows that our sector is prepared spreading engagement and getting involved. to take responsibility and be part of the solution to the sustainability challenges. Carina: Looking ahead, I think we’ll see continued focus on the environment and climate, particularly when Carina: Having said this, it is not through grand implementing the Paris Agreement. There is an expecdeclarations and big words that we will drive change. tation that the ﬁnancial sector should contribute to the It is through our products and services that we can solutions. This is why Handelsbanken, together with contribute in the best possible way. This is our sustainour customers, is working for a transition to a climateability promise. Our funds will continue to invest in friendly and circular economy – in other words, an companies that can develop solutions, and we will economy where society’s resources are reused wisely. ﬁnance green projects and buildings. Irrespective of As we have discussed, there are many business opporwhether we meet our customers at our branches or tunities for us here, for example, for our fund managers digitally, we must make it easy for them to make to ﬁnd companies that are the future winners. sustainable choices. My goal is for Handelsbanken to focus on the areas where we really excel and become Camilla: But we must also make sure that we identify, even better – in a sustainable way, of course. analyse and manage the sustainability risks around us. We’ve made good progress with this work, particularly in our asset management. But there is more to be done. We aim to expand our reporting of the climate risks and opportunities in our operations in accordance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure’s recommendations. I’m convinced that we’re in a good starting position. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 3 SUSTAINABILITY AT HANDELSBANKEN Sustainability at Handelsbanken Sustainability is completely integrated into Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and working methods, and encompasses the Group’s operations in all markets. As a bank, we aim to contribute to sustainable development, chiefly through our business operations, and our products and services. Responsible Responsible financing investment Environmental Responsible Responsible Community and climate impact employer purchasing engagement Financial Low risk Long-term Local stability tolerance relationships presence Handelsbanken’s sustainability work can be described as a building with vital foundations such as financial stability, a long-term approach, low risk tolerance, strong local presence and decentralised working methods. Important building blocks are our continuous work on our environmental and climate impact, both directly and indirectly, that we have demands regarding sustainability when buying goods and services, that we take responsibility for our work environment being characterised by respect, and that we engage with the local communities to which our branches belong. Our main impact on sustainability is in our business operations – when we finance our customers’ projects and businesses and are entrusted to invest their assets. The foundation of our sustainability work a burden on society when times get tough. Instead, we Long-term business relations and low risk-taking are can positively contribute by being ﬁnancially stable and cornerstones of Handelsbanken’s business culture. a responsible taxpayer. Consequently, sustainability has long been a natural We always want to be close to the community where part of Handelsbanken’s business operations. Stable we operate, so we believe in a decentralised business ﬁnances are fundamental to the Bank’s sustainability model where the local branch is the hub of the customer efforts. Thanks to our strict approach to risk, over time relationship, based on personal meetings coupled with we have successfully kept our credit losses at a low digital services and solutions. level. Our ﬁnancial strength helps us to avoid becoming 4 H A N D E L S B A N K E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 19 SUSTAINABILITY AT HANDELSBANKEN Our role as a responsible employer is based on our Emissions linked to our own operations must be fundamental belief in the willingness and ability of indireduced over time, in line with the Paris Agreement. viduals to make the right decisions. Managers and Although our direct impact is small, as a provider of employees are together responsible for seeing the ﬁnancial services, we have an important role to play in opportunities in one another’s differences and treating the transition to a sustainable economy. This is why we each other with respect. Gender equality, diversity and must identify both the business opportunities and risks an inclusive corporate culture are therefore part of as well as the main positive and negative environmental Handelsbanken’s core values. consequences of the Bank’s operations, products and services. We must also become more transparent by Business operations that promote sustainability reporting climate-related risks in line with international Handelsbanken’s greatest opportunity to assist and frameworks and emerging standards. We expect that inﬂuence sustainable development is in our business companies with which we have business relations operations – when we ﬁnance our customers’ projects pursue their operations in line with the long-term goals and businesses and are entrusted to manage customof the Paris Agreement, by transitioning to renewable ers’ assets. energy production, for example. When we lend to companies, we factor in the different types of risk that could inﬂuence their repayment Collaborations and initiatives capacity. These include sustainability risk, such as enviIt is important for us to be receptive and open, and to ronmental and climate-related risk, and the company’s adapt to the expectations of our customers, our stance on human rights. Handelsbanken also develops employees, investors and society in general. Through new products, for example, green loans to ﬁnance prodialogue, we are constantly learning and can prioritise jects that promote more sustainable communities. We our sustainability efforts. Individual players cannot also have a responsibility when we lend money to priresolve all the challenges associated with sustainability. vate individuals. We do not want our customers to run Instead, international co-operation, shared responsibilinto ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive debt. This benity and global efforts will be required. eﬁts the customer, Handelsbanken and society at large. Handelsbanken has endorsed the Principles for We have great inﬂuence when we invest the funds Responsible Banking (PRB) which were launched in that our customers have entrusted to us, such as in conjunction with the UN Climate Action Summit in mutual funds. To deliver the best possible return to our September 2019. These are six principles which will customers, it is vital that we invest in companies with increase and highlight the global banking sector’s consustainable business models and avoid companies that tribution to sustainable development and also reinforce have a negative impact on sustainable development. the need for the ﬁnancial sector to be governed in line Sustainable investment is one way for the Bank and our with the Paris Agreement and the 17 Sustainable customers to act responsibly. Development Goals. The climate and the environment The Sustainable Development Goals Climate change is one of the main challenges for our In September 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted society. The effects of global warming impact the world the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It economy, with consequences for companies in many contains 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 sectors. Some will need to make major investments, targets aimed at achieving long-term sustainable ecowhile others are negatively impacted as a result of climate nomic, social and environmental development in order change, stricter climate policies and changed consumer to eradicate extreme poverty, to reduce inequality and demand. The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Develinjustice in the world, and to combat climate change. opment Goals provide a clear direction and objectives for The Sustainable Development Goals are not only a the environment and the climate. In addition, the Paris matter for governments. On the contrary, it is vital that Agreement, signed in 2015, is a global accord for manall parts of society get involved if we are to achieve aging, preventing and counteracting climate change. these goals. Thus, the business community also has a Banking operations in themselves have a relatively crucial role to play in the long-term fulﬁlment of the small direct impact on the environment and climate. goals, as stated in the implementation plan produced Nonetheless, striving to constantly reduce our own by the UN. impact is important – for both our employees and our As a bank, we are an important part of society, with customers. Reducing paper use and cutting back on our strong local presence and the various ways that travel by air and car, instead focusing on solutions for we contribute to the community. Through the Bank’s remote meetings are good ways to reduce our negative operations, we can contribute long term to fulﬁlment of impact. Digital solutions also help us and our customthese goals. ers to reduce our climate footprint. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 5 THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS How we work with the Sustainable Development Goals Handelsbanken’s operations must contribute to fulfilment of the Sustainable Development Goals. We have opted to focus on six goals and their associated targets that can be linked to our operations. Here we present some examples of how we have worked during the year, both through our own operations and through our business relations. 5 GENDER EQUALITY • To spread knowledge of how choices in personal ﬁnances affect eco• Handelsbanken Fonder continuously tracks its investments and nomic equality, Handelsbanken Liv has participated in several episodes engages with companies regarding decent working conditions. The of the EFN podcast ‘Fattig eller rik’ (Poor or rich) which provides tips fund management company received signals that workers’ rights were about personal ﬁnances and the latest news on savings and money. not being respected in a company where we have holdings. We initiThis promotes target 5.B, Promote empowerment of women through ated a dialogue with the company, which responded to the accusations technology. regarding one of the countries where it operates. After this dialogue, we adhere to our analysis that the company works in a structured and • Handelsbanken’s Diversity Council, comprising members from the serious way, showing great respect for workers’ rights in line with target management teams in all the Bank’s home markets, Handelsbanken 8.8, Protect labour rights and promote safe work environments. Capital Markets, Group IT and Group HR, has created a Group-wide guideline for gender equality, diversity and inclusion. This promotes • In Norway, a representative from Handelsbanken participates in the target 5.5, Ensure full participation in leadership and decision-making. sustainability committee of Finance Norway, the Norwegian Banking Association. This committee aims to promote the Banking Associa• Gender equality, diversity and inclusion are necessary for a good work tion’s objective to contribute to the 2030 Agenda and produce a climate. To raise awareness of and foster constructive dialogue about roadmap for green competitiveness in the ﬁnancial sector. how we behave towards one another, a video with associated discussion questions has been produced. The video highlights various • Local branches participate in various initiatives to promote developsituations that may be perceived as victimisation or exclusion and ment towards more sustainable economic growth. For example, has been launched throughout the Group. Handelsbanken Herlev in Denmark is a member of the municipality’s green strategy and transition committee. • A number of workshops, management courses and seminars have been arranged by Handelsbanken Capital Markets together with an • The Bank considers it paramount to promote a secure and safe work external party, in order to work with gender-equality matters related to environment for all employees. During the year, we have launched a the work environment. The conclusions of these initiatives aim to video called ‘Brain balance’ in the Group, showing how together we strengthen our work with gender equality and contribute to target 5.1, can create better conditions for well-being and a good, inclusive work End discrimination against women and girls. environment. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE • Our app service ‘My ﬁnances’ offers our customers a complete over• Handelsbanken’s emerging market funds have holdings in ﬁnancial view of their day-to-day ﬁnances and promotes target 8.2, Diversify, institutions that promote access to ﬁnancial services for small and innovate and upgrade for economic productivity. medium-sized companies. This contributes to target 9.3, Increase access to ﬁnancial services and markets, in particular in developing • Impact investing is an investment strategy that combines returns with countries. social beneﬁts. Financial inclusion and microﬁnance that can help reduce global poverty are included in this strategy and are intended • Handelsbanken funds a professorial chair in accounting at the Stockholm to increase access to ﬁnancial services. A leading asset manager in School of Economics and provides ﬁnancial support to the Swedish impact investing is BlueOrchard, which manages one of the ﬁrst House of Finance (SHoF), a national research centre, the purpose of commercial funds in this area. This fund’s investments provide an which is to boost ﬁnancial research in Sweden and promote a dialogue opportunity for microﬁnance institutions to lend money to people mainly between the private and public sectors. in developing countries. Our evaluation process found that they are thorough in managing their funds, where customers have good potential • In Finland, Handelsbanken offers online advisory services which for returns with a sound risk-return balance. Through BlueOrchard’s together with digital signing of agreements make advisory services and fund, Handelsbanken has invested signiﬁcant amounts in microﬁnance ﬁnancial services more accessible for our customers. during the past few years. 6 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 0 19 The Sustainable Development Goals 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS • Handelsbanken has financed several green loans for multi-family • Handelsbanken contributes to the wider community by paying taxes ­dwellings which promotes target 11.3, Inclusive and sustainable and government fees. This also benefits the work for target 16.6, ­urbanisation. Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions. Handelsbanken’s total taxes and government fees are estimated at almost • Handelsbanken has launched green mortgage loans for private SEK 12 billion for 2019. ­individuals in Sweden. We hope to raise the level of interest in living in environmentally certified housing, and to contribute to more properties • Knowledge is important if we are to be able to combat corruption and improving their energy efficiency over time. In this way, we contribute bribery. 96 per cent of the Bank’s employees and managers have comto target 11.6, Reduce the environmental impact of cities. pleted the annual mandatory training programme on combating money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. This promotes target • Handelsbanken has acted as advisor in drawing up terms and frame16.5, Substantially reduce corruption and bribery and target 16.4, works for sustainable bonds which, in addition to environmental and Combat organised crime and illicit financial and arms flows. energy aspects, include social sustainability. • During the year, there were media reports on how various banks are • The Handelsbanken Tillväxtmarknad Tema fund (Emerging Markets suspected of having been used for money laundering. As a result of Theme) has investments in companies that work to increase access to this, Handelsbanken Fonder contacted a number of banks enquiring affordable housing, thus contributing to target 11.1, Safe and affordable about their procedures and management of money-laundering housing. ­questions. This is a material sustainability topic for the banking sector, which will need to continue investing large resources to prevent this type of crime in order to contribute to target 16.4, Combat organised 13 CLIMATE ACTION crime and illicit financial and arms flows. • Handelsbanken has granted its first green loan for sustainable forest management and its first green loan for renovating old buildings. • We have further developed green loan products to companies that ­produce renewable energy such as wind and solar power. • By excluding investments in companies involved in fossil fuels, Xact Kapitalförvaltning and Handelsbanken Fonder have reduced our negative climate impact. By investing in companies that are moving away from fossil-based to renewable energy production, our actively managed funds have also contributed to target 13.1, Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related disasters. • In 2019, Handelsbanken Liv increased the proportion of funds that exclude fossil fuels from 38 to 86 per cent, thus reducing our negative climate impact. • One of the principal ways of influencing companies is by means of corporate governance. At shareholders’ meetings, Xact Kapitalförvaltning has voted in favour of a number of shareholder proposals calling on companies to adopt quantitative emission targets, thus contributing to target 13.2, Integrate climate change measures into policies and planning. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and the 169 related targets represent the agenda for achieving a sustainable future by 2030. Handelsbanken can contribute to all 17 in the long term, but our operations have the greatest impact on the six goals that are marked. HANDEL SBANK EN | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2 019 7 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Our concept and working methods Our goal is to have better profitability than the average of peer competitors in our home markets through lower costs and more satisfied customers. Our long-term approach and local presence make sustainability a natural part of our core values. As a result, we are a bank that contributes to sustainable development. A long-term approach Long-term business relations, low risk-taking and cost-awareness are fundamental to successful banking operations run in a responsible, sustainable manner that earns customer trust. Our goal is to have better proﬁtability than the average of peer competitors in our home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by having more satisﬁed customers and lower costs than those of competitors. Decentralised working method Our idea of how we should run our bank is based on trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions close to the customer and encourages commitment and opportunities for our employees to make an impact and do an even better job. Organic growth For Handelsbanken to maintain high proﬁtability in the long term, growth is necessary. Handelsbanken is growing mainly because our branches are doing more business – with new customers and with all the customers with whom we have had a relationship for years. We also grow by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. This organic model enables Handelsbanken to achieve growth coupled with low risk and good cost control. Low risk tolerance Handelsbanken’s strict approach to risk means that it deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even if the remuneration is high at the time. This low risk tolerance applies to all areas of the Group and is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term. 8 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2 019 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Satisfied customers Practically all important business decisions are made close to our customers. This contributes to better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. Our customers meet the person who will make the decision, not a messenger. And that provides a sound basis for successful customer meetings – at branches and our other meeting places. Availability, simplicity and care It must be simple to be a customer of Handelsbanken. Our meeting places must be useful and based on our customers’ requirements, regardless of whether the meeting is local at a branch or in a digital channel. That is why we are constantly working to develop and improve our availability and our digital meeting places. Meetings with customers not only entail ﬁnding a simple way to solve their everyday banking needs. We must also provide service that embodies care and focuses on the customer’s needs. The branch is the Bank At Handelsbanken, the local branch always has customer responsibility, regardless of how, where or when the customer contacts the Bank. The business is led by a manager who is responsible for all operations in their branch’s local area of operations. The branches’ independence enables them to have a very strong local presence, leading to long-term customer relationships. Short decision paths make it possible to adapt more quickly to changes in local markets and make the most of new business opportunities. We believe Handelsbanken is improving its digital offering thanks to the local presence the Bank has through its nationwide branch network. Our branches’ excellent knowledge of their customers enables us to identify and prioritise areas that contribute the most value to our customers, and therefore to us. Strong faith in employees In Handelsbanken’s decentralised way of working, our staff have great responsibility and authority to make decisions in all kinds of matters that concern our customers. This high degree of trust is based on a belief in people’s willingness and ability to continuously hone their professional skills and to seek out and overcome new challenges. Our best advice We always give the customer our best advice, without looking at what is the most proﬁtable product for Handelsbanken in the short term. Profitability before volume Employees who meet customers are paid no variable remuneration – neither in the form of bonuses nor commissions – and thus have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer that a particular service or product suits them best. Nor does the Bank have requirements regarding volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success in terms of customer satisfaction, cost-effectiveness and proﬁtability. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 9 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Focus on essentials The Bank and The Bank’s role in Responsible Materiality analysis its customers the community financing Handelsbanken aims to be Material – High availability – Local presence and community – Responsible lending topics – Responsible lending engagement – Responsible financing a sustainable bank with a – Responsible advisory services – Financial sustainability – Sustainable products strong local presence. To – Integrity and confidentiality – The Bank’s social responsibility achieve this, we must listen – The Bank as a taxpayer closely to stakeholders’ – Inform and educate expectations and opinions – Minimise environmental and on our sustainability work. climate impact This is why we actively Read more on page 12. Read more on page 16. Read more on page 26. engage in systematic dialogue with our stakeholders, Why is this For Handelsbanken, the starting The Bank has a strong presence in Handelsbanken’s lending must be to make sure we are getting point is always our individual custhe local community, with nationwide responsible and meet high standmaterial to our priorities right. A comHandelstomers’ needs. We must meet and branch networks in the Bank’s six ards for sound ethical standards. We prehensive materiality banken? preferably exceed expectations on home markets. We aim to contribute support international initiatives and analysis was carried out in quality, availability and service, at the to the local community in the counguidelines that aim to encourage and 2018. It was based on a local branch and in our digital sertries where we operate, such as by facilitate corporate sustainability. In detailed dialogue with our vices. We must consider the customemploying people and paying taxes granting credit, we must evaluate main stakeholder groups, er’s financial circumstances when and government fees. Handelsbanken and assess the customer’s approach granting credit and advise customers is, and will continue to be, a financially to these principles and guidelines. consisting of qualitative inbased on their individual needs, withstable bank. Climate change alters the conditions depth interviews and quanout looking at what is the most profittitative targeted surveys. We aim to be a source of information for everything from energy producable product for the Bank in the short about economics, markets and finance. tion, transport to consumption. The purpose of our materiterm. We must also take responsibilWhen we inform and educate, we proTogether with our customers, ality analysis was to define ity for protecting customers’ banking vide our customers with the best tools Handelsbanken aims to do its part the areas where we have business, such as from unauthorised to make sound economic decisions. in the transition to a greenhousemajor opportunities to conaccess, through rigorous IT security. gas-neutral economy, in line with the That is how we earn trust and a high The Bank’s goal is to minimise our tribute to more sustainable impact on the environment and climate. Paris Agreement. degree of customer satisfaction. development. This materiality analysis is also deemed Outcome – Handelsbanken’s private and – We have 758 local branches. – Handelsbanken arranged green to be of relevance for 2019. 2019 corporate customers are more bonds for SEK 16.3 billion in 2019. The detailed dialogue satisfied than the sector average – We have broadcast more than with our stakeholders also 540,000 hours of financial news from – We have developed technical criFor key figures, in all six home markets. our news channel EFN. A SKI survey teria for green loan products for showed that they consider see pages – Our digital services earn high showed that viewers consider that sustainable forest management that we should prioritise the 57–58. rankings in independent surveys. and existing and refurbished EFN acts in a responsible and sustainability topics that are buildings. – For many years, Handelsbanken socially acceptable way. closely related to our busihas had much lower credit losses – At year-end, Handelsbanken had ness: responsible financing – Stable finances: at year-end, the than its peers in the banking secSEK 7.4 billion in outstanding and responsible investment. Bank had a common equity tier 1 tor. Credit losses corresponded to green loans to customers. ratio of 18.5 per cent, thus exceeding 0.04 per cent (0.04) of lending. the capital requirements set by the Following on from the Swedish Financial Supervisory stakeholder dialogue, we Authority, which the Bank assessed have decided to group our to be 15.8 per cent at the same date. material sustainability topics into seven areas: – Handelsbanken’s total taxes and government fees were almost SEK • the Bank and its customers 12 billion in 2019. The Bank is one of • the Bank’s role in the the largest payers of corporate tax in community Sweden. • responsible financing • responsible investment – Total carbon dioxide emissions in the Bank’s six home markets decreased • the Bank as an employer by 5.0 per cent. • the Bank’s business culture • the Bank as an investment. Sustain– Information security and – Climate. – Human rights, social conditions ability risk IT security. – Environment. and working conditions. – Financial crime. – Climate. Read more – Environment. on page 56. Relevant SDGs 10 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Responsible The Bank as The Bank’s The Bank as investment an employer business culture an investment Material – Responsible investment – Responsible employer – Prevent financial crime – Create shareholder value topics – Sustainable products – Work environment, working – Salaries and remuneration conditions and union rights – Responsible purchasing – Employee commitment – Openness and transparency – Leadership and development – Gender equality and diversity Read more on page 29. Read more on page 36. Read more on page 40. Read more on page 44. Why is this Handelsbanken bears a substantial Handelsbanken’s values and Handelsbanken’s success depends Sustainable long-term growth and material to responsibility in its assignment to strong corporate culture are vital on the trust of our customers and shareholder value can only be Handelsmanage customers’ savings. We aim to to our success. Our concept of society at large. This confidence is achieved if the Bank simultanebanken? generate a healthy return on savings how to run a successful bank is based on us acting according to high ously creates long-term value for its capital while striving to contribute to a based on trust and respect for ethical standards and taking responcustomers and society as a whole. sustainable future. That is why Handelsthe individual – both customers sibility for long-term sustainable develHandelsbanken’s profitability goal is banken works to promote – in its asset and employees. opment. We aim to work proactively partly intended to offer shareholdand pension management – financially, to prevent all criminal activity such as ers long-term, high growth in value, environmentally and socially sustainable money laundering, terrorist financing, expressed in increasing earnings development in the companies in corruption and other financial crime. per share over a business cycle. which the Bank invests on behalf of The Bank’s employees must never be customers. involved in activities that could involve Climate change is one of the bigbribery or corruption. gest challenges facing our modern Climate change is one of the biggest world. Handelsbanken wants to challenges to economic and human No performanceor volume-based promote the transition to climatedevelopment. As an investor, Handelsbonuses or other forms of variable stable, sustainable economies with banken has a key role to play in redirectremuneration are paid to our execulow carbon dioxide emissions. ing capital towards investments with a tive officers or to any other employee smaller carbon footprint. who decides on credits or limits. Outcome – 90 per cent of Handelsbanken’s fund – External staff turnover was – The Bank has continued to – The Bank has paid a dividend to 2019 volume is managed with enhanced 5.0 per cent in the Group. intensify its work on financial crime its shareholders every year for sustainability criteria. This corresponds – The total sickness absence prevention, particularly in the UK. more than 25 years. For key figures, to SEK 576 billion, an increase of 46 In 2019, the cost for work to rate for employees in the – Handelsbanken is included in see pages percentage points. prevent financial crime totalled Bank’s six home markets was several sustainability indexes. 57–58. – Launch of Handelsbanken Hållbar SEK 1.2 billion. 2.7 per cent. – The Bank was included in the Global Obligation (Sustainable Global – The proportion of managers in – The Bank continued to implement Sustainability Yearbook 2020 Bond) fund. The fund selects bonds the Group who are women was a code of conduct for major as a ‘Sustainability Yearbook specially issued to fund improvements 40 per cent at year-end. suppliers in all home markets. Member’. to the environment, climate and poverty. In Sweden, we also began to – Our XACT Norden (Nordic) (UCITS ETF) – In our Group-wide work envi– In the Sustainable Companies demand that suppliers sign our and Handelsbanken Hållbar Global ronment survey, 96 per cent of ranking by the Lund University code of conduct regardless of Obligation (Sustainable Global Bond) participants responded that School of Economics and purchase volume. funds became Nordic Swan Ecolabelled. they feel respected for who Management, Dagens Industri – Xact Kapitalförvaltning has contributed they are. – The principle of having only a fixed and Aktuell Hållbarhet, Handelsto developing a new global sustainable salary applies to 98 per cent of the banken was ranked as the most index series called Solactive ISS ESG Group’s employees and is applied sustainable listed company in Screened Series. without exception to executive the bank and financial sector in – Handelsbanken Fonder appointed officers, all staff who decide on Sweden. women to 65 per cent of the nomination the Bank’s granting of credits, and committees that the fund management employees in the Bank’s control company participated in. functions. – Our fixed income funds invested SEK 22.2 billion in green, sustainable and social bonds. Sustain– Human rights, social conditions and – Human rights, social condi– Financial crime. ability risk working conditions. tions and working conditions. – Climate. Read more – Environment. on page 56. Relevant SDGs H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 11 The Bank and its customers Handelsbanken attaches great importance to being available for our customers – being there whenever they need us. Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, we know them and the local market, and we make our business decisions there, locally together with the customer. Relevant SDGs Meeting our customers and creating the best circumstances possible for them through our business decisions generates many beneﬁts for society as a whole. This contributes to the decent conditions for private enterprise and entrepreneurship in goal 8 and promotes economic growth and development in goal 9. Our work to enable our customers to meet the Bank via digital channels indirectly supports goals 13 and 8, target 8.10, to promote and expand access to bank and insurance services and ﬁnancial services for everyone. THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS The customer in focus Handelsbanken’s branches are where our customers are: where they live and work. We want as many busi“ Sustainability is a natural, integral part of our ness decisions as possible to be taken locally, close to advisory services. Customers react very positively the customer. This enables us to start with the customwhen I tell them how the Bank invests their capital er’s needs and makes it possible to adapt to local in a responsible way. It is important for customers conditions and to react quickly to shifts in the market. to know that the Bank takes its responsibility and When providing advice in conjunction with granting by virtue of our size and strength, we challenge old credit, recommending investments or mediating insurance, the Bank always considers the customer’s entire truths and make demands on other suppliers.” situation and overall ﬁnancial circumstances. This Viktor Ljung, Investment Advisor, Skellefteå. knowledge enables us to guide customers based on their individual requirements in terms of ﬁnancing, payments or investments. We always focus on the customer’s needs and interests – not individual products or services. At Handelsbanken, we do not pay performanceadvice – quite the opposite, in fact. Local presence or volume-based bonuses or other forms of variable combined with digital solutions enables us to always remuneration to the Bank’s management or to any offer personal customer meetings with advisory serother employee who decides on credits or limits. The vices – whether the customer prefers to meet us at the principle of ﬁxed salaries applies to more than 98 per local branch or through digital channels. Our customcent of Group employees. Nor do we have volume or ers can also meet specialists in remote meetings. market share goals. On the customer’s terms Sustainability in advisory meetings Most of our bank branches in Sweden are accessible In 2019, customers’ sustainability preferences became to customers with reduced mobility. Thanks to our a mandatory component of investment advice. Cusnationwide branch network, our customers can visit tomers who consider sustainability to be important, branches adapted to meet their needs. can state which areas within environmental, social or In our digital meeting places, good service means corporate governance topics they consider to be that the Bank strives to provide all customers – even most important, in which case they will be given more those with a physical disability or language difﬁculty, for information about how Handelsbanken’s asset example – with the same opportunities to access informanagement works in the selected areas. mation and services. The available information is easy to read, hear, see and understand whether provided in Personal and digital print, by telephone, online or in videos or meetings. In pace with Handelsbanken’s increased digitalisation, Availability is a cornerstone in all our development as before, we care about human relationships on a perwork. Our efforts are based on internationally recogsonal and local level. The world is going digital, but this nised standards, as well as our own guidelines. does not lessen the need for personal service and good Our membership in the International Association of Country Group head Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER ofﬁce functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working is best depicted by an arrow where all operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the profitability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head office also has Group head office functions with overarching responsibilities for various functions at the Bank. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 13 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS Accessibility Professionals (IAAP) enables us to expand EPSI Rating, which includes the SKI Swedish Quality our knowledge and create even better conditions for Index, carries out independent surveys of customer everyone who visits our digital meeting places. We also satisfaction in the Nordic region and the rest of Europe. see that this membership provides opportunities to This year’s surveys show that Handelsbanken has share our own experience with work for increased more satisﬁed private and corporate customers than accessibility. the average for the banking sector in all six of the Bank’s home markets. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Handelsbanken wants to build a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. “ Most bank customers still look for personal contact All important business decisions should be made as with real people. This is why I believe customers close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better meetings with customers, better decisions and so obviously appreciate Handelsbanken’s idea of more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, the combining digital services with local, personal Bank aims to create the best possible conditions for relations.” successful meetings with customers. If we have the SKI (Swedish Quality Index) 2019. trust of our customers, Handelsbanken becomes their natural choice. In a digitalised world, the ability to achieve a feeling of familiarity is increasingly important, and human relationSatisﬁed customers in all our home markets ships play a critical role in customer satisfaction at Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction very Handelsbanken. Surveys show that the Bank’s digital important and follows up customer satisfaction through services continue to be highly rated and that our cusits own surveys, as well as public ones. Every year, tomers feel they have a personal contact with the Bank. This year’s surveys showed Customer satisfaction, private customers 2019 Customer satisfaction, corporate customers 2019 that Handelsbanken has Index Index more satisfied private and 90 90 corporate customers than the average for the banking 80 80 sector in all six of the Bank’s home markets. 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI 2019. Source: SKI/EPSI 2019. 14 H A N D E L S B A N K E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS Kantar Sifo Prospera’s Private Banking Nordics survey Looking forward for 2019 also ranks Handelsbanken as number one. This is due to Handelsbanken offering advanced adviIn 2020, we will make it possible for customers in Sweden to receive advice in online sory services, asset management and service based meetings. Here the customer will be able to link up from home, making it easier on each customer’s unique requirements. for people who can’t or don’t want to go to a branch to receive advice. There is also Having loyal customers is just as important as having a sustainability aspect, where less travel reduces our environmental impact. satisﬁed customers. In EPSI Rating’s surveys, loyalty is In 2020, customers will also be able to authorise transactions digitally after an a key outcome associated with customer satisfaction. advisory session. This means that the customer can authorise transactions and There is a link between customer satisfaction and agreements in the internet bank or the app after the advisory session is completed. loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects whether customers intend to The same technology will also be used at our branches to reduce paper use. remain with their bank, how they talk about their bank and whether they would recommend their bank to other people. In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s customers are highly satisﬁed, the results for 2019 also show services, has a long-term approach in how it thinks and that they are very loyal. One result of this is that cusacts, and is seen as a good workplace. These are tomers are less dissatisﬁed and less likely to change important factors inﬂuencing the Bank’s reputation in a banks. In all home markets, loyalty to the Bank is sustainability context. Handelsbanken receives higher considerably stronger than the average for the sector. marks than its competitors in these areas. This is also true in markets where Handelsbanken is seen as a major player, which is unique according to Managing customer complaints the surveys. For Handelsbanken, it is important that customers who lodge complaints are satisﬁed with how their comGood reputation plaints are managed. We attach great importance to According to the Kantar Sifo Reputation Index for handling comments and complaints in a manner that 2019, based on public opinion about the most reputainspires trust. The Bank takes this very seriously, and ble companies in Sweden, Handelsbanken surpassed we have well-established procedures for handling such its peer banks. The Bank’s score of 54 is signiﬁcantly matters. The results from the EPSI and SKI surveys better than the sector average. show that the proportion of complaints at HandelsThe survey shows that Handelsbanken is regarded banken, for all home markets combined, is below the as a company that offers relevant products and average for the sector. Information security and IT security It is vital that our customers have conficomplete. It should never be disclosed to dence in the Bank’s digital services. We unauthorised persons and may only be must ensure that the availability and used to the extent required by the assignProcessing of personal data security of these services are constantly ment. It must also be possible to determine Handelsbanken considers the individual’s adapted to meet current threats and risks, afterwards who has read or changed the right to protection of their personal integwhile maintaining a high degree of cusinformation, both in terms of when it was rity and privacy to be vital. We therefore tomer satisfaction. Customer confidence changed and which changes were made. work continuously to ensure that: in our digital services is also dependent The financial industry is a critical part • there are protection measures when on the Bank acting responsibly in its of society’s infrastructure. As financial processing personal data processing of personal data. players speed up their digitalisation of • our collection of personal data is limited In its operations, a bank continuously services, one focus area is to ensure that to what is needed for the services we processes sensitive information about we are highly resilient so that we minioffer customers and customer relationships. mise the impact of malicious attacks. • we do not disclose information without Handelsbanken’s work with information Structured development is under way correct consent and IT security focuses on availability, in the Bank to increase the level of aware• only authorised staff at Handelsbanken accuracy, confidentiality and traceability. ness among employees and customers are allowed access to personal data Information and business systems must concerning the threats and risks in inforwhen required for their work or the be available based on the business mation security, through presentations, transaction. requirements of the operations. All infortraining programmes and information mation must also be reliable, correct and initiatives. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 15 The Bank’s role in the community Stable finances and a local presence make Handelsbanken a responsible institution in society. We contribute to economic development in the community by focusing on our customers’ needs and ensuring that as few customers as possible have payment difficulties. Relevant SDGs We are convinced that a smoothly functioning bank in the local community generates many positive effects, promotes inclusive, long-term sustainable economic growth, and is part of a smoothly functioning and sustainable infrastructure. This relates to goals 8 and 9. Handelsbanken is, and will continue to be, a ﬁnancially stable bank. When we pay taxes and fees and employ staff in the countries where we conduct operations, we are contributing to goal 16, which encourages the building of accountable institutions at all levels. Handelsbanken works continuously to reduce its direct environmental impact, thus contributing to goal 13. THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken in the local community The Bank’s decentralised working methods mean that we have a strong local presence. It is important that we contribute in various ways to the local communities where we operate. Concrete examples of our sustainability efforts are branches’ involvement in various initiatives and activities carried out by local associations and charities. This is often about contributing our ﬁnancial knowledge in school and university courses. For example, our employees in the Netherlands and Denmark participate in Global Money Week with the aim of creating commitment and interaction with students. This is a good way to get students to look at their personal ﬁnances and to translate theory into practice. The branches also help young business owners, offer to act as mentors and support various sports clubs and associations. Many branches get involved in local Handelsbanken works with integration projects. For activities and other initiatives example, in Gothenburg, we collaborate with an organisation called ‘Mitt Liv’ (My Life) to offer internships for Sponsorship and voluntary recently arrived immigrants as part of the mentor proactivities 67% gramme called ‘Mitt Livs Chans’ (Chance of My Life). Sports and culture 18% Funding economic research and education Local business community 4% A total of 821 Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a Children and schools 6% initiatives and activities number of occasions awarded grants for economic driven by branches Gender equality, diversity research, mainly through allocations to two independand integration 1% ent research foundations: Tore Browaldhs stiftelse and Research, universities and Jan Wallanders och Tom Hedelius stiftelse. Together, colleges 1% these foundations are one of the most important Other 3% sources of funding for economic research in Sweden. In collaboration with Copenhagen Business School (CBS), Handelsbanken Denmark is part of a research project called ‘Nordic Finance and the Good Society’. “By teaching children to manage money The aim is to issue a number of publications on the at an early age, the foundation is laid for subject of sustainability and green economy, contribute good financial knowledge as an adult. This to a research-based debate and provide guidance for engagement fits in well with the long-term future legislation. sustainable commitment we have to society.” Diana van Gelder, Handelsbanken the Netherlands. Reducing our environmental and climate impact Handelsbanken’s goal is to minimise our own climate impact decreased by more than 7,000 tonnes. As part of the Bank’s by constantly developing our environmental activities. We efforts for the environment, we purchase carbon offsets for endeavour to achieve this through measures such as a high the CO2 emissions that our operations generate. level of resource efficiency, efficient use of energy in our For more information on the Bank’s work on its environbuildings, recycling and taking environmental impact into mental impact through lending and investment, see Responaccount in purchasing and travel. The Bank’s own CO2 emissible financing on pages 26–28 and Responsible investment sions are to be reduced over time, in line with the Paris on pages 29–35. Agreement. Since 2013, the Bank’s annual CO2 emissions have 18 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Corporate social “A large part of Childhood’s work with preventing responsibility violence against and sexual abuse of children is Handelsbanken works to prevent or limit negative financed by companies such as Handelsbanken. impact on human rights and working conditions in our Thanks to the support of the business community, own operations, in our business relations with suppliers, we can help the children who are most in need, and when investing customers’ funds and lending to regardless of whether they live in Sweden, South companies. Africa or Cambodia.” A bank can make a big difference through social Paula Guillet de Monthoux, Secretary General of responsibility. Financial crises through history have the World Childhood Foundation. shown that if a bank does not act responsibly, not only the bank’s shareholders, but also customers, employees and taxpayers can be adversely affected. Low credit losses Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an unhealthy level of household and corporate debt always hits the As customers increasingly use card and mobile paycustomer hardest. At Handelsbanken, we have a low ments, the Bank’s direct impact on the environment tolerance of risk. The Bank’s strict approach to risk and climate is also reduced. Handelsbanken also sees means that we deliberately refrain from entering into a growing need for new forms of services and offerings high-risk transactions, even if the customer is willing to related to digital payment solutions and contributes to pay a high interest rate. This low risk tolerance applies this development, often in collaboration with others. to all areas of the Group and is made possible by means of a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the The ﬁnancial sector’s role in a sustainable economy long term. The credit loss ratio shows how responsibly In 2019, the European Commission continued its work a bank runs its operations. with an action plan for ﬁnancing sustainable growth. It For many years, Handelsbanken has had much is clear that sustainability is, and will continue to be, lower credit losses than peer banks. Handelsbanken’s one of the EU’s main focus areas. The ﬁnancial sector average credit loss ratio was 0.09 per cent for 2008–2019, will play a key role in the transition to a sustainable as compared to the average of the ﬁve other major economy, which the EU wishes to facilitate by steering banks in the Nordic region: 0.24 per cent. capital ﬂows to sustainable investments, increasing Together, banks must maintain an efﬁcient, functioning awareness of sustainability risks when assessing credits, payment system, as well as manage risk. The payment and promoting openness and transparency. Handelssystems that Handelsbanken and other banks have banken welcomes the Commission’s work and is monideveloped together are technically advanced and are toring developments in order to be well prepared to characterised by a high degree of efﬁciency and security. manage the requirements that will be implemented. Collaboration and commitment to support children’s rights For many years, Handelsbanken has participated in various children. We therefore collaborate with ECPAT as part of our work collaborations to promote the rights of children, a commitment with social sustainability. This enables us to take responsibility in that reflects the Bank’s principles and the importance of this an area where we can have an influence in our daily operations. issue. This is also in line with our work with the Sustainable We also consider it important to have discussions and Development Goals. Goal 16, Peace, justice and strong participate in exchange of information about children’s rights. institutions, includes a target about protecting children and For this reason, since 2013, Handelsbanken has taken part in eliminating all forms of violence against children. Global Child Forum, a non-profit foundation. The Forum brings The collaboration with the World Childhood Foundation, a together leaders from business, government, academia and civil foundation which works against violence and sexual abuse of society to collaborate on this same theme. children, started in 2010. Childhood was founded 20 years ago, which we have drawn attention to through communications to our employees and at local and regional customer events. It is also important that we are aware how our products and services can be misused in this area. We wish to prevent and obstruct this so that we combat crime and exploitation of H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 19 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY TV channel EFN shares financial knowledge At Handelsbanken, we work to create the best possible EFN for schools conditions for our customers to make better ﬁnancial In 2019, the economy channel, EFN, launched a new decisions. We know that customers who understand collection of information for schools on its website and are aware of their ﬁnancial situation are more satis(Skolornas EFN). It contains instructive broadcasts that ﬁed customers. This is why we want to be a source can be used free of charge in their teaching, ranging from of information for matters great and small. We give how to draw up a budget to how the global economy personal advice at our branches, answer questions functions. through social media, and via EFN we offer daily updates and a broader perspective on ﬁnancial and EFN engages and activates social issues. In 2019, EFN saw increased interest from the public, EFN.se is an independent source of journalism that, with 26 per cent more unique visitors than in 2018. In since 2013, has been broadcasting programmes in 2019, EFN boosted its coverage of sustainability with three areas: ﬁnancial news, personal ﬁnance and ﬁnannew programmes and content about local, sustainable cial markets. EFN AB is a subsidiary of Handelsbanken. enterprise. At the end of 2019, they started collaborating with media tech company Newstag which links EFN is where our customers are global news stories with the Sustainable Development Since 2017, EFN has covered the Swedish economy Goals. Newstag allocates ﬁve per cent of its turnover nationwide through its local editorial teams in Umeå, to charitable purposes, and viewers decide how the Gävle, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Its goal is money will be distributed to a network of non-proﬁt to cover the entire Swedish economy and business organisations. community. Monitoring and being a part of the local economy and business community comes naturally to Handelsbanken. Through this initiative, Handelsbanken can generate interest and engagement in the local community and can help boost awareness of local economic issues. Engagement in the local community Rhea Feminina is a network for women started finances, and also to inspire them to take conby staff at our Uppsala City branch. The intentrol of their lives and careers. Although many tion is to boost women’s financial confidence women have a higher level of education, we through network meetings and social media. often see that they are overshadowed by men,” says Elin. The network was started in spring 2018, when Smaller events were also arranged during the some colleagues were discussing the Facebook year, focusing on a specific area such as savings groups created by women in order to teach or family law, where the participants are given each other more about personal finances and concrete tips or can ask questions. These family law. are held by advisors or speakers from within “Although we have a lot of knowledge and the Bank, and are intended to build trust and experience of these subjects, we saw that the relationships. Bank’s voice was lacking in the groups,” says Contact with members of the network is via business advisor, Elin Fornbrandt, initiator and social media such as Facebook, LinkedIn and project manager of the network. Handelsbanken’s website. Elin and her colRhea Feminina arranges two large events leagues survey how satisfied participants are each year where around 70 women, both existwith the meetings, while also learning more ing and potential customers, meet at the branch about the Bank’s customers and their needs. to listen to external and internal speakers. “I hope that Rhea Feminina will become a “We want women to feel that they have conconcept that acts as inspiration for all the Bank’s Elin Fornbrandt, trol of and an understanding for their own branches,” says Elin. Business Advisor, Uppsala City * Rhea is the name of a Greek goddess and is the symbol on Stadshypotek’s logo. Stadshypotek is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Handelsbanken and one of Sweden’s leading mortgage institutions. 20 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Looking forward In 2019, Handelsbanken signed the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), where we undertake that the Paris Agreement, the Sustainable Development Goals and national guidelines for sustainability will be reflected in our governance and business strategy. Together with our stakeholders, we will identify areas where we have major impact and will set public goals for the Bank’s operations within the framework of the PRB. Involvement in the global community Handelsbanken Finland collaborates with the One of the better known events held by the netWomen’s Bank, a Finnish network of volunteers work is called ‘Walk a Profession for a Woman’. which supports women’s entrepreneurship in This walking and exercise event takes place in developing countries, and gives women the several locations in Finland and other European chance to become financially independent. countries. The application fee supports women’s Providing opportunities for women means education and independent entrepreneurship. providing opportunities for families, villages By improving the livelihood of women, the prosand an entire people. perity of the whole family will improve including their diet, living conditions and their children’s “We are happy to be able to contribute to the education. Women’s Bank’s operations in these countries. The funds raised are managed by Finn Church Having access to microloans enables the women Aid (FCA), and are used for developing women’s to start their own small businesses, which makes entrepreneurship, and for professional training them more financially independent,” says Outi and business education in Asia and Africa. Parviainen of the Keski-Uusimaa branch. Among “The collaboration with the Women’s Bank is other things, the branch organised an investor one way we are able to help women in developing meeting where representatives from the Women’s countries. By being visible and proactive in this Bank were invited to speak. collaboration, we aim to increase awareness of The collaboration was initiated in 2016 and is Handelsbanken’s sustainability efforts,” says Outi. part of Handelsbanken’s sustainability efforts – to be proactive in our social responsibility and to “Since it was initiated in 2007, the Women’s Bank’s contribute to sustainable development. Branches network of volunteers has raised close to EUR 16 Outi Parviainen, throughout the country help to raise funds at million to aid women in developing countries”. Deputy Branch Manager, various events. Source: The Women’s Bank. Keski-Uusimaa H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 21 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Economic value creation – our value chain THE FOUNDATION OF A BANK’S OPERATIONS authorities’ established capital requirements is to The raw material in a bank is money. The money comes ensure that banks are sufﬁciently resistant to the risks from the capital that initially consists of the share capital arising in their operations, and also to protect customthat the owners pay in when a bank is founded, but ers’ assets and interests. At year-end, Handelsbanken’s also from proﬁts generated over time and other fundcommon equity tier 1 capital requirement was 18.5 per ing. The funding consists of deposits and borrowing cent. The Bank estimates that the Swedish Financial from the public and money that the bank borrows in the Supervisory Authority’s expected common equity tier 1 capital markets. In the same way as a manufacturer’s capital requirement at that time was 15.8 per cent. process for its raw materials is relevant from a sustainFrom the customer’s viewpoint, it is particularly ability perspective, important factors to consider for a important that the bank has resources available in bank include how that bank manages its capital and times of ﬁnancial turbulence. If a bank makes substanhow it works with funding. tial losses, its shareholders may have to contribute more share capital through a new share issue, which Capital may be difﬁcult in such circumstances. A bank that One condition for customers depositing their money does not meet its customers’ expectations risks an with Handelsbanken is that they have conﬁdence in us. outﬂow of deposits when the crisis is at its peak. If the If a bank wants to meet customers’ future loan requireoutﬂow is large, the bank’s survival could be jeopardments and be able to do more business, it must have ised. Outﬂows of savings that customers have invested sufﬁcient capital for its current business volume and in mutual funds, insurance and other types of saving enough capital to continue to grow. Handelsbanken’s not used for the operations’ own funding are not as capital planning aims to ensure that the Group has the grave. Nevertheless, they can signiﬁcantly harm the right amount of ﬁnancial resources available at all times bank’s earnings capacity, perhaps leading to problems. and that the capital is of optimal composition. The Bank’s capital goal is that its common equity tier 1 ratio Long-term, stable ﬁnancing should, under normal circumstances, exceed the comFor a large part of deposits, customers can withdraw mon equity tier 1 capital requirement communicated to money from their account at any time. But much bank the Bank by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authorlending has a long maturity – mortgage loans, for ity by 1–3 percentage points. The purpose of the public example. Funding long-term lending with short-term deposits creates liquidity risks which may cause serious problems in the ﬁnancial system. So it is not prudent to fund all lending with deposits. Handelsbanken’s approach to funding is based on a well-structured balance sheet in which long-term loans to the Bank’s customers are ﬁnanced with stable funding. For this reason, mortgage loans are ﬁnanced by covered bonds of long maturity issued by Handelsbanken’s wholly owned mortgage institution, Stadshypotek. By always maintaining a balance sheet structured to safeguard our commitments to customers and investors, CounterRating LongShortparty risk at 31 December 2019 term term assessment Standard & Poor’s AAA-1+ AAFitch AA F1+ Moody’s Aa2 P-1 Aa1 DBRS AA (low) 22 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken acts responsibly in its role as a major player in the ﬁnancial system. It is vital that banks have Distribution of economic value a solid long-term funding strategy so they avoid running short of liquidity, a situation in which they might not be 50 able to fulﬁl their undertakings to customers with money on deposit and to other providers of funding. 40 Salaries 9.3 VITAL THAT A BANK MAKES A PROFIT Allocation to profit-sharing It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does the 30 scheme 0 proﬁt generate tax revenue for the community and a Social security costs 5.1 return for shareholders, but a large proportion of the 20 Suppliers 8.2 proﬁt is reinvested in the operations. This means the Corporate tax, net (current tax bank can grow and meet customers’ future needs, and deferred tax) 4.9 such as for loans. 10 Fees resolution fund, etc. 2.2 Since 1973, in every year but four, Handelsbanken SEK bn has allocated part of the Bank’s proﬁts to the employeeDividend 10.7 owned proﬁt-sharing foundation, Oktogonen. An 0 Reinvested economic value 0.9 allocation is made following the Board’s overall assessment of the Bank’s performance, one condition -10 being that the Bank achieves its corporate goal. Each 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employee receives an equal part of the allocated The preliminary allocation to the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation made in 2018 and amount. The Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation is reversed in the first quarter of 2019 is not shown in the above diagram. described in more detail on page 67. VALUE CREATION IN 2019 In 2019, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes and means that the Bank’s customers do not pay VAT on government fees was SEK 28.7 billion in 2019. This ﬁnancial services. For 2019, Handelsbanken’s total created value was distributed as follows: SEK 11.8 taxes and government fees are estimated at almost billion in taxes and government fees, SEK 10.9 billion SEK 12 billion. In addition to the taxes relating to the in proposed dividends, to be paid to the shareholders Bank’s own operations, the Bank reports and pays in the spring of 2020. The remaining amount is reinsubstantial amounts to the tax authorities in the counvested in our operations. tries where it operates, on behalf of its customers and employees. HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER For Handelsbanken, tax is an important sustainability STABLE THROUGH FINANCIAL CRISES topic. We contribute to the community in the countries During the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken where the Bank operates, by paying taxes and governdid not use either the Swedish government’s capital ment fees, and by paying taxes to local tax authorities support or guarantee programme. Nor did Handelson behalf of employees and customers. banken require capital support in any other country The section on taxes in the Bank’s policy for suswhere the Bank operates. Handelsbanken is the only tainability is one of the starting points for work with listed Swedish bank that did not need to ask its sharetax-related matters in the Bank. The Bank also has holders for fresh capital during the ﬁnancial crisis. guidelines for managing taxes that describe HandelsA well-run bank that acts sustainably and responsibanken’s co-ordinated management, governance bly has a major, positive impact on the economy in and follow-up of tax-related matters. general. This refers to direct economic effects, such as We maintain an open dialogue with the tax authoricorporate tax paid, as well as indirect effects. ties in the countries where we operate. Handelsbanken did not receive any advance rulings in tax matters in DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE 2019. Handelsbanken also complies with the OECD During the most recent business cycle, Handelsbanken Transfer Pricing Guidelines. In the UK, Handelsbanken paid dividends to our shareholders every year, while has adopted the code of conduct for banks issued remaining one of the largest payers of corporate tax in by HM Revenue & Customs, the UK tax authority. Sweden. Handelsbanken also complies with the tax authority’s guidelines for a public tax strategy. INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS For many years, Handelsbanken has been one of the Through our lending to companies in our six home largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. In addition markets, Handelsbanken helps ﬁnance growth and to corporate tax, Handelsbanken also pays substantial increased employment. Handelsbanken is the largest amounts in social security contributions and other player in terms of lending to companies in Sweden. By taxes. One signiﬁcant expense for Handelsbanken is enabling households to ﬁnance home purchases, the value-added tax (VAT), because the Bank cannot Bank helps them move to locations with better employrecover all input VAT paid when buying external prodment prospects, for example. The Handelsbanken ucts and services. This is an effect of the fact that a Group ﬁnances more than a ﬁfth of households’ large part of our business is not subject to VAT, which mortgage loans in Sweden. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 23 Responsible & financing The Bank’s main opportunity to contribute to sustainable development is via our business in the form of credits, investments and the services we provide. Relevant SDGs Handelsbanken’s main contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals are indirect, through our financial services and products. Lending and financing, such as green loans, contribute to Goals 11 and 13. In the management of asset and pension management, our products are clearly linked to several of the Sustainable Development Goals, such as 5, 8, 9, 11, 13 and 16. Responsible investment RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Responsible financing For us, sustainability means acting responsibly and with a long-term perspective in areas where the Bank can make a difference. One of our greatest opportunities to make a difference is through responsible financing and lending. Responsible standards. Handelsbanken respects human rights, lending fundamental principles of working conditions and environmental and climate considerations, and supports Lending to households and companies makes up a anti-corruption measures regardless of where in the substantial part of Handelsbanken’s operations. The world the Bank operates. The Bank supports internaBank considers it paramount that lending is based on tional initiatives and guidelines with a shared aim to an assessment of the individual customer’s repayment encourage and facilitate corporate sustainability. In our capacity, which means that the Bank does not grant lending, we must therefore assess and evaluate each credit to customers who cannot repay their loans. customer’s stance on these principles and guidelines. Weak repayment capacity can never be justiﬁed by This may result in the Bank declining credit to comarguments that the customer is prepared to pay a high panies that do not apply these principles. When interest rate or can offer the Bank satisfactory collatassessing creditworthiness, we include factors such as eral. Our approach protects the individual customer how environmental risks affect the customer’s repayfrom running into ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive ment capacity. Such risks might include the customer debt. This beneﬁts the Bank, the customer and society being unable to sell its product or the risk that more at large. stringent environmental regulations on the customer’s manufacturing process might jeopardise the compaPRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT ny’s repayment capacity. The branch responsible for Sustainability aspects are vital to the Bank’s credit polthe customer assesses the credit risk. The branch thus icy. The policy states that the Bank’s lending must be also assesses how factors such as environmental risks responsible and meet high demands for sound ethical or the customer’s approach to human rights will affect 26 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Sustainability overview The sustainability overview is a sector initiative developed in the Swedish Bankers’ Association to provide insight into how banks take sustainability into account when lending to companies. The sustainability overview can be found at handelsbanken.com/ sustainability. its repayment capacity. All this is part of the business A structured working method evaluation, the Bank’s method for assessing a business If a company shows deﬁciencies in its sustainability relationship with a customer. management, sustainability risks may arise for the Looking forward The business evaluation is an effective method for Bank when granting credit. Consequently, sustainabilIn 2020, we will launch a green branches to identify and assess risks. It also provides a ity risk must be taken into account and documented in energy loan for private individufoundation and documentation for other areas in the all credit decisions relating to companies. Sustainability als to buy solar cells and geoBank when evaluating credit risk, and in monitoring that is also integrated in the credit process in a structured thermal heating solutions. We branches factor sustainability criteria into credit risk way. To understand whether a company may be, or are also working on developing assessments. already is, exposed to sustainability risk, our employees green car leasing for companies. To make our approach to sustainability in the credit also need support. There are therefore a number of process clear and more transparent, we have updated tools, including an analysis of sustainability risk procedures for assessing sustainability risk when grantproduced by an external party. Procedures are also ing credits to companies. continuously updated to enhance our employees’ knowledge and understanding. The Green loan for buildings In Täby Park, one of Stockholm’s most intenHandelsbanken’s goal to counteract climate sive city transformations is taking place where change and support sustainable cities and a previous horse-racing track is being transcommunities, the Bank offers green loans for formed into a sustainable pedestrian and environmentally certified buildings and also cycle city. The Nor project is first out and is for solar energy. financed by Handelsbanken via a Green loan For projects to be financed in this way, they for buildings. must fulfil technical criteria that have been developed and adopted to ensure that the “We are delighted to be able to offer the branch’s environment and climate are taken into first green construction credit in conjunction consideration. A common feature is that all with development of this new area where buildings must be certified in accordance with sustainability and ecology are natural parts,” certain systems and levels, such as the Nordic says Johan Grahn, Branch Manager in Täby Swan Ecolabelled Nor project in Täby Park. Centrum. “We are very pleased to see increasing interGreen financing began in the capital markets est in this type of green product from both conand has spread to other types of financing such sumers and housing developers,” says Johan. Johan Grahn, as mortgage loans. For example, as part of Branch Manager, Täby Centrum H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 27 RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Green financing Green bonds Sustainability-linked credits The Nordic market for green bonds continued to Handelsbanken can also offer its corporate customers expand, corresponding to just over SEK 228 billion at credits where the interest rate is linked to selected susyear-end, a growth ﬁgure of almost 119 per cent. New tainability goals. These need not be speciﬁc environnon-ﬁnancial issuers represented the strongest growth, mental goals; the borrower can instead use the credit with an increase of 207 per cent. As in the previous to boost its sustainability work based on speciﬁc goals year, the number of new ﬁnancial borrowers also grew and challenges and its own circumstances. Together in the market, which gave a strong boost to total with the customer, Handelsbanken selects quantiﬁable market growth during the year. sustainability goals and if these are fulﬁlled, the interest Handelsbanken is active in the ﬁeld of advisory serrate margin on the loan is reduced. If the borrower does vices regarding green bonds and has been involved in not fulﬁl the goal, the interest rate margin is instead developing many of the green ﬁnancing frameworks for increased. Nordic issuers. Recent developments include adaptaCommon features of green loans and sustainabilitytion to the EU’s proposal for common deﬁnitions of linked loans are that they focus on customers’ sustaingreen activities, known as a taxonomy. The Bank puts ability work looking forward. Green and sustainabilitygreat emphasis on analysing and guiding our customlinked loans also give the company the opportunity to ers regarding these proposals. We also work to create communicate regarding their sustainability work and a discussion on these topics in our marketing and may lower the company’s ﬁnancial costs. communication with customers. Green loans Since 2017, Handelsbanken has offered green loans for projects and investments that promote a more “In 2019, we continued to see increasing interest from sustainable society, for example, ﬁnancing renewable our customers in green financing, as well as a diaenergy, waste management, sustainable forest manlogue regarding their sustainability work and also agement, green transport, and energy-efﬁcient and ours. This dialogue deepens the Bank’s relationships environmentally smart buildings. These areas are crucial parts of a transition in line with the Paris Agreement, with customers and increases our understanding of where a renewable energy system and reduced climate their operations and challenges. Handelsbanken’s impact from the construction and property sector will goal has been to highlight green financing and make be vital. To ensure that the environment and climate are it available to a wider market. So we are very pleased taken into consideration when a green loan is used for to see that in an increasing number of sectors, both ﬁnancing, we have developed technical criteria that large corporates and SMEs are becoming aware of must be satisﬁed by all green loan products. the advantages of green financing.” Catharina Belfrage Sahlstrand, Head of Sustainable Business Development of green loans Development at Handelsbanken Debt Capital Markets. In 2019, Handelsbanken granted its ﬁrst green loan for sustainable forest management and the ﬁrst green loan for existing and refurbished buildings. Green loans for these buildings are intended to reward renovation and increased energy efﬁciency in existing buildings. This leads to substantial climate gains since so much of a building’s climate impact following construction is the result of energy consumption. Green loans amounted In October 2019, two of Handelsbanken’s Green Loan for Buildings to SEK 7.4 billion in 2019. borrowers won the prestigious ‘Green Building Awards 2019’ for the Environmental Building of the Year and the BREEAM Building of the Year. The Green mortgage loan prize is awarded by Sweden Green Building Council to people and projects that At the end of 2019, green mortgage loans were also have shown the best examples of sustainable building in Sweden during the past launched for private customers in Sweden. These loans year. The Environmental Building of the Year was won by Riksbyggen Brf Viva are offered to customers whose building meets the as one of Sweden’s most sustainable housing co-operative associations with the requirements for the A or B energy classes. At yearcitation: “With a strong desire to try new, innovative ideas, Riksbyggen Brf Viva has end, 227 green mortgage loans had been granted, for shown the way for the housing of the future.” The BREEAM Building of the Year a total amount of SEK 602 million. Handelsbanken prize was won by Fabege’s commercial building, Signalen 3, with the following hopes that green mortgage loans will help raise the citation: “Signalen 3 is a project like any other, and yet it isn’t. It is a good example level of interest in living in energy-efﬁcient or environwhere one plus one equals three, when high sustainability demands from the conmentally certiﬁed housing, and that more properties will tractor meet demands from the customer, together creating something even better.” improve their energy efﬁciency over time. 28 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Responsible investment Responsible investment is a central part of our business, and an area where Handelsbanken has a major opportunity to influence the transition to a sustainable society. All our asset management is based on international norms and conventions relating to the climate, environment, human rights, corruption and working conditions. We have also committed to comply with a number of voluntary frameworks, such as the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). CONSTANT CHANGE TO MEET THE CHALLENGES Enhanced sustainability criteria Mutual funds with enhanced As one of leading asset managers in the Nordic region, Handelsbanken has the largest amount of assets mansustainability criteria – proportion of Handelsbanken’s total fund with SEK 639 billion in fund volume under management, aged in sustainable funds in Europe according to the volume it is important that we take responsibility for what we mutual fund research company, Morningstar.* Of our invest in, and that, in addition to ﬁnancial criteria, we total range of 126 mutual funds, we offer 82 funds with % of fund volume 100 integrate environmental, social and corporate governenhanced sustainability criteria. At year-end, total 90% ance matters into our investment processes. assets managed in these funds were SEK 576 billion, 80 Sustainable asset management is in a state of con46 percentage points more than the previous year. 60 stant change – new management methods are being In 2019, we implemented enhanced sustainability 44% developed, new questions arise in the ﬁeld of sustainacriteria for the majority of our funds. This means that 40 29% 32% ble enterprise, and transparency and monitoring the funds exclude controversial sectors whose prod20 17% 12% requirements increase. We need to continuously ucts and services negatively impact our climate and our develop our operations, not just to meet the expectaenvironment, and which we therefore consider to be 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tions of products and services that our customers incompatible with our role as a responsible investor. seek, but also to meet the challenges that, for example, The funds also exclude companies deemed to be in climate change entails. breach of international norms and conventions regarding, for example, the climate, environment, human rights, corruption and working conditions. Our funds already excluded companies involved in banned weapons, nuclear weapons and coal mining. Sectors we exclude** We do not invest in banned weapons, nuclear weapons or coal. Our mutual funds with enhanced sustainability criteria also exclude the following controversial sectors that risk counteracting the Sustainable Development Goals. Fossil fuels Weapons and Tobacco Alcohol, cannabis and (oil, gas and coal) military equipment We exclude investments in commercial gambling We exclude investments in We exclude investments in tobacco since there are We exclude investments in these these sectors since fossil fuels weapons and military equipincreased sustainability risks in sectors since they have negative account for a high proportion of ment since these industries the whole value chain, and this health effects at the individual carbon dioxide emissions. To have links to conflicts and wars sector causes major health level and lead to increased use of counteract the effects of climate around the world, causing problems. By excluding investresources for society as a result of change, fossil fuels must be major suffering which often hits ments in this sector, we avoid misuse. By excluding companies phased out and be replaced by the poorest people. By not negative impact on Goal 3, in these sectors, we limit the negenvironmentallyfriendly investing in these sectors, we Good health and well-being ative impact of our investments sources of energy. By excluding avoid counteracting Goal 16, and Goal 8, Decent work and on Goal 3, Good health and wellcompanies with operations in Peace, justice and strong economic growth. being. fossil fuels, we limit the negative institutions. climate impact of our investments and thus do not counteract Goal 13, Climate action.*** * According to Morningstar in December 2019. ** According to the Swedish Investment Fund Association’s definition of exclusion, no more than five per cent of turnover in the company where the investment is made may derive from operations related to such products or services. *** For our actively managed mutual funds, the principle of excluding fossil fuels can be waived for a temporary period, if the company fulfils our criteria for qualification as a company in transition. Read more on page 63. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 29 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Investments for the future A way of measuring our contribution Handelsbanken Fonder actively seeks companies “ Our mutual funds must invest in companies that whose operations contribute to achieving the Sustainaenable a fossil-free future and our decision to ble Development Goals. The fund management cominclude companies in transition is an important pany has therefore developed an analysis model called step forward towards this goal.” Sustainable Development Goals Exposure Model. Karin Askelöf, Head of Sustainability at Based on the 169 targets in the Sustainable DevelopHandelsbanken Asset Management. ment Goals, the model analyses each company’s products, services and markets where the company operates. The result shows how much of the revenue comes from solutions for the relevant target. These are then added together and lead to a result for the whole fund. Nordic Swan Ecolabelled mutual funds The Nordic Swan Ecolabel is an ofﬁcial ecolabel in the Companies in transition Nordic countries intended to guide consumers to good For our actively managed mutual funds, the analysis is environmental choices. An ecolabelled mutual funds decisive in terms of the choice of company, and we are means that 25 mandatory requirements regarding continuously seeking out companies whose products inclusion, exclusion, engagement and transparency must and services contribute to achieving the climate goals. be fulﬁlled. Apart from excluding certain controversial One part of our work with speeding up the transition to sectors, it is also possible to include companies in a more climate-neutral society is to enable our actively transition in the area of energy production. The Swan managed funds to invest in companies that are in the Ecolabel deems it likely that companies in transition process of restructuring their operations to become will have a major impact in the transition to renewable more sustainable, known as companies in transition. energy. This means that we can invest in companies that are In 2019, our XACT Norden (Nordic) and Hållbar active in driving the transition to a world with low Global Obligation (Sustainable Global Bond) funds carbon dioxide emissions. One example could be a received this ecolabel. This means that we offer four company making the transition from fossil fuel energy Nordic Swan Ecolabelled funds: Handelsbanken production to renewable. One of our requirements for Hållbar Energi (Sustainable Energy), XACT Sverige this type of investment is that the company is transi(Sweden), XACT Norden (Nordic) and Handelsbanken tioning at least as fast as required for the Paris Hållbar Global Obligation (Sustainable Global Bond). Agreement to be achieved. Read more about our Read more about Nordic Swan Ecolabelled funds at requirements on page 63. svanen.se/en/funds/save-in-funds. N N N N SWA ECO SWA ECO SWA ECO SWA ECO C C C C Examples of investing in companies in transition NOR DI LA NOR DI LA NOR DI LA NOR DI LA BEL BEL BEL BEL Handelsbanken Fonder has invested in a European power company which is a world leader in offshore Fund Fund Fund Fund wind power. It is one of the ﬁrst power companies to 3101 0010 3101 0021 3101 0024 3101 0032 start the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, and it has clear goals to continue reducing its Development of indexes greenhouse gas emissions. By 2023, the company Our index management focuses on investing in indexes aims to have reduced its emissions intensity from that reﬂect our value base. This is why we actively work energy production by 96 per cent compared with 2006. for more indexes with sustainability criteria to be available on the market. One example of this work is Solactive ISS ESG Screened Index Series, a series of global and Swedish indexes launched in 2019, which Handelsbanken’s mutual funds were the ﬁrst to invest in. More information about sustainability in mutual funds Hållbarhetsprofilen (The ESG Profile) provides more information about how each fund works with sustainability and how you can select a fund based on sustainability criteria. The funds’ annual reports provide more information about the sustainability work for each individual fund. Here you find examples of companies we have included in a fund and how we have taken account of sustainability aspects in the specific investment choice. We also provide examples of dialogues conducted with companies. We also report the carbon footprint for the majority of our funds. Read more at handelsbanken.com/responsible-investments. 30 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT INCLUSION, EXCLUSION AND ENGAGEMENT Dialogues We apply three methods for integrating sustainability We carry on proactive dialogues aimed at encouraging Engagement through dialogue into the investment processes: inclusion, exclusion and companies to improve their sustainability activities, and engagement. In day-to-day operations, these methods dialogues with companies that we feel do not comply may take different paths, depending on whether the with the international norms and conventions we are activity is choosing individual companies to invest in, committed to. choosing an index or choosing mutual funds to include We pursue the engagement process on our own Total: in fund portfolios or insurance or pension offerings. The through direct contact with companies, as well as in 563 dialogues choice of asset class and management focus may also collaboration with other investors. We also participate inﬂuence the approach. in collaborations and industry initiatives related to the environment and climate together with other asset owners, often in international collaborations such as Climate Action 100+ and PRI. In 2019, one focus area was identifying and managing environmental and Environmental issues 45% We integrate sustainability in our investment processes climate-related risks. Social issues 22% by including companies, indexes or funds that in various ways contribute to more sustainable development. Corporate governance 5% Examples of targeted engagement dialogues Overlapping areas of China is the country with the highest carbon dioxide sustainability 28% emissions in the world. Heavy base industries such as cement, steel and paper represent a large part of the We exclude businesses which in various ways counemissions. In autumn 2019, dialogues were therefore teract the goals in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable started with three companies held by our Asia mutual Development and which are incompatible with our role funds. We want to ensure that they manage their climateas a responsible investor. related risks and have a strategy in place for reducing their emissions in line with the Paris Agreement. At the ﬁrst stage, we wish to see increased transparency regarding the companies’ carbon dioxide emissions A key part of our role as a responsible investor is and quantiﬁable targets for reduction of these. engaging with the companies we invest in by encouraging or requiring them to improve their sustainability Corporate governance work. Our role as shareholder means that we can inﬂuence the operations of a company through corporate governance. Active engagement This mainly takes the form of representation on nominaWe take our responsibility as an investor by exercising tion committees and voting at shareholders’ meetings. In the role of owner and engaging with the companies we 2019, we voted in favour of several shareholder proposals invest in. We do this by means of dialogues and corpoon sustainability, for example, better climate reporting rate governance. and analysis based on the two-degree target. Working for equality Handelsbanken Fonder is an active owner. By people with broad experience, ranging from participating in nomination committees, we corporate governance and sustainability in increase the opportunity of affecting the board asset management to board and nomination composition in the companies the fund mancommittee work. agement company invests in. “More than half of them are women, which we are convinced is an important factor if we Ahead of annual general meetings in 2019, are to achieve our equality goals,” says MagdaHandelsbanken Fonder participated in the work lena, who, in her capacity of corporate governof 34 nomination committees. The fund manageance officer, selects the most suitable candidate ment company has appointed women to two for the respective nomination committee. thirds of these to help make the committees more Identifying the skills required on the board of equal, which leads to more gender-equal boards. a company, based on the company’s needs, “Research shows that more equal companies involves a great deal of work. perform better. This often starts with the com“The best board is the one with the correct pany having a gender-equal board which then technical and personal skills. The focus is ensures that the management and whole comusually on their technical skills, while the pany works actively with these questions,” says importance of personal characteristics is quite Magdalena Wahlqvist Alveskog, Chief Execuoften underestimated. Increased gender equaltive of Handelsbanken Fonder. ity and diversity are effective methods that Magdalena Wahlqvist She has been involved in building up a nomicreate a more diversified decision basis in the Alveskog, Chief Executive nation committee group comprising some 15 board discussions,” says Magdalena. of Handelsbanken Fonder H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 31 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT THE CLIMATE IN FOCUS Unless global warming is limited, climate change will have serious The carbon footprint of our mutual funds consequences for our ecosystems, food supply and access to fresh To better understand the climate risks that exist, we measure the water. The impact is already affecting the global economy to an carbon footprint of the majority of our mutual funds twice a year. This increasing extent. If the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit global warming gives us more information about the companies’ environmental and to well below two degrees Celsius is to be fulﬁlled, assets must be climate risks and increased understanding of how the composition redirected to investments that support sustainable development. We of a fund affects its carbon footprint. do this by excluding sectors with major negative climate impact, such as companies in the fossil fuel industry, and by investing in companies Opportunities whose operations promote solutions to global climate challenges. We believe that there are excellent opportunities to identify investments in innovative business models that focus on replacing the products Climate reporting and services that give rise to climate change. Investments in new Handelsbanken Fonder, Xact Kapitalförvaltning and Handelsbanken technical solutions and companies involved in solving the transition Liv publish climate reports in accordance with the Task Force on risks faced by society as a whole create sustainable value and provide Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. opportunities for healthy returns. One example is our Nordic Swan The purpose of the reports is to inform stakeholders about our work Ecolabelled fund, Handelsbanken Hållbar Energi (Handelsbanken related to climate change, our exposure to climate-related risks and Sustainable Energy). The fund invests in companies that develop or use opportunities, and our continued work in this area. These reports are technologies and techniques to limit global warming by directly or indiintended to contribute to increased transparency. rectly limiting emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. HUMAN RIGHTS IN FOCUS Respect for human rights is essential to long-term value creation at Opportunities Handelsbanken. Structured work to safeguard human rights and In 2019, for example, we engaged with two companies on matters good working conditions should be a natural part of operations and of related to human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples. In one of Handelsbanken’s business relations, with a constant striving for the cases, this was a follow-up of a site visit. Our assessment is that improvements in this area. the company manages these matters well, but we are encouraging Handelsbanken aims to avoid causing or contributing to negative them to be more transparent about their management of them. In the impact on human rights in its own operations, and to rectify such second case, we initiated a dialogue following signals of potential impact if it arises. Handelsbanken supports international initiatives problems in the company’s value chain relating to respect for the aimed at boosting global efforts to promote sustainable development. rights of indigenous peoples. We have therefore made a site visit to With regard to human rights and working conditions, the following ﬁnd out how the company needs to develop its sustainability work. As principles and conventions can be mentioned in particular: the one of few foreign investors, we have the opportunity to inﬂuence the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the company in a positive direction. So far, the company has answered UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. our questions satisfactorily. The periodic screening of all mutual funds holdings includes human rights. Handling of incidents concerning human rights affects the companies included as well as those excluded. They also give rise to engagement through dialogue or inﬂuence voting at shareholders’ meetings. WATER IN FOCUS The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report, published in Opportunities September 2019, shows how greenhouse gas emissions affect the Handelsbanken Fonder invests in a leading company in the ﬁeld of world’s seas, ice, snow and permafrost. Shrinking glaciers and rising desalination of sea water which delivers technology to the Caribbean sea levels have an impact on the food supply, access to clean water, and South America. We have also invested large amounts in the infrastructure, and people’s health and living conditions. The report Sustainable Water & Waste mutual funds, managed by Fidelity. This showed the need for rapid, ambitious, co-ordinated and sustainable fund has a clear focus on companies which identify business opportuaction. Clean water and sanitation for the earth’s population is one of nities somewhere in the value chain of access to water and waste the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and one of the most acute management. These investments enable us to contribute to solving global problems, affecting over 40 per cent of the earth’s population problems within water and waste management. today. 32 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT GENDER EQUALITY IN FOCUS Gender equality is about fundamental human rights and can generate Opportunities major beneﬁts for human development, economic growth and busiWe have special monitoring of the level of equality on the boards ness. A better gender balance and increased gender equality improve nominated to shareholders’ meetings. Examples of this are that ahead the probability of a positive impact on companies’ ﬁnancial results. of two shareholders’ meetings in the spring, where only men were We are convinced that increased gender equality promotes a positive nominated to the boards, we contacted the companies and presented performance for companies, and therefore work actively to integrate our view of the proposed board only being composed of men. The equality in our investment operations. As an investor, we have an companies listened to us and wrote in the minutes of the meeting that opportunity and also a responsibility to engage in the question of investors had demanded increased gender equality on the company gender equality in the companies we own. For many years, we have board. worked in a structured way with the question of gender equality in our strategies for corporate governance. Asset management Handelsbanken also conducts asset management activities in the UK Handelsbanken’s Swedish mutual fund operations are pursued in two through its subsidiary Heartwood Investment Management, and in the separate subsidiaries. Our actively managed funds are offered by Netherlands through its subsidiary Optimix. Handelsbanken Fonder AB, while Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB offers our index funds, other rules-based funds and the exchange-traded XACT Pensions and insurance funds. In this report, we refer to these two companies when we describe Through its subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv, Handelsbanken offers pension asset management, unless otherwise stated. solutions and other insurance solutions for private and corporate customers. As of 1 April 2020, pending the consent of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the funds that currently belong to Xact Kapitalförvaltning will be managed by Handelsbanken Fonder. Analysing opportunities and risks Companies increasingly need to monitor and ranging from carbon dioxide emissions to waste manage sustainability-related risks and opporper sales unit and the proportion of women tunities in order to remain profitable over the in management positions. The data are then long term. Accordingly, Handelsbanken intecompiled in a database that is available to grates sustainability into its equity and credit customers. research offering for the professional investors “Our approach is not about setting a separate that are the Bank’s institutional customers. sustainability rating or labelling companies as good or evil. Instead, we analyse how sustain“As ever more companies integrate sustainabilability aspects affect a company’s business and ity in their day-to-day operations, we find it we identify investment opportunities where natural to integrate it into our day-to-day sustainability could be a business driver,” says research,” says Josefin Johansson, SustainabilJosefin. ity Analyst at Handelsbanken. In 2019, Handelsbanken expanded its susHandelsbanken publishes standardised sustainability research with a number of extensive tainability analyses for most of the 200+ listed reports, mainly company-specific, where the Nordic companies in its coverage. These analyBank integrates and evaluates the sustainabilses include an overview of the companies’ ity aspects of various investments. work as well as relevant risks and opportunities “This means that we can also contribute to regarding environmental, social and governtarget 13.3 of the Sustainable Development ance issues. Goals from an investor perspective, in this case Josefin Johansson, Sustainability The Bank also collects annual sustainability to improve knowledge and capacity to respond Analyst at Handelsbanken data and key figures for these companies, to climate change,” concludes Josefin. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 33 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Sustainable mutual funds in pensions and insurance Handelsbanken Liv offers mutual funds in insurance • exclude investments in companies with extensive that have been evaluated on the basis of sustainability operations in production and/or distribution linked to criteria at both fund level and fund management extraction of fossil fuels. The principle of excluding company level. This means that we include funds in our fossil fuels can be suspended for companies that are range that take account of ﬁnancial, social and environinvolved in power generation and are in the process mental sustainability in their asset management. of transitioning their operations from energy production based on fossil fuels to renewable sources. Process for fund evaluation Handelsbanken Liv already avoids investing in compaEach fund management company is evaluated using nies with signiﬁcant operations within mining of coal for qualitative analysis, covering areas such as organisacombustion or in power companies that use coal for tion, asset management team and investment combustion as a major source of energy. methodology. To qualify for selection, a fund manageWe also ask for the carbon footprint of the funds to ment company or a fund must also meet a number of be reported and sustainability proﬁles to be drawn up. quantitative ﬁnancial criteria and sustainability criteria. Sustainability-screened range of mutual funds Fundamental sustainability criteria The proportion of funds in unit-linked insurance in Handelsbanken Liv selects fund management compaSweden that exclude fossil fuels increased from around nies for its range of funds that integrate sustainability 38 per cent in 2018, to some 86 per cent in 2019. in their asset management according to the following In the past few years, the work of raising sustainabilcriteria: ity performance has resulted in the exclusion of funds • support PRI that do not meet our criteria, while funds that have • have adopted policies and/or principles for systembeen included have a good sustainability rating. The atic sustainability work range of funds has been expanded with several funds • exclude investments in companies that are involved with an environmental and climate focus, for example, in manufacture or distribution of banned weapons Handelsbanken Hållbar Global Obligation (Sustainable and nuclear weapons. Global Bond). How important is sustainability to you in your pension savings? Stricter criteria with focus on the environment Climate efforts at our fund providers and climate In 2019, we sent a survey to our fund providers with In 2019, stricter fund selection criteria were implethe purpose of investigating their climate work and mented for fossil fuels to ensure that the managed reporting. The survey revealed that six of eight fund assets are directed to investments that contribute to a providers have estimated the risk in their portfolios carbon-neutral society. The criteria will be implemented based on a two-degree scenario, and that ﬁve of eight in 2020 with a ﬁxed adaptation period. fund providers state that they take account of climate Handelsbanken Liv will thus include in its range fund risks in their portfolio management and have started management companies and funds that: reporting climate-related information in accordance • take account of environmental and climate change in with the TCFD recommendations. their operations and actively work towards a transition in line with the Paris Agreement Increased interest from customers and consumers Very important 32% • systematically work with reducing their negative More and more people are seeking to make sustainaFairly important 51% environmental impact and contribute to transparent ble, conscious choices for their pension savings. Not very important 9% reporting A survey of Handelsbanken Liv’s private customers in August and September 2019 showed that pension Hardly important at all 1% savers were highly committed to this. Doubtful, don’t know 7% Process for fund evaluation at Handelsbanken Liv Demand and Qualitative and Sustainability and Fund selection Handelsbanken Liv’s market intelligence quantitative control ESG analysis committee analyses Chief Executive and prepares makes the decision decisions 34 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Responsible asset “ We believe that companies that help to solve management services global sustainability challenges through their products and services have good potential in the and sustainable savings stock market, and this is one reason why we have products a sustainability profile for our equity portfolio, Aktieportföljen.” Sustainability-adapted equity portfolio Peter Engstedt, Equity Strategist, Handelsbanken Based on Handelsbanken Capital Markets’ equity and Asset Management. strategy research, the Bank composes its equity portfolio: Aktieportföljen. The portfolio comprises between 12 and 15 shares, mainly industry-speciﬁc favourite shares, and is directed at the Bank’s private customers. ﬁnancing, responsible investment and responsible adviThe equity portfolio was given a sustainability proﬁle at sory services. Customers at Private Banking have high the beginning of 2019 and is now managed in accordexpectations of Bank’s sustainability work, and it is ance with our enhanced sustainability criteria. This important that our advisors have both the knowledge means that the portfolio excludes investments in a and trust to discuss this. In Norway, for example, we number of controversial sectors and excludes compahave trained Private Banking advisors both on the subnies deemed to be in breach of international norms ject of the Bank’s sustainability work and also about the and conventions regarding, for example, the climate, challenges faced by society. One conﬁrmation of the environment, human rights, corruption and working success of this work is that Kantar Sifo Prospera’s 2019 conditions. The starting point is the optional UN initiaPrivate Banking survey in Norway ranked Handelstive Global Compact’s 10 principles. banken in top place in the sustainability category. Sustainability in our discretionary management Capital-protected products In 2019, enhanced sustainability criteria were also In 2019, Handelsbanken issued seven capitalintroduced for our discretionary management, where protected products based on the 17 Sustainable the day-to-day management, including the investment Development Goals. The investments track indexes decisions, has been transferred from the customer to that are exposed to companies that, through their Handelsbanken. behaviour and their products, contribute to the Goals. The capital-protected products target companies with Sustainability in Private Banking sustainable business models, thus increasing the Handelsbanken’s Private Banking offer is based on the long-term growth potential while reducing the risk in Bank’s decentralised work method with responsible the investment. Looking forward Handelsbanken Fonder must continue to focus on the climate quesHandelsbanken’s UK subsidiary for asset manageHandelsbanken conducts asset management in tion. We will continue developing ment, Heartwood Investment Management, launched the Netherlands via its subsidiary, Optimix. They the analysis of the financial impact four sustainable funds in 2019. The aim is to make sussee a growing number of customers who wish to of climate change on our portfolios tainable investments available to everyone, regardless contribute to sustainable development through and how our choice of investments of the size of their portfolio or risk tolerance. Heartwood their savings. Products are therefore offered where affects the climate. We aim to make sees a growing demand for sustainable investments, Optimix’s active allocation is combined with suseven more investment decisions particularly from customers with smaller portfolios, and tainable investment products. Two themed equity regarding companies that pursue it expects this trend to continue. baskets are at the heart of the portfolio. The basIn addition to ﬁnancial goals, the funds have two their development in line with the kets contain companies selected on the basis of sustainability goals. Firstly, to encourage companies climate goals of the Paris Agreement. their contributions to the UN Sustainable Developto improve their work with environmental, social and A major point of focus is the EU ment Goals with a focus on goals 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 corporate governance matters (ESG) and secondly action plan on sustainable finance and 13. The equity investments are supplemented to make investments that contribute to the UN Sustainwhere we monitor and engage with sustainable equity funds and green and social able Development Goals. in development of the affected bonds. The basis of Heartwood’s sustainable funds is the regulations. belief that investments can generate sustainable returns Index management will intefor customers, while improving the environment and grate more sustainability aspects in society as a whole without higher costs or increased the indexes. We also aim to reinrisk. Simply expressed, the funds aim to have a positive force and expand our engagement impact and a positive return. work. Handelsbanken Liv aims to implement stricter sustainability criteria in its range of mutual funds for insurance relating to the environment and climate. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 35 Relevant SDGs Handelsbanken must be a company where everyone, regardless of gender, can contribute their knowledge and ability on equal terms and have opportunities to develop their leadership skills at all decision levels, goal 5, target 5.5. As an employer, we must also promote a safe and secure work environment for all our employees, goal 8, target 8.8. The Nacka and Värmdö branches in Sweden THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER The Bank as an employer Handelsbanken’s values and strong corporate culture are vital to our success. Our concept of how to run a successful bank is based on trust and respect for the individual – both customers and employees. The Bank’s decentralised way of working creates commitment and opportunities for every employee to make an impact on the Bank’s operations. AN ATTRACTIVE, LONG-TERM EMPLOYER Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about relationWe act in accordance with the Bank’s corporate ships with other people. It does not matter how good culture and values on a daily basis the products or services are if the Bank does not have the most suitable staff. When we recruit new employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s core values Yes, definitely 63% and want to take a large amount of personal responsiYes, more or less 34% bility and make their own decisions, people who strive Not really 3% to put the customer ﬁrst. The goal is for employees to Definitely not 0% reﬂect the markets in which we operate – with different backgrounds, skills, and work experience as well as different ways of thinking and solving problems. CULTURAL AMBASSADORS I feel respected for who I am Employees have the opportunity to develop in different professional roles, to work in different areas of the Bank and also in different countries where the Bank operates. Internal recruitment helps us share our working methods Yes, definitely 69% and strengthen our culture throughout the operations. Yes, more or less 27% When employees develop, the Bank develops. Not really 3% Handelsbanken continues to have low external staff Definitely not 1% turnover: 5.0 per cent in the Group and 3.7 per cent in Sweden. One condition for this is a healthy, inclusive work environment where each employee’s potential is The Wheel – the relationship between made the most of and everyone is able to develop in the operations and the employees their tasks based on their ability and personal circumstances. A structured approach to management succession Business plan planning is crucial to satisfying the current and future process demand for managers. One of the most important tasks for managers at the Bank is to identify, Business planning encourage and develop new managers. To prepare Salary prospective managers, development programmes are dialogue PLUS carried out that focus on change management and review CUSTOMER developing our business model. Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture. Most managers are therefore Individual Action recruited internally. In 2019, 92 per cent of all managfollow-up planning ers in the Group were recruited internally. For Sweden, the corresponding ﬁgure was 97 per cent. Handelsbanken has a Student Programme which aims to support the Bank’s management succession The Wheel illustrates the relationship between the operaplanning and competency planning and to promote tions and the employee’s development. Managers and employees work together to create their own unit’s business gender equality and diversity. As part of this proplan each year. After the plan is set, planning dialogues gramme, each student works at the Bank during their and performance reviews (PLUS reviews) are carried out, years of study, takes relevant professional developlinking the business plan with each employee’s goals. As a result, every employee has an individual action plan that is ment courses and learns about the Bank’s culture. followed up regularly during the year and forms the basis Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships and of the annual salary dialogue review between employee co-operation with unions are a valuable component of and manager. the Bank’s culture. There is an ongoing, close dialogue H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 37 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER between employee representatives and managers. As a forum for information and discussions about the “ The Student Programme’s annual summer school Bank’s operations in Europe, there is a European has given me the opportunity to make contact Works Council, with representatives from executive and network with colleagues all over the country. management and employee representatives from the We shared experiences, got to know each other countries where the Bank operates. and ourselves. I was prouder than ever when I got CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT back to the branch; I have never been more Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from the comHandelsbanken.” bined expertise of our employees. We believe that Arjan Mostafa, student and Customer Advisor, Borås. collaboration and everyday learning lead to development. There is an established structure for developing staff and our operations, with the customer and their business as the starting point. One aspect of this is that a number of health factors which are founded on all employees take part in their unit’s business planning the Bank’s values. An ongoing dialogue between process. Once this process is complete, individual managers and their employees makes it possible to planning dialogues and performance reviews are condetect early signs of poor health and to ensure the ducted, resulting in personalised action plans with both work situation is sustainable in the long run. long-term and short-term goals and activities. Together with their employees and trade union Employees must have the necessary skills to provide representative or employee representative, each our customers with the best advice possible, based on manager is responsible for performing regular work the individual customers’ speciﬁc needs, while comenvironment surveys, based on our health factors. plying with all applicable policies and regulations. A Each work group discusses the survey results and new platform for learning and competency developformulates an annual plan of activities to improve and ment has been launched in the Group. The platform maintain a positive, respectful and inclusive work facilitates the work of clarifying the competency environment. The activities are integrated in the busirequirements in the various professional roles, the ness plan and followed up continually. requirement of competency development and the Every country and department regularly monitors the range of activities for competency development. It is systematic work environment efforts in a joint health also important that those who work at branches have and safety forum comprising employer and employee natural links to, and good knowledge of, the town and representatives. Examples of topics followed up are local market. the result of work environment surveys at aggregated level, sickness absence and reported work environHEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT ment incidents. Handelsbanken keeps a steady focus on issues conIn 2019, a video called ‘Brain balance’ was launched cerning employees’ health and work environment. Our in the Group. Its purpose is to understand how the overall goal for health and the work environment is that brain functions and what you can do to retain and employees should be able to feel good, develop and develop good health and reduce the risk of stressperform at optimal capacity. The efforts are based on related ill-health. The video also presents practical tools for how we together can create a brain-friendly Looking forward and inclusive work environment. In the year ahead, new GroupOperations in Norway initiated a health activity in wide training material on susHealth and the work environment 2019 to encourage and inspire all employees to tainability will be developed. Its at Handelsbanken become physically active. In Finland, an annual activity purpose is to boost skills on is held to promote well-being, with the focus in 2019 on how we work in this area, so mindfulness, diet and physical activity. In Denmark, all employees can provide inforTrust Respect branch managers and work environment representamation to our customers and tives have completed a course on the theme of other stakeholders. personal effectiveness and time-planning in order to Operations in the NetherPride Balance boost the feeling of being in control and thus reduce lands will carry out genderFeel good experience of stress. In Sweden, a course on risk and equality training for managers, Develop misuse related to alcohol, drugs and gambling was Optimal capacity together with an external party. launched for all employees and managers. In order to increase awareness Competence Communication about information security, a Health and Leisure Group-wide course will be The Bank in Sweden has a sports and leisure associaPhysical work Security tion with 4,665 members, which celebrated its 100th launched. environment anniversary in 2019. Denmark and Finland have similar Operations in the UK will associations. In Sweden, there is also an art association form a health forum, led by a Handelsbanken’s overall goals for health and the work with two sections: an art section with 3,532 members representative of the UK environment is that employees should feel good, develop and a crafts and design section with 2,603 members. management team. The purand perform at optimal capacity. Our efforts for the work pose is to plan, co-ordinate and It celebrated its 75th anniversary during the year. environment focus on several health factors that are collectively the prerequisites for a positive, respectful and Handelsbanken’s Historical Association, whose aim is evaluate local health promotion inclusive work environment. to spread knowledge about and preserve the Bank’s activities. cultural heritage, has 1,167 members. 38 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY The promotion of gender equality and diversity is part of our core values and must be a natural and integral part of our daily work. We aim to have an inclusive work environment, where we respect each other and beneﬁt from our different backgrounds, competencies and experiences. We also wish to create and maintain an even gender balance within different professional roles, working groups and units. Within the Group, various initiatives are carried out to increase awareness of how social and cultural norms affect attitudes and behaviours in everyday life. The joint leadership course for new managers includes a session on unconscious bias. Gender equality and diversity are also included in all local leadership development activities in the home markets. In Sweden, training programmes on gender and gender equality are conducted periodically for members of management teams, HR specialists and union To encourage discussion about how we behave towards one another, a video representatives. has been produced in the Group, showing situations that can be perceived as In Denmark and the UK, mentor programmes are victimisation or exclusion. Here two employees talk about their experiences offered to encourage more women to choose the manand what they do to create a good, respectful and inclusive work environment. agement track. Equal pay The Bank is working systematically to ensure equal pay and to rectify unwarranted pay differentials between “I saw the video at a course for new women and men. In Sweden, this work has advanced managers at the Bank. When we started for several years in co-operation with the union organidiscussions, we realised that some of the sations, to become an integral part of ordinary business situations felt familiar. Even if it isn’t intenoperations. The Bank and the union organisations work tional, it’s easy for someone to be left out of together to safeguard the results achieved and to a joint discussion or not to appreciate a joke, closely monitor trends in gender-equal pay within the and this can give a feeling of exclusion.” Bank. Managers at the Bank have a mandate and the tools to correct any differentials that are discovered. How do you work with these questions? Päivi Huuki, Each year, all salaries are mapped by the Bank to act “Our values affect our work environment. Deputy Head of Development, on any differentials that have arisen. Finland I’m proud of where I work, and that we respect INCLUSIVE CULTURE and trust each other at the Bank. It makes it Handelsbanken has a transparent and explicit zeromuch easier to hold discussions in my workplace tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment, about how we can best show each other respect.” sexual harassment and victimisation. Our guidelines and procedures clearly deﬁne the responsibilities for investigating and handling such incidents. If an employee suspects some form of internal fraud or other irregularity, the Bank has an established whistleblowing system in which the employee can “Sometimes customers ask me about the make an anonymous report. Bank’s view of diversity. Of course, it’s an We are each other’s work environment, and how important question for us. I’m convinced we interact with one another in the course of our dayto-day work forms our culture. All employees are that when we employees of the Bank come responsible for contributing to a good, inclusive work from different backgrounds, we can better environment. It is important that we carry on a dialogue, understand each other and our customers that we feel safe in one another’s company, and that and thus create trust and good relationwe are prepared to speak up if something feels wrong. ships. This in turn leads to more business.” With the purpose of raising awareness of and fosterNahir Oussi, ing constructive dialogue about how we behave What can you do at your workplace? Branch Manager, Marievik towards one another, a video has been produced with “I think it’s a good idea to have this perspective associated discussion questions. The video highlights in mind when recruiting. Diversity in the workplace promotes creativity various situations that may be perceived as victimisaand new approaches. This includes ethnic background, age and gender. tion or exclusion and has been launched throughout the Group. We need to talk more about our values and what we represent, so that we can together create a good work environment.” H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 39 The Bank’s business culture Trust and respect for the individual and always taking a long-term approach are core values in our business culture. These values are timeless, which makes it possible for us to adapt and develop in pace with changes in the world around us. Relevant SDGs We see our efforts to prevent money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing as fundamental to secure and sound banking operations and thus as contributing to goal 16, target 16.4. The Bank’s employees must never participate in activities that could involve bribery or corruption, target 16.5. THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Business ethics at Handelsbanken The values managed by Handelsbanken are extensive, high ethical standards, comply with laws and regulaand it is vital that we manage them properly. We have tions, treat customers with respect, counteract constrict demands on good administrative order in the ﬂicts of interest, deal with reports from employees Bank. By doing things the right way the ﬁrst time, we regarding irregularities and preserve conﬁdentiality. reduce the risk and cost of correcting things later. Of The Bank’s policy for ethical standards is supplecourse, a prerequisite for ensuring good administrative mented with Group-wide guidelines for HR matters order is that our employees follow the regulations and that also deal with ethical matters. Together with the legislation that govern the Bank’s operations, and we sustainability policy, these three documents comprise must have reliable work processes and monitoring. Handelsbanken’s internal code of conduct. Banking operations are regulated and governed by extensive laws and regulations. Handelsbanken also Guideline for managing taxes has its own policies and guidelines that govern our way In addition to its policy for sustainability, which includes of working. These also apply to our service providers. a section on taxes that serves as a starting point for the For example, Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted Bank’s work with tax-related matters, Handelsbanken several Group-wide policies on ethical standards, also has guidelines for managing taxes. anti-corruption and sustainability. The Bank’s Group The Bank’s actions regarding tax-related matters Chief Executive has also issued guidelines that further must be responsible and transparent and comply with clarify the Bank’s approach in various areas. These prevailing laws and regulations, and high ethical standdocuments spell out the basic guidelines for every ards must always be observed. Handelsbanken must employee. never participate in transactions or provide products or services that may be called into question in the light of Policy for sustainability prevailing tax legislation. A summary of the guideline for Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability was adopted managing taxes is available on the Bank’s website, by the Bank’s Board in 2016. The policy sets the directogether with the Group’s policies for sustainability and tion for the Group’s sustainability activities, in terms of ethical standards. Handelsbanken’s approach to material topics relating to customers, the Group’s actions as an employer and institution in society, and also the relationship with owners and investors. The policy covers the environment, human rights and working conditions, anti-corruption, money laundering and taxes. Handelsbanken aims to “ The Bank is one of the largest payers of integrate ﬁnancial, social and environmental sustaincorporate tax in Sweden. As part of our work ability into all its business operations. with taxes, ethical standards and sustainability, within our mutual fund and lending Policy for ethical standards The Bank’s success depends on the conﬁdence of operations, we also work to influence customers, employees, owners, public authorities companies and customers to manage their and other stakeholders that the Group is acting in a taxes in an ethical and sustainable way.” responsible manner. Handelsbanken’s policy for ethical Magnus Skaaden, Head of Group Tax, standards was adopted by the Central Board of the Handelsbanken. Bank in 2015 and states that the Bank must observe Our core values Our core values mean that we: • trust and respect the individual – • take responsibility for our own both customers and employees development • focus on the customer’s needs – • have high ethical and moral standards not individual products • have a high level of ambition regarding • encourage independent decisiongood administrative order making • work together towards common goals • are innovative and proactive • contribute to the operations’ and our colleagues’ development. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 41 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Efforts to prevent financial crime Handelsbanken’s goal is to constantly work to minimise to know how our customers are using the Bank’s the risk of the Bank, or our products or services, being products and services and through which channels exploited for ﬁnancial crime. Financial crime includes – to understand customer needs and behaviour, money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, tax evasion, and to be able to work effectively with measures to corruption, fraud and breaches of international sanccounteract ﬁnancial crime. tions. Handelsbanken has a Group-wide department This work demands competency and awareness. dedicated to preventing ﬁnancial crime. It is led by a Each year, all employees and managers complete a specially appointed executive. Essential starting points mandatory training programme on combating money for this work include the Bank’s low risk tolerance and laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. Each employee and the body of external regulations on money laundering manager must take responsibility for reducing the risk and terrorist ﬁnancing. that Handelsbanken might offer services and products Handelsbanken’s decentralised working methods to customers who use them in some form of ﬁnancial and strong local presence in the community facilitate crime. It is also important for employees and managers the building of close, long-term customer relationships. to know what to do if they suspect that the Bank is This means that our staff become very familiar with their being used for criminal activity. customers and can understand their business and To bolster Handelsbanken’s work in this area, the requirements. This is also essential for maintaining Bank will continue to invest in expertise as well as new effective procedures, processes and systems, to technology. Handelsbanken has also formed a joint minimise the risk that the Bank will be used to commit company called Nordic KYC Utility in collaboration with some kind of crime. the leading Nordic banks. Its purpose is to improve the Our customer relationships begin primarily at one of customer experience by simplifying the know-yourour branches. Customers also meet the Bank 24 hours customer (KYC) process and increase the efﬁciency of a day in our digital meeting places, via online banking the work against ﬁnancial crime in the Nordic countries. or their phone. This means that Handelsbanken needs Looking forward The Bank is intensifying its work on financial crime prevention. For 2020, total costs related to this work are expected to be on a par with 2019. We will continue to work on implementing a code of conduct for our major suppliers in all home markets. 42 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE Conflicts of interest, corruption, bribery and improper influence Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society, and the ﬁnancial sector is no exception. All employees of Handelsbanken, regardless of where they work in the Group, are obliged to follow the Bank’s regulations concerning conﬂicts of interest. Conﬂicts of interest must be identiﬁed whenever they arise and avoided as far as possible. Handelsbanken has established procedures for managing conﬂicts of interest with the aim of preventing negative impact on customers. The Bank’s regulations contain requirements for transparency, whereby the customer must be informed when a conﬂict of interest has been identiﬁed which might affect the customer negatively. The Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts of interest provides further guidance for the Bank’s work in this area, for example, by listing areas where conﬂicts of interest could arise in our operations. The policy includes details on the procedure for identifying and managing conﬂicts of interest. For example, each year potential conﬂicts of interest, as well as how they have been managed, must be reported by units deemed to have a high probability of conﬂicts of interest. Such reports are made by Handelsbanken Capital Markets and by all branches outside Sweden, for example. In banking operations, there is a risk that staff will be exposed to situations that can be linked to attempts at bribery, which in turn may lead to a position of dependence. Thus, it is crucial that the Bank’s employees comply with laws and with the Bank’s regulations The Bank as a customer regarding bribery and improper inﬂuence, so that they avoid being dependent on a customer or supplier or and our suppliers having improper inﬂuence on a customer or supplier. Ethical considerations are just as important whether Each year, all unit heads must review the regulations the Bank is the customer or the provider of a product or applying to bribery and improper inﬂuence with their service. We have an ongoing dialogue with our suppliers, employees. The Bank’s employees must not participate and when making purchasing decisions, we ensure in actions that may involve bribery or any other improper that they have collective bargaining agreements, a inﬂuence, either within the Bank’s operations or when work environment policy, and a policy against giving they perform other assignments outside the Bank. and accepting bribes. In addition, we always consider There are also procedures for how employees are the environment in making such decisions. A checklist to report suspected breaches of these regulations. helps ensure quality in the Bank’s purchases. HandelsThe regulations must be followed in all contexts, such banken has implemented a code of conduct for major as gifts, corporate hospitality and other events. For suppliers in most of its home markets. Results have example, employees’ business travel must always be been excellent, and most of the Bank’s major suppliers paid for by the Bank. have signed the code. Each year, the Bank performs risk assessments in We see a positive link between the code, our relathe area of ﬁnancial crime, including corruption, for tionships with suppliers, and their direct impact on our all countries. Areas where the risk of corruption is sustainability activities, and we continue working to assessed to be higher than for normal customers are, implement the code in the Bank’s other home markets. for example, customers who operate in countries or The code of conduct deﬁnes the expectations we sectors where corruption occurs more frequently, and have on our suppliers and their subcontractors. Most of also products and services used by these customers, the expectations are based on internationally accepted such as cross-border payments. Corruption must also standards, with the UN Global Compact as their starting be taken into account in the self-evaluation of operapoint. This means that the Bank expects that our suppliers tional risk that each unit must perform once a year. will comply with the code of conduct or corresponding Security reviews are also performed every year and standards. Suppliers should also ensure that their contain a training and information section on corruption. employees and subcontractors comply with the code. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 43 Relevant SDGs A precondition for creating shareholder value is to simultaneously create long-term value for the Bank’s customers and society as a whole. By striving for long-term, stable growth, we promote macroeconomic stability and a good investment climate (goal 8). The capital raised through the issue of Handelsbanken’s green bond is used for lending to clearly deﬁnable investments that lead to lower carbon dioxide emissions and thus contribute to Goal 13. THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT The Bank as an investment Responsible actions are essential to long-term value creation in Handelsbanken. Based on each customer’s needs, we make long-term, responsible business decisions that foster the conditions for sustainable value creation. SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION decisions that affect an individual customer are made Sustainable value creation consists of two parts: close to the customer, at the local branch in the comcreating shareholder value and working to minimise any munity where the customer is active. This business negative impact that the business operations could model has enabled the Bank to report proﬁtability at have on their surroundings. The former is easier to very stable levels over a long period, and the Bank has measure than the latter. Handelsbanken is one of the achieved its ﬁnancial goal, to have better proﬁtability few listed banks in Europe that has generated a posithan the average of peer competitors in our home tive total return for its shareholders since the ﬁnancial markets, every year since 1972. crisis began just over 10 years ago. Thus, Handelsbanken is one of the few banks in Europe that fulﬁls a Proﬁtability basic criterion for sustainable value creation – actually For nearly ﬁve decades, Handelsbanken’s objective has creating value. Since the ﬁnancial crisis began in sumbeen to generate shareholder value – but not at any mer 2007, Handelsbanken’s share has achieved a total cost. Value creation must be sustainable. In addition to return of 186 per cent. This can be compared with the Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial goals, the Bank therefore European index for bank shares, Euro STOXX Bank, also aims to act as a responsible institution in society. which produced a total return of 79 per cent during the In the banking sector, there is often a strong link same period. between ﬁnancial and social sustainability. When ﬁnancial sustainability falters, there are often negative social A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES repercussions – and vice versa. SHAREHOLDER VALUE It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisation, our the proﬁt generate a return for shareholders and tax customers’ needs are in focus. The Bank works on the revenue for society, but much of the proﬁt is reinvested basis of a tried and tested business model that has in operations. That allows the bank to meet customers’ not changed since the early 1970s. As a result of this future loan requirements and generate growth in the decentralisation, practically all important business future. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 45 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT A long-term approach pay a high interest rate. Handelsbanken has no sales Handelsbanken takes a long-term view of its business volume or market share targets. Aggressive selling of operations and its relations with customers. The Bank credits which leads to an unhealthy level of household views every recruitment of a new employee as signiﬁand corporate debt always hits the customer hardest. cant and long term. External staff turnover is low, and The Bank’s stated goal is that no credit will result in most members of Handelsbanken’s executive managelosses. This promotes long-term value creation for the ment have been recruited internally, most having spent Bank’s shareholders, too. their entire working life in the Bank. Handelsbanken favours long-term investors as shareholders. HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARE – A SUSTAINABLE These approaches coincide in Handelsbanken’s INVESTMENT proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen, which is the direct Research analysts who specialise in sustainability often opposite of a short-term bonus system. Handelsdraw attention to Handelsbanken as a solid investment. banken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme is long term, given the The share is included in the following sustainability general rule that payments cannot begin until the indexes: Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, employee has turned 60. In the meantime, the funds OMX GES Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI Index and are invested in Handelsbanken shares. Consequently, ECPI Global Developed ESG Best-in-class Equity. the employees take the same long-term view of the As in previous years, Handelsbanken participated in Bank’s business operations as other long-term sharea survey of sustainable companies conducted by the holders do. RobecoSAM research company, now SAM and part of S&P Global. Handelsbanken was included in the SusCustomer satisfaction tainability Yearbook 2020 as a ‘Sustainability Yearbook Handelsbanken is convinced that there is a strong Member’, which means that Handelsbanken scored in connection between long-term proﬁtability and custhe top 15 per cent of all the world’s banks in terms of tomers being satisﬁed with the service they receive, sustainability. and the products and services the Bank offers. Around 30 investment banks have research analysts who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and its share. In Low risk tolerance addition, Handelsbanken was in contact with sustainA bank that takes a long-term approach and focuses ability analysts from some 10 independent research on customer satisfaction with the aim of achieving profﬁrms in 2019. itability naturally has low risk tolerance. A large part of During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken banking operations is based on managing risk. has generated a positive shareholder value of SEK 25 Handelsbanken’s business model focuses on taking billion. Market capitalisation has decreased by SEK 33 credit risks in the branch operations and works to minibillion, while the Bank has paid out SEK 58 billion in mise other risks. The Bank deliberately avoids doing dividends to shareholders. business with high risk, even if the customer is willing to 46 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT Green bond By issuing green bonds, Handelsbanken has yet deﬁnable investments that lead to low carbon dioxide another means to promote the long-term development emissions and a climate-sustainable future. Examples of sustainable solutions by ﬁnancing green projects. of this are clean transport, sustainable forest In June 2018, Handelsbanken issued its ﬁrst green management, green buildings, renewable energy and bond: a ﬁve-year green senior bond for EUR 500 million. sustainable water management. In June 2019, the The issue was made possible by the Green Bond Bank reported the environmental impact of the green Framework which the Bank produced during the spring. bond by publishing a Green Bond Impact Report, The Framework received a dark green shade rating – which also contains examples of how the approved the highest possible – from CICERO (Center for Internagreen assets comply with the criteria in the framework. tional Climate Research), an independent body. At the time of issue in summer 2018, the assets in Markets showed intense interest in the Bank’s ﬁrst the green registry totalled SEK 10 billion. At the end of green bond, which was more than three times over2019, the volume had increased to SEK 12.1 billion. subscribed. In addition, Stadshypotek had green assets totalling The capital raised through the issue of HandelsSEK 2.4 billion at year-end. banken’s green bond is used for lending to clearly Sustainability indexes ECPI Ethibel FTSE4Good OMX GES SIX Sweden STOXX Global Sustainability Sustainability SRI Index ESG Leaders Index Compiled by ECPI Forum Ethibel FTSE Nasdaq SIX Finance STOXX OMX/GES Information H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 9 47 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes As part of the business community, Handelsbanken participates in many initiatives and collaborations to demonstrate our commitment and contribute through various efforts in line with our operations, and also for a vital exchange of information with representatives from different spheres of society. In addition to the initiatives and collaborations presented here, which guide Handelsbanken’s efforts, the Bank also adheres to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Sustainable Development Goals, the International Labour Organization’s core conventions, and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. INITIATIVES AND COLLABORATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNEP FI THE SWEDISH NATIONAL ADVISORY In 2009, Handelsbanken signed UNEP FI is a partnership BOARD FOR IMPACT INVESTING the UN Global Compact, an initiabetween the United Nations The Swedish tive aimed at companies which Environment Programme National Adviadvocates 10 principles based on (UNEP) and the global ﬁnancial sory Board for international conventions. These sector, created after the 1992 Impact Investing is a newly formed non-proﬁt principles, established in 2000, cover human Earth Summit, with a mission to association with members from the public and rights, labour law, the environment and antipromote sustainable ﬁnance. More than 200 private sectors and also capital market particicorruption. ﬁnancial institutions, including banks, insurers pants with the purpose of actively directing capital and investors, work with UNEP to understand to investments with a quantiﬁable positive impact PRI today’s challenges regarding the environment, on society. This is known as impact investing. Principles for society and corporate governance, why they Responsible Investmatter to the ﬁnancial sector and how to actively CLIMATE ACTION 100+ ment (PRI) was address them. Handelsbanken has been a Climate Action 100+ is a launched in 2006 and is a network of investors member of UNEP FI since the mid-1990s. ﬁve-year-long, global, coand service providers that work together with operative initiative linked the United Nations, UNEP Finance Initiative and PRB to the Paris Agreement. Global Compact to implement principles for The Principles for The aim is to persuade companies emitting the responsible investment. The purpose is to proResponsible Banking most greenhouse gases to be accountable and mote responsible behaviour among institutional (PRB) were launched lead the transition to clean energy. The investors investors and to work for increased openness at the UN Climate behind the initiative call on companies to and awareness of environmental, social and Action Summit in combat climate change, curb emissions and corporate governance issues in the companies September 2019. Handelsbanken is one of 130 improve transparency. in which these actors invest. Handelsbanken banks to endorse the initiative. The purpose is to became a signatory to the principles in 2009. increase and highlight the contribution to sustainCDP PRI has over 1,800 signatory members, from able development from the global banking sector. CDP is an independent more than 50 countries, with total assets under The principles aim to highlight the requirement international non-proﬁt management of roughly USD 70 trillion. that the ﬁnancial sector is governed in line with the organisation which works Paris Agreement and the 17 Sustainable Developfor transparency and dialogue on companies’ Within the PRI framework, Handelsbanken particiment Goals and also comprise a common, transenvironmental impacts and to make such pates in initiatives such as the following: parent framework for a positive impact on society information available to investors. Over 8,400 PRI Sustainable Palm Oil is an initiative where PRI has acted as co-ordinator and formed a working and the environment by the banking sector. organisations worldwide measure and report group that has taken a common stand to support their environmental impact through CDP. sustainable palm oil. The purpose is to raise awareIÄF CDP acts on behalf of more than 500 instituness of these issues among investors. The work group also initiates dialogue with companies to Institutionella Ägares Förening tional investors. Handelsbanken has been a support the development of more sustainable – IÄF (The Institutional Owners member since 2015 and reports to CDP annually. methods of palm oil production. Association for Regulatory Issues in the Stock PRI-Ceres Sustainable Forests is an initiative that aims to help investors understand how deforMarket) – is a non-proﬁt organisation whose EQUATOR PRINCIPLES estation within cattle and soybean supply chains purpose is to safeguard members’ interests as Handelsbanken represents a material risk to companies and institutional owners in the Swedish stock market has signed the investors. by promoting sound development of selfEquator Principles. Commercial agriculture accounts for approximately two-thirds of tropical deforestation, primarily regulation in the stock market. This is principally The Principles are a framework that provides relating to cattle, soybean production, palm oil and done by the association participating in the guidance to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing timber and pulp. Deforestation has a signiﬁcant Swedish stock market’s self-regulation bodies social and environmental risks in project ﬁnance. negative environmental impact, through a loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services, soil in appropriate forms and, where necessary, The Equator Principles were formally launched degradation and disruption of hydrological cycles. appointing or nominating members of their in 2003, but over the years they have been In addition, deforestation is responsible for around boards or to participate in other activities. updated to better support members in identify15 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions. Deforestation can therefore entail major operational IÄF was formed in 2003 and comprises ing, assessing and managing environmental and climate-related risks for both companies and Swedish institutional owners. IÄF is one of the and social risks in project ﬁnancing. investors. principals behind the Association for Generally The more than 90 members of the initiative Accepted Practice in the Securities Market represent ﬁnancial institutions from 37 counwhich works through the following selftries. Members undertake to implement the regulation bodies: Swedish Securities Council, principles in their internal guidelines, processes Swedish Corporate Governance Board and and procedures for project ﬁnance and to report Swedish Financial Reporting Board. annually on projects that have been assessed or ﬁnanced based on the framework. 48 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES CLIMATE BONDS INITIATIVE ECPAT Handelsbanken, or in some cases a subsidiary, The Climate Bonds Since 2015, Handelsbanken has is a member of the following trade associations: Initiative (CBI) is an co-operated closely with ECPAT Swedish Bankers’ Association international non-proﬁt organisation that proSweden, a children’s rights organiThe Swedish Bankers’ Association represents motes investment in climate-change solutions. sation that works to prevent and banks in Sweden and creates conditions for them to be able to provide attractive and competitive ﬁnancial The organisation aims to facilitate the mobilisaraise awareness of the sexual exploiproducts and services to households and companies. tion of capital in the global bond market by develtation of children. ECPAT is a member of a The Association works to promote the sound developing a large and liquid market for green bonds. global network represented in more than 90 opment of Swedish banking. Handelsbanken has been active in green and countries. We take responsibility in our day-toInsurance Sweden sustainable ﬁnance for several years and has day operations, such as by obstructing and Insurance Sweden is a trade association that strives to promote good business conditions for insurance been a CBI partner since 2017. preventing payments connected with material companies. The association also works to achieve depicting the sexual abuse of children. As part a high level of trust for the insurance industry and to GREEN BOND PRINCIPLES of this co-operation, we also work to educate improve awareness of the signiﬁcance of private The Green Bond and raise awareness of sexual exploitation of insurance in society. Principles (GBP) children. UK Finance are voluntary, UK Finance was formed in July 2017 to represent the banking and ﬁnancial sector in the UK. The international guidelines that recommend transGLOBAL CHILD FORUM association has around 300 members in the UK, parency, disclosure and reporting in the market Since 2013, Handelsbanken providing credit, banking and market services and for green bonds. The GBP were established in has been a partner in the also payment-related services. 2014, but the principles were updated in 2018. non-proﬁt foundation Global Swedish Securities Dealers Association Handelsbanken has been a member since Child Forum, an independent The Swedish Securities Dealers Association represents the common interests of companies that 2014, and the Bank’s green ﬁnance framework forum for exchanging best practices and faciliconduct securities operations in Sweden. The assocomplies with the GBP recommendations. tating discussion about children’s rights. The ciation’s overall goal is a sound, strong and efﬁcient Forum brings together leaders from the busiSwedish securities market. IIGCC ness community, the public sector, academia Swedish Investment Fund Association The mission of the Instituand society at large to encourage co-operation The Swedish Investment Fund Association strives for a sound industry in the interest of savers. The tional Investors Group on aimed at promoting children’s rights. association monitors work on legislation related to Climate Change (IIGCC) is to the mutual fund sector and comments on proposed mobilise capital for the lowWORLD CHILDHOOD FOUNDATION legislation from Swedish and EU government bodies. carbon future by amplifying the investor voice Since 2010, HandelsSwesif and collaborating with business, policymakers banken has supSwesif is an independent, non-proﬁt forum for organisations that work with sustainable investment and investors. Handelsbanken has been a ported the World in Sweden. The forum aims to increase knowledge member of IIGCC since December 2018. Childhood Foundation. Childhood is an organiof and interest in sustainable and responsible sation for children’s rights that works against investment. FAIRR violence and sexual abuse of children. It aims Norsif FAIRR Antibiotics to provide all children with the opportunity to Norsif is an independent association that works with sustainable investment in Norway. The association Engagement is an initiadevelop into strong, conﬁdent, responsible strives to increase knowledge about and contribute tive aimed at reducing people. Childhood is active in Sweden and to progress in responsible investment in the ﬁnancial the use of antibiotics in large food processing internationally. sector and among other stakeholders. companies. An investor coalition, co-ordinated Finsif by FAIRR, engaged with a total of the 20 largest PERSONAL FINANCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum is a member-based organisation that works with sustainable companies in the fast food and casual dining secHandelsbanken supports an investment in Finland. Its purpose is to increase tor in the UK and the US. The companies were education project called Ung interest in sustainability and to encourage members asked to phase out routine, prophylactic use of Privatekonomi which works to to integrate sustainability in their investment decisions. antibiotics across all livestock, seafood and poulboost young people’s knowledge of their perDansif try supply chains in order to preserve the efﬁcacy sonal ﬁnances by inspiring and teaching about The Danish Social Investment Forum is an impartial forum for players with a substantial interest in of antibiotics against disease in both humans and personal ﬁnances and savings. Ung Privateresponsible investment in Denmark. Its purpose animals. The result of this engagement led to all konomi educates upper secondary school is to spread and exchange experiences among 20 companies recognising the need to limit antistudents and teachers throughout Sweden and members of the Forum and to facilitate a diversiﬁed biotics use in order to address antimicrobial since it started has had 200,000 participants. debate on responsible investment. resistance. Companies are now working to The initiators of the project are the Swedish collect relevant data and monitor supplier compliShareholders’ Association, the Swedish ance with their policies. The initiative is currently Investment Fund Association, NASDAQ OMX supported by 74 institutional investors. Stockholm, the Swedish Securities Dealers Association and Young Shareholders (Unga TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL SWEDEN Aktiesparare). In 2017, Handelsbanken became a member of Transparency International Sweden’s Corporate Supporters Forum, as part of the Bank’s commitment to work against corruption. This is a Swedish business forum that serves as a platform for companies to pool their experience and knowledge related to anti-corruption. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 49 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES INITIATIVES AND COLLABORATIONS, CONT. NMC, SWEDISH ASSOCIATION FOR SISD WOMEN IN FINANCE CHARTER SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development As part of its efforts towards gender Handelsis a platform where Swedish long-term investors equality, Handelsbanken in the banken is a and actors in the ﬁnancial sector can learn and UK signed the Women in Finance member of NMC, Nätverk för Hållbart Näringsliv exchange best practices and experience within Charter, an initiative from HM (Swedish Association for Sustainable Business). the 2030 Agenda. The aim is to explore, Treasury, which means the Bank is committed It is a non-proﬁt association, not allied to any from various angles and perspectives, the role to work for more gender balance in the ﬁnancial political party, which is a cross-industry platform of long-term investors in the 2030 Agenda sector. for more than 200 companies and organisations and provide ideas and inspiration for the way from all over Sweden. Its purpose is to share forward. RESOURCE EFFECTIVENESS AND THE knowledge, experience and ideas regarding a CIRCULAR ECONOMY sustainable and successful business community. SWESIF Handelsbanken is particiHandelsbanken Asset Manpating in a project SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION agement is a member of launched by the Royal Since 2009, Swesif, an independent, notSwedish Academy of Handelsbanken for-proﬁt forum for organisations working with Engineering Sciences Asset Management sustainable investment in Sweden. The forum (IVA) in 2018. The two-year project aims to has collaborated with other major Swedish invesaims to increase knowledge of and interest in make Sweden a pioneer in creating a resourcetors on the Sustainable Value Creation project. sustainable and responsible investment. To effective, circular society, focusing on foodIts aim is to highlight the importance of Swedish make it easier for savers to compare mutual stuffs, plastics, textiles, mobility and premises. listed companies working with sustainability funds and how sustainability is integrated in In harmony with the Sustainable Development topics in a structured manner. To encourage, their management, Swesif has developed a Goals, the project aims to strengthen Sweden’s support and follow up on the companies’ sustainsector-wide sustainability declaration for funds. competitive edge in a future of limited ability efforts, the project conducts surveys and Since 2015, most of Handelsbanken’s funds resources, while spurring co-operation and organises seminars and round-table discussions. have this type of sustainability declaration. For forward motion in Sweden’s resource choices. As one of the 100 largest listed Swedish commore information, see swesif.org/swesif/hallbarpanies, Handelsbanken has itself responded to hetsproﬁlen-english. Since spring 2016, the surveys on sustainability activities. Handelsbanken has served on Swesif’s board. AWARDS AND SURVEYS SUSTAINABLE COMPANIES 2019 THE SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK 2020 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Handelsbanken is the most Handelsbanken is one of the most sustainable In 2019, Handelsbanken sustainable listed company in banks in the world, according to the research had more satisﬁed private Sweden in the bank and ﬁnance ﬁrm SAM. Since 2004, the sustainability anaand corporate customers category. This was reported in lysts at RobecoSAM, now SAM which is part of than the average for the the 2019 Sustainable CompaS&P Global, have listed in their Sustainability banking sector in all six of nies ranking conducted by the Lund University Yearbook the companies they consider to be the Bank’s home markets. Thus, the Bank School of Economics and Management, Dagens the most sustainable. In this year’s edition, enjoys solid customer satisfaction. EPSI Rating Industri and Aktuell Hållbarhet. This ranking was Handelsbanken is the only Nordic bank to be (Extended Performance Satisfaction Index) and conducted for the second year running and included as a ‘Sustainability Yearbook Member’. SKI (Swedish Quality Index) compile, analyse comprises almost 140 Swedish listed compaThis means that of all the world’s banks, and distribute information about customer nies in ﬁve categories. In addition to assessment Handelsbanken is among the 15 per cent with satisfaction, loyalty and more aspects of the of the information in company reports and webthe highest rating in terms of sustainability. customer experience, such as image, perceived sites, the companies respond to a questionnaire Research analysts’ evaluations are based on an quality and value for money. EPSI Rating and where they are asked to inform about their work array of sustainability criteria, with economic, SKI are backed by the Swedish Institute for with the Sustainable Development Goals, envienvironmental and social dimensions. Each Quality (SIQ). Research and development ronment, climate, human rights, anti-corruption, company receives a total sustainability rating related to EPSI’s quality surveys is conducted HR questions and capital market impact. between 0 and 100, resulting in a ranking of all together with SIQ and the Stockholm School of companies in each sector. Handelsbanken Economics. SWEDEN’S SMALL ENTERPRISE BANK 2019 received a total rating of 74. For the eighth year runKANTAR SIFO REPUTATION INDEX 2019 ning, Handelsbanken GLOBAL FINANCE Handelshas been voted Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank. Handelsbanken is one of eight banks scoring banken Handelsbanken achieved the highest rating in the the most points on the 2019 list of the world’s came in 12th place among companies with the categories of customer satisfaction, quality of safest commercial banks, according to Global best reputation in Sweden, according to the advisory services, service and customer treatFinance’s annual ranking. The international 2019 survey by Kantar Sifo, which every year ment, electronic services, and range of products monthly Global Finance reports on the global asks the Swedish public how much conﬁdence and services. Finansbarometern is one of economy, and ﬁnancial and political issues from they have in various companies. Around 4,500 Sweden’s largest independent market surveys, a global business perspective. Each year the people aged 18–79 took part in the survey. focusing on how companies view their banking magazine publishes a ranking of the world’s safThey answered questions about what they relationships. The survey has been answered by est commercial banks, based on an evaluation expected of various companies and how well around 1,500 respondents in businesses with of bank ratings from the credit rating agencies those expectations were met. fewer than 20 employees. Respondents are Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, for the CEOs, CFOs or other people in a position to inﬂumost recent full-year reporting period. ence the company’s choice of banking services. 50 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES AWARDS AND SURVEYS, CONT. UNIVERSUM ACADEMIC WORK SUSTAINABLE BRAND INDEX According to Corporate In the 2019 Young In 2019, Handelsbanken had the Barometer 2019 – a surProfessional most sustainable brand among vey carried out by UniAttraction Index survey by Academic Work, banks in Sweden, according to versum, an employer Handelsbanken was regarded as one of the 100 decision-makers in small and branding consultancy – Handelsbanken was in most attractive employers in Sweden. The commedium-sized businesses. This was the result second place of Swedish banks and seventh panies listed in the ﬁnal ranking are submitted of the largest annual brand study in Europe, overall among a total of 100 companies. The by the participants themselves, based on the focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Brand survey’s participants – business students in employer they would most like to work for. Index. In the study, 600 decision-makers at Sweden – responded to questions about ideal The participants in the survey, young procompanies with between 40 and 500 employemployers and graded these based on the fessionals, are university or college students ees responded to questions about how a brand following criteria: reputation and image, people and graduates with up to ﬁve years’ work is perceived and how sustainability affects their and corporate culture, remuneration and opporexperience. purchase decisions. tunities to advance, and job characteristics. SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Handelsbanken’s share is included in FTSE4GOOD STOXX GLOBAL ESG LEADERS the following sustainability indexes: Handelsbanken was also Handelsbanken is selected for the FTSE4Good included in the STOXX ECPI Index in 2019. The index is Global ESG Leaders Since the end independent and is based on index. The companies of the 1990s, analyses of companies’ work with environmenincluded in the index were selected in a process ECPI has tal, social and governance (ESG) practices. of analysis based on environmental, social provided ﬁnancial markets with various sustainHandelsbanken has been included in the index responsibility and corporate governance topics. ability indexes. Handelsbanken has been since 2001. The Index consists of three underlying indexes: selected for the ECPI Global Developed ESG STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, Best in Class Equity and ECPI World ESG OMX ESG INDEX STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and STOXX Equity indexes. Together with research companies, SustainalytGlobal ESG Governance Leaders. Handelsics and ISS-Ethix, the Nasdaq Stockholm stock banken is included in all three of these indexes. ETHIBEL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX exchange has launched a sustainability index The Brussels-based that provides investors with a universe of comorganisation Forum panies that fulﬁl sustainability requirements. Ethibel provides ﬁnancial Handelsbanken has qualiﬁed to be listed in the markets with information OMXS30 Ethical and OMX Stockholm 30 ESG on various companies and their sustainability Responsible (OMXS30ESG) indexes. activities. Its analyses are carried out by the Vigeo Eiris research company, and based on SIX SWEDEN SRI INDEX these results, Forum ETHIBEL creates a uniThe SIX Sweden SRI Index is a collaboration verse that forms a platform for sustainability between SIX Financial Information and ISSproducts and responsible investment. HandelsEthix. It consists of companies listed on the banken has been included in the Ethibel Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange that meet Excellence Investment Register since 2004. ISS-Ethix’s sustainability criteria comprising a In October 2019, the Svenska Handelsbanken modern standard for social, environmental and A share was reconﬁrmed as a constituent of the ethical criteria, where the concepts of sustainaEthibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence bility and responsibility are in focus. Europe. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 51 Contents IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY FACTS: THE BANK AS AN INFORMATION 53 EMPLOYER 65 SUMMARY OF CORPORATE Staff turnover 65 GOVERNANCE 53 Constant development 65 Principles for corporate governance at Health and work environment 65 Handelsbanken 53 Sickness absence 65 Recruitment and diversity-related work by the Board 53 Gender equality 66 Internal control 53 Remuneration and beneﬁts 66 Relationships with unions 68 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY 54 FACTS: THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE 68 HANDELSBANKEN AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Compliance and conﬁrmed incidents 68 GOALS 54 Policy for ethical standards 68 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 54 Guidelines for managing taxes 68 Our stakeholders 54 Policy for sustainability 68 Materiality analysis 55 Work to prevent ﬁnancial crime 68 SUSTAINABILITY RISK 56 Conﬂicts of interest, corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence 68 KEY FIGURES FOR SUSTAINABILITY 57 Suppliers 69 FACTS: THE BANK AND ITS Principles when granting credit 69 CUSTOMERS 59 FACTS: THE BANK AS AN Customer satisfaction 59 INVESTMENT 69 Integrity and conﬁdentiality – Information Public limited company 69 security and IT security 59 Dividend 69 FACTS: THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY 59 Creating shareholder value 69 Financial aspects 59 TCFD – Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 69 Modern slavery and human trafﬁcking 60 Economic research and education 61 CONTENT, RESTRICTIONS AND INDEXES ACCORDING TO THE Direct environmental and climate impact 61 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 70 Services for the public good 62 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS 73 FACTS: RESPONSIBLE FINANCING 62 CONTACT DETAILS 75 Business relationships 62 Exposure to climate-related risks 63 OFFPRINT AUDITOR’S REPORT FROM HANDELSBANKEN’S ANNUAL FACTS: RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT 63 REPORT 2019 Investment processes 63 Climate-related ﬁnancial disclosures 65 52 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION In-depth sustainability information Sustainability is well integrated in Handelsbanken’s working methods, and there are several central bodies that co-ordinate the work at Group level and in the subsidiaries. Various processes, such as the ongoing stakeholder dialogues, also exist to support our work with sustainability. This part of the report, which deals with sustainability management, provides more detailed information. Summary of stipulates that, to promote independent opinions and critical questioning, it is desirable that the A summary of these policies can be found in the Bank’s Corporate Governance Report and corporate governance Board should be characterised by sufﬁcient at handelsbanken.com. diversity in terms of age, gender, geographical The following is a summary of the information origin, and educational and professional backSelection of guidelines established by the considered most material for the sustainability ground. The proportion of women on the Board Bank’s Group Chief Executive: report. For more information, please see the of the Bank is 45 per cent, and the proportion of • Guidelines regarding the environment and Bank’s full corporate governance report, which members of a nationality other than the country climate change can be found on pages 63–76 of the Annual where Handelsbanken is domiciled is 36 per cent. • Guidelines regarding human rights and Report. working conditions Corporate governance concerns how the Composition of the Board after election at the AGM • Guidelines regarding business relations with owners directly or indirectly control the Bank, and the armaments and defence industry how rights and obligations are allocated among 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 • Guidelines regarding business relations in the Bank’s bodies, in accordance with prevailing Total number of forestry and farming laws and regulations. Board members 11 11 11 11 10 • Guidelines regarding the tobacco industry Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance of which men 6 7 6 6 7 • Guidelines for managing taxes. Report is based on a shareholder perspective. of which women 5 4 5 5 3 However, there are other stakeholders interested Nationality other than in Handelsbanken’s corporate governance upon Swedish 4 4 4 5 5 A selection of policy documents that the whose trust the Bank depends. These include boards of Handelsbanken’s subsidiaries customers, employees, the Bank’s lenders as INTERNAL CONTROL have decided on: well as the community at large. All managers at all levels in the Bank have a • Policy for shareholder engagement and responsibility for internal control and the Bank’s responsible investment at Handelsbanken regulatory compliance. Consequently, ﬁt-forFonder PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE purpose instructions and procedures for the • Policy for shareholder engagement and GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN operation must be in place, and compliance responsible investment at Xact KapitalHandelsbanken’s shareholders elect the Board, with the procedures is monitored regularly. förvaltning and the Board appoints the Group Chief ExecuGroup Compliance is an independent unit with • Policy for responsible investment at tive (CEO). One way in which the Board exercises functional responsibility for compliance in the Group Handelsbanken Liv its governance of the Bank is by issuing policies and provides advice and support in regulatory • Policy for sustainability at Handelsbanken Liv and instructions. It is partly through the issued matters. Internal control and compliance work • Policy for sustainability at Stadshypotek policies that the Board takes decisions regarding are subject to internal and external risk-based • Policy against corruption at Stadshypotek. Handelsbanken’s overall risk tolerance and ensures the Bank’s ﬁnancial stability. Through the auditing. policies, the Board also decides on the Bank’s Handelsbanken has an established whistleSelection of guidelines in the HR area: approach in several essential sustainability issues blowing system provided by an external supplier. • Guidelines on alcohol, drugs and gambling relating to prevention of ﬁnancial crime, the enviThis means that an employee who suspects • Guidelines for the prevention of victimisation ronment, remuneration, ethical standards and internal fraud or other irregularities can report and harassment corruption. The CEO also exercises governance these to a body outside the employee’s own unit. • Guidelines on bribery and improper inﬂuence by issuing various policy documents. The CEO Anonymous reports are also acted upon. • Guidelines on gender equality, diversity and issues guidelines, some of which provide more inclusion. detailed directions to complement and clarify the Selection of policy documents established by Board’s policies, and also issues instructions to the Board: the managers who report directly to her. These • Credit policy policy documents are revised every year but can • Policy for operational risk be adjusted more often when necessary. • Capital policy However, the foundation of functioning corpo• Financial policy rate governance is not only formal documents but • Information policy More information also the Bank’s corporate culture, corporate goal, • Policy for sustainability More information about Handelsworking methods and remuneration system. • Policy for ethical standards banken’s corporate governance is also available at handelsbanken.com. The site These are integral with the principles, strategies, • Policy against corruption includes the following information: limits and targets described in policy documents • Policy for management of conﬂicts of interest • previous corporate governance reports and instructions. • Policy for remuneration from 2006 onwards • Policy for suitability assessment • Articles of Association RECRUITMENT AND DIVERSITY-RELATED • Policy for risk control • information about the nomination committee WORK BY THE BOARD • Policy for compliance • minutes from shareholders’ meetings from Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy • Policy on measures against ﬁnancial crime 2008 onwards. to promote diversity on the Board. The policy • Policy for complaints management. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 53 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION • industry, innovation and infrastructure living up to the reasonable expectations of these Organisational • sustainable cities and communities stakeholders and acting so as to maintain their structure for • • climate action peace, justice and strong institutions. trust in the Bank. Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are sustainability our customers, employees, owners and investors, union organisations, and the community at Handelsbanken’s sustainability work is decentrallarge, which includes special interest organisaised and carried out where the Bank’s business tions, public authorities and legislators, for examand operational decisions are made. The work is ple. The Bank’s main stakeholder groups have co-ordinated by a Group-wide specialist function. been identiﬁed based on the fact that HandelsAs of January 2020, the Bank’s Group Communibanken’s operations materially affect them, or are cations and the Sustainability Ofﬁcer is a member materially affected by them. Handelsbanken also of the Bank’s executive management and as such maintains a continuous dialogue with other stakehas the overall responsibility for sustainability For all goals selected, Handelsbanken is able to holder groups, such as equity research analysts, matters. The Bank also has a Sustainability Comcontribute through its own operations and trade associations, sustainability analysts, mittee, formed in 2010. The Committee is chaired through business relationships. Gender equality, non-proﬁt organisations, international organisaby Handelsbanken’s Head of Sustainability. The decent work conditions and children’s rights are a tions, municipalities and county councils, suppliCommittee consists of representatives from natural part of our own operations. We are eager ers, press and media, students, schools and various operating areas throughout the Group to help accelerate their progress in the communiuniversities. and met regularly during 2019, a total of six times. ties where we are active and the companies with A sub-committee operates under the Sustainwhich we do business. Stakeholder model ability Committee to work on ethical and taxWith signiﬁcant lending to the property sector, related matters. The Head of Group Tax chairs we have particular responsibility in terms of susthis sub-committee, and representatives come CU tainable cities. In our corporate lending we want TY ST from different business areas and central departIE to contribute by reducing our indirect impact on C OM ments within the Group. The sub-committee is SO S the climate and by ﬁnancing companies leading ER tasked with discussing and providing opinions on the way in the transition to a more sustainable tax-related matters from a sustainability perspececonomy. The goal of peace, justice and strong tive, with regard to customers and suppliers and institutions includes the goal of substantially to the Group’s own tax management. reducing illicit ﬁnancial ﬂows and signiﬁcantly Sustainability specialists from various parts of O reducing all forms of corruption and bribery, an U YE the Group are also active in the Green Finance N SA NIO E S area where banks play a crucial role. O W ES TI N Committee (GFC), which is responsible for deterV E PL ON IN TO R S/ E M ND I S mining technical criteria for green loans, and for RS A AN G approving assets for inclusion in Handelsbanken’s portfolio of green assets. In its assessments, the Stakeholder OR Committee considers areas such as life-cycle dialogue All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. They all wish the Bank to be stable and responsive to analysis, positive effects on the climate, powers To be a responsible bank, we must listen closely their expectations. How well the Bank manages to live up of resistance and scientiﬁc targets. to these expectations has an impact on the continued to our stakeholders’ expectations and be recepMatters of principle relating to sustainability in success of Handelsbanken. tive to their opinions about our sustainability asset management are the responsibility of activities. We actively engage in systematic Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investment dialogue with our stakeholders, to ensure that we Ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders Committee. The Committee is represented by get our priorities right. Since June 2019, we have Through active dialogue, Handelsbanken can Handelsbanken’s two fund management comasked our customers about their sustainability better understand the expectations, opinions and panies: Handelsbanken Fonder and Xact preferences in investment advisory sessions. We demands that stakeholders have on us and on Kapitalförvaltning. The Committee’s task is to document their attitude to sustainability in the the way we conduct our operations. This helps us actively monitor trends in responsible investment, areas of the environment, social questions and to make well-founded decisions and to better prito contribute to ongoing improvement in Handelscorporate governance. Statistics show that 67 oritise our sustainability efforts in the markets banken’s work in this area, and to set and follow per cent of customers consider sustainability to where we operate. up relevant objectives. be either quite important or very important. In 2019, Handelsbanken Liv also asked its customCustomers Handelsbanken ers questions about sustainability in a customer study. The study indicates that slightly more than The most important dialogue occurs in the meetings that take place every day at over 750 and the Sustainable half of customers believe that sustainability is branches in our six home markets. These meetquite important, and that six out of ten are of the ings arise from our desire to grow long-term Development Goals opinion that consumers’ choice of savings prodrelationships with our customers. They can be Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Committee has uct can inﬂuence society to move towards more face-to-face, over the phone, at digital meeting analysed the 17 Sustainable Development Goals sustainable development. places or on social media. By maintaining close, and their 169 targets to determine which of these long-term relations with our customers, the Bank the operations should focus on, and how we can OUR STAKEHOLDERS gains a better understanding of customer expecintegrate them within the framework of the subMany private individuals, organisations and comtations regarding our sustainability work. areas in the Bank’s material topics described panies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts above. The analysis was based on the degree of in various matters. Business relations with Employees inﬂuence, both indirect and direct, identiﬁed risks customers, how we act as an employer, converOur employees are an important stakeholder and opportunities, and the Bank’s most material sations with our shareholders, and all the meetgroup. It does not matter how good the products sustainability topics. Consequently, in the next ings with different groups are examples of stakeor services are if the Bank does not have the most few years we will focus on the following six goals: holder dialogues. They are affected by and affect suitable staff. By taking part in their own unit’s • gender equality how we conduct our operations. For Handelsannual business planning, each individual • decent work and economic growth banken, corporate social responsibility means employee can play a part by contributing to and 54 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION inﬂuencing the operational focus. Managers with them, answered questions and participated in customers. The quantitative part consisted of delegated work environment responsibility perdiscussions and seminars to keep ourselves target group-speciﬁc surveys aimed at employform a work environment survey with the work updated in the ﬁeld of sustainability, and to gather ees, private customers and corporate environment representative and their employees important opinions. customers in our home markets, where the at least once a year. The work environment survey stakeholders could assess how important each is one initiative undertaken to reach the Bank’s Sustainability analysts sustainability topic was for them in conjunction work environment goals. The results of the work Around 30 investment banks have research anawith decisions and assessments linked to the environment survey also serve as supporting lysts who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and Bank’s operations. Almost 1,000 responses documentation for the local work environment its share. In recent years, several of these investwere received. The large number of responses plan, which makes up part of the business plan. ment banks have supplemented the traditional made it possible to follow up the results by company research by also evaluating the Bank stakeholder group and home market. Owners and investors from a sustainability perspective. Another Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who increasingly prominent group are the independent The identiﬁed material sustainability topics were ultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. research ﬁrms that specialise in sustainability grouped into the following seven areas: The shareholders exercise their right to decide on analysis. Their research analysts evaluate the • the Bank and its customers matters concerning the company at shareholders’ Bank’s sustainability work in several dimensions. • the Bank’s role in the community meetings. At the meetings, individual shareholders An evaluation is usually carried out by means of a • responsible ﬁnancing have the opportunity to put questions to the Bank’s comprehensive questionnaire, as well as a dia• responsible investment Board and executive management. Shareholders logue with the analyst. In 2019, Handelsbanken • the Bank as an employer show keen interest in Handelsbanken’s annual responded to some 10 enquiries, surveys and • the Bank’s business culture general meetings. In the past ﬁve years, shareanalyses from various international actors. • the Bank as an investment. holders corresponding to more than 50 per cent of the votes have been represented. The Bank Suppliers The results of the materiality analysis showed provides investors, analysts, rating agencies and Handelsbanken purchases goods and services that the Bank’s most important sustainability other capital market players with information from many different suppliers. In the Swedish topics are clearly linked to our business in the regarding Handelsbanken’s operations and ﬁnanoperations, 71 per cent of the total volume of form of credits, investments, products and cial performance. During the year, the CEO, CFO purchases come from more than 130 of the advisory services. Other key sustainability topics and Investor Relations department held more Bank’s several thousand suppliers. Based on the are strongly associated with how we should than 500 meetings with equity and ﬁxed income Bank’s Supplier Code of Conduct, we conduct an continue to run our business in a sustainable investors. ongoing dialogue with our key suppliers in which and responsible manner with our customers’ sustainability ﬁgures prominently. As a result continuing ﬁrm conﬁdence. This means that we Attendance at AGMs 2014–2019 of these dialogues, we become involved, our continue to work on integrity and conﬁdentiality, employees are inspired, and we improve our own to prevent ﬁnancial crime, to strive for openness Number % – as well as our suppliers’ – sustainability work. and transparency and for the Bank to be ﬁnancially 2,000 100 sustainable by continuing to run our business in a MATERIALITY ANALYSIS responsible manner, with stability and proﬁtability 1,600 80 The purpose of our materiality analysis is to in focus. identify the sustainability topics where HandelsThe outcome of the materiality analysis is 1,200 60 banken’s operations have the greatest impact on presented on pages 10–11 of the Sustainability external parties, based on an economic, environReport. These pages also include a description of 800 40 mental or social stakeholder perspective. the signiﬁcance of these topics to Handelsbanken Applying the materiality analysis, we deﬁne the and the risks they are associated with. 400 20 most important sustainability topics that we must 0 0 prioritise, report on and communicate about. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2018, Handelsbanken carried out a compreNo. of shareholders Proportion of votes hensive materiality analysis based on detailed present/represented dialogue with participants from our main stakeholder groups in the Bank’s home markets. This Union organisations materiality analysis is also deemed to be of For a long time, Handelsbanken has had good relevance for 2019. relations with the union organisations, this being Work on the materiality analysis progressed in an important part of the Bank’s business culture. three stages: Union representatives and managers maintain a 1. Using a business intelligence analysis, we idencontinuous dialogue about operations – such as tiﬁed and ranked the sustainability topics where when changes are to be made – exchanging valuHandelsbanken’s operations have the greatest able information at the very early stages. impact on external parties based on an economic, environmental or social stakeholder Society perspective. Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with 2. These topics were veriﬁed by internal and supervisory authorities, central banks and regulaexternal sustainability experts and Handelstory bodies as well as with governments and banken’s Sustainability Committee. parliaments, in Sweden, the EU and the rest of 3. We carried out a detailed dialogue with stakethe world. Increasingly, dialogue between public holders through qualitative and quantitative authorities and the Bank highlights sustainability. interaction. In conjunction with this, we The Bank also has continuous contact with nonconducted 14 in-depth interviews with repregovernmental organisations (NGOs). During the sentatives from our owners, unions, special year, we had several ongoing dialogues with interest organisations and large corporate H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 55 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Sustainability risk responsible investment, preventing ﬁnancial crime, being a responsible employer, responsible are also of critical importance for the conﬁdence we instil in the public, as well as our relationships Put simply, sustainability risk refers to the risk that purchasing, local presence, ﬁnancial stability and with customers, employees, owners and invesHandelsbanken does not operate in accordance proﬁtability. This also entails the management of tors. Handelsbanken’s view is that responsible with the policies, guidelines, commitments and risks related to the Bank’s different roles – as a actions are thus essential to long-term value ambitions that form the basis for our general suslender, asset manager, service provider, purcreation. tainability work. This could ultimately result in chaser or employer. Handelsbanken’s activities for managing susﬁnancial consequences for the Bank, as well as Sustainability risks span over many areas, such tainability risk follow our decentralised model and proving harmful to our reputation. It is a matter of as human rights, working conditions, the environare aligned with the Bank’s generally low risk tolhow we, as a bank, act in relation to and manage ment, climate, ﬁnancial crime, and information erance. The Bank’s business operations bear the topics within the areas we have identiﬁed, where and IT security. The identiﬁcation, management responsibility for identifying sustainability risks and we have the greatest chance to contribute to and prevention of sustainability risk is important managing these. This is done within a framework more sustainable development. A few examples: from both a ﬁnancial and legal perspective, as are of established processes for risk management. responsible ﬁnancing and granting of credit, our actions as a community stakeholder. These Risk area Risk description Potential risk impact on Actions to minimise the risk Leading conventions and Handelsbanken guidelines Climate Climate-related risks are diverse, complex and The risk is primarily linked Develop and improve our capacity to idenTask Force on Climate-related often hard to measure. These risks can be split into to increased credit losses tify, measure, manage and report risks Financial Disclosures (TCFD). physical risks and transition risks. Assets which, and capital costs due to a associated with both physical climateThe UN Environment Programme from a longer-term perspective, are deemed to deterioration of customers’ related risks and transition risks in the Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). be highly exposed to climate-related risks and risk ﬁnancial positions. investment and credit processes, as well losing their entire value are often referred to as as our process for risk control and reportEquator Principles. Weakened return on the ‘stranded assets’. Bank’s investments. ing. This involves develop our existing proThe UN Principles for Responsible Physical climate risks arise as a consequence of cedures and processes in relevant areas, Investment (PRI). Also the risk of impaired with the aim of more effectively being able global warming brought about by increased greenreputation and decreased The UN Principles for Responsible house gas emissions. This results in increased to identify, value and also stress test customer satisfaction. Banking (PRB). occurrences of extreme weather events, as well as assets exposed to climate-related risks. rising sea levels, coastal erosion and similar consePeriodic screening of companies we quences. These may, in turn, have a large impact invest in, checklists in the credit assesson, including damage to, assets we have ﬁnanced, ment process, support with the help of or may affect companies we invest in. sector-speciﬁc sustainability risks estabTransition risks are risks that arise through changes lished by external experts, documentation to legislation, changes in the demand for products requirements, systems support. and services, changed customer behaviour or other Policy documents and instructions for structural shifts which take place as part of socieresponsible investment and responsible ty’s attempts to transition to a climate-neutral credits. economy, as a means of combating global Reporting in line with the TCFD recomwarming. mendations. Environment Environmental risks are linked to both our own Increased credit losses due Supplier Code of Conduct. The UN Environment Programme operations and the suppliers we use, but also to to a deterioration of customPeriodic screening of companies we Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). the companies we invest in and grant credit to. ers’ ﬁnancial positions. invest in. Equator Principles. The risks may be associated with direct environWeakened return on the mental incidents, pollution or other negative Checklists in the credit assessment The UN Principles for Responsible Bank’s investments. process, support with the help of secInvestment (PRI). environmental impacts. However, they may also be indirect, such as business relations with Also the risk of impaired tor-speciﬁc sustainability risks estabThe UN Principles for Responsible companies engaging in operations that are not reputation and decreased lished by external experts, documenBanking (PRB). aligned with the transition to an environmentally customer satisfaction. tation requirements, systems support. sustainable economy, or which do not give Policy documents and instructions for sufﬁcient attention to environmental issues in responsible investment and responsitheir operations. ble credits. Human rights, social The risk of abusing human rights is greatest in the Reputational damage and Mandatory training for employees, the The UN Universal Declaration of conditions and workrole the Bank has as a lender and when we invest weaker ﬁnancial position. Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier Human Rights. ing conditions in companies, although the risk is also present in audits, the revision and strengthening of The International Labour Organiour own operations. related processes connected with the sation’s core conventions. Risks related to working conditions chieﬂy concern Group’s operations and its range of products and services. The UN Convention on the Rights health and safety, harassment and victimisation, as of the Child. well as union rights, reasonable wages and rights Periodic screening of companies we to all employee beneﬁts as regulated by law. invest in, checklists in the credit assessThe UN Guiding Principles on ment process, support with the help of Business and Human Rights. In our own operations, the risk is mainly linked to the Bank as an employer and the Bank’s business sector-speciﬁc sustainability risks estabChildren’s Rights and Business culture, as well as relationships with suppliers. lished by external experts, documentation Principles. requirements, systems support. The UN Global Compact. Policy documents for responsible investUK Modern Slavery Act. ment and responsible credits. Financial crime These risks are chieﬂy associated with customers’ Legal consequences, resultMandatory training to raise employEU legislation for anti-money use of the Bank’s products and services for ing in substantial ﬁnes or ees’ awareness, constant revision and laundering and customer due criminal activity. This refers primarily to money other sanctions, or claims for strengthening of related processes. diligence. laundering, corruption, terrorist ﬁnancing, various damages. Customer due diligence, including types of fraud, tax crime and other serious ﬁnanReputational damage and customer committees and transaction cial crime. weaker ﬁnancial position. monitoring. Information Risks linked to deﬁciencies in the management of Weakened conﬁdence, ﬁnanAdministrative systems, such as rules ISO 27001 international standard. security and personal information and company information cial consequences arising and instructions, as well as technical Standard of Good Practice proIT security with respect to availability, accuracy, conﬁdentiality from ﬁnes or other sanctions, security solutions. duced by Information Security and/or traceability. or claims for damages. Continuous follow-up of events which Forum (ISF). occur both within and outside our operations, for example. through collaboration in international forums. Employee training and informing customers, in order to increase awareness of the threats and risks related to information security. 56 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Key figures for sustainability Based on the materiality analysis for deﬁning Handelsbanken’s most signiﬁcant sustainability topics, a number of relevant key ﬁgures have been compiled in a table. The key ﬁgures are organised in the same way as the Bank’s material sustainability topics and are grouped in seven sub-areas. Key figures for sustainability The Bank and its customers 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Customer satisfaction, private customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 71.5 72.3 68.9 67.6 72.4 UK 84.6 83.9 85.2 83.5 83.6 Norway 77.2 78.1 77.5 74.2 75.8 Denmark 75.7 77.8 76.8 77.7 77.7 Finland 81.2 80.1 79.6 80.1 81.9 The Netherlands 77.7 78.0 78.0 74.1 73.5 Customer satisfaction, corporate customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 66.5 67.7 67.5 69.4 74.1 UK 83.1 82.6 83.8 81.6 80.7 Norway 72.9 71.5 72.5 69.9 69.7 Denmark 71.9 71.8 72.3 75.7 72.2 Finland 80.0 79.1 78.7 77.5 76.4 The Netherlands 75.3 73.5 72.4 71.9 72.8 The Bank’s role in the community 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Number of branches and meeting places 769 779 807 819 848 Number of local collaborations and activities > 800 > 600 > 400 > 400 Only local bank, home markets 68 63 66 59 68 Total taxes and government fees, SEK bn 12 11 10 8 8 Credit losses as a percentage of lending 0.04 0.04 0.08 0.09 0.09 Total emissions of greenhouse gases, CO2e tonnes 9 193 9 628 9 878 9 432 11 580 of which Scope 1 – direct emissions 27 41 86 51 28 of which Scope 2 – indirect emissions 5 422 5 488 5 562 5 416 7 504 of which Scope 3 – other indirect emissions 3 744 4 099 4 230 3 965 4 048 Responsible investment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Assets under management in funds with enhanced sustainability criteria, SEK bn 576 311 221 166 93 Proportion of assets under management in funds 1 with: enhanced sustainability criteria, % 90 44 32 29 17 negative screening regarding controversial sectors, % 90 44 32 29 17 negative screening regarding companies that violate international standards and conventions, % 90 44 32 29 17 Fund assets under management in companies: with positive screening regarding sustainability aspects (ESG), SEK bn 3.9 3.0 2.4 0.7 0.7 with screening regarding environmental aspects, SEK bn 0.3 Fund assets under management in green, sustainable and social bonds, SEK bn 22.2 Fund assets under management in impact investing, SEK bn 2 4.4 1.8 Proportion of fund assets under management evaluated according to PRI, % 3 100 100 100 100 100 Total number of dialogues for engagement 563 507 251 140 Number of funds with a quantiﬁed carbon footprint and ofﬁcial comparative ﬁgure 72 31 34 26 24 Responsible financing 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Green bonds – volume arranged, SEK bn 16.3 20.0 8.3 5.2 3.0 Green loans outstanding volume, SEK bn 7.4 1.8 0.3 Eligible green assets, SEK bn 12.1 10.1 Equator Principles Project ﬁnancing, number of loans Category A 0 0 0 0 Category B 1 1 0 0 Category C 0 0 0 0 Project-related corporate loans, number of loans Category A 0 0 0 0 Category B 0 0 0 0 Category C 0 0 0 0 1 Fund volumes are based on Handelsbanken’s own mutual funds in the Nordic market and mutual funds managed by Optimix (the Netherlands), and the proportion of total fund volume refers to volume after eliminations on consolidation. 2 Investments that generate measurable, positive impacts on society, combined with a ﬁnancial return. 3 Requirement that fund managers, internal and external, have signed the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 57 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Key figures for sustainability, cont. The Bank as an employer 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Average number of employees 12 548 12 307 11 832 11 759 11 819 Gender breakdown, percentage women/men All employees 50/50 49/51 49/51 50/50 50/50 Managers 40/60 39/61 40/60 40/60 39/61 Executive management 4 14/86 34/66 32/68 29/71 22/78 Percentage of managers recruited internally, Group 92 96 92 93 93 Percentage of managers recruited internally, Sweden 97 99 97 99 99 Staff turnover, Group % 5.0 3.9 4.7 4.0 3.0 Sickness absence rate, % Sweden 3.0 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.0 UK 1.5 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.1 Norway 4.2 3.8 3.0 3.1 3.6 Denmark 2.3 1.2 1.0 1.3 1.3 Finland 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.9 1.4 The Netherlands 2.3 2.7 2.8 2.9 1.8 Number of cases reported to national equality ombudsman or a corresponding ofﬁcial body (against the Bank in its capacity as employer) 0 0 1 0 0 Percentage of staff covered by a work environment survey, % 5 100 100 100 100 100 Number of employees who carried out a work environment survey 10 364 10 181 7 388 5 929 4 261 Total outcome (scale 1–4) 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 for Trust 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.3 for Respect 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 for Balance 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 for Communication 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.4 for Security 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.6 for Physical work environment 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 for Competence 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.4 3.5 for Pride 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Staff covered by a periodic performance evaluation, % 100 100 100 100 100 The Bank’s business culture 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Proportion of suppliers (purchased volume in %) that have signed the Bank’s code of conduct, or whose code the Bank has approved 76 75 73 73 Percentage of employees who have completed training in anti-corruption, and prevention of money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing, % 6 Sweden 97 91 UK 98 96 Norway 94 93 Denmark 97 97 Finland 95 89 The Netherlands 98 80 Other countries 98 90 Total business travel, million kilometres 29.6 32.3 31.9 27.7 28.3 Business travel per employee, kilometres 2 424 2 703 2 782 2 437 2 483 Number of video conferences 218 095 129 616 41 260 21 382 16 446 The Bank as an investment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Handelsbanken’s green bond, volume, EUR m 500 500 Return on equity, % 11.9 12.8 12.3 13.1 13.5 Economic value creation (in accordance with GRI), SEK bn 41.3 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 Sustainability analysts’ assessments of Handelsbanken SAM – new method 7 74 77 77 RobecoSAM – old method 80 82 73 IMUG positive (B) 8 neutral CCC8 neutral CC 8 positive (B) 9 neutral CC 9 neutral CC 9 Sustainalytics 78 77 74 71 69 ISS-oekom C (Prime) C (Prime) C(not Prime) C(not Prime) C(not Prime) MSCI ESG rating AA A A A A 4 For 2015–2018, the ﬁgures refer to Senior Management. 5 Information regarding the work environment surveys for 2015 and 2016 refers to Sweden. 6 Percentage of employees assigned to the training programme. 7 The method was revised for 2018. The 2017 results are those recalculated by RobecoSAM using the new method. 8 Non-covered bonds. 9 Covered bonds. 58 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Facts: The Bank employees who provide customers with advice concerning investments and insurance have releparties affected. This data do not include cases under the General Data Protection Regulation and its customers vant, up-to-date skills. Handelsbanken has broad expertise in investment advisory services and (GDPR), introduced in May 2018. The Bank’s information security regulations are CUSTOMER SATISFACTION complies with the regulatory requirements from based on the Standard of Good Practice develHandelsbanken considers customer satisfaction the EU and local supervisory authorities in all six oped by Information Security Forum (ISF), an surveys very important. Every year, EPSI Rating, of the Bank’s home markets. Handelsbanken has organisation which counts most of the largest which includes SQI (Swedish Quality Index), almost 4,400 employees permitted to provide companies in the world as members. The work carries out independent surveys of customer investment advice. All are licensed to provide with information and IT security is pursued syssatisfaction. The results of this year’s surveys advisory services concerning ﬁnancial instrutematically, and we apply a process where risk showed that Handelsbanken has more satisﬁed ments, and they update their knowledge every analysis plays a central role. The risk analyses private and corporate customers than the averyear through mandatory professional training. employ the ISF’s Information Risk Analysis age for the banking sector in all six of the Bank’s Methodology (IRAM). home markets. Development of the product offering The conditions for IT security are constantly One of the Bank’s main contributions to more changing. Thus, Handelsbanken needs to continuCustomer satisfaction, Handelsbanken 2019 sustainable development is embodied in the ously evaluate and take a stand on new potential Private Sector Corporate Sector customers average customers average ﬁnancial products the Bank offers. Thus, it is vital threats in this area. By continuously following up to take sustainability into account when approvevents which occur both within and outside our Sweden 71.5 67.3 66.5 64.1 ing new and amended products. The process for operations, it is easier to take the right action at the UK 84.6 72.1 83.1 70.4 Norway 77.2 70.9 72.9 70.6 approving new and amended products and serright time. To this end, the Bank participates and Denmark 75.7 70.0 71.9 70.3 vices is based on the Bank’s policy for products collaborates in international forums. For several Finland 81.2 73.6 80.0 72.2 and services and adheres to a checklist describyears, Handelsbanken has been a ‘listed team’ in The ing the product’s characteristics, risks and other the Trusted Introducer community (a European Netherlands 77.7 68.2 75.3 63.5 relevant information. The process is also intended network for IT security) and a full member of the Source: SKI/EPSI 2019. to ensure the Bank’s sustainability topics are Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams taken into account. (FIRST). Handelsbanken also participates in FIDIManaging customer complaints FINANS, a forum for sharing information between Customer complaints must be dealt with corINTEGRITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY – the government, the business community and rectly, carefully and as efﬁciently as possible. First, INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY other relevant organisations in Sweden regarding the complaint is managed by the local branch Work with the Bank’s information security and IT information security in the ﬁnancial sector. The responsible. If the customer wishes to pursue the security involves protecting customers’ informaforum is led by the Swedish Civil Contingencies matter, all regional banks in each home market tion and transactions and also the Bank’s IT Agency (MSB). have a designated complaints ofﬁcer. In addition, environment. Information security covers adminthere are complaints ofﬁcers at the Group level. istrative systems, such as rules and instructions, Complaints ofﬁcers at the Group level regularly as well as technical security solutions. Facts: The Bank’s report to executive management and product owners. Information about how the Bank manages It is important that the Bank actively works with IT security to meet possible threats, and that role in the community complaints is available from the Bank’s websites. there are procedures for managing changes in the FINANCIAL ASPECTS IT environment so that no breaches occur. In the Pages 77–236 of Handelsbanken’s Annual Report Financial advisory services case of deﬁcient processing, or if information contain a complete account of the ﬁnancial For ﬁnancial advisory services in conjunction with were to be released by mistake, the conseaspects of the operations, but the most important granting credit, investments and in insurance quences could be serious, including weakened key ﬁgures connected with ﬁnancial aspects and mediation, the Bank always considers the conﬁdence in the Bank or ﬁnancial losses. sustainability are reported below and on pages customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial circumThe Group Chief Executive establishes guide57–58. stances. Based on this, we can provide guidance lines for information security at Handelsbanken. on ﬁnancing, payments or investments adapted All employees of the Bank are responsible for Lower credit losses to each customer’s requirements. We focus on compliance with the rules for protection of inforHandelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This the customer’s needs – not individual products or mation, and all managers are responsible for means that the quality of credits must never be services. compliance with the rules in their own area of neglected in favour of achieving higher volume When providing investment advice, we adapt responsibility. Information security work is or a higher margin. the proposal to the customer’s goals, interests, pursued in accordance with the ISO 27001 savings horizon and attitude to risk. We consider international standard. In June 2019, HandelsOutcome it essential for the customer to understand the banken’s organisation for information security, as Credit losses were SEK -1,045 million (-881). Credit risk associated with each type of ﬁnancial well as four essential processes within IT produclosses as a proportion of lending were 0.04 per instrument and also to have the knowledge and tion, were certiﬁed according to ISO 27001. cent (0.04). For the most recent 10-year period – experience needed to invest in the product or The Bank’s information security and IT security that is, since 2010 – the Bank’s average credit loss service selected. The information the Bank prowork, as well as its management of sensitive ratio has been 0.07 per cent. This can be compared vides to customers must be clear, factual and information, is also governed by international and to the average of the ﬁve other major banks in the easy to understand, and the terms and conditions national legislation. Nordic region: 0.15 per cent. for the Bank’s services must be clear and not In 2019, 22 incidents (26) relating to customer changed arbitrarily. We also discuss customer privacy or poor management of customer data Handelsbanken Group 2019 2018 sustainability preferences, and inform the cuswere reported. None of the reports was received Proﬁt before credit losses, SEK m 22 821 22 880 tomer about Handelsbanken’s sustainability via government authorities. A total of 18 were Net credit losses, SEK m -1 045 -881 work and the products with speciﬁc sustainability complaints received from customers which were Operating proﬁt, SEK m 21 796 22 013 criteria that we offer. found to be substantiated by the Head of InforReturn on equity for total The regulations for ﬁnancial advisory services mation Security, while four were identiﬁed interoperations 11.9% 12.8% and insurance mediation require that all nally. All cases have been managed with the Credit loss ratio 0.04% 0.04% H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 59 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Credit losses as a percentage of lending Luxembourg and Hong Kong are not subject to Total taxes and government fees 2019, SEK 11.8 bn % local tax regimes that allow for lower tax rates. Corporate tax 1.2 The Bank’s international branches in Luxembourg (current tax) 52% 1.0 and Hong Kong conduct real operations with Social security costs 19% proﬁts from local business operations for which Fees for resolution 0.8 fund and deposit the Bank is taxed locally in accordance with the guarantee 18% 0.6 normal local tax regulations. Non-deductible VAT 11% 0.4 MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN 0.2 TRAFFICKING Taxes withheld for customers and employees 2019, SEK 6.9 bn 0.0 Handelsbanken does not accept any form of child Taxes withheld labour, slave labour or human trafﬁcking. It works for customers 42.2% -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 to prevent the occurrence of these in the Group’s Taxes withheld for employees 57.8% supply chain and in other companies with which Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Handelsbanken has business relations. The UK * Only Swedish banks are included for the period up to and including 2000. Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires that certain organisations annually state the actions that they Capital The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 Geographical information 2019 ratio under normal circumstances should exceed Fees for the by 1–3 percentage points the common equity tier Social Swedish resolution Average 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank Operating Corporate tax security fund, deposit number of SEK m Income proﬁt (current tax)* costs guarantee, etc. Assets employees by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Sweden 26 621 13 886 -4 100 -1 628 -1 567 2 612 909 7 401** The tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must also UK 7 185 3 074 -830 -226 -163 360 677 2 442 be at least 1 percentage point above the total Norway 4 336 2 646 -615 -136 -209 316 359 777 capital requirement communicated to the Bank Denmark 2 312 849 -167 -104 -84 143 762 651 Finland 2 214 1 143 -201 -13 -107 262 504 617 by the Supervisory Authority for the respective The Netherlands 1 022 326 -86 -41 -34 66 371 336 capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must fulﬁl any USA 288 43 -20 -7 340 105 62 Luxembourg 192 80 -20 -7 -1 43 596 46 other capital requirements set by the regulators. China 123 -84 -11 5 300 80 Germany 100 -15 -10 -5 0 14 011 38 Outcome France 64 31 -5 -2 0 4 002 6 Singapore 49 -85 3 6 444 30 At year-end, the common equity tier 1 ratio was Poland 40 -57 -2 0 1 118 33 18.5 per cent (16.8). The Bank estimates that the Estonia 12 -14 -6 0 215 19 Latvia 4 -13 -1 0 482 5 Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s comLithuania 2 -14 0 0 45 5 mon equity tier 1 capital requirement at that time Eliminations -1 108 233 was 15.8 per cent. The Bank’s capitalisation was Group 44 564 21 796 -6 062 -2 178 -2 165 3 069 667 12 548 thus within the target range. * Current tax is the same as paid tax in all material respects. ** Includes eight employees at the Bank’s representative ofﬁces, as speciﬁed on page 253 of the 2019 Annual Report. Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV % The table, which is laid out according to GRI principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is 25 distributed among various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Direct economic value generated and distributed (in accordance with 20 GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders 15 SEK bn 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 10 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers 5 Income after credit losses and before fees for the Swedish resolution fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 41.3 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 0 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 Value created by serving customers 41.3 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 * The common equity tier 1 ratio was affected when the DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority moved the risk Employees weight ﬂoor for mortgage loans in Sweden to Pillar 1, at Salaries 9.3 8.7 8.4 8.1 8.0 31 December 2018. Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation (incl. social security costs)* 0.8 0.9 Social security costs and other staff costs 5.1 3.9 3.3 4.4 3.7 Political independence Cost of employees 14.4 12.6 12.5 12.5 12.6 Handelsbanken is not allied to any political Public authorities and society at large parties. The Bank does not provide any ﬁnancial Suppliers** 8.2 7.4 6.5 5.9 5.7 support to any political party, nor does it make Corporate tax (current tax) 6.1 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.9 any other type of political donation. Deferred tax -1.2 -0.8 -0.5 -0.8 -0.6 Fees to the Swedish resolution fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 2.2 2.8 2.0 1.3 1.1 Government bank support received Taxes and distributed economic value Participation in government guarantee programmes Handelsbanken wishes to provide transparent To society 15.3 14.8 13.4 11.6 11.1 ﬁnancial reporting on how the economic value Shareholders generated by our operations is distributed. The Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 10.7 14.6 9.7 11.4 11.1 Bank pays and reports tax based on local regulaNew share issue tions in the countries where it operates. HandelsTransactions with the shareholders 10.7 14.6 9.7 11.4 11.1 Reinvested economic value (‘remaining in the Bank’) 0.9 -1.9 2.4 2.2 5.0 banken complies with the OECD Transfer Pricing * The preliminary provision made in 2018 and reversed early in 2019 has been excluded from this table. Guidelines, such that the Group’s earnings are ** Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. taxed where value is created. The Bank also preThe table of direct economic value generated and distributed shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations during the pares a country-by-country report showing the year was distributed among various stakeholders. The calculation is based on the ﬁgures in the income statement and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. The distributed items in the table are based on a broader value created where salaries, depreciation, amortisation, and other Group’s earnings and tax in the countries where administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the operating proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a basic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic systems in which the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable its operations are run. The Bank’s operations in monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, and thus how the Bank contributes to development in society. 60 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION have taken to ensure that modern slavery and research in Sweden. In 2019, 208 grants (189) work is continually done at Handelsbanken to human trafﬁcking do not occur in their supply were awarded for a total of SEK 215 million (215). steadily reduce the environmental impact of operchains or in their operations. Internal instructions At the end of 2019, the foundations’ combined ations. This is monitored using an array of key and procedures are in place so that employees capital was SEK 8,268 million (6,684). ﬁgures that show how the work is progressing. understand how to act if they are faced with Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial Handelsbanken’s goal is to actively work to minior suspect a case of modern slavery or human chair in accounting at the Stockholm School of mise its direct environmental impact by constantly trafﬁcking. Economics and provided ﬁnancial support to the developing its environmental activities. We are More information and a statement on the Swedish House of Finance (SHoF). working to achieve this by boosting resource Modern Slavery Act 2015 may be found at Handelsbanken also supports a research proefﬁciency and recycling, for example, and by handelsbanken.co.uk. ject at the Stockholm School of Economics where taking environmental impact into account in our studies and analyses are performed on the most purchasing and business travel. One concrete ECONOMIC RESEARCH AND EDUCATION important factors in creating customer satisfacexample of this work is the Bank’s company car Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a tion and also in monitoring the link between guidelines, stipulating that company cars that are number of occasions awarded grants for ecoloyalty and proﬁtability. neither electrically powered nor plug-in hybrids nomic research, mainly through allocations to two may only be selected in exceptional cases. independent research foundations: Tore Browaldhs DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND stiftelse and Jan Wallanders och Tom Hedelius CLIMATE IMPACT Energy and carbon dioxide stiftelse. In accordance with the Paris Agreement, emisThe Bank’s direct impact derives mainly from Together, these foundations are one of the sions linked to our own operations must be energy consumption, business travel and transmost important sources of funding for economic reduced over time. Systematic environmental port as well as use of resources such as paper. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA General information Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Number of branches reporting 758 768 806 809 827 791 Total ofﬁce space reported m2 452 821 450 789 450 532 456 838 455 176 458 071 Number of employees covered by environmental data 1 persons 12 217 11 959 11 471 11 373 11 407 11 070 Proportion of total number of employees % 97 97 97 97 97 96 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2e) Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Emissions Scope 1² tonnes 27 41 86 51 28 47 Emissions Scope 2 3 tonnes 5 422 5 488 5 562 5 416 7 504 11 385 Emissions Scope 2 without GO electricity tonnes 9 150 9 401 8 775 9 287 9 415 11 987 Emissions Scope 3 4 tonnes 3 744 4 099 4 230 3 965 4 048 4 787 Total emissions 5 tonnes 9 193 9 628 9 878 9 432 11 580 16 219 Total emissions per employee tonnes/employee 0.75 0.81 0.86 0.83 1.02 1.47 Emissions of greenhouse gases by source (CO2e) Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Emissions from energy use (in buildings) tonnes 5 443 5 520 5 639 5 460 7 525 11 427 Emissions from business travel tonnes 3 341 3 743 3 824 3 362 3 243 3 555 Emissions from other sources tonnes 409 365 415 610 812 1 237 Emissions by country (CO2e) Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Sweden tonnes 4 300 4 789 4 532 4 456 4 632 7 336 UK tonnes 2 751 2 727 3 011 2 710 4 663 4 001 Norway tonnes 400 445 476 421 430 848 Denmark tonnes 534 558 578 609 680 1 924 Finland tonnes 631 621 659 689 689 1 716 The Netherlands tonnes 577 488 622 547 486 394 Energy consumption Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 99 076 102 494 100 114 103 642 105 060 118 923 Electricity consumption MWh 41 404 44 101 43 669 45 835 47 504 53 704 Change in electricity consumption from preceding year % -6.1 1.0 -4.7 -3.5 -5.8 Proportion renewable electricity 6 % 100 100 99 99 92 80 Total electricity consumption per employee MWh/employee 3.4 3.7 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.9 Use of heating and cooling MWh 57 672 58 393 56 445 57 807 57 556 65 219 Business travel Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Total business travel km 29 613 756 32 328 350 31 909 038 27 719 588 28 319 984 29 697 980 Business travel per employee km/employee 2 424 2 703 2 782 2 437 2 483 2 683 Travel by air km 19 417 459 21 872 038 21 531 214 18 034 955 17 481 188 18 584 368 Travel by car km 6 451 782 6 970 747 7 558 391 7 080 995 7 163 074 7 203 086 Travel by train km 3 744 515 3 485 565 2 819 433 2 603 638 3 675 722 3 910 526 Resource efﬁciency Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Base year 2013* Paper use tonnes 1 138 1 111 1 200 1 214 1 465 1 605 Paper use per employee tonnes/employee 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.13 0.15 1 Number of employees according to the definition in the Annual Report/number of full-time employees. 2 Scope 1 – Direct emissions from stationary and mobile combustion of diesel, city gas and Eo1 fuel oil. 3 Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling. 4 Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions from business travel, transport and use of paper. 5 Emission factors (see method description) are updated for the respective year when the relevant figure becomes available. This also applies historically. 2013–2018 have been adjusted due to incorrectly reported data from one unit. 6 Refers to electricity from wind power and hydroelectric power. * The year 2013 was when the Bank acquired its current structure, with six home markets, and is the base year for Handelsbanken’s comparisons of emissions over time. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 61 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION We are working to minimise the carbon dioxide service vehicles. Scope 2 covers indirect emisHandelsbanken has an agreement with Vipps, the emissions generated by our operations. In 2019, sions from purchased electricity, heating and country’s leading payment app. Customers in the carbon dioxide emissions from Handelsbanken’s cooling. Emissions in both scopes are calculated Netherlands can use iDEAL, the country’s standard operations totalled 9,193 tonnes. Since 2013, the on the basis of speciﬁc consumption ﬁgures for for online payments. In Finland, our customers can Bank has reduced its emissions by 43 per cent. each branch or unit, multiplied by an emission use the market-leading MobilePay payment app. The Bank’s electricity consumption decreased factor. When speciﬁc ﬁgures are unavailable, The majority of the Bank’s home markets have by 6 per cent in 2019 compared with 2018. The consumption is estimated using adjacent units in common that we offer our customers personal proportion of renewable electricity is 100 per cent or energy statistics. technical support, 24 hours a day. When their for all home markets. Scope 3 covers indirect emissions outside our branch is closed, our customers in Sweden can organisation. For this, the information is received also receive personal service by phone in any of 20 Environmental work during the year directly from our paper suppliers, travel agency different languages. Personal service by phone is Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly and transporters. Emissions from car travel are also offered outside ofﬁce hours in other markets. being made which, together, are reducing envisupplemented with unit-speciﬁc information from ronmental and climate impact. the Bank’s company cars. Cash services Examples of actions carried out in 2019: We measure our material environmental impact Handelsbanken is a part owner of Bankomat AB, • Branches and central departments use an in our six home markets. These markets reprea leading operator within cash handling in environmental checklist, which consists of sent 97 per cent of the Bank’s total number of Sweden. Bankomat AB invests in ATMs – both concrete actions for reducing environmental employees. The calculations include the relevant freestanding and at cash centres – throughout impact. This was launched in all six of the greenhouse gases, primarily CO2, CH4 and N2O. Sweden. In addition to Bankomat’s ATMs, in about Bank’s home markets during the year. Certain emissions are not included in the calcula562 locations, our customers can withdraw cash • Business travel by train in Sweden has tions, such as emissions from coolants, commutfrom other ATMs that accept MasterCard and Visa. increased by 53 per cent while air travel has ing, customers’ and employees’ leased cars, and In addition to withdrawals, private customers decreased. from the Bank’s investments. The Bank’s investcan make deposits at Bankomat ATMs in 161 • In 2019, the number of video conferences that ments are analysed in asset management’s locations. can replace business travel was up by 68 per climate reports, in accordance with the TCFD Cash services are offered at 160 of our 383 cent from 2018. recommendations. The Bank’s CPD reporting branches in Sweden. Our customers can also • Work to reduce paper consumption continued, provides a more detailed description of emission order banknotes online, by phone or at branches. and many print-outs linked to the mortgage calculations. The banknotes may be picked up at Postnord loan business have been moved to the cusservice points throughout Sweden. Most of tomer’s online inbox. Since 2013, the number Activity Source emission factors Handelsbanken’s card customers can also withof paper communications to customers has Stationary combustion National authorities draw cash at almost 1,300 ICA shops around gone down by 16 per cent. Mobile combustion Unit-speciﬁc ﬁgures Sweden, with no purchase required. Electricity consumption National authorities & external To increase availability and offer cash handling Climate compensation consultant around the clock for our customers in Denmark Handelsbanken works constantly to minimise the Heating & cooling Local energy producers & trade and Finland, we collaborate with external parties associations so that our customers can access more ATMs for emissions generated by our operations. The Bank Transport Figures from service provider also purchases carbon offsets for the reported cash withdrawals and deposits. Business travel Unit-speciﬁc ﬁgures & ﬁgures from CO2 emissions generated by the operations. The service provider Bank purchases carbon offsets through projects with veriﬁed climate beneﬁts which have been Resource consumption Figures from service provider Greenhouse gases GWP factors CO2: 1, CH4: 25 & Facts: Responsible registered with the UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The projects are certiﬁed based on N2O: 298. Source: IPCC Fourth Assessment Report financing the Gold Standard, a certiﬁcation endorsed by Handelsbanken must act responsibly and with a more than 80 non-governmental organisations SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD long-term perspective. The Bank has clear guide(NGOs) that ensures the projects contribute to Handelsbanken continues to digitalise the Bank lines for its business relations regarding human long-term sustainable development. and adapt to the wishes and needs of our cusrights, working conditions, and environmental Through our customers’ leasing, Handelstomers. This in turn leads to new expectations on and climate-related concerns. banken indirectly owns many different vehicles. our meeting places, where new digital solutions The emissions from these have not yet been help simplify everyday tasks and streamline serBUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS included in our total reported emissions, but vice and prompt new services and solutions that Guidelines regarding armaments and Handelsbanken Finland is nonetheless leading by beneﬁt the Bank’s customers. defence industry example, and has chosen to compensate for the Handelsbanken’s guidelines for business relationemissions generated by the Finnish leasing ﬂeet. Digital solutions ships with the armaments and defence industry The emissions have been estimated with the help In Sweden, Handelsbanken collaborated with state that the Bank must not have business relations of Finnish emissions statistics, and Handelsbanken other Swedish banks to develop the Swish paywith companies that manufacture or trade in weapFinland compensates using emission allowances in ment service and the BankID electronic ID system. ons that are prohibited under international convena UN-registered, Indian wind power project, which Using Swish, all our private customers in Sweden tions. This includes biological weapons, chemical is also certiﬁed according to the Gold Standard. can quickly and simply make payments in real weapons, anti-personnel mines and cluster munitime to individuals, companies, associations and tions. Nor can Handelsbanken have business relaMethod description for environmental data organisations that are linked to the service. Using tions with companies that manufacture or trade in Climate-based calculations are made according BankID, public authorities, organisations, companuclear weapons, or with companies that export to the GHG Protocol. The calculations include nies and banks in Sweden can identify private weapons to countries under a UN or EU embargo. emissions from sources that are owned or operaindividuals, making it possible to execute digital tively controlled by the Bank, which are divided agreements, orders and conﬁrmations. Guidelines regarding the environment into three categories, referred to as scopes. Handelsbanken Denmark has a distribution and climate change Scope 1 covers direct emissions from the stationagreement with MobilePay, whereby our customHandelsbanken has guidelines for business ary combustion of diesel, city gas and Eo1 fuel oil ers can easily make payments using their decisions related to the environment and climate from backup generators, heat generation in our smartphones in shops, in online stores, in apps change. These state that, with respect to the own properties, and mobile emissions from our and to other users of the service. In Norway, companies with which the Bank has business 62 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION relations, Handelsbanken must be aware of, and EXPOSURE TO CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS INVESTMENT PROCESSES act upon, the risks linked to climate change, enviIn late 2017, Handelsbanken carried out a Integrating sustainability ronmental damage, corruption and human rights. screening of the Bank’s lending to energy producCriteria related to the environment, social issues The guidelines also state that Handelsbanken tion, which showed that such loans represent and corporate governance (ESG) are integrated must not directly ﬁnance new mining of coal or only about 1 per cent of total loans to the public. with ﬁnancial criteria to produce better background new coal power plants. Nor will the Bank initiate Of this lending, about 12 per cent was to fossil documentation for decisions in the investment new business relations with companies that are fuel-based production, about 7 per cent to process. The following three methods are either active in coal mining or are dependent on nuclear power, and some 81 per cent to energy common starting points for this work. coal, and that are not working actively to ensure a produced from renewable sources. A similar transition to renewable energy production. screening was undertaken at the end of the third Inclusion quarter of 2019. The results showed that there Active equity and ﬁxed income management Guidelines regarding business relations was an even lower proportion of lending to energy – selecting companies in forestry and farming production. In active asset management, analysis is Handelsbanken has guidelines for how the Bank paramount. Finding and investing in the right should approach business relationships in forProportion companies is key. The sustainability analysis estry and farming. The guidelines specify which Loans to the public, of total 31 December 2019 SEK bn lending, % helps identify risks in companies’ business aspects we must take into consideration when models and ﬁnd companies at the forefront of granting credits, for example, that we expect Private individuals 1 152 50.2 the transition to sustainable development. Our customers, suppliers and business partners to of which mortgage loans 939 41.0 active asset management screens companies in respect the rights of employees, minimise negaHousing co-operative associations 245 10.7 two dimensions: the company’s sustainability tive environmental impact, preserve biological Property management companies 647 28.2 Manufacturing 29 1.3 performance and the company’s products and diversity, prevent deforestation and protect high services. Retail 29 1.3 conservation value forest. Hotel and restaurant 9 0.4 Sea transport 6 0.3 Companies in transition Guidelines regarding business relations As part of our sustainability work, we have elected Other transport and communication 11 0.5 in the tobacco industry to allow the inclusion of ‘companies in transition’ Construction 19 0.8 Handelsbanken has guidelines to clarify the in our actively managed mutual funds. These comElectricity, gas and water 19 0.8 Bank’s approach to companies in the tobacco panies are in the process of transitioning their busiAgriculture, hunting and forestry 19 0.8 industry. This states the importance of companess operations from fossil fuel energy production Other services 20 0.9 nies in the tobacco industry with which the Bank to renewable sources. There can thus be an exempHolding, investment and insurance has business relations, having processes to companies 58 2.5 tion from the principle of excluding fossil fuels for a address the relevant risks that exist over the Other corporate lending 20 0.9 temporary period, if the company fulﬁls our criteria whole life cycle of the product. The Bank must Sovereigns and municipalities 10 0.4 for qualiﬁcation as a company in transition: not to have any business relations with compaTotal loans to the public 2 293 100.0 • The company produces and/or distributes nies involved in cigarette production. electric power. Green registry • The company’s plans for the development of Guidelines for managing taxes Handelsbanken has built up a green registry, its operations are clearly deﬁned, with the Handelsbanken’s guidelines for managing taxes consisting of credits that ﬁnance green projects objective of reducing its carbon dioxide emisstate, among other things, that the Bank must not and that comply with the requirements and criteria sions in line with the Paris Agreement. participate in transactions, through granting credstipulated in Handelsbanken’s green bond • The company’s current operations must not its or otherwise with respect to customers, framework. At the time of issue in summer consist primarily of fossil fuel energy. directly or indirectly, which constitute a step in tax 2018, the assets in the green registry totalled • The company’s current rate of investment must evasion, or in transactions with no business purSEK 10 billion. At the end of 2019, the volume emphasise a transition from fossil fuels to pose, undertaken only to obtain tax advantages had increased to SEK 12.1 billion. In addition, renewable energy. in conﬂict with the objective of the tax regulations. Stadshypotek had green assets totalling SEK 2.4 This also applies in relation to suppliers and other billion at year-end. Index management – selecting indexes business partners. If there is doubt, the Bank Index management takes a rules-based must refrain from participating. approach, in which the manager foregoes company analysis and, instead, makes investments in Loans to the public 2019 – Geographic breakdown Breakdown of credits in green registry line with the fund’s index. Therefore, our index Green buildings 50% Sweden 61.6% Sustainable transportation 18% funds’ sustainability criteria for companies that UK 11.5% Pollution prevention are included as well as companies excluded are Norway 12.3% and control 18% Renewable energy 6% built into the fund’s index methodology. Denmark 4.8% Environmentally We offer index funds that include companies Finland 6.4% sustainable management The Netherlands 2.5% based on their sustainability work. This selection of living natural resources 5% Other countries 0.9% Sustainable water and is based on an evaluation of companies’ sustainwastewater management 3% ability performance. Companies that successfully Total: SEK 2,293 billion manage sustainability-related risks and opportunities are favoured. Indexes are produced as part Loans to the public 2019 – Sector breakdown Facts: Responsible of a collaboration between an index supplier and a supplier of sustainability analyses. Private individuals Corporates 50.2% 38.7% investment Mutual fund portfolios – inclusion of funds Housing co-operative Handelsbanken strives for sustainable developassociations 10.7% In our mutual fund portfolios, the asset managers ment – in ﬁnancial, social and environmental terms Sovereigns and do not invest directly in individual companies; municipalities 0.4% – in the companies in which the Bank invests on instead, they invest in other funds. These fund behalf of its customers. We do so based on the investments can include Handelsbanken’s own Bank’s policies and on our commitments under funds, and mutual funds from external fund Total: SEK 2,293 billion international conventions and guidelines. management companies. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 63 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Fund investments are selected and followed up in On a daily basis, the fund management compaCollaborations and industry initiatives a process that takes into account sustainability nies’ risk control function monitors that the funds We also take part in dialogues within the framecriteria at the mutual fund and fund management follow the provisions regarding the exclusion of work of international collaboration and sector company levels. Demands are made on systemcompanies. The monitoring refers to excluded initiatives such as PRI and FAIRR. The dialogues atic sustainability work, which takes its starting sectors and also to the companies that do not often focus on speciﬁc topics, such as the point in international norms and conventions. comply with international norms and conventions. climate, deforestation or reduced use of antibiotics in food. In 2019, we participated in 381 such Handelsbanken Liv – inclusion of mutual funds Mutual funds that Handelsbanken Liv dialogues. Handelsbanken Liv includes mutual funds that inteexcludes grate sustainability in their investment process and Handelsbanken Liv avoids mutual funds that Engagement with fund providers make efforts to contribute to sustainable developinvest in companies with signiﬁcant operations Handelsbanken Liv strives to inﬂuence fund ment. Financial, social and environmental sustainwithin the mining of coal for combustion or in providers to pursue sustainable development. ability are taken into account in the assessment power companies that use coal for combustion By analysing and comparing the working methods and selection of which mutual funds are included in as a major source of energy. In addition, Handelsof the fund management companies, Handelsthe range. Investments in mutual funds and investbanken Liv avoids funds that invest in companies banken Liv can encourage fund providers to ment products are preceded by an assessment of involved in the manufacture or distribution of advance their own sustainability efforts. All funds the fund management company and the product nuclear weapons and weapons banned under on offer are regularly screened to identify holdings itself. For example, to be included among the international law, such as cluster munitions, in companies that systematically violate internamutual funds Handelsbanken offers, each fund anti-personnel mines, chemical weapons and tional norms in areas such as the climate, envimanagement company must support the UN’s biological weapons. In 2019, stricter fund selecronment, human rights, working conditions and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), must tion criteria were implemented for fossil fuels to corruption. If the evaluation of a mutual fund have policies or principles for systematic sustainensure that the managed assets are directed to indicates non-compliance with these norms, a ability work and must regularly follow up its mutual investments that contribute to a carbon-neutral dialogue is initiated with the fund manager with funds. Funds that integrate sustainability and have society. The criteria will be implemented in 2020 the aim of inﬂuencing them to review the fund’s an active process for engagement and corporate with a ﬁxed adaptation period. holdings. If the dialogue with the asset manager governance work are favoured in the selection. does not lead to a change, the mutual fund may be excluded from the offering as a result. In addiActive engagement tion to the regular screening, Handelsbanken Liv Exclusion Dialogues also works on certain focus areas, such as the Companies that our funds exclude Engagement is an important way for us to conclimate and gender equality. During the year, fund We exclude companies that do not act in line with tribute to sustainable development. This applies providers have been analysed in terms of their the values which we at Handelsbanken respect both to proactive dialogue aimed at encouraging climate-related work in both their management and that, in various ways, represent a risk of companies to improve their sustainability activities and reporting. These fund management compahindering the work towards meeting the targets and to dialogue with companies that we feel do nies have also been analysed in terms of their of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable not comply with the international norms and conwork to promote gender equality within the comDevelopment Goals. ventions that we are committed to. We pursue pany and the asset management organisation, Consequently, our funds with enhanced susthe engagement process on our own through and have been asked to report the carbon foottainability criteria, which constitute 90 per cent direct contact with companies as well as in colprint of their funds and to draw up ESG proﬁles. of the total fund volume, exclude the controversial laboration with other asset owners and through The result of these analyses constitutes supportsectors listed in the table below, as well as sector initiatives. ing documentation for the annual follow-up of the excluding companies which are deemed to be in In 2019, we engaged with 563 companies fund provider. breach of international norms and conventions through dialogues on speciﬁc sustainability Handelsbanken Liv’s fund selection committee regarding, among other things, the climate, envitopics. A list of these companies is published at compiles such reviews and prepares supporting ronment, human rights, corruption and working handelsbanken.com/responsible-investments. documentation to determine which mutual funds conditions. These dialogues have covered topics such as will be included or removed from its range of In addition to the above, our funds have long corruption, environmental destruction and labour funds. Decisions are made by the subsidiary’s excluded companies involved in banned weapons, laws. Chief Executive. nuclear weapons and coal mining. Examples of companies that we exclude Targeted dialogues are published at handelsbanken.com/ Corporate governance During the year, we held 37 targeted dialogues responsible-investments. Conscious, active and responsible governance in intended to proactively inﬂuence how companies the companies we select for our mutual funds is work with sustainability. We also gather informaan important part of our assignment as an asset 0% Max. 5% Max. 5% tion about sustainability work through our regular of income of income of income manager. As a shareholder, we have the opportucontacts with company management and from profrom profrom distrinity to inﬂuence the operations of a company Sector duction of: duction of: bution of: research analysts. In 2019, our asset managers through corporate governance. In addition to had meetings with some 1,500 companies, to Alcohol • • dialogues, this mainly takes the form of voting at monitor the companies’ performance and their Tobacco • • shareholders’ meetings, as well as representation business methods and opportunities. Cannabis • • on nomination committees. The goal is that the Commercial companies achieve optimum value performance gambling • • Dialogues together with other investors in the long term, beneﬁtting our fund savers. Weapons and Working with other investors, we engage compamilitary equipment • • nies through joint dialogues. Co-operation means Pornography • • Shareholders’ meetings strength and sends a clear signal to the compaFossil fuels* • • Our mutual funds invest globally in a great many nies that we expect these issues to be taken seri* For our actively managed funds, the exclusion of a companies spread over many markets. Shareously. The impetus for these dialogues is often company with operations in the fossil fuel industry holders’ meetings are one of our most useful suspected or conﬁrmed violations of international can be exempted if the company meets our requiremeans of inﬂuencing the majority of companies in norms and conventions, with the focus on the UN ments for qualification as a company in transition. which our funds invest. In general, we support One example could be a power company making the Global Compact’s core areas: human rights, shareholder proposals that promote corporate transition from fossil fuel energy production to renewlabour law, the environment and anti-corruption. able, thus reducing its environmental impact. sustainability and greater transparency in recording In 2019, we participated in 145 such dialogues. 64 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION and reporting the company’s climate impact and Incentive programmes with share-related comworking creates commitment and opportunities its work with human rights and labour law. ponents must always be decided by the sharefor every employee to make an impact on the In 2019, we voted at 814 ordinary and extraorholders’ meeting. These programmes can be Bank’s operations. dinary shareholders’ meetings distributed over 48 complex and, in many cases, are not sufﬁciently countries. Votes were cast either in person at the transparent. Together with Institutionella Ägares STAFF TURNOVER meetings or through proxies via electronic voting. Förening – IÄF (Institutional Owners Association The Bank takes a long-term approach to relationProxy voting enables us to reach more compafor Regulatory Issues in the Stock Market), ships with customers and employees. It sees nies and markets and thus inﬂuence companies’ Handelsbanken Fonder has prepared a docueach recruitment as important and long term. development to a greater extent. We also voted in ment with guidelines for how these programmes Employees with long experience and with broad favour of several shareholder proposals on sustainshould be presented. The demands include clearknowledge from the whole Bank make a vital conability, such as for better climate reporting and cut goals, a transparent structure and outcomes, tribution to the Bank having satisﬁed customers. analysis based on the two-degree target. and other existing programmes and remuneraExternal staff turnover was low for the six home tion. We receive many enquiries from companies markets, at 4.9 per cent (3.8), and 3.7 per cent Nomination committees about these programmes before they are pre(3.0) for Sweden. For the Group, it was 5.0 per The most direct impact we can have as owners is sented at the shareholders’ meeting, and we cent (3.9). by serving on nomination committees. In Swedish have detailed discussions about them. Before the Handelsbanken promotes long-term employcompanies where our actively managed mutual 2019 meetings, we had 25 dialogues on this subment by offering professional development for funds are a major shareholder, we exercise a parject. In addition, we analysed around 30 other every employee and opportunities to develop on ticularly active ownership role, most notably by programmes before voting. a personal level in different roles. If employment inﬂuencing the composition of the companies’ ceases for any reason other than retirement, the boards through work in their nomination commitDisputes and settlements Bank can offer outplacement with the help of tees. Guidelines for nomination committee work It may transpire that companies that the fund external partners. are sent to all companies that offer us a seat on management companies invest in, breach the their committee. The guidelines cover the analysis regulations in some way. This may be, for example, CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT of board expertise and needs, the importance of a violation of the marketplace rules, a breach Employees must have the necessary skills to help sustainability expertise, and a focus on achieving of competition regulations, or activities which our customers in the best way possible, to prodiversity and gender equality on the boards. constitute corruption. Such violations may result vide advice based on customers’ needs, and to Ahead of annual general meetings in 2019, in legal proceedings being brought against comply with the current policies and regulations. Handelsbanken Fonder participated in the work the companies, often as a class action. These Each year, an individual competency mapping is of 34 nomination committees. The boards proprocesses are most often resolved through a performed to identify any need for professional posed by these committees saw only a marginal settlement, with the company being compelled development, based on current duties. increase in the proportion of women, from an to compensate shareholders for losses incurred. In 2019, several training programmes were average of 34 per cent of board members in Settlements may also include demands for mandatory for all employees in the Group, cover2018, to 35 per cent in 2019. Although the averchanges in the company’s governance structure, ing anti-corruption, prevention of money launderage ﬁgure remains relatively unchanged, there in the form of changes to the board of directors, ing and terrorist ﬁnancing, and the General Data were major changes in many of the companies. or, for example, new or amended internal rules or Protection Regulation. New employees are The proportion of female board members control activities. The aim of monitoring and parrequired to complete the Ethics and Sustainability increased in seven of the companies but, unfortuticipating in such processes and settlements is training course, which all other employees are nately, decreased in nine. Going into the 2020 that the investing funds receive compensation. required to complete every second year. nomination committee season, we will be In 2019, a number of the funds managed by the increasing our focus on improving the gender fund management company received a total of HEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT equality on the companies’ boards. Handelsaround SEK 30 million from eight settlements in Our overall goal for health and the work environbanken Fonder appointed women to 65 per cent class actions in the US. ment is that employees should be able to feel of the nomination committees we served on in good, develop and perform at optimal capacity. 2019. We believe that this gives us a sound footCLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL To achieve our work environment goal, we target ing to increase the momentum towards achieving DISCLOSURES a number of health factors. gender-equal boards, but we remain humble, Handelsbanken has published climate reports in The work environment survey is based on our considering the size of the task. accordance with the TCFD recommendations. eight health factors, with ﬁve questions per factor. Reports have been prepared for Handelsbanken Each question is answered on a scale from one to Liv, Handelsbanken Fonder and Xact Kapitalförfour, where one means ‘Deﬁnitely not’ and four Corporate governance 2019 2018 2017 valtning. The climate reports describe how each means ‘Yes deﬁnitely’. See the table of key ﬁgures Nomination committees* 34 36 33 organisation takes into consideration climate on pages 57–58 for results from the Group’s work Shareholders’ meetings** 814 631 267 change in the areas of governance, strategy, risk environment surveys in 2019. Handelsbanken Fonder 473 382 142 management, targets and metrics. The results Guidelines and procedures are available for Xact Kapitalförvaltning 341 156 70 are presented in the climate reports available at dealing with and support in cases of poor health, * Refers to Handelsbanken Fonder. handelsbanken.com/responsible-investments. sickness or crisis situations. If additional expertise ** No. of occasions. Each fund management company Read more under Facts: The Bank as an investis needed, the Bank has special agreements with votes independently. Thus, the total number of instances ment, on page 69. external service providers. may include shareholders’ meetings at which more than During 2019, 22 (26) cases of harassment one fund management company voted. The totals for 2017 and 2018 include Luxembourg. The fund managewere investigated. ment operations in Luxembourg were discontinued in December 2018. Facts: The Bank For a summary of our voting activity, see the report at handelsbanken.com/responsible-investments. as an employer SICKNESS ABSENCE The sickness absence rate for staff in the Bank’s Handelsbanken’s values and strong corporate six home markets was 2.7 per cent (2.6). For staff culture are vital to our success. Our concept of in Sweden, the rate was 3.0 per cent (3.1), of Incentive programmes how to run a successful bank is based on trust which 1.2 per cent (1.3) referred to those on longIt has become more common for boards to and respect for the individual – both customers term sick leave. propose incentive programmes for senior manand employees. The Bank’s decentralised way of agement and employees in their companies. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 65 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Gender breakdown – Group Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2019 % The 65 % Sweden 2 UK Norway 3 Denmark Finland4 Netherlands 60 Salary contribution by employers1 2 15.3 7/20 11 17.2 10.5 55 Salary contribution by employees, 50 average 0 1.8 0 5.3 6.8/8.3 0 45 40 Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2018 The 35 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 % Sweden 2 UK Norway 3 Denmark Finland 4 Netherlands Percentage of women in the Group Salary contribution by employers 1 2 15.3 7/20 11 17.8 14.2 Percentage of men in the Group Salary contribution by employees, Percentage of managers in the Group – women average 0 1.8 0 5.3 6.4/7.9 0 Percentage of managers in the Group – men 1 In Sweden, the UK, Norway and the Netherlands, less than 100 per cent of salary is pension-qualifying, as there is an upper limit. 2 In Sweden, retirement pension plans are ‘deﬁned beneﬁt’. The premiums stated refer to deﬁned contribution supplementary pensions. Gender breakdown – branch managers 2019 3 For salaries corresponding to 0–7.1 Norwegian base amounts/For salaries corresponding to 7.1–12 Norwegian base amounts. 4 % Salary contributions refer to statutory public pensions. Salary contributions by employees are for up to/from 53 years of age. 100 Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions, pension commitments, and pension assets according to IAS 19 1 80 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 60 SEK m % SEK m % 40 Pension commitments 35 724 100 31 969 100 Earmarked pension assets 36 378 102 28 743 90 20 Assets part of Handelsbanken’s general 3 226 10 0 resources Sweden UK Norway Denmark Finland The Total Netherbranch 1 lands managers, For more detailed information, see the 2019 Annual Report, note G8. Women Men home markets GENDER EQUALITY foundation of the conditions the Bank offers to the Bank’s home markets, 60 per cent (61) were The promotion of gender equality and diversity is both temporary and permanent employees. At women and 40 per cent (39) men. Almost all of part of our core values and must be a natural and Handelsbanken, we have individual salaries which these employees returned to work. integral part of our daily work. We aim to have an are set in the salary dialogue review between In the Bank’s home markets, employees are inclusive work environment, where we respect and manager and employee conducted every year. offered credits on special terms. These credits are appreciate our different backgrounds, competenConditions and beneﬁts differ within the Group mainly granted for ﬁnancing residential property. cies and experiences. The goal is also to create and are adapted to the markets where the Bank The terms and conditions differ between countries and maintain an even gender balance within differoperates and to the collective agreements which Age and gender breakdown 2019 ent professional roles, working groups and units. have been entered into. At year-end, 40 per cent (39) of managers in Employees’ total remuneration should help to Age 65– the Group as a whole were women; the corredevelop the Handelsbanken Group’s competitive60–64 sponding ﬁgure for Sweden was 48 per cent (46). ness and proﬁtability by attracting, retaining and 55–59 Of the total number of employees in the Group, developing skilled staff, and ensuring the Bank’s 50–54 50 per cent (49) were women; the corresponding management succession. This is stated in the 45–49 ﬁgure for Sweden was 52 per cent (52). All Bank’s remuneration policy, determined by the 40–44 managers at Handelsbanken have personnel Bank’s Board. The Board is responsible for the 35–39 responsibility. policy being applied and takes decisions to follow 30–34 A few years ago, the Bank signed the Women up on it. Once a year, the Bank’s remuneration 25–29 in Finance Charter in the UK, an initiative from HM committee must make an assessment of the 20–24 Treasury, entailing a commitment to work for a policy and the remuneration system and report –19 more even gender balance in the ﬁnancial sector. it to the Board. 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 1 200 1 400 Handelsbanken in the UK has set goals for Number of employees Women Men women in managerial positions: 30 per cent by Beneﬁts and pensions 2021 and 40 per cent by 2026. In 2019, the proHandelsbanken offers various types of competiProportion of employees in Handelsbanken’s home portion of women managers in the UK increased tive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary markets who are covered by a retirement pension plan 1 from 24 per cent to 26 per cent. employees of the Group; these differ between the % countries. In 2019, the proportion of permanent 100 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS employees was 94 per cent (94). Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer Handelsbanken aims to make it easier for all 80 and offers competitive terms of employment for all employees to combine employment with parentemployees – temporary as well as permanent. In hood. The Bank subsidises home and family ser60 addition to the beneﬁts stipulated by law, regulavices for employees in Sweden who have children tions, collective bargaining agreements and other under the age of 12. In addition to current social 40 local agreements, we offer beneﬁts that promote insurance regulations for parental leave, in most 20 our view of long-term employment, gender equalof its home markets Handelsbanken provides ity and participation in Handelsbanken’s results. remuneration in accordance with local regula0 tions. This means that parents receive between 2018 2019 An attractive employer 80 and 100 per cent of their salaries over a limited Deﬁned beneﬁt Deﬁned contribution Handelsbanken aims to meets its employees’ period. Employees who take parental leave have 1 Retirement pension plan refers here to both (statutory) needs during various phases of their life in a ﬂexithe same right to salary dialogue reviews as other national retirement pensions and occupational pension plans ble way. Collective bargaining agreements are the staff. Of those who took parental leave in 2019 in under local laws and regulations. 66 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION depending on local circumstances, and in several legislation and regulations, in accordance with the sharing scheme for its employees. An allocation is countries they are a taxable beneﬁt. conditions prevailing in each country. made following the Board’s overall assessment of Our employees’ health and their work environAn occupational pension plan can include a the Bank’s performance. The funds are managed ment are vital to ensuring that they feel good, retirement pension, disability pension and survivby the Oktogonen Foundation. develop and perform at optimal capacity. The ing family member protection. Employees can be Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken Bank encourages this by granting subsidies for offered pension solutions that are deﬁned beneﬁt, achieving its corporate goal. Each employee various leisure activities. deﬁned contribution or a combination of the two. receives an equal part of the allocated amount, Other forms of beneﬁts offered include insurregardless of their position, form of employment ance and company cars. Oktogonen – the Bank’s proﬁt-sharing scheme or tasks. The proﬁt-sharing scheme is long term, Pensions are part of the total remuneration to Our goal is to have better proﬁtability than the given the general rule that payments cannot employees of Handelsbanken. The pension terms average of peer competitors in our home markets. begin until the employee turns 60, at the earliest. in the countries where the Bank conducts its In every year but four since 1973, Handelsbanken 98 per cent (98) of the Group’s employees are operations must be competitive and adapted to has allocated part of the Bank’s proﬁts to a proﬁtcovered by Oktogonen. 2019 2018 2017 New employees Staff turnover* New employees Staff turnover* New employees Staff turnover* by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Sweden 299 4 291 3.7 596 7.6 238 3.0 619 8.2 295 3.9 UK 299 12 146 5.6 288 11.8 122 5.0 219 9.7 103 4.6 Norway 44 5 41 5.1 41 5.1 25 3.1 41 5.3 34 4.4 Denmark 58 9 68 10.2 55 8.0 41 6.0 54 7.9 53 7.7 Finland 48 7 41 6.4 23 3.7 37 5.9 79 11.9 43 6.5 The Netherlands 51 14 42 11.3 48 13.5 16 4.5 57 17.4 20 6.1 Total home markets 799 6 629 4.9 1 051 8.3 479 3.8 1 069 8.7 548 4.5 Group total 816 6 656 5.0 1 076 8.2 509 3.9 men < 30 yrs old 123 61 185 49 215 52 30–50 yrs old 260 206 299 150 320 182 > 50 yrs old 42 84 75 50 63 63 women < 30 yrs old 125 55 179 45 178 49 30–50 yrs old 210 166 245 139 252 144 > 50 yrs old 39 57 68 46 41 58 * Staff turnover refers to the proportion of employees who have left the Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) in relation to all employees. ** Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. 2019 2018 2017 Employees by form of employment Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Regular employment Full-time 10 957 83 54 46 10 831 83 54 46 10 455 82 54 46 Part-time 1 477 11 19 81 1 503 11 19 81 1 475 12 18 82 Temporary employment 817 6 45 55 748 6 45 55 725 6 46 54 Group total 13 251 13 082 12 655 2019 2018 2017 Average number of employees Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Sweden 7 394 59 48 52 7 262 59 48 52 7 010 60 48 52 UK 2 442 19 56 44 2 319 19 58 42 2 151 18 58 42 Norway 777 6 53 47 771 6 53 47 750 6 54 46 Denmark 651 5 51 49 659 5 50 50 653 6 51 49 Finland 617 5 44 56 635 5 43 57 623 5 42 58 The Netherlands 336 3 67 33 313 3 69 31 284 2 69 31 Other countries 331 3 46 54 348 3 48 52 361 3 46 54 Group total 12 548 50.2 49.8 12 307 50.5 49.5 11 832 50.5 49.5 Sickness absence by home market 2019 2019 2018 2017 % Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 1.9 4.0 3.0 2.1 4.0 3.1 2.0 3.9 3.0 UK 1.4 1.7 1.5 0.7 1.1 0.9 0.6 1.4 1.0 Norway 3.0 5.5 4.2 2.5 5.3 3.8 2.0 4.2 3.0 Denmark 1.6 2.9 2.3 1.0 1.5 1.2 0.8 1.2 1.0 Finland 1.8 2.1 2.0 1.1 2.7 2.0 1.3 2.3 1.8 The Netherlands* 2.3 2.7 2.8 Total sickness absence 1.8 3.5 2.7 1.7 3.3 2.6 1.6 3.3 2.5 of which long-term absence, Sweden 0.6 1.8 1.2 0.7 1.9 1.3 0.5 1.4 1.0 of which long-term absence, home markets excluding the Netherlands 0.6 1.5 1.0 0.5 1.4 1.0 * National legislation does not permit the reporting of sickness absence broken down by gender. Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence of 60 days or more. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 67 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION For many years, the Oktogonen Foundation has been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, and Facts: The Bank’s At Handelsbanken, high ethical standards must always be observed, as regulated in policy docuis represented by two members on the Central Board of Handelsbanken. Oktogonen’s holding business culture ments from the Board. Internal and external transactions carried out Handelsbanken upholds good business ethics also entitles the Foundation to a seat on the by the Bank within the framework of its own operand works systematically to take into account Bank’s nomination committee. ations must always have a business purpose and new requirements and expectations, as well as to A basic idea in managing the Foundation is that must not be carried out for tax purposes only. integrate new regulations in daily operations. the funds are invested in shares in Handelsbanken. Services and products provided by the Bank Handelsbanken has a number of policies that must always have a business purpose, and the describe the Bank’s common view on, and RELATIONSHIPS WITH UNIONS Bank must never provide products or services approach to, a variety of issues. The Bank’s webHandelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships where the primary purpose is to obtain tax benesite also has the full texts of the policy for sustainand cooperation with unions are a valuable comﬁts in conﬂict with the intent of tax regulations. ability, policy for ethical standards, policy for manponent of the Bank’s culture. The Bank promotes The Bank must not participate in transactions agement of conﬂicts of interest and policy against the right of all employees to join a trade union or with customers, through granting credits or corruption as well as summaries of other policies in employee organisation. There is an ongoing, otherwise, which constitute a step in tax evasion the Handelsbanken Group. In addition, a selection close dialogue between union representatives or in transactions with no business purpose, of guidelines adopted by Handelsbanken’s Group and managers concerning changes to the operaundertaken only to obtain tax advantages in Chief Executive is available on the Bank’s website. tions – such as organisational changes, new conﬂict with the objective of the tax regulations. products or the appointment of new managers. This also applies in relation to suppliers and other COMPLIANCE AND CONFIRMED INCIDENTS business partners. If there is doubt, HandelsAll employees in Denmark, Finland, Germany, Banking operations are regulated and governed banken must refrain from participating. Luxembourg, Norway and Sweden – comprising by extensive laws and regulations. If a bank does 76 per cent (77) of the Bank’s employees – are not comply with these, the responsible supervicovered by collective bargaining agreements. In POLICY FOR SUSTAINABILITY sory authority can decide on administrative ﬁnes these countries, employees who are not members In 2016, Handelsbanken’s Board adopted a poland, in the worst case, revoke the banking of a union are also covered by the terms of the icy for sustainability that sets the direction for the licence. Administrative ﬁnes may be imposed on collective agreement. In addition to collective Bank’s work and clearly sets out the Bank’s view banks for breaches such as corruption, faulty agreements, there are also other types of agreeof sustainability. The policy applies throughout product or service information or labelling, or nonments with local employees’ organisations, such the Handelsbanken Group and encompasses all compliance with laws or regulations in the social as works councils in the UK and the Netherlands. activities in relation to customers, suppliers and or economic spheres. In 2019, 0 (1) conﬁrmed In Sweden, Handelsbanken’s part-ownership other business partners. incidents occurred. The European Securities and of BAO, the Employers’ Association of the SwedMarkets Authority (ESMA) decided in 2018 that ish Banking Institutions means that, for matters WORK TO PREVENT FINANCIAL CRIME Handelsbanken had issued credit ratings without relating to, for example, the work environment At least once a year, Handelsbanken’s Board and being authorised to do so, and imposed a ﬁne of and pensions, the Bank is bound by collective CEO establish a Group-wide policy and guideEUR 495,000. The Bank appealed against the agreements with Finansförbundet (Financial Seclines that serve as the framework for the Bank’s decision. The Board of Appeal found in March tor Union of Sweden) and various associations actions to prevent ﬁnancial crime, which include 2019 that the Bank had not acted negligently, and which are afﬁliated to Saco, the Swedish Confedanti-money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. The ruled that the ﬁne amount was to be refunded. eration of Professional Associations. BAO also function responsibility for work to prevent ﬁnancial has collective agreements with the Swedish Hotel crime is held by a central department which must and Restaurant Workers’ Union and the Swedish POLICY FOR ETHICAL STANDARDS ensure that there is competency in and awareBuilding Maintenance Workers’ Union. The Bank The policy for ethical standards is reviewed at ness of these areas throughout the Group. The has also reached local agreements with Finansleast once a year by the Board. The review begins operational responsibility for work to prevent förbundet and Saco regarding the forms of with any changes made in the relevant legislation ﬁnancial crime lies with each country’s general inﬂuence and co-determination. There is also a but also covers changes in external expectations, manager. work environment agreement between Handelsthe Bank’s experience from ongoing internal banken and Finansförbundet, regulating areas work, and observations from the Bank’s compreCONFLICTS OF INTEREST, CORRUPTION, including security issues, roles and the allocation hensive internal control. BRIBERY AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE of responsibilities, and the work environment Handelsbanken has established procedures for organisation. At the local level, there are joint work GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING TAXES managing conﬂicts of interest with the aim of environment committees comprised of members Handelsbanken’s actions regarding tax-related preventing negative impact on customers’ interrepresenting both the Bank and Finansförbundet. matters must be responsible and transparent and ests. The Bank’s policy for management of conAt the central level, there is a joint work environmust comply with prevailing laws and regulations. ﬂicts of interest provides further guidance for the ment and security committee, with representatives from the Bank, Finansförbundet and Saco. There are also work environment agreements CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES • must refrain from transactions or other commitments The following are extracts from codes of conduct that could seriously jeopardise their personal finanin Denmark, Finland and Norway. Similarly, these included in policies and guidelines and refer to human cial position agreements regulate security issues, roles and resources. • are not permitted to process transactions in which the allocation of responsibilities, and the organithey, or persons closely associated with them, have sation of the work environment. Handelsbanken’s employees a personal interest – this also applies to companies • must not be in a position where they may be susin which employees, or persons closely associated As well as matters dealt with in a dialogue with pected of taking improper advantage of knowledge with them, are involved the union organisations at national level in each about the financial markets which they obtain in the • must notify compliance or Group Audit if they country, there is also Handelsbanken’s European course of their work suspect irregularities at the Bank. Handelsbanken’s Works Council (EWC), which serves as a forum • must be familiar with legislation concerning trading separate whistleblowing system provided by an for joint and cross-border questions in the counin financial instruments and observe the Bank’s external supplier may be used as well as these rules for employees’ private securities and currency reporting channels tries in Europe where the Group has operations. transactions • must notify the Bank of assignments outside The EWC consists of employee representatives • must, in their work at the Bank and in their private the Bank and obtain approval – this also applies to from nine countries: Denmark, Finland, Germany, affairs, refrain from business transactions that violate secondary occupations and certain posts in clubs, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the Bank’s rules or current legislation societies and the like. Sweden and the UK. 68 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Bank’s work in this area, for example, by listing are not involved whatsoever in any form of child signiﬁcant impact on the global economy. This areas where conﬂicts of interest could arise in labour, and that they ensure that they do not will, in turn, have consequences for companies in our operations. The policy includes details on the violate human rights. Results have been promisnumerous sectors, including ﬁnancial services. procedure for identifying and managing conﬂicts ing, and many of the Bank’s major suppliers have Climate change means that companies and of interest. For example, potential conﬂicts of signed the code. For the Swedish operations, a whole sectors are exposed to new types of risks, interest, as well as how they have been managed, project is under way to ensure that all suppliers climate-related risks, but the transition to a lowmust be reported each year by units deemed to providing facility services sign the Bank’s code of carbon economy as envisaged in the Paris Agreehave a greater probability of conﬂicts of interest. conduct. ment also gives rise to business opportunities. All unit heads must annually review with their We see a positive link between the code and Increased transparency, with more information on employees the regulations applying to bribery and our relationships with suppliers as well as its how companies work with and manage these improper inﬂuence. The regulations must be direct impact on our sustainability activities. risks and opportunities, is thus becoming more followed in all contexts, such as gifts, corporate Handelsbanken’s Supplier Code of Conduct is and more important for both customers and hospitality and other events. The department available at handelsbanken.com/sustainability. investors. This information is needed, alongside responsible for actions to prevent ﬁnancial crime traditional ﬁnancial disclosures, to assess a performs a Group-wide risk assessment at least PRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT company’s value and position in the market. once a year in the area of ﬁnancial crime, which Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s Supervisory authorities and legislators are also includes corruption. Areas where the risk of corcredit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s emphasising the importance of companies addruption is assessed to be higher than for normal lending must be responsible and meet high ing information on climate-related risks to their customers are, for example, customers who demands for sound ethical standards. When reporting. In recent years, supervisory authorities operate in countries or sectors where corruption granting credit, Handelsbanken must assess and have more clearly included climate-related risks occurs more frequently, and also products and evaluate the customer’s approach to the princiin their supervision of banks and other ﬁnancial services used by these customers, such as ples and agreements supported by the Bank. institutions. The TCFD recommendations have cross-border payments. In addition, at least once This can result in Handelsbanken ultimately become a global guidepost in the work with climatea year every unit must perform a self-assessment declining to grant credit to companies that do related information. The recommendations were of operational risk which includes the area of not apply these principles. published in 2017 by the TCFD international corruption. Security reviews are also performed working group, together with a presentation on every year and contain a training and information how companies are to report information relating section on corruption. Facts: The Bank to their work on the management of climateHandelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy states related risks and opportunities. that all Bank employees must complete a course as an investment The recommendations are based on four core elements: on corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence on PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Governance Description of how climate-related matters an annual basis. Each year, the Bank’s employees Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited comare managed by the company’s board and complete a training programme on ethical standpany, which means that the public can invest in management. ards and sustainability that has sections dealing the Bank by buying and selling shares on the Strategy Description of the company’s strategy for climate change and the transition to a lowwith conﬂicts of interest, corruption, and antiopen market. Handelsbanken’s shares are traded carbon society, as well as the risks and money laundering and counter-terrorist ﬁnancing on several different marketplaces. Turnover is opportunities identiﬁed, including scenario (AML/CTF). Handelsbanken’s Central Board and largest on Nasdaq Stockholm (the Stockholm analyses. the boards of the Bank’s subsidiaries have also stock exchange), but for several years, the shares Risk Description of processes used to identify, management assess and manage climate-related risks received training. have also been traded on other stock exchanges. and business opportunities. Handelsbanken has over 120,000 shareholders. Metrics and Reporting of relevant metrics and targets. SUPPLIERS targets The Group’s purchases can largely be categoDIVIDEND Handelsbanken endorses the TCFD’s recommenrised as property and premises, external IT costs, The Bank’s dividend policy is that the dividend dations, and both Handelsbanken Asset Managecommunications, travel and marketing, purlevel must not lead to the capital ratios falling ment and Handelsbanken Liv have published chased services, procurement of materials or below a level of one percentage point above the climate reports in line with the recommendations. other expenses. External IT costs and communirequirements communicated by the Swedish Read more on page 63 under Facts: Responsible cations are purchased centrally, chieﬂy from Financial Supervisory Authority. For more than investment. suppliers which operate internationally. Other 25 years, including during the most recent ﬁnanAs the ﬁrst stage of the work to integrate the categories are usually purchased mainly from cial crisis, Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to TCFD’s recommendations into the Bank’s credit local suppliers. We work to co-ordinate the its shareholders. portfolio, a review of our lending to energy proBank’s purchases over national borders, to take duction was carried out as early as 2017. Read into account cost effects, quality and environCREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE more about the result on page 63 under Facts: mental impact. During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken Responsible ﬁnancing. The Bank holds ongoing dialogues with supplihas generated a positive shareholder value of In 2019, Handelsbanken continued its work ers where sustainability is a key factor. Among SEK 25 billion. Market capitalisation has decreased to map and review the Bank’s various processes other things, we research whether the supplier by SEK 33 billion, while the Bank has paid out for the assessment, management and reporting has collective agreements and policies regarding SEK 58 billion in dividends to shareholders. of climate-related risks and opportunities, in order the work environment, anti-corruption and Dividends of SEK 10.9 billion (10.7) are proposed to identify work outstanding to fully align with environmental impact. In 2016, Handelsbanken for 2019. TCFD’s recommendations. The Bank has engaged implemented a code of conduct for major suppliers external experts to provide ancillary support in in Sweden, which is now also being rolled out to TCFD – TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED this work. The future work mainly entails reformulatthe other home markets. The code deﬁnes the FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES ing and adding to policy documents and instrucexpectations we have of our suppliers and their Climate change caused by global warming is one tions to increase the level of awareness regarding subcontractors. Most of these expectations are of the greatest challenges of our age. Global climate-related risks – both physical risks and based on internationally accepted standards, emissions of greenhouse gases have to be transition risks – and how they affect different starting with the UN Global Compact. Among reduced if their effects are to be prevented. For sectors, as well as calculating the climate impact other things, the Bank requires that suppliers this to be possible, major changes are required of the Bank’s credit portfolio. eliminate and combat all forms of human trafﬁcking, to global consumption patterns, transport and modern slavery and compulsory labour, that they energy production, which will have an increasingly H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 69 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX Content, restrictions and indexes according to the Global Reporting Initiative Handelsbanken reports its sustainability activities The Sustainability Report contains information including disclosures from the GRI Financial in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. The Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). (GRI) Standards. The Sustainability Report satisinformation presented in the Report covers the If there is supplementary sustainability informaﬁes the core level information requirements, largest and most important parts of the operations, tion in the Annual Report, this is indicated in a conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. with the focus on banking operations. Any limitaseparate column in the table. References are made Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability tions are indicated in the Report where applicable. to the in-depth sustainability information in the activities annually. This year’s Sustainability Report No major corrections or amendments to previSustainability Report but not to the corresponding is Handelsbanken’s tenth in accordance with the ous information provided in previous years’ sussection in the administration report of the Annual GRI and relates to the 2019 calendar year. The tainability reports have been made in this report. Report which the Bank’s statutory sustainability preceding report was submitted in February 2019 The table below contains the disclosures report. and related to the 2018 calendar year. deemed relevant to Handelsbanken’s operations, RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR 1 PAGE AR 2 GOALS Organisational proﬁle GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 3 disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside front cover, 8–9 Inside front cover 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 244 102-4 Location of operations Inside front cover 246–252 102-5 Ownership and legal form 69 40–41 102-6 Markets served Inside front cover 26–39 102-7 Scale of the organisation 60 22 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 67 136 Goal 8 102-9 Supply chain 55, 69 140 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 2–3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Handelsbanken applies the precautionary principle in accordance with Global Compact and Swedish legislation 102-12 External initiatives 1,5, 6–7, 19, 21, 29–30, 32, 48–49, 54, 62 102-13 Membership of associations 48–49 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 4–5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 19, 29, 32, 41–43, 53, 69 70–72 Goal 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 41–43, 53–56 64–66 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 54–55 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 68 Goal 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 54 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 54–55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10–11, 54–55 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 70 179 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries 10, 55 102-47 List of material topics 10–11, 55 102-48 Restatements of information 70 102-49 Changes in reporting 70 102-50 Reporting period 70 102-51 Date of most recent report 70 102-52 Reporting cycle 70 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 75 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 70 102-55 GRI content index 70–72 102-56 External assurance 241 1 SR Refers to the 2019 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2019 Annual Report. 70 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE OMISSIONS/ DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 COMMENTS GOALS Economic ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 4–7, 10–11, 22–23, Handelsbanken’s material topics: 45–47, 53 GRI 201: Economic – Financial sustainability 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 23, 58, 60 performance 2016 – Creating shareholder value – Salaries and remuneration 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other 66 – The Bank as a taxpayer retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 23 INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 4–7, 10–11, 18 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure, investments and services 18, 20, 61 Goal 9, 11 Handelsbanken’s material topics: economic impacts supported – Local presence and 2016 community engagement 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 42–43, 53, 56, 68–69 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Counteract ﬁnancial crime GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 43, 56, 68 Goal 16 Anti-corruption 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 43, 56, 58, 69 Goal 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and 68 Goal 16 actions taken Environmental ENERGY AND EMISSIONS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 5, 7, 10–11, 18, GRI 302: 26–28, 29–32, Handelsbanken’s material topics: Energy 2016 53, 56, 62–63 – Minimise environmental 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 61–62 Goal 8, 13 and climate impact 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 61 Goal 13 GRI 305: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 61 Goal 13 Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 61 Goal 13 Social EMPLOYMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 37–39, 54, 65–68 Handelsbanken’s material topics: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 67 Goal 5, 8 – Salaries and remuneration GRI 401: – Responsible employer Employment 2016 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 37–39, 65–68 Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 402: Labour/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 67–68 The negotiation proceGoal 8 – Employee commitment management operational changes dure concerning material relations 2016 changes is regulated in the collective bargaining agreements for Sweden OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 37–39, SAFETY 65–68 GRI 403: Occupational health 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 68 Goal 8 Handelsbanken’s material topics: agreements with trade unions and safety 2016 – Work environment, working conditions and union rights TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 37–39 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 37–38, 65 Goal 8 Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 404: Training transition assistance programmes – Responsible employer and education 2016 404-3 – Leadership and development Percentage of employees receiving regular 58 Goal 8 – Employee commitment performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 6, 10–11, OPPORTUNITY GRI 405: Diversity 37–39, 53 and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 53, 58, 65–67 Handelsbanken currently Goal 5, 8, 16 Handelsbanken’s material topics: opportunity 2016 reports by gender, age, – Gender equality and diversity and nationality 1 SR Refers to the 2019 Sustainability Report. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 71 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE OMISSIONS/ DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 COMMENTS GOALS NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 6, 10–11, GRI 406: 37–39, 53 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 39, 58 Goal 5, 8, 16 – Gender equality and diversity 2016 actions taken INVESTMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 29–35, GRI 412: 56, 63–65 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Human rights 412-3 Signiﬁcant investment agreements and – Responsible investment 29, 32, 57 assessment 2016 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 10–11, 13, 18, 20 Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 18, 57 – High availability communities 2016 impact assessments, and development – Local presence and programmes community engagement PRODUCT AND SERVICE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 13, 35, 54 LABELLING GRI 417: Handelsbanken’s material topics: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service 59 – Responsible advisory services labelling 2016 information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 68 Goal 16 product and service information and labelling CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 15, 41–43, 56, 59 GRI 418: Customer Handelsbanken’s material topics: privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 59 Goal 16 – Integrity and conﬁdentiality breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data COMPLIANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 41–43, 53, 56, 59, GRI 419: 68–69 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Socioeconomic – Counteract ﬁnancial crime 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 68 Goal 16 compliance 2016 – Responsible advisory services in the social and economic area Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 26–35, SUPPLEMENT (FSSS) Management 57–58, 62–65 approach 2016 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Responsible investment – Responsible lending PRODUCT PORTFOLIO GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 26–35, Management 57–58, 62–65 Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – Responsible investment FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 63 – Responsible lending speciﬁc region, size and by sector – Responsible ﬁnancing – Sustainable products FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed 1, 29, 57–58, 63 to deliver a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt ACTIVE OWNERSHIP GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 10–11, 26–35 Management Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – Responsible investment FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in 31, 57, 64 the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and 57 negative environmental or social screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 10–11, 18 Management Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – High availability FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically 13, 57 – Local presence and disadvantaged areas community engagement FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services 6, 13, 57 for disadvantaged people 1 SR Refers to the 2018 Sustainability Report. 72 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations 2030 AGENDA FOR SUSTAINABLE CREDIT RISK GRI (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) DEVELOPMENT The risk that a debtor will not be able to repay GRI is an international standard for sustainability The 2030 Agenda is a concrete action plan with a loan. In order for lenders to prevent this from reporting. 17 Sustainable Development Goals to be happening, a credit assessment is needed that achieved by 2030, and was adopted by world speciﬁes how much money the debtor will be able ISSUER leaders at the UN General Assembly in Septemto borrow. An institution that issues a security, such as a ber 2015. bank that issues a bond. EQUATOR PRINCIPLES CARBON FOOTPRINT A framework for risk management adopted by MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 A calculation of the total emissions of greenhouse international ﬁnancial institutions to establish, The UK’s law against modern slavery requires that gases (GHG) caused by an organisation, event or assess and manage environmental and social each year certain organisations state the actions product. risks in projects. that they have taken to ensure that modern slavery and human trafﬁcking do not occur in CBI ESG their organisations or supply chains. The Climate Bonds Initiative is an international, Environmental, Social and Governance non-proﬁt organisation that gathers information comprises criteria applying to environmental NGO about green bonds and works to mobilise the and social responsibility as well as corporate NGO stands for non-governmental organisation. market. governance. The term is sometimes used for organisations that have cross-border operations. An NGO CDP GREEN BOND IMPACT REPORT is independent of any government and could Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP is An annual report that monitors the reduced envihave either non-proﬁt or commercial goals for an independent, non-proﬁt organisation that ronmental impact of projects funded using capital its activities. manages the world’s biggest database of ﬁrstfrom a green bond. hand information about companies’ environmenPARIS AGREEMENT tal work. GREEN BONDS At the climate conference held in Paris in late Interest-bearing securities where the funds raised 2015, countries agreed to a new climate accord COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL are used for projects targeting the environment that is binding for all countries and will take effect Common equity tier 1 capital is one of the comand climate change. no later than 2020. The governments agreed to ponents of own funds and mainly comprises keep the global average temperature to well equity. Deductions are made for dividends generGREEN FINANCING below two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial ated, goodwill and other intangible assets etc. Environment-oriented ﬁnance intended to levels and to strive to limit the increase to 1.5 and also for the difference between an expected contribute to a more sustainable society, such degrees Celsius. loss and provisions made for probable credit as through green loans and green bonds. losses. PHYSICAL CLIMATE RISKS GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL (GHG) Physical climate risks arise as a consequence COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO GHG is the most widely used standard for of global warming brought about by increased Common equity tier 1 capital in relation to total estimating and reporting company emissions greenhouse gas emissions. This results in risk exposure amount. of greenhouse gases. increased occurrences of extreme weather events, as well as rising sea levels, coastal COMPANIES IN TRANSITION GREEN LOANS erosion and similar consequences. Companies that are in the process of restructurLoans for implementing measures to improve ing their operations to become more sustainable. the environment. PRB (PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE One example could be a company making the BANKING) transition from fossil fuel energy production to GREEN MORTGAGE LOAN The PRB are the UN Principles for Responsible renewable. A mortgage loan with a lower interest rate for Banking. The purpose of PRB is to raise awareenergy-efﬁcient or environmentally certiﬁed ness of and highlight the banking sector’s CRD IV housing. contributions to sustainable development and to The EU’s directive on credit institutions is Directive emphasise the need to ensure that the ﬁnancial 2013/36/EU on access to the activity of credit sector is being governed in line with the Paris institutions and the prudential supervision of Agreement and the 17 Sustainable Development credit institutions and investment ﬁrms. Goals. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 9 73 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS PRI (PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE TRANSITION RISKS INVESTMENT) Transition risks are risks that arise through The PRI are a UN initiative for responsible investchanges to legislation, changes in the demand ment. The goal is to increase knowledge of and for products and services, changed customer understanding for the signiﬁcance of sustainable behaviour or other structural shifts which take development in the investment management place as part of society’s attempts to transition sector. to a climate-neutral economy. SCOPE (1, 2 AND 3) WHISTLEBLOWER Categories of emissions in the GHG protocol, An employee who discovers or suspects internal for example, direct or indirect emissions. fraud or other irregularities in the Group can use, when other channels are not appropriate, SKI/EPSI Handelsbanken’s special system for whistleSvenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI, or Swedish Quality blowing, in which identity protection can be Index) is a part of the EPSI Rating Group that guaranteed as far as is legally possible. carries out surveys of customer satisfaction in various sectors throughout the Nordic region and in other parts of Europe. STRANDED ASSETS Assets which, from a longer-term perspective, are deemed to be highly exposed to climate-related risks and risk losing their entire value, are often referred to as stranded assets. SWEDISH RESOLUTION FUND Since February 2016, Sweden has had new rules for managing failing banks, that is, resolution cases. Under the new law, a failing bank must be managed ﬁnancially primarily by the bank’s shareholders and creditors bearing the losses and expenses for the bank’s recapitalisation. In extraordinary circumstances, though, outside funding may be necessary. A governmentmanaged resolution fund therefore exists, funded by fees from the banks. TCFD (TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE) TCFD is an international working group that the G20 countries have tasked with formulating recommendations for correcting deﬁciencies in information on companies’ work on and management of climate change and its consequences. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals are part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals comprise 169 targets. In the Goals, world leaders have pledged to eradicate extreme poverty, reduce inequality and injustice in the world and stop climate change by the year 2030. 74 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2019 CONTACT DETAILS Would you like to know more? More information about Handelsbanken and the latest news about our The Bank’s business culture sustainability work is available at handelsbanken.com/sustainability. More information about the Handelsbanken’s business culture is available at handelsbanken.com. The Bank and its customers Information available here includes ethical standards at Handelsbanken and More information about the Bank and its customers is available at how we work to prevent ﬁnancial crime. Here you will ﬁnd, for example: handelsbanken.com. • Policy for ethical standards in the Handelsbanken Group Here, for example, you can read about how we develop our availability, • Policy for sustainability in the Handelsbanken Group digitalisation and how we work with responsible advisory services. • Policy for management of conﬂicts of interest. The Bank’s role in the community The Bank as an investment More information about the Bank’s roles in the community is available at More information about Handelsbanken as an investment is available at handelsbanken.com/sustainability. handelsbanken.com/ir. Here, for example, you can read about how we work with human rights and Here, for example, you can read about business model and the various about our environment and climate work. Here you will ﬁnd, for example: sustainability indexes which include Handelsbanken. • Environment and climate change – Handelsbanken’s guidelines At handelsbanken.com/ir you can ﬁnd information about the Handelsbanken • Supplier Code of Conduct. share, ﬁnancial results and other investor information. Here you will ﬁnd, for More policies and guidelines are available at handelsbanken.com/ example: policy-documents. • Annual reports • Interim reports Responsible ﬁnancing • Presentations and fact books. More information about responsible ﬁnancing at Handelsbanken is available at handelsbanken.com/responsible-ﬁnancing. PLEASE CONTACT US If you would like to ask questions about our sustainability work or if you have Here, for example, you can read about how we integrate sustainability opinions to share, feel free to contact us at sustainability@handelsbanken.se. aspects into our lending. Here you will ﬁnd, for example: • Sustainability summary for Handelsbanken – lending to corporates. More information about green ﬁnancing is available at handelsbanken.se/en/ corporate/ﬁnancing/sustainable-ﬁnance. Here, for example, you can read about our criteria for green loans. Material relating to Handelsbanken’s green bonds can be found at handelsbanken.com/handelsbankens-green-bonds. This includes: • Handelsbanken’s Green Bond Framework • Green Bond Impact Report • An independent evaluation of Handelsbanken’s Green Bond Framework. Responsible investment More information about responsible investment at Handelsbanken is available at handelsbanken.com/responsible-investments. Here you can read about how we work with responsible investment, for example: • Policies and guidelines for responsible investment • List of excluded companies • Vote summary • Sustainability and corporate governance report • Carbon footprint • Sustainability report Svanen (the Swan) – the Nordic Council’s environmental certiﬁcation • Climate reports. The Bank as an employer More information about Handelsbanken as an employer is available at handelsbanken.com/en/careers. Here, for example, you can read about how Handelsbanken works with gender equality, diversity and an inclusive culture. It also includes information about Handelsbanken’s Student Programme. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2019 75 OFFPRINT AUDITOR'S REPORT FROM HANDELSBANKEN'S ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ)’s Sustainability Report and the Statutory Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ), corporate, identity number 502007-7862 INTRODUCTION We conducted our limited assurance engagethe Executive Management as described We have been engaged by the Board of Directors ment in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance above. We consider these criteria suitable for of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) (Handelsengagements other than audits or reviews of the preparation of the Sustainability Report. banken) to undertake a limited assurance historical ﬁnancial information, with the applicaWe believe that the evidence we have obtained engagement of Handelsbanken´s Sustainability tion of RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis Report for the year 2019 on pages 43–61 in Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance for our conclusion below. Handelsbanken’s annual report and the sepaengagement consists of making inquiries, prirate Sustainability Report on pages 4–72 for marily of persons responsible for the preparaCONCLUSIONS the year 2019. We refer to these publications tion of the Sustainability Report, and applying Based on the limited assurance procedures collectively as the “Sustainability Report”. analytical and other limited assurance procewe have performed, nothing has come to our dures. The procedures performed in a limited attention that causes us to believe that the RESPONSIBILITIES OF assurance engagement vary in nature from, Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND and are less in scope than for, a reasonable material respects, in accordance with the THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT assurance engagement conducted in accordcriteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Executive Management. The Board of Directors and the Executive other generally accepted auditing standards. Management are responsible for the preparation The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard of the Sustainability Report in accordance with on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains the applicable criteria, which are explained on a comprehensive system of quality control page 70 in the separate Sustainability Report including documented policies and procedures and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Guidelines published by GRI (The Global professional standards and applicable legal and Reporting Initiative) that are applicable to the regulatory requirements. We are independent Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting of Handelsbanken´s in accordance with profesand calculation principles that the Company sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and has developed. This responsibility also includes have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical responsibilithe internal control relevant to the preparation ties in accordance with these requirements. of a Sustainability Report that is free from mateConsequently, the procedures performed rial misstatements, whether due to fraud or as part of a limited review do not enable us to mistake. obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR in a reasonable assurance engagement. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance conclusion. assurance procedures we have performed and Our procedures performed in the limited provide an opinion on the statutory sustainability assurance engagement are based on the report. criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and Stockholm, 12 February 2020 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Marianne Förander Expert Member of FAR 241 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 9 handelsbanken.com | +46 (0)8 701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
