Toyal Group CSR Report Create the future At Toyo Aluminium, CSR means following one principal rule, “create the future; I will create it” with an aim to helping build a sustainable society. Create the future We are committed to giving back to society through our business operations as we work Toyal Group Vision, Management principles, Course of action with an eye to forging a bright new future. CONTENTS/Editorial Policy As we move closer toward celebrating our centennial in 2031, we are focusing on the Message from the President actions we need to take that will see us through to the next fifty years to one hundred years. Feature 1 Dialogue with Experts “What are CSR and SDGs initiatives and We will rebuild our management structure on a foundation of CSR to ensure that it can directions expected of Toyal Group?” contribute to the development of a sustainable society. Feature 2 Dialogue with Employees “Headquarters’ directions contributing to achieving SDGs” Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Visions and Strategies for the Future Toyal Group Vision Management Think outside the box while putting our technological expertise to work for people and the planet. CSR Action Plan ALUMINIUM with + Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issues Innovation for the future Concept [Think outside the box:] Material CSR Environmental protection Issues We think outside the box to create new products, such as TOYAL LOTUS®, an innovation inspired by the structure of a lotus leaf; CHROMASHINE®, that changes color depending on the angle it’s viewed from; Material CSR Human resources diversity Issues and our black foil designed to deliver all the flavor of stone-baked sweet potatoes without any of the fuss. [Our technological expertise:] Material CSR Quality and safety Issues Our technological expertise in rolling, roll-polishing, printing, laminating, grinding, molding, Material CSR Cooperation with stakeholders and more makes up our core competencies. Issues [For people and the planet:] We give our all for all our stakeholders and stay focused on protecting the Foundation for Sustainable Management environment in our operations across the globe. We are in the aluminium business but we go the extra mile to add value to Governance aluminium and beyond. Independent [ALUMINIUM with +] Adviser’s Opinion We are in the aluminium business but we go the extra mile to add value to aluminium and beyond. Corporate Profile Global Network/Messages from Employees Business Overview Management Principles Editorial Policy Course of Action We, in the Toyal Group, will act as follows. “Create the future, I will create it” This report is intended for our stakeholders and describes policies, ■ Reference guidelines  SDG Compass: The guide for business action on the SDGs 1. Through sound business management, we will aim to 1. Let’s aim for the top. challenges, directions, and the current status of our CSR initiatives  ISO 26000 (International guidance on social responsibility) provide products and services that always inspire  GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Standards 2. Let’s win with our wisdom. leading us up to a sustainable society. To achieve the Sustainable  Guidelines for Environmental Reporting, 2018 edition, Ministry of the Environment customers, prove useful for society, and are environmentally friendly. 3. Let’s deepen communication. ■ Period reported Development Goals (SDGs), we use the SDG Compass in 4. Let’s learn from our mistakes. Our activities from April 2018 to March 2019, as well as part of the 2019 action policy and plan, 2. We will be committed to constant innovation and strive management of our CSR activities. are reported. to provide products utilizing advanced technologies. 5. Let’s make more use of our sensitivities. ■ Scope Toyo Aluminium K.K., its subsidiaries, and affiliated companies 3. We will foster a vibrant and free-spirited corporate 6. Let’s form alliances. This year’s report is based on our mission of “creating the future” ■ Issue date September 2019 (previous edition published September 2018; next edition slated culture and aim to be a group of geniuses. 7. Let’s further heighten awareness about safety and for September 2020) and highlights the dialogues with an external experts and 4. We will be aware of social responsibility and contribute security. ■ Cover design to the society as a company with dignity. employees in the direction of integrating CSR activities into The image of a baby firmly holding a finger of an adult is expected to represent “creating the future” and “firm connection between CSR activities and business operations.” For our children business operations. creating the future, we will work toward achieving the SDGs, integrating CSR into business, and paving the way to a sustainable society and planet. Since 2016, the report has featured input from Masao Seki, a specially-appointed professor at Meiji University, as an independent adviser. His insights help us make continuous improvements to our CSR initiatives. Message from the President Toyo Aluminium Sustainability Vision “TOYAL 2031 Toward Our 100th Anniversary -” To be an innovative and unique enterprise through Message from the We will explore the We will leverage We will cut CO2 We will work with We will promote far edges of the the features and emissions from our various smart factories and horizon to find new advantages of operations by 30% stakeholders to smart offices where President integrating CSR activities into possibilities for aluminium as we materials to promote clean (compared with the 2013 level). build a recycling system for the people from diverse business operations continue coming energy. entire product life backgrounds can up with innovations cycle. work together and that enrich reach their full people’s lives. potential. Material CSR Issues 1 2 3 Innovation for the future Environmental protection Human resources diversity 4 Quality and safety 5 Cooperation with stakeholders Governance Growth strategy toward the centennial Fiscal 2019 positioned as the year to act on and KPIs linked with the Material CSR Issues and Sustainability Various innovations at Toyal Group will require enhanced workplace integration of CSR activities into business operations Vision, together with responsible departmental heads and the CSR agility and sensitivity to global trends. To that end, employees are Promotion Team. constantly reminded of the importance of getting the first-hand Toward our centennial in 2031, the Toyo Aluminium Group will It has been three years since the Toyal Group introduced the We are now moving a step forward, and considering how we can experiences at work sites both in Japan and abroad. In order to be enhance its capability to grasp social changes properly, and lead concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV*) and started full-fledged link our contribution to social issues (CSR) directly with our better acquainted with global markets, we will enhance global the market as an innovative and unique enterprise. To that end, actions toward achievement of SDGs as an aggressive CSR business operations, by for example, reviewing our business communications through more active utilization of global meetings sustainability will be an indispensable concept. It is crucially initiative. In fiscal 2017, we adopted five material CSR issues of directions from the perspective of SDGs. within the Toyal Group and exchanges with global markets. important to formulate and implement aggressive growth “Innovation for the Future,” “Environmental Protection,” “Use of It is also a very important challenge for us to verify actual We will need to heed voices of not only our customers but also their strategies consisting in innovative ideas obtained from problems Various Types of Human Resources,” “Quality and Safety,” and contribution levels to the society by measuring social impacts of customers, and ultimately end-users; our future growth will depend on society is now facing for further business development. “Cooperation with Stakeholders.” In fiscal 2018, led by the CSR our products. By presenting not only the current “sales targets,” but our strategies based on our clear vision of how the society will be Not to mention expansion of the existing business, we will put promotion team, through numerous bottom-up discussions, a draft also “social contribution targets” in the future, we will raise changed in ten years. Not the simple “market-in” but more expansive more emphasis on creation of new business initiatives; producing Toyal sustainability vision, “TOYAL 2031 Toward 100th awareness of our workforce and create business that can more “social-in,” and further progressive “future social-in” approaches will be not only major projects but also numerous small-to-medium-sized Anniversary -” (hereafter, “Sustainability Vision”), was compiled to actively contribute to the society. our next key concepts. initiatives. We also consider it necessary to aim at being a describe how these five initiatives will be realized by 2031, the * CSV: Creating Shared Value; creating values for both society and Toyal Group to We will continue our challenges, firmly determined to create “Toyal manufacturer of functional materials, exceeding the existing 100th year after our foundation. After the two years in preparatory enhance the overall corporate value by maintaining the balance between “creation of social values” through activities toward social issues and “creation of economic Group Value” through our insights into future social needs and our framework of intermediate material manufacturer, by emphasizing measures, fiscal 2019 is the year to act on “integrating CSR values.” creative efforts to satisfy the needs. BtoB and BtoC frameworks. These innovative moves cannot be activities into business operations.” realized only with our efforts alone. By taking advantage of At present, in order to establish the five material CSR issues and Empowering human resources and workplace agility external supports through collaboration with business partners the Sustainability Vision firmly in the management practices, for future customers in ten years and M&A, etc., we can further enhance additional values to the business units are working on their respective “sales targets for Toyal Group. products contributing to the SDGs.” We have so far progressed to To realize the growth strategies and business practices Hiroshi Yamamoto, be capable of grasping the company-wide relationship between contributing to the society, the most crucial factor in our business and CSR (contribution to achieving SDGs) and starting management resources is “human resources.” We are keenly President and the PDCA cycle. However, we have still remained in a stage where aware of importance of diversity, including global human resources Representative Director, the existing business operations can be linked with actions for and female workers, as well as disabled employees as our Toyo Aluminium K.K. contributing to achieving SDGs. In fiscal 2019, we have started valuable assets. We are also dedicated to enhancement of dialogs with employees for “integrating CSR activities into business workplace environment to ensure that each employee can be operations,” and started reviewing specific targets engaged in meaningful professional life and fulfill their potentialities to the maximum extent. Features [Features] Encouraging employees to understand our approaches the suppliers; but I wonder how to handle them in the 1 Dialogues with external experts would be an important way; as our efforts can be future. disseminated through their friends and neighbors. [Fukuda] What is required now is to prove that there is no Initiatives and directions of CSR/SDGs [Kawaguchi] Furthermore, the topic of how to incorporate risk in supply chains. That has been an ordinary and accepted notion in the business world, but the social impacts, including environmental values and social expected of the Toyo Aluminium Group meanings, into core investment evaluations has become a major consideration among investors. SDGs may have dissemination and notification of the ordinarily accepted practice seems to have eluded BtoB companies. Because Managing Executive Officer that is hardly discernable from outside, it should be Director in Charge of Household Managing Executive Officer Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. Facilitator something to do with the rising interests in ESG emphatically presented to external parties. Products Headquarters Managing Executive Officer in President and Representative Director Cre-en Inc. Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. charge of CSR Promotion Office Masahiro Aoki Chief CSV Officer (at the time of investments in these days. In Japan, the ESG investment President and Representative Director (at the time of reporting) reporting) Masaki Yamaguchi Masahiro Yoshida market has dramatically expanded in recent years; and [Kawaguchi] Supply chain management will reduce Mr. Takehiko Mizukami corporate risks. It is necessary to establish a proper Feature 1 Senior Managing Executive the ESG perspective is deemed more and more Officer governance system capable of handling any detected Senior Managing Executive Officer Director in Charge of Powder indispensable among far-sighted investors. Director in Charge of and Paste Headquarters problem properly, and to check the system every year. Photovoltaic Headquarters Toshihiko Nakano Jun Kusui Toward integration of CSR activities and Supply chain management enabling risk business operations reduction [Mizukami] Officer Yoshida mentioned that one of the [Yoshida] With the 2019 target of “integrating CSR activities primary targets in 2019 is to “integrate CSR activities into Senior Managing Executive Officer into business operations” set for the Toyal Group, we now business operations.” In this light, how would you try to Director in Charge of Foil realize the Sustainability Vision and important Material External External Headquarters expert expert work energetically on it as the forth step in “SDG Compass.” Hitoshi Tada Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. General Manager of CSR Office Chief Researcher, Research Division, Daiwa Institute of I would like to know your opinions about how to proceed CSR issues in your actual business practices, and how do Ms. Kanako Fukuda Research Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi with this initiative. you think you can generate SDGs operations? [Fukuda] Step 4 requires decisions on how to integrate [Tada] We are starting with whatever we can right now. We invited Mariko Kawaguchi, Chief Researcher of Research Division of Daiwa Institute of Research and Kanako Fukuda, General SDGs into business operations and identify specific We are still working on the “positioning” stage; Manager of CSR Office of Sumitomo Chemical to discuss the issue of integration of CSR activities into business operations in the Toyo challenges, and how to make KPIs compatible with actual considering how SDGs operations can be positioned and Aluminium Group. Participants, including responsible managers of headquarters and Group companies engaged in lively discussions, and operations. SDGs present two aspects, “risks” and how they can be developed. For example, in the foil developed better understanding of expectations about the Group and of general directions in which we should take. “chances”; no company can survive without properly business, oil used for the rolling operation is collected and handling risks; but if it can, the risks will turn into business re-used in the recycling system. As products that can chances. Successful integration of SDGs into business contribute to alleviating environmental loads, we also Changing social trends We experience certain difficulties in our efforts to operations may lead to business or management strategies manufacture and sell lithium-ion battery components. We manufacture environmentally friendly products, which will that can help us to grow as an enterprise. would like to enhance development and order acceptance inevitably increase costs and decrease profits. operations for products that can more effectively [Mizukami] First of all, I would like to ask business [Kawaguchi] At present, SDGs dissemination campaigns are contribute to achieving SDGs. environments surrounding the Toyo Aluminium Group. [Nakano] All we can do is to think what we should choose in actively promoted by the Financial Services Agency, this world of conflicting values and to take proper course of targeted at medium-to-small enterprises. One approach is to [Aoki] Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai plans to incorporate [Nakano] To respond to the social changes, we, at the actions. introduce the concept of SDGs through local financial SDGs and CSR into the 2019 management policy, and Photovoltaic Headquarters, are engaged in operations institutions; and another is to incorporate them into suppliers establish KPIs to enhance the operations. We would also consistent with social trends by contributing to [Fukuda] Manufacturers are always required by customers of major companies. In the efforts to integrate into business like to use these SDGs and CSR activities for public dissemination of renewable energy by manufacturing and to provide good and inexpensive products. However, operations, supply chain management is an inevitable relations. There may be diverse activities in different selling solar batteries and photovoltaic components. manufacturing good products will require considerable costs factor. organizations and individual workers; but what is most [Yamaguchi] In the household products business at Toyo for R&D and environmental measures. There may be limits important as a company would be to enhance “shared Aluminium Ekco Products (TEP), some transactions a single company can do; but unanimous opinions of the [Kusui] At the Toyal Group, we have recently received an understanding among all workers.” involving retailers are significantly affected by consumer entire industry or the entire supply chain would make a increasing number of customers’ inquiries about risks difference. associated with supply chains. We simply and honestly [Yamaguchi] I suppose, TEP’s household products are trends. Specifically, as plastic wastes in the sea have respond to those inquiries by checking the relevant facts mainly used by women at home; but, unfortunately, we recently become a big social issue, our early initiative of [Kawaguchi] Consumer awareness is changing. That is why have very few female workers. focusing on development of paper containers seems now environmental performances and effects should be to be flowing with the trend. Paper containers were considered to be more expensive than the plastic disclosed to them in such manners as to facilitate their Supply chain management is understanding. Even BtoB companies can do something counterparts by consumers, but have recently been crucial to integration of CSR direct to raise consumer awareness. viewed as feasible options. activities to business operations [Fukuda] In the case of BtoC, “C” is also within the [Kusui] TEP may be sailing smoothly, but things are company. Once employees are out of office, they are different at Powder & Paste Headquarters. consumers. Features SDGs represent the courage to challenge unsolvable problems. [Features] but what is crucial in this connection is the top We are now increasing new recruits not only fresh out of management’s commitment to employees and external 2 Dialogues with Employees college but also mid-career. To encourage able workers to parties. It may take tremendous efforts to move the entire Feature 1 /Feature 2 stay at the Company, we would need to introduce more flexible work styles. ship around, but we still need to move ahead, one step at Headquarters’ directions a time. [Fukuda] As expressed in Course of Action in Toyal contributing to achieving SDGs [Kawaguchi] SDGs first draw public attention because of Group, “4. Let’s learn from our mistakes,” without the fear shared by the general public. That is why it has challenges and failures, it would be difficult to cultivate aroused significant interests in the world, and is now competent human resources. Regardless of sexes, changing the social values and economic models. While employees should be given more “opportunities to learn some companies may take it as “one of the commonplace from mistakes.” booms,” others “take SDGs in a broader picture of the changing world, and have started working on changing [Kawaguchi] According to a certain study, companies with work styles and business models”; in 2030, there may be male and female employees at similar ratios generate a tremendous distance between them. The Japanese are high profitability in the long run. As the society is good at thinking, “How,” but poor at thinking, “Why.” SDGs composed of the male and the female at similar ratios, cannot be sustained for long without holding on to companies with the same gender balance may be the personal answers to “Why,” and backing them up with In order to integrate CSR activities into business operations, the Toyal Group incorporates most suitable to the society and end up with better personal actions. When the top management and junior Material CSR Issues that have been established and Sustainability Vision aimed at the profitability in the end. As a company-wide initiative, it workers are able to think on their own, they will be able to company’s centennial into the business operations, to promote and develop activities that can would be important to involve not only the top accelerate things and deepen their insights. As I said contribute to achievement of SDGs. We conducted internal dialogs with responsible persons in earlier, if we could motivate the current junior workers headquarters and Group companies, as well as the CSR Promotion Team, to exchange opinions management but also junior staff members expected to expected to be in responsible positions in 2030, the target and ideas about “how each headquarters should function” and “promising future markets,” etc., play a central role around 2030 for effective integration of year for SDGs, and prepare systems for them to find their and discuss directions to be taken by respective headquarters. SDGs into business operations. work more meaningful, they will be able to enjoy their In Conclusion work. Overview [Fukuda] You mentioned integration to business operations, [Yoshida] Within the CSR Promotion Team carrying out which you have started tackling this year; and that is exactly cross-functional CSR activities, they frequently discuss [Date] March 15, 18, 27, and April 1, 2019 what we, at Sumitomo Chemical, are wading through. SDGs what to be considered for whom. First, we would like to encourage employees to know more about the Company, [Location] Toyo Aluminium K.K., Osaka Office; Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd., represent the courage to challenge unsolvable problems. It Osaka Office; Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K., Osaka Office may be difficult to find answers to SDGs, but I think the and expand activities from there. As for integration into business operations, specifics should be more thoroughly courage to face the challenges will be what we need most. [Participants] discussed with staff members of the headquarters to ▶ Household Products Headquarters The bottom-up approach is important, of course, ▶ Foil Headquarters produce tangible outcomes. Senior Managing Executive Officer Masaki Yamaguchi Senior Managing Executive Officer Hitoshi Tada Director in Charge of Household Products Headquarters Dialogs with external experts made us recognize the Director in Charge of Foil Headquarters Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. importance of supply chain management. Business Strategy Office Motoki Furueda Mirai Business Promotion Group Fumi Ito In reply to the As for risks, we will make bold responses properly, and link ▶ Powder & Paste Headquarters CSR Promotion Office Nobuhisa Ogihara external experts’ them to new business opportunities by sharing necessary Senior Managing Executive Officer Jun Kusui ▶ Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. information with stakeholders. Director in Charge of Powder & Paste Headquarters opinions President and Representative Director Masahiro Aoki First of all, we will need to establish “Policies on Human Business Strategy Office Yuichi Asano General Affairs Department Yuki Tao Managing Executive Officer Rights.” ▶ Photovoltaic Headquarters ▶ Toyal Group, CSR Promotion Team Managing Executive Officer in “Human rights” have long been under our special charge of CSR Promotion consideration; we will not only be confined in mere legal Senior Managing Executive Officer Toshihiko Nakano ▶ Toyo Aluminium K.K., CSR Promotion Office Office (at the time of compliance but also aggressively promote systems that can members Director in Charge of Photovoltaic Headquarters reporting) protect human rights. By following up on the dialog we have Photovoltaic Development ▶ Secretariat: Toyo Aluminium K.K., CSR Promotion Masahiro Yoshida had, we will continue internal discussions to consider more Department Takahide Minami Office advanced approaches in the light of SDGs. Features Foil Headquarters Powder & Paste Headquarters Many products contributing to SDGs are produced; in the healthcare field, for example, components of Our main products include aluminum paste used as raw material for automobile metallic painting, as well as defibrillators, medical packing materials, in the food field, water/oil repellant packaging materials (used in yogurt water-based paint used in packaging materials, beverage cans, cellphones, etc. Because water-based paint is container lids, contributing to reduction of wasted foodstuff); and in the energy field, external materials and free of volatile organic solvent, it can be safely used and easily stored, will not cause harm to human bodies and positive-electrode materials for electric vehicles, etc. thus contribute significantly to solving social issues. [Business directions]  We will produce products that can contribute to [Business directions]  Our water/oil repellant packaging materials, “TOYAL  With the increasing production quantities, the total  We would like to be “smart factories” where elderly solution of social issues through development of LOTUSTM” and “TOYAL•ULTRALOTUSTM,” were CO2 emission at production tends to increase and female workers can also work comfortably. Feature 2 innovative technologies and materials, including presented with internationally recognized academic (decreasing in basic unit), the CO2 emission at uses Some work locations have already started lifestyle introduction of continuous casting facilities, etc. awards for aluminum foils as innovative of customers may be reduced by 60%. We will aim improvement programs to promote health-oriented materials/technologies and protected by patents. This  As the scale of business is expanding, the total at CO2 reduction not only at production but also management practices. is a field in which significant growths can be expected. environmental loads tend to increase. Figures per within the entire value chain.  We will dedicate ourselves to contribute more to production unit (in basic unit) may be reduced; but it is achieving SDGs through cultivating in-depth dialogs  Electric vehicles are also expected to be more widely  At overseas bases, we will increase the number of a significant issue to reduce the total loads. Within with various stakeholders, including other Group accepted both in Japan and abroad; and this will be a locally hired employees or female recruits; and by plants, more aggressive measures should be taken for companies, customers, and local residents, etc. growing market. dispatching Japanese engineers to overseas recycling. In addition, more efforts could be made to establish recycling systems for aluminum foil already business sites, we will utilize diverse human in the market. resources and promote innovation. Our BtoC operations feature manufacture/sale of Photovoltaic Headquarters aluminium foil and paper containers used in daily Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. Household Products Headquarters necessities in our life, namely, household goods and packaged food products, etc. We can contribute to solving The primary operations are performed for photovoltaic problems of plastic wastes in the sea through our This is a direct sales subsidiary in the Toyal Group, and power generation deemed as renewable energy. In products, and of recycling issues through our supply engaged in global sales operations primarily for these business operations directly contributing to chains. products of the Toyal Group, and other high-quality solution of social issues, we work on improving power items that can contribute to solving social issues. generation efficiency of photovoltaic cells, reducing [Business directions] costs, and expanding installation sites, etc.  The relevant operations are promoted by setting plastic  As we primarily handle home products, measures [Business directions] [Business directions] container reduction targets toward 2031. should be promoted more actively for empowerment of  In order to contribute to achieving SDGs, employees’  As the market share of renewable energy in the entire  In order to reduce CO2 emission at production, the female workers. We are planning to increase new awareness should be raised not only by the bottomenergy market is still about 1%, this particular Photovoltaic Headquarters also promotes introduction of recruits not only fresh out of college but also midup approach promoted by CSR Promotion Team but business is expected to grow rapidly in the near solar battery panels to the plants, and plans to make career. We will also consider work-style reforms to also by the top-down approach definitively led by the future. gradual and steady switch-overs. present a system where female workers can be more top management. To that end, SDGs contribution  At present, our business here is centered on solar  We are promoting the recycling systems for empowered, so that it can be rolled out throughout the targets are now incorporated into business plans, and power generation; but in the future, as implied in the aluminium/paper containers, and also developing entire Group. further integrated in each employee’s targets and name of “Photovoltaic Headquarters,” we may technologies for complete dissolution of plastics coating action plans. consider other renewable energy sources for our of our paper products.  As the company is equipped with sales/trading firm business options. functions, it can expeditiously grasp market needs  After-use disposal of solar battery panels and other through its marketing activities, and transmit them to related issues need to be carefully considered in the the manufacturing functions to present good products future. Business opportunities in repair, reuse, to the society; it also plan to actively promote internal maintenance, etc., should be sought not only in reforms (empowerment of diverse human resources development of proprietary technologies but also in Wooden SDGs Badge produced of forest and collaboration with various stakeholders). alliances with other companies  We now plan to set CO2 reduction targets in China, thinning residues  As for construction of recycling systems, it seeks to find ways to get fully involved by taking advantage of the primary production site. At the Toyal Group, the SDGs Badge is used to raise each the sales/trading firm functions.  The ratio of female managers in the Photovoltaic employee’s awareness and motivation toward contributing  A female worker recruited for clerical tasks was able Headquarters is high; and advancement of female to achieving SDGs. The biggest feature of the SDGs Badge to change her job category to a career-track post by workers should be more actively promoted. in the Toyal Group is that it is produced of forest thinning taking advantage of a system made available for Particularly in China, empowerment of female residues. Forest thinning is important in that it will help fulfilling employees’ career development. We would workers is quite advanced; and highly capable trees grow healthy and contribute to protection of forests; like to make managerial career-track posts more workers, either male or female, are in important wearing SDGs Badges is one way to express our concern available. posts. about forest protection. Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Visions and Strategies for the Future Management The Toyal Group is moving ahead with CSR initiatives in accordance with the basic CSR policy and CSR charter CSR management based on SDG Compass* it has developed in light of its Management Principles Toyal Group utilizes SDGs as a new yardstick for We also have started stakeholder dialogues for the 100th and Course of Action. We support the SDGs corporate activities and is implementing CSR anniversary in 2031. (Sustainable Development Goals) with an understanding management that has incorporated SDG Compass, to In 2019, with “integrating CSR activities into business of their background and are working to achieve them. measure/manage contributions to SDGs. operations” as our main corporate theme, we will be We are helping build a sustainable society through our The CSR Promotion system is led by the officer in the engaged more actively in achieving SDGs. corporate activities while working to enhance our CSR Promotion Office as the responsible supervisor, and corporate value. coordinated by the CSR Promotion Office functioning as * SDG Compass: A corporate action guide for more active uses of SDGs the secretariat. activities formulated by UN Global Compact, Global Reporting Basic CSR Policy In 2018, our continuous efforts in aggressive approaches Initiative (GRI: An NGO promoting understanding of sustainability We, in the Toyal Group, aim to build a corporate culture that allows us to continuously improve our sound business to CSR activities, focused more specifically on “promotion reports and providing supports for their compilation at private activities. To that end, we will develop management that can contribute to society by (i) developing corporate activities of innovations” and “thorough communication to enterprises and government bodies, etc.), and WBCSD (World that are compliant with social norms and corporate ethics, (ii) providing product quality that allows customers to use our employees,” in accordance with SDG Compass. Business Council for Sustainable Development). products comfortably, (iii) conducting business activities in harmony with the environment, and (iv) conducting activities Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group that place the utmost priority on occupational health and safety in the workplace. Step Visions and Strategies for the Understanding SDGs In 2016, SDGs workshops were held for officers and In the questionnaires collected after the workshops, 94% Participation in the UN Global Compact departmental heads; in 2017, they were given to managers. In of the participants responded “Understood well” and Future/Management 2018, for better and deeper understanding among employees, “Understood” SDGs. the Toyal Group initiated a campaign called, “Aggressive Furthermore, information concerning CSR and SDGs The Toyal Group signed the UN Global Compact and Office) attends section meetings of Global Compact Approach to CSR Activities with New Yardstick Called SDGs,” should be further disseminated by means of internal was registered as a participant on April 10, 2018. Network Japan and communicates with external experts and had the campaign team hold 34 workshops at 16 domestic newsletters, etc., and employees should be encouraged In accordance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global and staff members of other companies, to grasp the business sites around the Group. to be more acquainted with them through workshops to Compact covering the areas of human rights, labor, trends and share the relevant information internally. We be held continuously. environment, and anti-corruption, we, as a global will renew our awareness about human rights, labor, (1) Did you know SDGs? Knew both the name and (2) Did you understand SDGs? company, actively promote responsible management and environment, and anti-corruption while ensuring that the contents Don’t know 1% CSR initiatives across our corporate group with an aim of every employee recognizes their social responsibility and Didn’t understand at all 0% Understood well helping build a sustainable society. Didn’t know fulfills our social responsibility as an upstanding In fiscal 2018, we also shared the importance of the Ten corporate citizen. Principles of UN Global Compact by means of internal Knew the name Didn’t understand 5% newsletters, etc. Each domestic Toyal Group company held workshops on We report actions taken to implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, in which Compact as well as our commitment Knew the contents (name not known) Understood many employees participated. Also, at Toyal Group to various UN goals through our Communication on Progress. Global conferences, they were explained to Communication-onWe welcome your feedback on its Step Step representatives of overseas subsidiaries of the Group. contents. progress The Secretariat (Toyo Aluminium K.K., CSR Promotion Decide priority issues Setting goals After Material CSR Issues established in 2017 were To execute the five Material CSR Issues and the Toyal reviewed, we have decided to tackle these five Sustainability Vision linked with them, specific targets Material Issues continuously. and KPIs need to be established first. At the Toyal Group, internal workshops (please refer to “Column” Innovation for on P.13) and employee dialogs (please refer to the future “Feature 2 on P.8”) were implemented primarily at the initiative of the cross-sectional CSR Promotion Team Environmental Human resources Quality and safety members. Based on the results of reviews conducted protection diversity at internal workshops, relevant department heads and the CSR Promotion Team members had internal Cooperation with dialogs to establish specific targets and KPIs for the stakeholders Toyal Group. Workshop Sharing the importance of the Ten Principles of UN Global Governance Compact in an internal newsletter (October 2018 Issue) Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Step Toyo Aluminium Sustainability Vision “TOYAL 2031 Toward Our 100th Integrating Anniversary -” Aluminium with+ The Toyal Group views the year 2019 as the “year of action toward integrating CSR activities into business operations.” operational policies presented by directors in charge, all employees are moving forward in the same direction. Create a Sustainable Future We have so far finalized Material CSR Issues, Sustainability Vision, and the relevant targets and KPI’s, primarily at the We will also incorporate external views by, for example, conducting dialogs with external experts (please refer to initiative of the CSR Promotion Team. CSR should be “Feature 1” on P.5) to promote integration of CSR into tackled not separately from our business operations but in Vision close coordination with them. With the firm commitment of business operations, while creating corporate value and the top management, as CSR issues are stated in continuing to contribute to society. We will explore the far edges of the horizon to find new possibilities for President’s comments at the beginning of a year and in aluminium as we continue coming up with innovations that enrich people’s lives. Commitment by the Aiming to “integrate CSR activities into business operations” Director in Charge of CSR Three years have passed since we started promoting the Aggressive Approach to CSR Activities Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group We will leverage the features and We will cut CO2 emissions from our incorporating SDGs perspective. advantages of materials to operations by 30% (compared with the As stated in Feature stories, the head of each business unit reveals its actions toward SDGs; and for promote clean energy. 2013 level). Material CSR Issues, the responsible officers present specific departmental measures. Through these activities, we intend to promote further developments for “integrating CSR activities into business operations.” We will work with various We will promote smart factories and Keeping in mind the Toyo Aluminium Sustainability Vision targeted at our centennial in 2031, we will Management stakeholders to build a recycling smart offices where people from continue internal dialogs to the extent that every employee can be personally committed to the relevant system for the entire product life diverse backgrounds can work issues by establishing more specific targets for the short time (2019), the mid-term (until 2021), and the cycle. together and reach their full potential. Executive Officer long-term (until 2031). In Charge of CSR Promotion Office We are determined to continue our challenges by uniting our forces together, while trying to attain our Minoru Kawaguchi personally identified goals, so that our efforts can lead to realization of the sustainable society. Column [Internal workshops] Overview Establishing targets and KPIs, based on Material CSR Issues [Dates] February 15, March 15, April 23, 2019 Messages from responsible persons in overseas Group companies For achieving SDGs From February to April 2019, we had the total of three workshops to discuss Toyal Group CSR activity targets and [Location] Toyo Aluminium K.K., Osaka Office KPIs. [Participants] In these workshops, five Material CSR Issues and the Toyal Group, CSR Promotion Team President, Toyal America, Inc. COO, Toyal Europe S.A. S. U. closely linked Sustainability Vision were discussed primarily * Toyo Aluminium K.K. by the CSR Promotion Team members, specifically as to what targets and KPIs should be set for business operations Foil Headquarters Motoki Furueda in the short term (2019), the medium term (until 2021), and Powder & Paste Headquarters Yuichi Asano the long term (until 2031). These reviews were conducted Photovoltaic Headquarters Takahide Minami not only by the CSR Promotion Team members, but also New Business Creation At TAI we have 4 guiding principles that provide the leadership We, at Toyal Europe, are committed to contributing to Toyal Group's through hearings with the relevant business units as the targets and KPIs will be incorporated into the relevant Department Yutaro Sawada team with a vision for the company. Those principles are: Sustainable Development Goals. department targets after fiscal 2019. shareholder value, customer satisfaction, a commitment to our We aim at implementing a strategy that reflects commitment to Advanced Technology employees and their families by providing a safe, healthy and economic, environmental, social and cultural ideals, to apply Concerning how these internal dialogs were conducted, Division Moeko Matsubara sustainable practices across the organisation. diverse workplace and lastly, we commit to act responsibly in the including the contents of the reviews, please refer to P.8, Engineering Center Keiichi Watanabe Adopting cleaner production techniques, developing resource and “Feature 2.” communities where we live and work. If successful, we can Management Planning energy efficient processes and examining transportation of goods are directly impact several the goals contained in the SDG initiative. Department Ryusuke Yano key targets to achieve by 2030. Since 2009-2012 we implemented a company wellness program People are critical to the business success. Integrating good General Affairs Department Daisuke Miki that connected improved lifestyle with health and diet training employment practices into our business, such as friendly policies, Personnel Affairs Department Mitsunori Sawai (goal 3). We won several awards including the Global Health and flexible working and access to training, will help create an environment * Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. Wellness Award for Small Business held in London in 2013. We where people feel valued and content. In today’s tight labour market, Mirai Business Promotion also provide financial support to a local organization that provides this is crucial to our ability to attract and retain the right people. Group Fumi Ito training and job opportunities for developmentally disabled adults Reduced painfullness, by the implementation of automatism on called “Cornerstone Services” (goal 11). Further, we work hard production lines, will improve efficiency and safety at work. * Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. Toyal Europe will also be focusing on Men/Women equality across the General Affairs Department Yuki Tao to provide career opportunities for people of all races and organisation in terms of salary and management positions. genders and recently received high scores from our Toyo Aluminium K.K. CSR Promotion Office members By 2030, we are looking at reducing CO2 emission, energy and water Government’s Equal Employment Opportunity Audit (goal 5). By Secretariat: Toyo Aluminium K.K., CSR Promotion Office consumption, industrial waste by 25%. From product development and continuing to follow our guiding principles we will have packaging, to manufacture, transportation ..., every element of the Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd., CSR opportunities to impact many of the 17 Sustainable Development business will be analyzed and reshaped to maximise the resources we Attendees at Workshop on February 15, Promotion Office Goals. use and minimise the waste we produce. 2019 Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group CSR Action Plan Keeping in mind the Toyo Aluminium Sustainability Vision targeted at our centennial in 2031, we, in the Toyal Group, have established targets for the short time (2019), the medium term (until 2021), and the long term (until 2031) for the five Material CSR Issues. We will continue the relevant operations steadily, believing that the attainment of the long-term targets will not only create the Groupwide value but also contribute to achievement of SDGs. Material CSR Issues Correspondence with major Primary activities Short-term targets (for 2019) Mid-term targets (for 2021) Long-term targets (for 2031) SDGs Existing business: Improving sales of Setting targets as part of management Increasing sales of products contributing products contributing to SDG3, 7, 9, 11, Finalizing products contributing to SDGs strategy (to be incorporated into the midto SDG3, 7, 9, 11, and 12 three times Innovation for 12 term management plan) (compared with the 2019 level) the future New business: Creating the fifth pillar (of Targeted at one case of commercialization Two cases of commercialization of One case of commercialization of a product the business) of a product products Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Reducing CO2 emission from business Reduction by 30% (compared with the Reduction by 2.5% (year-to-year) Reduction by 2.5% (year-to-year) activities (compared with the 2013 level) 2013 level) CSR Action Plan Starting reviews about methods for Starting construction of the solar battery Constructing the solar battery recycling Reviewing methods for constructing the solar constructing the solar battery recycling recycling system and the recycling system battery recycling system system and dialogs with stakeholders operations Constructing the aluminium recycling Environmental system Starting dialogs with stakeholders for constructing the aluminium recycling system Constructing the aluminium recycling system and starting the recycling operations Generalization of aluminium recycling (with the constructed system) protection Constructing the paper container Starting dialogs with stakeholders for Constructing the paper recycling system and Generalization of paper recycling (with the recycling system constructing the paper recycling system starting the recycling operations constructed system) Reduction ratio for industrial wastes from Reduction ratio for industrial wastes from Reducing industrial wastes from No industrial waste for final land-fill (zero business operations: Reduction of 2% in business operations: Reduction of 2% in business operations emission through complete recycling) basic unit (year-to-year) basic unit (year-to-year) Improving the ratio of new female recruits New female recruit ratio at 20% New female recruit ratio at 25% New female recruit ratio at 30% Preparation for changing the retirement Completion of establishment of the Completion of establishment of the Enhancing work opportunities for senior system primarily to raise the mandatory retirement system primarily to raise the retirement system primarily to raise the human resources retirement age to 65 mandatory retirement age to 65 mandatory retirement age to 70 Human resources diversity Empowering autonomous human resources Starting development of autonomous human resources Expanding those eligible for development of autonomous human resources Continuously expanding development of autonomous human resources Starting consideration of measures to Continuing measures to promote healthPromoting health-oriented management Continuously expanding health-oriented promote health-oriented management oriented management practices and also practices management practices practices obtaining external evaluations Reducing serious quality complaints No significant quality complaint Quality and No accident accompanied by lost worktime, no accident not accompanied by lost worktime, no fire accident, halving minor accidents Reducing accidents accompanied by lost safety worktime, accidents not accompanied by (year-to-year) Priority action items: Enhancement of accidents concerning rotating objects and conveyance tools, as well as fall accidents within the lost worktime, and fire accidents premises Improving reliability and satisfaction by Cooperation with Other means of dialogs with various Eliciting and summarizing problems through Planning the Toyal Group measures for Establishing good relationships with various stakeholders and contributing to goals of stakeholders (local communities, stakeholders SDGs customers, employees, etc.) dialogs with various stakeholders problems suffered by various stakeholders solving their problems Five Material CSR Issues Examples Exploring new possibilities of aluminium applications by Introducing “Aluminium continuous casting facility” (Kanbara Works) Material CSR Issues Toyo Aluminium K.K. introduced the continuous aluminium casting facility at its Kanbara Works in October 2018. The continuous casting method not only improves manufacturing efficiency, as compared with conventional methods, but also is expected to, among other things, enhance hardness, reduce pinholes, and reduce molding defects due to improved rolling ratios. Furthermore, in our newly introduced continuous casting facility, detailed settings can be made for manufacturing conditions, enabling us to develop products that can satisfy customers’ needs. We will explore aluminium’s unfound Innovation for Aluminium continuous casting facility introduced at possibilities through development of functional products Kanbara Works that can help people live more comfortably. Reducing environmental loads through new technological developments, including water-based paint and metal 3D printers the future Metallic pigments used for automobile paints were ■ Changing VOC ■ Weight difference in conventionally applicable only to solvent-based paints contents in paints automotive containing significant VOC* contents. The surface finishing (kg/pc) components technologies of Toyo Aluminium K.K., however, has made it possible to reduce VOC contents in paints by about 80% by making such pigments compatible with various water-based 1 Innovation for the future Five Material CSR Issues paints*1. We also develop and manufacture aluminium-alloy powder for metallic 3D printers for manufacturing automobile [Message from the components. By using designs optimized for 3D printers and Responsible Person] our proprietary high-strength aluminium-alloy powder SolventWater-based based paint paint (Scalmalloy®*2), we have been able to reduce weights of VOC content Conventional components Executive Officer components by more than 80%, which is reported to have Non-volatile 3D-printer components In Charge of New Business Creation content, water Department contributed to improved mileage of vehicles, the end Yoshihiko Okubo products*3. * VOC: Volatile Organic Compound. Because it causes photochemical smog, it is restricted by regulations in many countries. The Toyal Group moves ahead with the R&D and *1 Onoyama, Paint Technology; October 2006, Special Number 43 (2006) commercialization of products by harnessing its core We are determined to enhance partnerships with various *2 Scalmalloy® is a registered trademark of APWORK. We believe that our most important social technologies at its Advanced Technologies Division industrial fields, expand our technological bases to new *3 Jon Meyer, Metal additive Manufacturing, Spring 2019 Vol.5 No.1 responsibilities are to provide new products and and New Business Creation Department in response areas in close collaboration with stakeholders, so that we services that meet society’s needs, help solve to current and potential issues facing society as well can contribute more to reduction of environmental loads. issues facing the world in order to pave the way Approach as changes in the market environment. We divided to a sustainable society, and create economic target markets into three types, i.e. existing, new, value. In the midst of the increasingly and next-generation markets, and invest R&D Full-scale manufacture/sale of products contributing to dissemination of renewable energy demanding environments, particularly, in terms of development speeds and research quality, in each category. Weresources actively promote open innovation, partnering with startups, universities, research institutions, etc. across the globe, to tackle In fiscal 2018, Toyo Aluminium K.K. started the full-scale in front of a guard we aim at building the fifth business pillar with challenges we cannot overcome alone. manufacture/sale of “HaneTM Module” (hereafter, “Panel”), station, or over a the key phrases of (1) environment/energy, (2) Taking the Creating Shared Value (CSV) approach, we focus on R&D a super-light-weight solar battery panels. The Panel sidewalk, etc. We will improvement of social infrastructure, (3) projects that will create value for both society and the Toyal Group while weighs about half of conventional solar battery panels (6 make the full use of health/medical, (4) IoT society, and (5) staying in close touch with stakeholders. We will think outside the box and kg/m2), making it possible to be installed on roofs, which our proprietary electrically-powered motor vehicles, while push the envelope of our aluminium-based business to lead the world. used to be impossible due to weights. By taking technologies for a considering collaboration with universities and advantage of the special features of the Panel, we started society where other companies, as well as M&A options. manufacture/sale of a solar battery panel, renewable energy is Working against this backdrop, we will think “ENESTANDTM,” a small-footprint solar battery stand “ENESTANDTM*4,” a two-pillar solar battery stand that can nothing special in our equipped with “HaneTM Module,” super-light-weight solar outside the box and push the envelope in our battery panel be installed in a limited space. ENESTANDTM is expected daily life. aluminium-based business as we move ahead to be used widely at various locations, as a weather *4 ENESTANDTM,” is a registered trademark of Sky Japan Co., Ltd. at full speed to build a brighter future and create protection in an automobile/bicycle parking spot, value. Five Material CSR Issues Examples Active promotion of recycling activities (Yao Works) Material CSR Issues In March 2018, Toyo Aluminium K.K. dismantled an incinerator at the Yao Works. Despite the elimination of the environmental loads due to the discharges of traces of dioxins within the legally approved limits, the total amount of wastes has become a new problem. To reduce the final waste amounts (landfill amounts), recycling activities are aggressively promoted. For example, in fiscal 2018, 11 tons of paper wastes were recycled into toilet paper; as many as 2,400 rolls were used in a year at the Yao Works. Environmental protection Dismantled incinerator at the Yao Toilet paper produced from Works recycled paper Establishing a system to recover and reuse exhaust heat (Gumma Works) At the Gumma Works, aluminium foils are colored and films are combined. As these operations require organic solvent, VOC processing devices are installed; the heat energy produced in the process used to be wasted as exhaust heat. In 2018, an exhaust heat recovery boiler 2 Environmental protection Five Material CSR Issues was introduced to recover the exhaust heat generated from the processing device as steam, which is then reused as a heat source for drying and oven heat source at production facilities. As a result, the electric power [Message from the usage has been reduced by 2%; the city gas usage has Responsible Person] been down by 4%, respectively in a year. Gumma Works: Exhaust heat recovery boiler Executive Officer In Charge of Engineering Center Masahiro Takahashi Development of entirely biodegradable paper containers and consideration of possible future alliances (Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd.) Environmental preservation is an important field of As we process aluminium produced our business activities, to which we contribute not To solve the problem of plastic wastes in the sea, which We are also planning to participate in “Clean Ocean from mineral called bauxite for various purposes, we recognize that our only by means of our products but also through has become a global challenge, significant efforts are now Material Alliance*2” established as a forum to accelerate manufacturing processes require large reduction of environmental loads in our operations. In required, including proper management of wastes, these innovative initiatives. amounts of resources, energies, and Approach our daily operations, for example, we promote enhancement of 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), and chemicals, etc., causing significant reduction of energy used in each manufacturing development and dissemination of highly biodegradable In order to solve the problem of plastic wastes in the sea, impact on environment. We are thus process, reduction, reuse, and and recycling of generated wastes. For prevention of plastics, paper, and other alternative materials. we would like to further promote our business of paper aware of the needs to promote business operations harmonious with global warming, in particular, we have set a long-term target of reducing containers, expected to replace disposable plastic the global environment. CO2 emission by 30% (compared with the 2013 level) by 2031, the containers, and contribute to global environmental Against this global background, Toyo Aluminium Ekco centennial year for the Toyo Aluminium Group, based on the Paris preservation. Specifically, “reduction of CO2 emission Products Co., Ltd. has made consistent corporate efforts Agreement and SDGs, and will promote specific actions to attain the *1 Molded pulp: A paper mold products made of pulp solved in water, from business activities,” for sustainable development through enhanced strained with wire work, and dried: It is easily molded into various “establishment of recycling systems,” target. We have also obtained ISO14001 certifications at 15 business shapes, and capable of satisfying a wide variety of needs as plastic food manufacture/sale of paper-based containers, including and “waste reduction” are duties to be locations, which are mostly production sites. Through effective trays, etc. development of pulp-mold(*1) containers and other types *2 Clean Ocean Material Alliance: Established by the Ministry of Economy, fulfilled by any aluminium implementation of the environmental management system, we will prevent of paper containers. Trade and Industry, participated by 159 companies and associations (as manufacturer. There may be many environment-related problems and comply with the relevant laws and of January 11, 2019); aimed at promoting various alliances among difficult obstacles to be tackled, in companies and associations to solve the problem of plastic wastes in regulations, reduce environmental loads, and promote sustainable Currently manufactured/sold paper containers cannot be terms of engineering, economic, the sea. More details are presented in a news release of the Ministry internal/external systemic aspects, business activities that are harmonious with the global environments. entirely returned to the soil, as they are coated with (January 18, 2019) titled, “Clean Ocean Material Alliance Established.” https://www.meti.go.jp/press/2018/01/20190118007/20190118007.html etc.; but we will move forward from plastic materials. One of our new initiatives includes broader perspectives encompassing development of paper containers based on biodegradable the entire product life cycles and plastics, which is scheduled to be launched in fiscal 2019. industry. Five Material CSR Issues Examples Promoting uses of the child care leave program the first male employee who took child-care leave in the Toyal Group Material CSR Issues The entire company is fully supportive of employees Comment from the male employee who took the child-care leave raising children, and creates the work environment where they can sustain a good balance between work and childAt first, I was a little embarrassed because there had been no precedence in a male worker taking the childraising. care leave. But, because I took the leave, I was able to know how hard it was to raise a child, and at the same The usage ratio of child-care leave by female workers in time, to have a wonderful and intimate time in which I could feel my child growing day by day. the Company has nearly 100%; but the leave has never been taken by male workers. While male participation in Because I was the first male worker taking the child-care child-raising has been in one of the current trends, in leave, I can feel that I did something encouraging other male workers to take more active roles in raising children. fiscal 2018, the child-care leave was taken by a male I wish my tiny step could contribute to creating workplaces worker for the first time. We are dedicated to maintaining where many workers can feel more comfortable working. the work environment where employees, regardless of Human resources their sexes, can easily take child-care leave, work It would be nice to see many male workers naturally take the child-care leave for taking care comfortably, and have meaningful and rewarding work of their children. experiences. diversity Building work teams and starting to build the work environment where we can work with disabled people (Yao Works) At the Yao Works, based on the recognition that making the best use of diverse values would contribute to Furthermore, based on the activities at the Yao Works, the Five Material CSR Issues improving business performances, a certain Work Team Toyal Group will roll out the idea, so that diverse human 3 Human resources diversity activities have been introduced by departmental resources can contribute to creating active work representatives to “create a workplace where disabled environments. people can work comfortably and safely by 2021” since July 2018. Lifting platform currently planned [Message from the The Work Team has discussed how to realize barrier-free Ordinarily used as steps Responsible Person] plants where various physically handicapped employees When a wheelchair Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer in can comfortably work, despite the different types of is used Charge of Personnel Affairs disabilities, and is now taking systematic 3-to-5-year Department actions for coping with both tangible (elimination of steps Masashi Yamamoto We are a company that values people, and that’s why we value and introduction of automatic doors, etc.) and intangible (flexible work hours and raising managers’ awareness, employee diversity as well as individual personalities and etc.) issues. In fiscal 2019, a work environment characters, and aim to foster human resources diversity. As our improvement initiative will be put into action, as the first There are three key phrases representing the major business operations quickly expand across the globe, we are actively step, to enable wheel-chaired visitors to enjoy plant tours trends in Japan: “Globalization,” hiring workers from overseas, including foreign nationals, and comfortably. “Decreasing working population,” and Approach equipping employees with skills needed to work in the global “Diversifying personal values.” arena through various training programs, including long-term Toward reforming work-styles introduction of the and short-term programs for studying abroad. We have flextime system Against this background, the Toyal Group promotes health-oriented built a work environment where all employees can reach their full potential regardless In July 2018, Toyo Aluminium K.K. introduced the flextime Examples of uses of flextime system management for employees to of gender or disabilities by enhancing the child-care leave program and shortened system in which each employee can choose the starting maintain their good physical and work hour program for employees with child care responsibilities, promoting barriertime for a workday. The system allows each employee to Standard work hours mental health, and also systemic free work environments, and implementing other measures to address Japan’s shift the work hours forward or backward by one or two Starting Recess Finishing reforms to improve labor productivity declining working-age population due to the falling birth rate and the graying of hours without changing the day’s entire work hours. Each and to nurture autonomous human worker can choose the starting time suitable for his or her society. We also provide female employees with career support by assigning them to Working Working resources. needs not only for childrearing or nursing care, but also for We continue to create an engaging career-track positions. We are also focusing on reducing total working hours per year avoiding congested traffic in the morning, self-development environment where individual by reducing meetings, making them more efficient, and boosting communication needs, or participating community activities, etc. Because Moving up the starting time by two hours (starting work at 6:50) workers can find meaningful and through the use of a new IT system as part of our work reform initiatives, which also the procedures have been simplified, the use ratio* from Starting Recess Finishing satisfying jobs in which they can include introduction of the flextime system. We continue to create an engaging the introduction of the system has reached as high as perceive their personal growths, and environment where people from diverse backgrounds can fulfill their potential while 37.8% in total, realizing more flexible work-styles for many provide diverse work approaches in workers. Working Working ensuring that all employees maintain a healthy work-life balance. which they can fulfill their potential, * The use ratio: Based on the result of questionnaires conducted by a union while contributing to sustainable of Toyo Aluminium K.K. society and sustainable corporate activities. Five Material CSR Issues Examples Development of activities for learning from mistakes In the latest compilation process, arrangements were made Material CSR Issues The most important point for presenting products that can to enable points requiring careful attention to be surmised satisfy customers would be to “eliminate serious quality from the case study titles and to add succinct lessons to be learned, so that it can be used more easily as a tool for incidents.” However, quite regrettably, one serious quality preventive actions. accident occurred in fiscal 2018. As our sincere response to We are scheduled to issue a the latest accident, in order never to repeat the same revised version by re-editing the mistake, we have compiled the “Case Studies on Past current one by adding examples Problems” by collecting past incidents. collected at other business sites. We The “Case Studies on Past Problems” sums up details of the will put our forces together to realize problems that took place at the Yao Works, the incident an environment/system in which Quality and safety progress, the backgrounds, the causes, and the Case Studies on Past “eliminating serious quality Problems countermeasures. incidents” is achieved as a matter of course. Workshops held for on-site patrols by inviting external consultants (Yao Works, Shinjo Works) In Toyal Group, in order to ensure safety, on-site patrols are conducted at each manufacturing site, in addition to the safety audits held by CSR Promotion Office and President’s Five Material CSR Issues site visits. In the past, the results of the on-site patrols were heavily dependent on the personal capabilities of each 4 Quality and Safety inspector because the inspection points were not specified or properly shared in detail. To rectify the situation, in fiscal 2018, external consultants were invited to study sessions [Message from the where participants learned about important points in on-site Responsible Person] inspections both at class sessions and on site. From the consultants, we learned a reverse perspective of “How to Executive Officer cause a serious accident, instead of how to prevent an In Charge of Quality Assurance Department accident,” and other crucial points based on practical Norio Kasetani insights. We will not only immediately put the lessons we have learned to actual inspection tours and other safety Instruction session for points We have obtained ISO 9001 certification at 17 locations, activities, but also further enhance the Group-wide safety to be checked on-site We are committed to making and including our affiliates across the globe, and are working on activities by incorporating more external instruction inspection tour providing products that are safe, sessions, as required. the continuous quality improvements. satisfying to customers, and beneficial to society. In order to ensure safety, a safety and health office has Compilation of BCP suitable for business characteristics (Shinjo Works) Approach been set up at each production site while CSR Promotion Our workplace motto, “no safety, no Office plays a central role in maintaining a safety Also at the Hino Works in charge of the Powder business, activities Toyo Aluminium K.K. compiles BCP (Business production,” instilling a safety-first attitude in our employees sums up the system. This allows management for concerted efforts between the head office and Continuity Plan) for unforeseen contingencies, including for re-compiling BCP started toward the end of fiscal 2018; in fiscal foundation of our operations. Ensuring production sites in implementing safety and health initiatives. 2019, the Foil Headquarters started preparations. major earthquakes, and has established the BCM (Business both product and workplace safety is We also ensure that subcontractors who provide us with the processing job one for manufacturers who are Continuity Management) system. services that support our daily operations fulfill their quality and safety responsible corporate citizens. responsibilities in order to prevent accidents and problems from occurring at In fiscal 2018, primarily at the Shinjo Works of Powder & In our business environment, we are constantly required to present new production sites other than ours. We actively help them with monitoring quality Paste Headquarters, more practical BCP was re-compiled by products, and respond to existing control, conducting safety inspections for equipment we lend, and more while customers’ needs with innovation as to eliciting the business characteristics with the help of external respecting their autonomy. currently available products. Our consultants. The progress of actions for the elicited issues is We are committed to not only complying with social norms but also making activities also need to be performed in continuous improvements to further enhance quality and safety with an aim of now regularly reviewed by the Work Team composed of increasingly global setting. In the midst of the changing business environments, earning greater customer trust. managers and general managers at the Shinjo Works. we are committed to maintenance and BCP Compilation Workshop improvement of safety and quality at high levels. Five Material CSR Issues Examples Educational field trip for senior high school students as part of the initiative for nurturing the next-generation citizens Material CSR Issues In October 2018, eight juniors of Moka High School of We will accept the students’ visits so that these learning Tochigi Prefecture visited Osaka Office of Toyo Aluminium opportunities for the next generation will widen their options K.K. as part of their field trips. This project was realized in for their future careers, and seek every possibility for conjunction with “School Support Center,” an NPO. The coordinating our efforts with NPOs. project is aimed at encouraging students to visit companies, learn about industrial activities in society and job diversities, so that they can acquire much broader and brighter visions about their future jobs, based on more knowledge and wider perspectives. Cooperation with The students vastly learned not only about organizational activities and an overview of our aluminium products, but also joy of manufacturing products for customers, and how R&D systems work and how people actually work at work Company visit for senior high stakeholders school students sites. Comment of President of School Support Center, an NPO On-site “company visits” are valuable learning experiences for the students. On these occasions, the students visits actual workplaces, listen directly to employees explaining company operations, 5 Cooperation with stakeholders Five Material CSR Issues products, and their tasks, have the first-hand knowledge about social roles of work, and think about what work is. They learned that Toyo Aluminium K.K. was renowned for its high technology prowess, and that its products were widely used in many different fields, and were specifically surprised that no foodstuff was attached to the lids made of its water[Message from the Specified Non-profit repellant packaging material, and acquired the real feel of working. All things are real “educational assets.” Responsible Person] Corporation School Support Center As we intend to continue the company visit program we have continued for the past twenty years, we would appreciate it President Executive Officer if you kindly proffer valuable opportunities for the next generation. In Charge of General Affairs Mr. Takeo Kimura Department and Secretariat Office Hideo Ishiguro Participating in SDGs Workshop held at the sponsorship of a local environmental partnership We, at the Toyo Aluminium Group, contribute to We place importance on working with conference (Yao Works) social and economic activities of the local all stakeholders, including customers, communities through our production and “Environment Animated Yao” is an environmental local communities, governments, Approach employment activities. Furthermore, in conference engaged in activities for improving the NPOs, and employees, to create collaboration with the local community, we also environment of Yao City where the Yao Works is located, support local cultural activities and environmental innovations and maintain sustainable sponsored by the Environmental Preservation Section of protection efforts, and are engaged in the Food Bank and other Yao City as the secretariat, and performing its activities business operations while helping to support activities through NPOs. We also emphasize contribution to through the partnership of citizens, companies, build a sustainable society. We nurturing the next-generation citizens through encouraging their educational institutions, and municipal government. On actively engage in stakeholder company visits (accepting junior or senior high school students), August 27, 2018, employees of Toyal Group participated dialogues with an eye to enhancing planned by NPOs. Other activities include, for example, volunteer in SDGs Workshop held by “Environment Animated Yao” our corporate value. local clean-up activities by employees and volunteer help activities to exchange opinions. After making a presentation about In the first place, each employee for communities hit by natural disasters; through these various activities of the Toyo Aluminium Group, they participated activities, we will actively promote movements contributing to the in a card game work shop with other participants. They needs to think how to contribute sustainable society, so that we can enhance our corporate value. learned the importance of pursuing sustainable personally to the society. And, the development in which not only the economic aspects but Toyo Aluminium Group, as the group also the environmental and social aspects should be of the individual workers, should properly considered toward 2030, the target year for consider Why, Where, What and How SDGs Workshop attaining SDGs, and deepened their understanding of we can contribute to the society. SDGs, together with the 20 or so participants. Foundation for Sustainable Management Independent Adviser’s Opinion Governance Recommendations for improvement Specially-appointed professor at Meiji University School of Business  CSR Action Plan has a new section indicating long-term targets clearly Administration; Senior adviser on CSR of Sompo for fiscal 2031, which can be highly evaluated as a bold step forward. Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. Corporate Governance However, the contents are targets focusing on Inside-Out based on the Risk management Toyo Aluminium K.K. has the board of directors composed of the total of The Toyal Group has embarked on the full-fledged activities for the Mr. Masao Seki current achievement levels; more challenging Outside-In target settings nine directors, including four outside directors, for reviewing, discussing, would be recommended. “Enterprise Risk Management” for the entire Group, in view of the risks making decisions concerning the management policies, strategies, expected to become more complicated amidst the globalization trend. In  As stated in this report, compilation of the Policies on Human Rights measures, and issues affecting the entire Group including subsidiaries. fiscal 2018, group-wide risks have been elicited and recognized from the Following the preparatory steps for two years in identification of Material should be highly recommended. In that process, “UN Guiding Principles Furthermore, the board of auditors composed of the total of four auditors global perspective, countermeasures have been reviewed, and the risk CSR Issues in 2017 and creation of Sustainability Vision in 2018, this year on Business and Human Rights” and other established international including two outside auditors, not only audits the directors’ execution of management activities, including basic principles, regulations, and scopes has been planned as the year for integrating CSRs; this clear target setting criteria need to be complied with. Furthermore, the Keidanren’s Charter their duties, but also monitors the validity and rationality of the activities and of risks, were centrally managed, primarily at the initiative of the CSR approach for each year seems very systematic and well prepared. At the of Corporate Behavior, revised in 2017, and the Implementation operations of the line organizations within the Group, in coordination with Promotion Office. Through these efforts, eight risk areas expected to have same time, this report emanates a sense of aspiration and determination, Guidance, as well as the “National Action Plan” currently developed in the Internal Audit Department. negative impacts on corporate management, as well as 12 risk categories as well as sincere earnestness to walk the talk, as perceived from people Japan, should also be reviewed and fully utilized. The Company also has the group management meeting for conducting deemed to cause these adverse situations, have been identified. Overviews preliminary reviews and discussion of matters affecting the business of the working together in a company. of these activities are reported regularly in the Group management  As the other side of the coin of “Policies on Human Rights” is risks entire Group, prior to the Board of Directors’ meetings. meetings. concerning human rights in supply chains, it is recommended to Points to be appreciated establish the PDCA cycle for supply chain management, as part of Compliance  The president clearly and fully indicates his unswerving intention in compilation of Policies on Human Rights. This is also an important part Internal control system The Toyal Group implements group-wide consistent compliance activities to corporate management and specific strategies. of SDGs activities. In order to ensure proper business practices, the Toyo Aluminium Group ensure thorough compliance with corporate ethics and legal requirements.  The concept of “Future Social In” is presented, which starts from social  Participation in the UN Global Compact is a laudable move, and can be decides basic policies for the internal control system at the Board of Activity plans, progresses, and results are reported to the compliance issues, aims at connecting CSR directly to business operations, and utilized as a learning experience. It is also recommended to study cases Directors’ meetings. Based on the basic policies, we have established the committee; and the overviews are reported regularly to the Group changes them into key drivers for the mid-to-long-term growth. To that of Sumitomo Chemical and other leading domestic companies, as well corporate structure capable of implementing “securing reliability of financial management meetings by the CSR Promotion Office functioning as the end, efforts are made to measure future social impacts of products and as overseas advanced examples as hints for establishing a benchmark. reporting,” “legal compliance,” “risk management,” “securing effective and committee secretariat. In fiscal 2019, risk management activities with to present social contribution targets. efficient business practices,” and “asset preservation.” improved functionality and structural robustness will be more intrinsically  On the other hand, it is clearly stated that the existing operations are  I strongly urge you to continue the internal dialogs and the workshops. According to the basic policies, we can realize concrete measures for risk involved to enhance effectiveness. quite regrettably merely linked with SDGs. They aspire to aim high, These experiences should be expanded to more of the first -hand management and compliance, etc. based on the honest admission of the insufficient current situations. experiences in social issues and listening to stakeholders’ expectation,  In order to incorporate SDGs into business operations, significant efforts from which you will obtain various innovation hints. have been energetically made to raise employees’ awareness through ■ Corporate governance system various dialogs with external experts and internal dialogs, as well as In conclusion Foundation for Sustainable Management/ Independent Adviser’s Opinion internal communication campaign tours, which were performed as many General meeting As expressed in your course of action, “Create the Future, I will Create It,” as 34 times. I expect you to make more use of your sensitivities, win with your wisdom,  More specifically, various estimable activities are conducted; products learn from mistakes, deepen communication, and position SDGs Accounting audit Monitoring contributing to a decarbonized society have been developed and Auditors’ meeting Governance Auditor Board of Directors participated by all employees as the driving force for further innovation; all disseminated; work teams for promoting easy-access work these efforts should then lead to the mid-to-long-term growth. CSR is a Information (Decision/appro Recommendations environments for the handicapped have produced tangible results in the exchange val) business Discussion/report and advice long journey. I hope it can be evolved steadily through your incessant execution order Yao Works; and SDGs workshops sponsored by local environmental Seeking efforts. consultation partnership conference have been actively participated; These excellent Report Group management Compliance committee meeting Report/reply attempts should be shared and further disseminated within the Group. Report Internal audit Business Discussion/report CSR Promotion Office Report department execution order Consultation I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Professor Seki for his Assistance Assistance valuable feedback on our activities in the CSR Report of Toyal Group Compliance promotion group In reply to the again this year. Each department Monitoring, awarenessConcerning the annual target settings for the “aggressive approach to Internal audit (individual) raising, and education Reply independent CSR activities” started in fiscal 2016, he mentioned not only our adviser’s opinion systematic approach but also a sense of aspiration and determination Consultation perceived among people working in a company. His supportive Consultation Reply Executive Officer Cooperation Cooperation comment encourages us to take further steps forward. In Charge of CSR Promotion Office We will study his recommendations for improvements carefully to take Compliance consultation line Minoru steady steps to “integrate CSR activities into business operations.” We will continue our utmost to realize “Create the Future, I will Create It” Kawaguchi toward our centennial in 2031, contribute to a sustainable society, and enhance our corporate value. Corporate Profile Global Network/Messages from Employees Svam Toyal Suzhou Office, Suzhou Toyo Aluminium Naoki Higashi ■ Korea Ekco Household Products Co., Ltd. Sam-A Aluminium Co., Ltd. Shinichi Kurisu ■ China Toyal Zhaoqing Co., Ltd. Hunan NingXiang JiWeiXin Metal Powder Co., Ltd. Suzhou Office, Suzhou Toyo Aluminium Ekco I have been seconded to Svam Toyal, a Household Products Co., Ltd. ■ U.S. Due to increasing awareness about environmental world leading supplier of medical ■ France Toyo Aluminium Ekco Trading (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Toyal America, Inc. protection, activities to switch from plastics to paper packaging materials in terms of the Toyal Europe S.A.S.U. Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. have become very popular these days. We, as a supply volumes, for providing technical Toyo Aluminium (Shanghai) Management Co., Ltd. company manufacturing and selling paper cups and assistance to the company. I am charged containers, successfully acquired a CoC certificate with the tasks of developing the company in this emerging economy and contribute (FSC®) in May 2019. By using paper accredited by to people’s health around the world the Forest Stewardship Council, certifying proper ■ India Toyal (THAILAND) Co., Ltd. management of forests, we will contribute to through supplies of medical packaging materials. Toyal MMP India PVT. LTD. Katsura Morioka sustainable management of forests. Svam Toyal Thailand Toyal Zhaoqing Co., Ltd. Toyal (THAILAND) Co., Ltd. He Guang Hu Singapore Since its foundation in 2017, Toyal (THAILAND) Co., Singapore Branch of Toyo Tokai Aluminium Ltd. where I belong has been steadily establishing Toyo Aluminium Ekco Hanbai K.K. close relationships not only with ASEAN countries but Products Co., Ltd. also India. Mirai Business Promotion Group Through provision of our major lines of powder and Fumi Ito paste products and food/medical packaging materials, My responsibilities include internal control and tasks at the we are engaged in sophisticated productivity Control Department. We are now focusing on reviewing the enhancement activities with the local staff (overseas company’s control system to enhance governance. Through human resources), in the midst of the increasingly these activities, we would like to contribute to creation of ■ Japan globalizing business environment, and contribute to sustainable society and making the company a place where achieving SDGs. every employee can feel happy. We also contribute to <Toyo Aluminium K.K. production bases> improvement of the community environment through cleanI am now working in a section charged with a Yao Works (Osaka) up activities in public areas around the plant on the monthly mission of starting a new business for the future of the company. By understanding roles Kanbara Works (Shizuoka) Chiba Works (Chiba) Business Overview “Clean Day,” which has been continued since 2012. expected of us in society, we aim at “Mirai Gumma Works (Gumma) (future-oriented) Business,” including designing Chigasaki Works (Kanagawa) safe products with less global environmental Shinjo Works (Nara) ● Trade name ● Major business fields loads, which will be constantly needed. Hino Works (Shiga) Toyo Aluminium K.K. <Affiliated companies> ● President and Representative Foil Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. Director We are developing and producing innovative aluminium foil ALPHAMIC Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Yamamoto products, based on our unique technologies and knowhow. We Toyo Aluminium K.K. also promote new proposals on highly functional and efficient Advanced Technology Division Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. Toyo Aluminium Kosan K.K. ● Head Office materials full of future possibilities by making the most of the Moeko Matsubara lightness and high performances characteristic of aluminium foils. ALP Co., Ltd. Midosuji Daiwa Blg., 6-8, Yoko-Toyo Metals Co., Ltd. Kyutaromachi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Powder and paste Osaka, 5410056 We develop aluminium paste products with a focus on enhancing Japan aesthetic values as well as functionality. We have contributed to growth and development in the fields of chemicals, electronic Global Network/Messages from employees/Business overview Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. ● Establishment materials, automobiles, and aerospace via our aluminium powder We, at the Advanced Technology Division, are General Affairs Department May 12, 1999 and its applied technologies. making progress in research and development of a Yuki Tao (the former Toyo Aluminium was wide variety of new business areas without being Solar cell related products established on April 7, 1931) We are now preparing proper systems focusing on global complacent with core technologies developed in the Corporate Profile existing business, and actively engaged in alliances ● Paid-in Capital environment protection, including solar batteries, and other with universities, research institutes, and other 8,000,000,000 yen related growth fields. We propose products based on our unique companies for new technologies. By making the best technologies, and give specific attention to overseas of this system, we would like to expeditiously present ● Number of employees photovoltaic power business particularly in China. solutions and products that can satisfy various social (as of March 31, 2019) It would be important to promote work-style reforms, needs. 2,550 (Consolidated) Household products innovate internal systems and sales support tools, and Our robust foundation is based on the marketing prowess fully create worker-friendly environments, so that we can 1,486 (Non-consolidated) versed with daily necessities and on the production technologies enhance employees’ motivation. By listening closely to ● Shareholder fully acquainted with materials. We deal with home products and employees’ opinions and suggestions, I would like to aluminium foil containers for foods, and paper-based packaging Nippon Light Metal Holdings Co., contribute to making a better place to work. items, all of which are close to our everyday life. Ltd.: 100% Toyo Aluminium K.K. https://www.toyal.co.jp/ Osaka office (Midosuji Daiwa Blg.) 6-8, Kyutaromachi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka, 5410056 Japan Tel: +81 6 6271 3151 (main number) Tokyo office (Tennouzu Ocean Square) 2-2-20, Higashi-shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 140-0002 Tel: +81 3 5461 0711 (main number) Carbon dioxide generated in the process of printing this document has been offset via Carbon Free Consulting Corporation.
