Communication on Progress CWS International GmbH | Franz-Haniel-Platz 6-8 | 47119 Duisburg United Nations Global Compact New York, NY 10017 USA January 10, 2020 Communication on Progress To whom it may concern, It is my great pleasure to inform you that CWS-boco International GmbH continues to support the 10 Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We remain wholly committed to promoting the principles within our sphere of influence. We undertake to integrate the Global Compact and its principles actively into our corporate strategy, our corporate culture and our day-to-day business activities over the coming years and also to participate in cooperation projects which serve to advance the general goals of the United Nations, in particular the Sustainable Development Goals. CWS-boco International GmbH communicates its involvement in the Global Compact clearly to its stakeholders and the general public. With submission of our seventh Communication on Progress (COP) for 2018, we have outlined our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We would like to offer an insight into the measures taken and the results thereof. In addition to the COP, we have also made our CR Report 2018/2019 available. Yours faithfully, Jürgen F. Höfling, CEO CWS International GmbH Franz-Haniel-Platz 6-8 47119 Duisburg T +49 203 987 165 0 F +49 203 987 165 8575 cws.com Geschäftsführung Jürgen Höfling (Vorsitzender) Heiko Karschti Morten Haure-Petersen HRB 8957 AG Duisburg Principle Approach Implementation and Reference to Measurement GRI indicators HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: According to a risk assessment, there is a particularly high risk of Sustainable supply chain: GRI 102-2; GRI 409-1; Businesses should violations of social and labour rights in our supply chain and especially Safety for suppliers too, GRI 412-1; GRI 414-1 support and respect the in our textile supply chain. Violations of this sort can be translated 35-36, Data 71-72 protection of internatiointo reputational risks not only for CWS but for our customers as nally proclaimed human well. Furthermore, such violations at the sites of our contractors can rights; and present legal risks. Regulatory drivers such the national action plan for business and human rights set the stage for regulatory risks. Purchasing and supply chain sustainability is managed by CWS Supply Chain Management GmbH (SCM). To take on this responsibility and manage these risks, the SCM analyses its supplier structure (Tier 1 Principle 2: and 2) annually. Tier 1 suppliers in countries with a high risk of social Sustainable supply chain: GRI 102-2; GRI 409-1; make sure that they are and labour right violations, which are commonly countries with weak Safety for suppliers too, GRI 412-1; GRI 414-1 not complicit in human governance indicators, according to BSCI, are audited by third parties 35-36, Data 71-72 rights abuses. biennially. CWS works closely together with its suppliers and its contractors to improve quality and to implement corrective action plans following audits and strives for long-lasting partnerships. Every relevant supplier has to sign and accept CWS‘s Code of Conduct, based on the BSCI Code of Conduct, which refers to the ILO core labour standards and meets all the requirements stated in the LABOUR UNGC principles for labour and human rights (freedom of association, collective bargaining, elimination of forced or compulsory labour, Principle 3: CR-relevant management GRI 102-2; GRI 409-1; abolition of child labour, elimination of discrimination). The Code of Businesses should systems: Steering responsiGRI 412-1; GRI 414-1 Conduct also applies to the supply chain of CWS‘s suppliers. Every uphold the freedom blity successfully, 24 textile care supplier with an annual purchasing volume > € 10,000 of association and the Sustainable supply chain: and every washroom care supplier with an annual purchasing volume effective recognition of Safety for suppliers too, > € 20,000 has to sign and accept the Code of Conduct. Should a the right to collective 35-36, Data 71-72 supplier refuse to comply with our Code of Conduct, the supplier is bargaining; reported to SCM‘s Executive Board and a process is initiated to find a different supplier who is willing to comply. 2025 Targets: Principle 4: • 100% of suppliers with risk potential audited CR-relevant management GRI 413-1 the elimination of all • Implementation of complaint mechanism for CMT partners systems: Steering responsiforms of forced and • Framework agreements and completion via standardised processes blity successfully, 24, compulsory labour; for 95% of the total procurement volume within the department Data 71-72 Indirect Spend The SCM is an active member of the partnership for sustainable Principle 5: GRI 403-1, GRI 412-1 textiles of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation the effective abolition of and Development as well as BSCI to promote sustainable change in child labour; and textiles and differentiate itself as an industry leader. Principle 6: No form of discrimination based on personal characteristics, whether Diversity: equal opportunities, GRI 405-1; GRI 405-2 the elimination of this be due to gender, age, extraction or nationality, social background, fair pay, 62, Data 69 discrimination in political or religious beliefs or sexual orientation, will be tolerated at respect of employment CWS. CWS employes people from 60 nations. Career opportunities and occupation. and the right of co-determination are open to every single employee. 2025 Target: 50% female candidates on key positions Principle Approach Implementation and Reference to Measurement GRI indicators ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: The management of CWS‘s environmental impact focuses on three Profile Topic: A cycle instead GRI 301-1; GRI 301-2; Businesses should areas, which were identified as most relevant, both by internal and of a vicious circe, 6 GRI 301-3; support a precautionary external stakeholders and assessments of environment-related Optimize Cycles, 40-53, GRI 302-2; approach to environbusiness risks: carbon emissions, sustainable products and circular Data 1, 70-72 GRI 302-4; mental challenges; economy as well as the quality of waste water. CWS washes and dries GRI 303-3; more than 100 million kg of textiles per year in 44 laundries in Europe. GRI 305-1; The articles are collected and distributed by more than 2,200 services GRI 305-2; drivers, covering more than 68 million km per year. Considering these GRI 305-3; 305-5; dimensions, every increase in efficiency can be translated into a direct GRI 306-2; business case for CWS, especially in anticipation of increasing energy GRI 306-3, costs. Further regulatory changes for emissions standards concerning GRI 306-4 our service fleet can become business risks. The Paris agreement 2015 emphasises the necessity to take action. 2025 Targets: • Reduce carbon emissions in Laundry and Logistics by 15% • Reduction in use of environmentally harmful chemicals • Development of concepts for moving the business torwards a circular economy, reduction of waste and sparing use of resources • Manufacturing of 55% of our items of clothing from sustainable materials (sustainable cotton, recycled polyester) Principle 8: CWS‘s carbon emission hotspots are the laundry services and espeundertake initiatives cially the drying processes: This represents 53.2% of the total carbon to promote greater emissions. The service fleet (leased and owned) contributes to 27.03% environmental responsiof the total carbon emissions. The measures to improve carbon bility; and efficiency include modernisation of the laundry operations and service fleet, route optimisation and the procurement of green electricity. Currently, 76% of the purchased electricity is renewable. To keep track of the energy consumption and the carbon emissions, CWS monitors the energy efficiency of laundry operations by type of laundry (kwh/kg) on a monthly basis. As a company offering textiles on a rental basis, CWS exerts a level of high control over end-of-life treatments. This is not just seen as a chance to increase resource efficiency, but also as a chance to diffePrinciple 9: rentiate ourselves from our competitors. CWS works actively torwards encourage the developa circular economy. Besides the already ongoing activities to increase ment and diffusion of the lifetime of all products, for example the recycling and reuse of environmentally friendly the towel roll dispenses and textiles, we are in the process of setting technologies. up targets to reduce waste and to increase the usage of sustainable materials in all our products. We are also considering different options for a sustainable end-of-life treatment for our products and actively researching on textile recycling opportunities. Principle 10: CWS strives to achieve a transparent business culture. For this we Compliance: We keep our GRI 102-5; Businesses should work introduced a Compliance Management System (CMS) comprising six promise, 18 GRI 102-16; against corruption in elements to ensure that our business processes are aligned with the Compliance Training: A safe GRI 205-2; all its forms, including pertinent guidlines and laws: compliance culture, compliance organitrip on the road to success, GRI 404 -12; extortion and bribery. sation, compliance programme, compliance risk mapping, complian61, Data 1, 70 GRI 404-2 ce reporting and montoring and improvement. In 2011, we introduced an internal Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct lays down rules on responsible, morally correct and respectful business practices while observing strict ethical standards. A compliance officer is responsible for ensuring that compliance training sessions are held focussing on competition law and corruption prevention. To this end, the company specifically clarifies how staff in the relevant areas, essentially purchasing and sales, should conduct when acting on behalf of the company. 2025 Target: Compliance training with 100% of compliance sensitive employees Above and beyond this, the company set up a compliance helpline in September 2013, which is available to all staff. If they so wish, staff may remain anonymous and call this line to receive advice on legally correct conduct for business activities, or report abuses. Should colleagues, superiors or entire bodies within CWS fail to act correctly or breach the above-mentioned Code of Conduct, an external law firm can be called or e-mailed. The external compliance helpline also offers assistance with conflicts between business and personal interests. Our Group uses an internal accounting and performance-related control system. The risk potential is regularly assessed using the management system. Amendments are made at regular intervals and in cooperation with our 100% owner, Haniel.
