ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER Contents About DNV GL COMPANY We are the independent expert in risk management and quality assurance. 03 Company Driven by our purpose, to safeguard 04 CEO Statement life, property and the environment, 06 Highlights 08 Key figures we empower our customers and their 10 Group structure stakeholders with facts and reliable 12 Business areas at a glance insights so that critical decisions can 14 What is important to us be made with confidence. As a trusted 18 Research and innovation 22 Executive Committee voice for many of the world’s most successful organizations, we use our knowledge to advance safety and MARKETS performance, set industry benchmarks, and inspire and invent solutions 24 Markets 26 Maritime to tackle global transformations. 30 Oil & Gas 34 Energy 38 Business Assurance 42 Digital Solutions CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY ≈ 100 000 46 Sustainability 48 Value to customers EMPLOYEES 58 Value to employees 12 000 74 Value to society ≈ PERFORMANCE ESTABLISHED 94 Performance 1864 96 Board of Directors’ report 104 Board of Directors’ profiles MORE ON OUR HISTORY 106 Financial performance 114 Notes 140 Auditor’s reports 141 Information and contact COUNTRIES 142 GRI index 100+ OUR PURPOSE To safeguard life, property and the environment OUR VISION A trusted voice to tackle global transformations OUR VALUES We care. We dare. We share. CEO STATEMENT Tackling global transformations 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 was a good year for DNV GL. We increased revenue by 9.7%, helped by improved market conditions. Notably, earnings more than doubled as a result of continued cost discipline and increased productivity linked to the use of new digital tools and processes. The dedication and hard work of our colleagues was evident across our businesses. Our Maritime business area delivered the lion’s share of revenue growth. However, Oil & Gas, Energy and Digital Solutions also delivered growth, while Business Assurance as expected had slightly lower activity after a bumper year in 2018. Moving into 2020, DNV GL is in a much stronger position than previous years and poised to take advantage of opportunities ahead. n the short term, there is of course a major The maritime sector is changing in response to the International I storm to weather. The present disruptions are Maritime Organization’s call for 50% reduction of emissions. extraordinary. We are deeply mindful of the Currently 6% of ships on order worldwide will be powered by effect of the Coronavirus pandemic on the low-carbon alternatives, and this share is expected to increase. customers and communities we serve, and we Local initiatives such as the Green Shipping Program in Norway are doing everything in our power to contribute demonstrate that new technologies and smarter ecosystems can as constructively as possible. DNV GL staff are demonstrating have a big role to play, if maritime businesses and government great resilience, resourcefulness and care, in keeping with the work together. proud traditions that have sustained our company over the past 150 years. Our foremost priority is the health and safety of our Digital technologies play a critical role in bringing about transpeople, as well as ensuring business continuity. formation. In 2019, we opened a research centre in Shanghai to explore how artificial intelligence and advanced machine learning We are also preparing for the challenges and opportunities that processes can be used to aid inspections and identify possible lie ahead, because we can expect additional significant changes. faults more rapidly, like our new AI-algorithm to detect defects The 2020s is being called ‘the decade of transformation’. This is in weld seams that was successfully piloted for use at yards. the decade where the pace of the energy transition will be set. This is also the decade where our food and health systems will change immensely, and when the digital technologies underNow, more than ever, we are reminded pinning Industry 4.0 will mature from experimentation into largethat the great challenges society faces are scale application. global,and we must work together to solve them. Most importantly, this is the decade where humanity will succeed Therein lie great opportunities too; to decarbonize, or fail to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals. Now, more to create more sustainable supply chains, to further than ever, we are reminded that the great challenges society faces digitize and leverage new technologies. are global, and we must work together to solve them. Therein lie great opportunities too; to decarbonize, to create more sustainable supply chains, to further digitize and leverage new technologies. Consumers are also able to reap the benefits that digital tools bring. The source of a product, the production methods, packaging, safety, I believe DNV GL has a unique role to play in these transformations. carbon footprint and social performance can be traced and checked With our technical expertise, domain knowledge and understandbefore purchase, an area of growing focus in the suite of services ing of risks, we help customers to manage their assets safely, we offer to global supply chains. This resulting transparency enables efficiently and with confidence. We aim to be a trusted voice to consumers to trust and select products with greater confidence. tackle the global transformations ahead of us. To achieve these transformations well, and with speed, we must In many areas we are already doing so. In 2019, we released the work in partnership. DNV GL works closely with customers, third edition of our Energy Transition Outlook. This publication has industry associations and international organizations such as the become the most downloaded report ever produced by DNV GL, UN Global Compact and the World Business Council for Sustainable demonstrating the interest in the energy transition among our Development in pursuit of change to a more sustainable world. customers and stakeholders. In the outlook, we forecast a stagWe are committed to the ten principles on human rights, labour, gering growth in electrification towards 2050, mainly powered environment and anti-corruption, which are integrated in our corpoby wind and solar. rate strategy, management system and day-to-day operations. As an organization responsible for assuring, verifying and advising We don’t know what the coming year will look like. I do know, on the assets that will provide the world’s energy in the decades however, that we at DNV GL will do our part to foster collaboration to come, DNV GL is at the nexus of the transition. We are a leading among key stakeholders to solve global challenges and deliver on source of technical expertise in clean and zero-emission energy our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment. – from production and transmission to distribution, storage and use. Taking offshore wind as an example, our work spans the whole value chain from ocean studies, through design, construction, transmission and distribution of power to consumers. We are also increasingly involved beyond that with the assurance work we Remi Eriksen, Group President & CEO perform for investors and financial institutions. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 5 HIGHLIGHTS Cleaning up the oceans DNV GL has joined forces with The Ocean Cleanup In December, the first successful mission to collect to address one of the major environmental challenges plastic debris from the Great Pacific Garbage Patch facing the planet. The ocean space is core to our was completed. The plastic will be recycled into new business, and we are keen to contribute our expertise products involving major consumer brands. and share our vision to clean up the ocean using data-driven technology. DNV GL will verify the plastic, which will enable consumers buying the products to fully trust that these are DNV GL has developed a set of requirements and sustainable. Turning garbage into valuable products processes that enables verification of the plastic’s will enable The Ocean Cleanup to secure necessary origin and authenticity and allows full traceability. funds for the further cleaning of our oceans. Bridging the trust gap DNV GL has been in the business of assuring physical assets since 1864. As digitalization continues to impact the industries we serve, a natural progression for DNV GL is to help our customers assure their digital assets. DNV GL has entered into a strategic partnership with TechnipFMC to co-develop a framework for assurance of digital twins. Both TechnipFMC and DNV GL recognize that many players are investing in digital assets, but the industries we serve need help in understanding how to trust these digital assets – especially for the high consequence scenarios that our customers face in their daily operations. Powered by wind DNV GL provided technical due diligence services on the Dundonnell Wind Farm in Australia to secure project financing by a consortium of six lenders, led by National Australia Bank (NAB) and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. The project consists of 80 turbines and associated infrastructure, providing a total capacity of 336 MW, and will make a key contribution to the region’s renewable energy target. 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Exploring artificial intelligence DNV GL’s newly opened Artificial Intelligence (AI) research centre in Shanghai explores how AI can enhance audit, inspection and survey services. The team is researching deep learning algorithms to build computer vision technologies. The first joint development project with a leading shipyard has created an automated weld seam defect detection service using a ‘digital eye’ to detect failures. Remote surveys for smarter class All DNV GL classified ships are now able to connect with a dedicated team of remote surveyors who can provide support to vessels anywhere in the world. A first in Maritime Class, customers can request and obtain remote surveys through the Veracity data platform. A remote survey means that a DNV GL classed vessel does not need to come to shore for certain inspection services, Transforming the energy system thus reducing time, costs, and operational downtime. DNV GL research suggests that global energy use will peak Using a video link, the crew and surveyor can share documentain the 2030s, but not before overshooting the global warming tion and stream equipment recordings to go through the list of limit of 1.5ºC. In September, we published the third edition inspection items. The new service was recognized by an IT innoof our Energy Transition Outlook, a forecast of how the world vation award at the DataccioConnect Conference in Singapore. energy system will change over the next three decades. Our research department also explored the technologies 12 000 34% that will transform our industries in the future. Read more about our Energy Transition Outlook and Technology Outlook. The number of remote of DNV GL – Maritime surveys conducted customers have had by Maritime in 2019. a remote survey. Veracity enables trust in data DNV GL – Digital Solutions has developed new software for maritime customers, enabling a better overview of technical, operational and compliance data. Using DNV GL’s data platform, Veracity, fleet owners can now access a dashboard showing their strategic fleet data which has been quality-assured and analysed, enabling them to trust the data and make informed decisions. Converting gas networks to hydrogen DNV GL – Oil & Gas is contributing to the H21 project in the UK, where the extensive gas distribution networks in the city of Leeds are being converted to handle hydrogen, a lower carbon alternative. DNV GL is assessing the risks to ensure the new network can operate safely. A large-scale model was developed at our Spadeadam testing facility to enable extensive testing. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7 KEY FIGURES REVENUE (MILLION NOK) 21 551 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA MARITIME 7,744 24,000 23,390 21,551 OIL & GAS 20,834 19,475 19,639 4,839 20,000 ENERGY 16,000 4,056 BUSINESS 12,000 ASSURANCE 3,626 8,000 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 1,046 4,000 OTHER* 240 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Global Shared Services and Group functions including Technology & Research, Real Estate and NOK 141 million gain from the divestment of the KEMA laboratories. EMPLOYEES 11 832 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA MARITIME 14,954 3,313 15,000 13,550 OIL & GAS 12,715 12,101 11,832 2,186 12,000 ENERGY 2,082 9,000 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 1,978 6,000 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 3,000 870 OTHER* 1,403 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Global Shared Services and Group functions, including Technology & Research and Real Estate. 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 EBITDA (MILLION NOK) EBITDA MARGIN (%) 3 529 16.4% 3,529 LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 16.4% 16 3,000 2,649 14 2,500 12 11.3% 10.0% 1,972 10 2,000 8 6.9% 1,500 1,352 1,342 6.5% 6 1,000 4 500 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 EBIT / OPERATING PROFIT (MILLION NOK) EQUITY RATIO (%) 2 334 51.1% LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 2,500 2,334 70 65.4% 62.3% 64.8% 56.7% 60 2,000 51.1% 1,738 50 1,500 40 1000 30 549 20 474 500 154 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 9 GROUP STRUCTURE DNV GL GROUP HEADQUARTERS: OSLO NORWAY BUSINESS AREAS MARITIME OIL & GAS ENERGY HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HAMBURG HAMBURG OSLO ARNHEM GERMANY GERMANY NORWAY NETHERLANDS GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DNV GL is structured into five business areas. In addition, we have a Global Shared Services organization and a Group Centre that includes our strategic research unit, Group Technology and Research. An Independent Business Unit for Inspection services has been established with effect from 1 January 2020. OWNERSHIP TECHNOLOGY DNV GL Group is owned by Det Norske & RESEARCH Veritas Holding AS, a fully owned subsidiary of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas. Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas is an autonomous, independent foundation and is, through Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, GROUP CENTRE the sole owner of DNV GL. See more details in the Corporate Governance report. BUSINESS DIGITAL ASSURANCE SOLUTIONS INSPECTION HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: INDEPENDENT LONDON OSLO BUSINESS UNIT UK NORWAY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 11 BUSINESS AREAS AT A GLANCE MARITIME OIL & GAS Our approach We help enhance the safety, efficiency and sustainability From project initiation to decommissioning, we provide of our customers in the global technical advice to enable shipping industry, covering oil and gas companies to all vessel types and mobile enhance safety, increase offshore units. reliability and manage costs in projects and operations. Services SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: Classification of ships and Risk management advisory mobile offshore units Technical advisory Certification of materials and Noble Denton marine services components Technical assurance Technical, safety, business risk – Certification and verification and environmental advisory – Inspection Training and competencerelated services Revenues Group: 21,551 7744 NOK MILLION 4 839 NOK MILLION Employees Group: 11,832 3 313 EMPLOYEES 2186 EMPLOYEES 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 BUSINESS DIGITAL ENERGY ASSURANCE SOLUTIONS We deliver advisory, certifiCombining technical, digital We provide digital solutions cation and testing services and industry expertise, we and software for managing to the energy value chain help customers in all industry risk, improving safety and including renewables and sectors build sustainable performance across industries, energy management. business performance and including maritime, oil and create stakeholder trust. gas, energy and healthcare. SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS INCLUDE: Renewables advisory & energy Management system certification Generic and industry specific advisory services Product certification & assurance software Renewables certification Supply chain solutions & assurance Tailored data analytics solutions Sustainability practices solutions, Inspection, testing, verification Digitalization and data audits & strategy and certification management advisory Competence training & personnel Energy management services Cyber security assurance, certification Functional safety training & assessment advisory and penetration testing Digital assurance solutions for supply Veracity industry data platform chains, ecosystems and packaged goods and marketplace Healthcare accreditation & certification Food & beverage industry solutions 4 056 NOK MILLION 3 626 NOK MILLION 1046 NOK MILLION 2 082 EMPLOYEES 1978 EMPLOYEES 870 EMPLOYEES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13 What is important to us Our purpose, ‘to safeguard life, property and the environment’, is our reason for being. It has guided us since our foundation in 1864, and is shared with our sole owner, Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas – a freestanding, independent Norwegian foundation. This enables us to take a long-term view on how we create value for our customers, employees, society and the environment. Creating value through our work is important to DNV GL and the economic, social and environmental risks, opportunities understanding what issues are most important to our business and impacts that are most important, or material, to DNV GL and our external stakeholders helps direct the approach we and our stakeholders. take. Our key stakeholders are our owner, our customers and our employees. Other stakeholders include suppliers, research Customers. For customers, we conduct a large-scale brand institutions, government bodies, industry associations, civil survey every three to four years to understand what they society organizations, and the media. Our scale — almost 12,000 think about DNV GL and the brand attributes they find most employees, 100,000 customers, and operations in more than important. We also run regular customer satisfaction surveys 100 countries — means we are in a good position to deliver in all of our business areas (see page 56 for more detail). our aim of creating financial and non-financial value for our Employees. In 2019, we changed how we engage with our stakeholders. employees to understand the issues that matter to them. Following successful pilots, we have implemented a pulse survey approach Engaging our stakeholders across DNV GL, which involves more frequent employee engageWe engage with internal and external stakeholders in a variety ment (see page 66 for more details). We also have an active of ways to understand their thinking and concerns on a range employee communication channel on Yammer, our social media of business and sustainability issues. In this way, we can identify platform, which enables employees to share their opinions. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Defining our material issues Our materiality assessment (see below) is based on a wide-rangWe are currently developing a new corporate strategy, which ing stakeholder survey designed to identify the sustainability will be launched in 2020 for the period 2021 to 2025. As part topics our customers, suppliers, partners, employees and the of the process, we will update the Group sustainability strategy, media consider important. The survey received more than 1,000 including revisiting our materiality assessment to gather a fresh responses giving detailed insight into stakeholders’ views. understanding of business and stakeholder views on our priority sustainability issues. Our important topics are outlined below and covered in detail in the sustainability performance section (see page 46). Supporting the Sustainable Development MATERIALITY PROCESS 2019 Goals (SDGs) We are a resolute supporter of the SDGs. Through our business activities we contribute to the SDGs, with a particular focus on Goals 7, 9 and 13, areas where 1 Draw together topics identified as important from a range of we believe we can contribute most. Business soluINPUTS evidence: tions that support these goals include those covering – Previous materiality results renewable energy, safe and sustainable industrial – 2018 stakeholder survey operations and infrastructure, technology innova(more than 1,000 responses) tions, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. – Peer company review The sustainable innovation examples from across DNV GL on pages 48–51 show some of the ways we work with customers in support of the SDGs. SDG 7: SDG 9: Affordable and clean energy Industry, innovation and infrastructure 2 Evaluate which topics are material to DNV GL and ASSESSMENT our stakeholders SDG 13: Climate action 3 Final set of material topics AGREEMENT agreed at internal workshop Looking ahead, we are working on projects that support Goals 3, 12 and 14, which relate to key areas of our business. SDG 3: Good health and well-being 4 REPORTING Our annual report SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production SDG 14: Life below water DNV GL’S MATERIAL TOPICS VALUE TO CUSTOMERS VALUE TO EMPLOYEES VALUE TO SOCIETY Sustainable innovations Employee health and safety Ethics and integrity Customer satisfaction Talent acquisition Anti-corruption Data privacy and security Training and development Fair competition Diversity and equal opportunity Compliance Human rights Economic contribution For more on DNV GL’s material topics, Environment and climate go to the Sustainability section (page 46). Sustainable procurement ANNUAL REPORT 2019 15 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Value to customers MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Sustainable innovations 02 Customer satisfaction 03 Data privacy and security IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our customers rely on our products We strive to be the preferred choice Our customers expect us to and services to help them operate for our customers and to ensure protect their privacy and data. safely and sustainably and meet they are satisfied that we deliver their sustainability goals. high quality services and remain a trusted long-term partner. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Supporting customers with sustainable Our dedication to customers The trust of our customers innovations reflects our purpose to and focus on customer centricity is crucial to our business. ‘safeguard life, property and the environment’ across DNV GL can increase and our vision of being ‘a trusted voice long-term business performance. to tackle global transformations’. Read more on page 46 Read more on page 56 Read more on page 53 Value to employees MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Employee health 02 Talent acquisition 03 Training and 04 Diversity and equal 05 Human rights and safety development opportunity IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our people and suppliers Our customers rely Our customers use Diversity among Awareness of human perform better when on us to recruit and us for our expertise employees provides rights is growing healthy and in a safe work retain experts, and and ability to deliver a better basis for among stakeholders. environment. Our customers appreciate long-term the best solutions. delivering excellent Large businesses need buying safety services relationships with services to our diverse to show they respect expect high safety these experts. customer base. human rights in their performance. sphere of influence. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE We strive to be the safest Recruiting employees Responsibility for, and We want the best people, Ensuring we respect the place to work, and safety is with values aligned development of, expertise regardless of background, rights of our employees embedded in our purpose. with DNV GL reduces provide motivation to and we want to be an and others involved in We continually work to business risk and supports excel and innovate in all attractive place to work our business is critical to find improved ways to longer careers. parts of the company. in all our locations. sustainable operations. safeguard our people and deliver on our purpose. Read more on page 58 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 66 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Value to society MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Ethics and integrity 02 Anti-corruption 03 Fair competition 04 Compliance IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE All stakeholders expect Our stakeholders expect Our policy is to compete Complying with all laws and us to demonstrate sound a strong approach to antivigorously and fairly. regulations in the countries business ethics, upholding corruption, and it is a key We never agree commercial we operate in is an essential our ability to act as a part of our approach policy or pricing with comingredient for building trusted independent party. to ethical conduct. petitors or external parties. trust with stakeholders. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE “We never compromise We have a zero-tolerance Our employees have an A compliance culture is on integrity” is a an integral policy against corruption important role to play an essential part of ensuring part of our strategy. and trading in influence. in ensuring we compete compliance. Our compliance All employees have a duty fairly and comply with programme works to develop to uphold this approach. competition law. employee awareness and understanding. Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Value to society MATERIAL ISSUES 05 Economic performance 06 Environment and climate 07 Sustainable procurement IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our owner requires profitable Our stakeholders expect us to Helps meet stakeholder expectations operations and society at large contribute to science-based targets by demonstrating sound business appreciates employment, taxes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ethics and supports our position as and other economic activity. and to pursue opportunities related a trusted independent party. to climate change resilience. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Economic sustainability is a Environmental sustainability is Helps manage risk in our supply chain prerequisite for running our embedded in our purpose and vision. and deliver best value for DNV GL. business and for retaining Science-based actions to build our independence. climate change resilience are important to our people. Read more on page 79 Read more on page 82 Read more on page 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 17 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Transformational expertise That technology development is accelerating is a given, but how do we begin to understand how it will impact us? It requires dedicated expertise in various fields of science, combined with domain knowledge. Our longterm research programmes are intended to help prepare our customers and ourselves for the future by generating new knowledge in key technology areas that have a long-term impact on the industries we serve. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION DNV GL continues to devote 5% of its revenue to investments in strategic research, technology development and innovation efforts to better prepare our customers and ourselves to tackle the many transformations unfolding in today’s business environment. Group technology and research Publishing our research Current research activities are directed towards facilitating Our research programmes regularly issue position papers sustainable, integrated energy solutions, mastering digital techto highlight research findings and advance knowledge nologies and facilitating safe, secure and efficient operation and progress on safer, smarter and greener operations. of cyber physical systems as well as exploring future profitable During 2019, a dozen position papers were published business and delivery models. We constantly evaluate the impact and shared broadly with the public. of our findings on our customers and their markets, and tailor our research programmes to respond to developing trends. Our most-read position papers in 2019: Probabilistic digital twin Our research portfolio AI and Safety Maritime — research and innovation that contributes to safer, Hydrogen as an energy carrier smarter and greener shipping, while preparing DNV GL for future developments in technology and regulations Ocean space — building knowledge, methods and tools in Knowledge through collaboration support of the sustainable management of ocean-based industries DNV GL leverages its role as an independent party with no vested interest in proprietary technologies or solutions Energy transition — helping DNV GL and its stakeholders to by leading a range of joint industry projects (JIP). These understand and accelerate the transformation in the energy projects link the private sector, academia and regulatory landscape authorities to co-create technological solutions, and global rules, standards and guidelines. Artificial Intelligence — developing knowledge and prototypes based on AI, in the areas of computer vision for Our research programmes are also staffed with experts inspection and advanced IoT device assurance on assignment from our business operations. Digital assurance — exploring new digital technologies and developing methods and technologies to master Learn more about our latest collaborative projects. the assurance of complex and intelligent systems Oil and Gas — helping to position DNV GL at the forefront of risk-based and model-centric services on a system level Power and Renewables — building competence, methods and tools to achieve competitive advantage and prepare DNV GL for the future of the rapidly changing energy industry Precision medicine — developing knowledge, technologies, and business models that contribute to the safe and sustainable clinical implementation of precision medicine to improve the quality of care for patients ANNUAL REPORT 2019 19 OUTLOOK 2030 Our two main research publications in 2019 ingly appear already seem ga -te ch companies velope unicorns an d me technology de In an era wher ld for us? That do es th e ne xt decade ho nlin ea r tra jec tory and overnight, wh at italized, no en, but its dig s dedicated lerating is a giv nd. It require ment is acce ivi du als to comprehe is hard for ind ns: global scale er the ques tio hnology failure begin to answ ef fort to even as expertise and gy r? logies mat te logies centric techno Which techno o se ly monitored ? t tr en d s sh ould be cl Wha tries et y and indus How can soci ? pare for 2030 optimally pre e IN 20 30 gas TO DAY AN D es TH E WO RL D nd renewabl are ion) Pop ulat ion (bill 7.7 +10 % d industry 8.5 (%) r 65 yea rs old +29% Pop ulat ion ove 9.1 11.7 + 43% 13.6 trillion) 19.5 GD P (USD 10 joul es) and (100 exa Ene rgy dem 4.25 + 9% 4.6 203 0 3 2030 Y OUT LOO K TODAY TEC HNO LOG Technology Outlook 2030 Which technologies will shape our immediate future? Our Technology Outlook 2030, launched at the end of 2019, explores ten technology trends and their associated risks, that will shape different industries and society up to 2030. It looks across the various industries we serve, from the shipping and energy sectors to precision medicine and the food industry, and explores how these trends will enable, transform or sustain these sectors. TECHNOLOGY OUTLOOK Find out more about how technology trends will impact your industry: 2030 dnvgl.com/to2030 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Energy Transition Outlook The energy transition is shifting up the agenda, moving from previously being considered important to now becoming something urgent; a source of great risk, but also of opportunity. In September 2019, we launched our third Energy Transition Outlook, a global and regional forecast of the energy transition through to 2050. Our forecast serves as an important tool for our customers to understand how the transition will unfold and make strategic decisions for the future. Our forecast points to three main conclusions: 1. We forecast a rapid energy transition unfolding within a single generation, but not fast enough to deliver on the Paris agreement 2. Existing technology can deliver the target set out in the Paris agreement, but only with the right policy backing 3. Global energy use peaks in the 2030s World primary energy supply by source owing to energy efficiency. 700 600 Find out more about how the energy Wind Solar PV 500 transition may impact your industry and Solar thermal Units: EJ/yr 400 download our forecast data: Hydropower Biomass 300 Geothermal 200 Nuclear fuels eto.dnvgl.com/2019 100 Natural gas Oil 0 Coal 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 ENERGY MARITIME ENERGY TRANSITION ENERGY TRANSITION TRANSITION FORECAST TO 2050 OUTLOOK 2019 OUTLOOK 2019 OUTLOOK ENERGY TRANSITION OIL AND GAS POWER SUPPLY 2019 OUTLOOK 2019 A global and regional forecast to 2050 AND USE A global and regional forecast to 2050 A global and regional forecast to 2050 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER ANNUAL REPORT 2019 21 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REMI ERIKSEN DITLEV ENGEL The Executive Committee is the Group President & CEO’s management team. Group President & CEO CEO Energy It deals with issues and decisions related to strategy, markets and customers, Remi Eriksen (Norwegian) became Group Ditlev Engel (Danish) was Group President & CEO target setting, financial development, President and CEO of DNV GL in August 2015, of global wind turbine manufacturer Vestas Wind investments, performance management, succeeding Henrik O. Madsen. He was Systems A/S from 2005 to 2013. Prior to joining mergers and acquisitions, pricing strategy previously the Chief Operating Officer of Vestas, he had 20 years of experience at the and major management appointments. the DNV GL Group, having served as CEO global coatings manufacturer Hempel A/S, of DNV Maritime and Oil & Gas and in other the last five years as Group President & CEO. senior roles in Asia, Europe and the Americas. Ditlev has served as Denmark’s Special Envoy for Amongst many other leadership roles, he is Climate and Energy, chair of Denmark’s Green on the Executive Committee of World Business Investment Fund, a member of the Energy Partner Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Network of the World Economic Forum, advisor to the International Energy Agency, chair of the He holds a Master’s in Electronics and ComGreen Growth Working Group at G20 Summits, puter Science from the Norwegian Institute co-founder of the Green Growth Action Alliance of Technology and executive education from and member of UN’s Sustainable Energy for All. Rice University, IMD and INSEAD. Remi joined He has degrees in business administration, finance DNV GL in 1993. & accounting from Copenhagen Business School and the General Management Programme from INSEAD. Ditlev joined DNV GL in 2016. In 2019, the Executive Committee consisted of ten people. Kenneth Vareide was appointed CEO Digital Solutions in June 2019. KNUT ØRBECK-NILSSEN LUCA CRISCIOTTI CEO Maritime CEO Business Assurance Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen (Norwegian) has been Luca Crisciotti (Italian) became the CEO heading our Maritime business area since of Business Assurance in March 2012. August 2015. Prior to that he was the Chief Operating Officer and President of Maritime With a background in the certification and Director of Division Europe, Africa & industry, Luca started his career in DNV GL as Americas. a Sales Manager in Rome, Italy. He continued as the Business Development Manager for Knut has held senior management posiDivision South Europe before moving to tions within both Maritime and Oil & Gas. Japan for three years as Country Manager. He holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree He then moved to Shanghai, Greater China, from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, taking over as COO. Luca has a Master’s Scotland, where he was awarded a First degree in Business Economics from Class Honour’s Degree in Civil Engineering the University ‘La Sapienza’ in Rome. in 1990. Knut joined DNV GL in 1990. Luca joined DNV GL in 2001. 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 LIV A. HOVEM KENNETH VAREIDE THOMAS VOGTH-ERIKSEN CEO Oil & Gas CEO Digital Solutions Chief Financial Officer Liv A. Hovem (Norwegian) became the CEO of Kenneth Vareide (Norwegian) became CEO Thomas Vogth-Eriksen (Norwegian) has been Oil & Gas in January 2018. She has experience of Digital Solutions in June 2019. He has been Chief Financial Officer since 2012. He held from several managerial roles in DNV GL, most with DNV GL since 1996, when he started as a several senior management positions in recently as Regional Manager for Continental trainee. Kenneth has held several management DNV GL before that, most recently as the Europe, Eurasia, Middle East, India and Africa positions across the company’s business areas CEO of Business Assurance, the certification in Oil & Gas. She has served as board member and regions. Prior to joining Digital Solutions arm of the DNV GL Group. Thomas brings in several research and innovation related as CEO, Kenneth served as Digital Director international experience of almost 15 years institutions. for the Maritime business area. from New York, London, Shanghai, and Milan. Liv’s technical background is risk and probabilKenneth holds a Master’s degree in Naval ArchiHe has served as board member in the Interistic modelling, hydrodynamics and strength tecture from the Norwegian University of Science national Association of Certification bodies of ships and offshore structures. She has a MSc and Technology (NTNU) and a Master’s degree and the Norwegian Chambers of Commerce in Naval Architecture and Offshore Engineering in Technology Management from NTNU and the in London, Oslo and Shanghai. Thomas has from UC Berkeley and a MSc in Civil EngineerNorwegian School of Economics and Business a Master of Business & Economics, Business ing from the Norwegian Technical University. Administration (NHH Bergen), in cooperation Administration from the Norwegian Business Liv joined DNV GL in 1988. with Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), School, and executive education from IMD The Sloan School of Management. and INSEAD. Thomas joined DNV GL in 1988. GRO GOTTEBERG ULRIKE HAUGEN KLAS BENDRIK Chief People Officer Chief Communication Officer Chief Digital Transformation Officer Gro Gotteberg (Norwegian) has been the Chief Ulrike Haugen (German) joined DNV GL as Klas Bendrik (Swedish) has been Chief Digital People Officer at DNV GL since December 2017. Chief Communication Officer in May 2017. Transformation Officer since joining DNV GL She has had several roles within DNV GL, as She has more than 15 years of communications, in September 2018. HR Director and in Leadership Development, marketing and business development experimost recently as HR Manager in South East ence within international corporations with Klas has held executive roles in several industries Asia & Australia. Prior to that, she had several positions in Norway, UK, Germany and Italy. from automotive, medical and industrial equiproles within organizational and competence ment to management consulting with global firms. development in shipping, management conUlrike was previously VP Marketing & CommuKlas’ field of expertise is within Information Techsultancy and developing aid & rescue relief. nications for ABB Marine, and has also held nology, software, digital and business development. marketing and business development posiPrior to joining DNV GL, his most recent positions Gro has a Master of Business & Economics tions in international energy companies and were as Senior Vice President for Volvo Cars and, from NHH Norwegian School of Economics and law firms. Ulrike holds a Master of Business most recently, Vice President and Executive Partner brings 15 years of international experience Administration degree from London South at Gartner. Klas holds a bachelor’s degree from from Africa, Americas and South East Asia. Bank University in the UK and a Law Degree the University of Gothenburg and a degree from Gro joined DNV GL in 2008. from the University of Bonn in Germany. the Royal Swedish Naval Academy, with the rank Ulrike joined DNV GL in 2017. of Lieutenant Captain. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 23 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MARKETS We assist our customers in identifying, assessing and managing their most critical risks. We enhance their business performance by assessing and advising on safety, quality, technology, business and sustainability aspects. We certify or verify compliance and drive new standards, best practices and digital ecosystems within five markets: maritime, oil and gas, energy, business assurance, and digital solutions. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 25 MARITIME Tectonic shifts In 2019, the maritime industry demonstrated its resilience and adaptability in the face of continuing challenges and tectonic shifts. Growth in demand for seaborne trade declined from the year before, but freight rates were generally strong as fleet growth slowed. For DNV GL, our priority was to ensure that our customers kept their focus on operating safely and sustainably as commercial and regulatory pressures continued to increase. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MARITIME 2019 REVIEW 12 000 ROMAS – ready for remote ops The ROMAS research project, established by DNV GL together with Høglund, Fjord1 and the Norwegian Maritime Authority, is a project to develop technical solutions and establish a Number of remote surveys framework of regulations, rules and verification methods to enable the remote, shore-based operation of ship machinery conducted by DNV GL in 2019. and systems. The first testing campaign used the Fjord1 ferry Fannefjord, with the engine control centre established at Fjord1’s office in Molde. and develop safety barriers to manage the most significant fire risk factors. As a result of this cooperative effort, RCL launched a programme to enhance engine room fire prevention across its entire fleet and Wärtsilä offered technical solutions and procedures for engine maintenance to lower the fire risk. DNV GL introduced a new class notation F(M-P) which focuses on not only the systems, but also the processes and people to enhance the main safety barriers in order to prevent fires in machinery spaces. The F(M-P) notation will also be implemented in RCL’s Navigator of the Seas, putting in place standards and processes focused on the prevention, detection and containThe long-term plan is to use the experience obtained to ment of oil leakage, the system shutdown system, and ignition develop new products and services, including a ‘remote ready’ prevention. integrated automation system (IAS) from Høglund, the applicable rules and Approval in Principle programmes from DNV GL, and regulations from the Norwegian Maritime Authority, to enable Fjord1 and other ship owners to deploy the technology commercially. The zero-fire engine room Cruise operator RCL, technology group Wärtsilä, and DNV GL initiated a joint industry project to improve engine room fire prevention. Running since 2016, the partners worked with stakeholders across the whole industry to collect data, analyse key risks, REVENUE EMPLOYEES Maritime’s share of total 7744 NOK MILLION Maritime’s share of total 3 313 EMPLOYEES (21,551) (11,832) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 MARITIME Additive manufacturing firsts add up An LNG giant The shipping industry is looking to take advantage of additive manufacturing (AM), also known as 3D printing, to print spare parts, thereby reducing lead times, costs, stock requirements, and environmental impacts. Certification ensures that AM part users can have the same confidence in an additive manufactured product as a conventionally produced one. DNV GL awarded its first ever Additive Manufacturing Approval of Manufacturer certificate to thyssenkrupp. In recent years, China’s Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) imports have been growing rapidly, increasing by 42% from 2017 to 2018. Transporting large amounts, from diverse suppliers, will require new vessels and greater efficiency. A new joint development project will see Hudong-Zhonghua Shipyard and DNV GL bring their expertise and experience in research and development, engineering, classification, and construction, to the development of a modern ultra large LNG carrier with a capacity of 270,000 m3. A vessel of this size could transport enough LNG to provide gas for 4.7 million Shanghai homes for a month, and do so 25% more efficiently than a 170,000 m3 vessel. In addition, a single 270k vessel increases LNG terminal capacity by 50% without any expansion in terminal size. Performance powerhouse The newly issued certificate makes the thyssenkrupp TechCenter the world’s first producer of 3D printed parts for maritime applications to obtain manufacturer approval from DNV GL, making it a DNV GL approved supplier for maritime and general industrial applications. Certification was important for thyssenkrupp Marine Systems as the company is working closely with international customers on the integration of additive manufactured parts on ships and submarines. 39% Global demand for ship transport In 2019, StormGeo and DNV GL agreed to consolidate their fleet performance solutions under one banner. Bringing together DNV GL’s ECO Insight and Navigator Insight solutions with StormGeo’s FleetDSS and ship reporting solutions creates a new industry leader in fleet performance management. to increase by 39% towards 2050. DNV GL will retain a strong connection to the new solution through the 26.4% share in StormGeo it has held since 2014, as well as continuing to provide technical support to ECO Insight Source: DNV GL Energy Transition Outlook customers. Users will also be able to share data through DNV GL’s open industry platform Veracity. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MARITIME of taking ultrasonic steel thickness measurements, bringing Traditional partners plan greener future the structure to the surveyor for real-time inspection. The design for the ultrasonic camera attachment is compact Oshima Shipbuilding and DNV GL signed a long-term strategic and ‘universal’, allowing surveyors to interchange the closecooperation agreement to conduct joint research and developup inspection camera for the ultrasonic measurement head ment work on new bulk carrier designs. The first design to result on a drone at any time, or attach the frame to another drone from the cooperation, the Oshima Ultramax 2030, was launched in case the original one is damaged. at the Nor-Shipping trade fair. With an Energy Efficiency Design Index close to 50% lower than comparable vessels, this Ultramax The key parts of the attachment frame are 3D printed, which design is one of the most efficient bulk carrier designs to date. means the team can manufacture any number of identical It maximizes operational performance while minimizing emissions frames in a repeatable process, whether for their colleagues by utilizing LNG as fuel, an optimized hull shape and a sail to at other DNV GL offices or for spare parts. generate extra propulsion. The design also offers ultra-low Building cyber resilience DNV GL’s Cyber Secure class notation establishes a baseline to identify cyber security levels for the main functions of a vessel, either in operation or during construction, and offers owners and operators a framework to improve and demonstrate their cyber resilience. It gives owners and operators the flexibility to identify the threats and to assess and secure extra systems which are of particular importance to their operations. In 2019, DNV GL signed a contract for the first Cyber Secure class notation with Stena Drilling. emissions in port by using solar panels and a battery to cover the hotel load. The partners aim to continue developing and updating a roadmap towards the IMO zero emissions scenario through annual open JIPs. In November, the project won the Environmental Protection Award at the prestigious IBJ Awards in Hamburg. Developing drones Visual inspections and steel thickness measurements are key elements of renewal surveys. DNV GL has continued to develop its drone survey offerings to provide owners and operators with a fast-track solution. Building from an off-the-shelf drone and high-resolution camera, DNV GL now has drones capable The contract covers the application of the ‘Basic+’ notation to the drillship Stena IceMAX and includes the vessel’s dynamic positioning, drilling, and blowout prevention systems. It will be integrated with Stena Drilling’s own safety management systems. Later that year, DNV GL awarded Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI) the world’s first Approval in Principle (AIP) for the Cyber Secure (Advanced) class notation on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) carriers. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 OIL & GAS Supporting efficiency and decarbonization The oil and gas industry proved confident and resilient, and our Oil & Gas business area reported solid growth in 2019. DNV GL helped customers to retain a focus on cost efficiency, decarbonization and safety. Going forward, the industry faces an unprecedented combination of market forces, regulation, societal pressure over climate change, and challenges to integrate with other sectors like power and renewables. We foresee increasing digitalization and wider adoption of low-carbon energy carriers such as hydrogen for heating and transport. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OIL & GAS 2019 REVIEW DNV GL’s Oil & Gas business area reported growth in 2019. Resilience in volatile markets We continued to expand services to the midstream and downstream sectors, including gas transportation and distribution. We also enhanced our business development model to ensure availability when customers need us. Our customers also remain focused on improving efficiency to control costs, and increasingly seek cost benefits from digitalization. Many upstream customers, particularly emerging independent operators in mature basins, want greater production efficiency. DNV GL is partnering with customers on several efficiency projects. Connecting supply and demand Our 2019 Energy Transition Outlook (ETO) highlighted that gas, renewables and carbon capture and storage (CCS) are needed to secure a rapid energy transition. Gas will become the largest primary energy source from the mid-2020s, increasing the need As oil and gas companies intensify their focus on decarbonifor more pipelines to connect shifting sources of supply and zation, half (51% in 2019 vs. 44% in 2018) of senior industry demand. We expect both LNG liquefaction and regasification professionals expected to focus on actively adapting to a less capacity to double by 2030. Demand is set to grow in Greater carbon-intensive energy mix according to our new industry China, the Indian subcontinent, and sub-Saharan Africa. outlook. Many customers continue to shift their portfolios from oil to gas. BP expects to move from about 50% gas today to 60% in 2025. ExxonMobil and Shell are among others increasing spending on non-fossil energy ventures. Our industry outlook also showed that confidence in the oil & gas sector had increased to 76%, a doubling over the past two years. According to our research, most respondents (70%) expected to maintain or increase capital expenditure in the near future, and this was corroborated by developments in the market. In the midstream segment, more LNG projects reached final investment decisions in 2019 than in any other year, most of them in the US as it ramps up LNG exports. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Oil & Gas’ share of total 4 839 NOK MILLION Oil & Gas’ share of total 2 186 EMPLOYEES (21,551) (11,832) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 OIL & GAS In China, we are supporting the safety, reliability and perforWe also offer virtual reality tools for customer hazard-awareness mance of a number of LNG regasification projects. In 2019, we training. Our use of this with CNOOC International won the Award provided Independent Validation Body services for an offshore for Innovation in Safety at the Offshore Safety Awards 2019. development in Australia covering the FPSO, subsea production system package, subsea umbilicals, risers and flowlines (SURF) Our growing set of recommended practices for subsea applicaand gas export pipeline package. tions is another important step towards a more united, sustainable, and cost-effective sector. One new recommended practice launched in 2019 targets consistency in fabricating subsea pressure-retaining equipment; another unlocks new opportunities for more cost-efficient and environmentally friendly Safe and efficient oil and gas production subsea processing for improved hydrocarbon recovery. A decarbonized gas market Our 2019 Energy Transition Outlook (ETO) makes it clear that gas will increasingly complement variable renewables to provide a secure supply of affordable, decarbonized energy for the long-term. The ETO also indicates a need to decarbonize gas production and consumption to help achieve climate change mitigation. We are applying our longstanding expertise in natural gas transmission and distribution to help governments and operators demonstrate the technical feasibility of adapting existing natural gas infrastructure to carry hydrogen. Work on this in 2019 included support for the Hy4Heat and H21 initiatives in the UK and managing a feasibility project for Dutch gas network operator Stedin, which began supplying hydrogen produced by electrolysis to heat apartments in Rotterdam. We have also produced research on hydrogen gas as a clean energy source in support of the Norwegian government’s feasibility study for hydrogen production and use in Norway towards 2030. We continued to support gas pipeline safety and reliability Read more. amid a surge in cross-border projects in 2019. Contract wins included independent verification services and submarine pipeline certification for Energinet’s section of the Baltic Pipe gas transportation project, and LNG-related marine service business in the Middle East and Eurasia. We also co-hosted a symposium with Cheniere Energy on issues involved in managing process safety for new LNG liquefaction facilities in the US. Safety and environmental performance, and regulatory compliance, were core to some of our upstream service contract wins in 2019. These included classification and verification scopes for asset operations and projects involving Apache Corporation and Dana Petroleum offshore UK, and for Equinor offshore Canada. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OIL & GAS Smart assets We are partnering with customers to bring our expertise in assuring the safety, reliability and performance of assets in the physical world into the digital one. Our new Deep Search tool, available on our online data-sharing and analysis platform Veracity, 2026 Global demand for gas is expected lets users discover relevant data and information from vast sources within seconds. Veracity will also host offshore and to overtake demand for oil in 2026. onshore reliability data for equipment and parts. Our Smart Mooring machine-learning algorithm accurately predicts potential mooring-line failure in real time for floating assets, providing a more cost-effective alternative to physical sensors for preventing undetected failures. These new digital tools are helping customers to make better decisions and enable safer and more reliable operations. In partnership with TechnipFMC, we started developing the sector’s first methodology for qualifying the integrity of digitaltwin technology that creates and updates virtual representations of physical assets and their behaviour. We also unveiled a concept for merging digital twins and risk analysis. 2030 LNG liquefication and regasification We marked the 40th anniversary of our International Sustainacapacity is likely to double by 2030. bility Rating SystemTM (ISRS) by releasing a ninth version of this world-leading system for assessing, improving and demonstrating the health of an organization’s business processes. ISRS now Source: DNV GL Energy Transition Outlook includes risk categories such as cyber security that are relatively new to some industries. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33 ENERGY Powered by renewables The transformation of the energy system and shift towards renewables over the next decade could result in growth of 1,000% in solar power and 500% in wind power. This growth will require an increase in energy storage capacity and a flexible grid infrastructure. Energy efficiency will also be a major driver for a clean energy future. In the Energy business area, we will continue to offer even more advisory, monitoring and certification services to customers around the globe, accelerating the transition to a clean energy future. 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENERGY 2019 REVIEW 63% GreenPowerMonitor (GPM) GreenPowerMonitor (GPM), a DNV GL company, consolidated its position as leader of monitoring, control and asset management solutions for renewable energy plants in 2019. GPM, who of the world’s electricity will be supplied in 2018 launched the world’s first data monitoring platform for integrated wind, solar and energy storage systems, is playing by solar PV and wind by 2050. an instrumental role in realising the full potential of delivering clean energy, by integrating renewables systems using the latest Source: DNV GL Energy Transition Outlook digital technologies. In 2019, GPM added 9 GW to its portfolio. Currently, GPM manages 30 GW (21.5 GW solar and 8.5 GW wind) and more than 4,200 facilities worldwide. DNV GL acquired GreenPowerKEMA Laboratories changed ownership Monitor in July 2016 and today, it is three times bigger than its original size with a bright future ahead. from DNV GL to CESI In 2019, DNV GL transferred ownership of KEMA Laboratories to technical consultancy CESI. The transfer comprises KEMA and all the high-voltage and high-power testing and inspection activities performed by its personnel and laboratories in Arnhem (NL), Prague (CZ) and Chalfont (USA). All former KEMA advisory employees remain within DNV GL, including those providing all the advisory services as well as DNV GL’s testing and verification services for power failures, battery testing, transformer oil testing and smart grid testing. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Energy’s share of total 4 056 NOK MILLION Energy’s share of total 2 082 EMPLOYEES (21,551) (11,832) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 35 ENERGY Today, energy audits rely on manual reports that are often Energy storage safety carried out by different auditors across multiple sites, which can affect consistency. Using the new tool, best practices can be identified and shared across multiple sites, maximizing the value of the energy audit. The new tool was financed by DNV GL’s global innovation portfolio, an internal scheme intended to fund the development of projects dedicated to digital delivery or data smart services which add value to customers. Larger wind turbines drive down wind energy costs Wind energy is rapidly becoming the new norm for power generation. We forecast that wind will deliver 30% of all global By 2050, 63% of the world’s electricity will be supplied by solar electricity production by 2050, with 12% from offshore wind PV and wind. Integrating renewables into our grid will depend and 18% from onshore wind. in part on energy storage capacity and flexibility. By 2030, we will need a 50-fold increase in battery production alongside new technology to store excess electric energy. This will also require an increased focus on safety. In 2019, DNV GL completed an in-depth power failure investigation into a major fire at a large-scale South Korean energy storage facility. This was carried out at the request of the facility’s insurer. The investigation allowed the insurer to make an evidencebased pay-out decision. In addition to pinpointing the minor glitch that initiated the failure, the investigation highlighted weaknesses in current approaches to monitoring and prevention systems that make small failures more likely to become major issues. Smarter audits drive energy efficiency The industry is continuing to optimize turbine types that deliver significantly improved energy production and cost efficiency. In 2019, DNV GL certified Siemens Gamesa’s newest 8 MW offDNV GL’s analysis of emissions up to 2050 shows that energy shore wind turbine. This will be installed in offshore wind parks efficiency could help reduce the total energy demand by almost worldwide, including the 1,400 MW Hornsea 2 project in the UK 300 EJ/year. This is equivalent to the annual energy use of 833 and the 900 MW Greater Changhua 1 & 2a projects in Taiwan. cities, with the average metropolis using 100,000 GWh per year. Large-capacity offshore wind turbines result in improved energy In a rapidly shifting energy landscape, one thing is clear: energy capture per project, i.e. a lower cost per MWh. demand reduction can be accelerated in the top three highest use energy sectors — buildings, industry and transport — through a greater understanding and use of digital approaches. DNV GL has developed an energy audit tool to easily audit Digitalizing traditional operations plays multiple business sites and help customers save money by a vital role in the energy transition optimizing lighting, ventilation, air control and server rooms. The energy industry needs to change rapidly, and must strive to reduce carbon emissions and safeguard the planet for future generations. Transforming traditional operations through digitalization plays a vital role in enabling this change and facilitating the energy transition. DNV GL’s open industry platform, Veracity, continued to add value to customers in 2019 with key projects such as the Cable Lifetime Monitoring Joint Industry Project (JIP CALM). The project was initiated by DNV GL, TNO (ECN), BREM, VanDerHoekPhotonics, and Deltares, in collaboration with 30+ industry partners, to reduce subsea powercable failures and make offshore wind energy more reliable. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ENERGY Global expansion of offshore wind Offshore wind is growing and set to make up 40% of wind production by 2050. To meet the increasing demand for offshore wind power in the US, DNV GL established a Renewables Certification office in North America. According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), there is the potential to install 22,000 MW of offshore wind projects in the US by 2030. Much of this activity is taking place in the northeast, with Massachusetts and New York setting aggressive targets and leading the way in At present, failing subsea power cables are one of the main opening the market for offshore wind. For this reason, DNV GL risks affecting offshore wind farm development and operations. selected its Medford, Massachusetts office as the base for its These failures account for approximately 80% of insurance claims US Renewables Certification services. in the offshore wind industry. All the JIP participants will share failure data for windfarm, export and interconnector submarine Much of the potential development of offshore wind lies in federal cable systems with the DNV GL project team in secure Veracity waters and thus requires third-party certification for the design, data containers for failure root cause analysis. Confidentiality manufacturing and installation of the entire facility, leading to and anonymity will be maintained by creating company-specific increasing demand for verification services. data containers. Future-proofing our power system With 1,000 Smart Cable Guard systems implemented in its power grid, Dutch distribution system operator Alliander has confirmed its commitment to safeguarding the reliability of the power grid in the Netherlands. Smart Cable Guard is DNV GL’s online monitoring tool which uses sensors to monitor and locate weak spots, intermittent faults and partial discharges in power cables, detecting and preventing faults and avoiding disruptive power outages. Alliander has been installing Smart Cable Guard across its medium-voltage cable network since 2017, with European investment in Africa’s sustainable DNV GL providing the hardware, support, monitoring services energy future and data analysis. DNV GL joined other signatories including ABB, EDP Renewables, Enel Green Power, GE Renewable Energy, Pöyry, Prysmian, PwC, Siemens Gamesa and Vestas to make a commitment regarding its interest and participation in the renewAfrica initiative, which is aimed at boosting renewable energy investments in Africa. The renewAfrica initiative aims to support the growing renewable energy market on the continent by facilitating the development of policy and regulatory frameworks needed, and prepare As the energy sector evolves, the power grid is exposed to a projects to secure finance. new range of challenges caused by the decentralization and variability of energy generation, the influx of renewable energy and the digitization of the grid. In 2019, DNV GL awarded TenneT a grid readiness verification statement for its Borssele Alpha offshore grid connection system. This is the first offshore grid connection system in the world to receive a grid readiness verification statement. The grid readiness of the Borssele Alpha offshore grid connection system means that the Borssele I and II wind farms can be connected to the Dutch electricity grid. The wind farms, which are due to be commissioned in 2020, will have a capacity of 700 megawatts (MW) and can generate electricity for approximately one million households. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 37 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Assuring trust and transparency The need for trust is growing in a rapidly digitized world. Consumers are more conscious about their consumption, seeking assurance of authenticity, intentions and quality. Coupled with the decline in brand loyalty, companies are looking to build trust through the products they sell. Blockchain-enabled solutions and ecosystems, combined with independent assurance and industry expertise, are helping to drive the transformation needed in several industries. With the right audit expertise, industry knowledge and technology partners, DNV GL is ideally positioned to build trust and advance progress on the SDGs, evolving our certification body role into that of a truly global assurance provider. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 2019 REVIEW a linked marketplace. Last year’s projects range from the small Digital assurance solutions nation of San Marino, which aims to become the world’s first carbon neutral country, to the digital carbon ecosystem created by appliance manufacturer Haier. DNV GL has made significant advances in providing digital solutions for consumer-packaged goods, digital ecosystems As the use of blockchain technology increases, a governance and circular economies. model that maintains the technology’s integrity while allowing the technology to flourish is essential. INATBA, the International In collaboration with blockchain technology partner VeChain, Association of Trusted Blockchain Applications, was launched we have continued to explore innovative, digital solutions for in April, with DNV GL as one of its founding members. This EUcustomers. After its formal launch last January, My Story™ has backed initiative promotes an open and transparent governance developed into a more modular and scalable infrastructure. model that serves stakeholders in the private and public sectors Powered by VeChainThor and combined with DNV GL’s indeusing blockchain and other distributed ledger technology infrapendent assurance and industry expertise, My Story™ tells structure and applications. The initiative includes private and the verified history of a product, giving consumers confidence public partners from across the ecosystem. in what they are buying and allowing brands to differentiate themselves. More consumer goods from the food & beverage and fashion sectors are being added to the portfolio. Supply chain transparency and trust VeChain and DNV GL have also developed blockchain-powered solutions that incentivize sustainable behaviour, rewarding users with tokens that can be exchanged for products or services in The demand for social and ethical supplier audits is growing. Consumer demands and investor scrutiny of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) performance require companies to take a more holistic approach to managing their supply chains. Demand for sustainable products also leads to a need to ensure the traceability of goods and transparency of supply chains. One example of how standards and verification from independent trusted parties can play a definite role in solving business and societal challenges is a project just launched with The Ocean Cleanup. DNV GL has partnered with The Ocean Cleanup to establish best-practice requirements to verify the chain of custody of reclaimed plastic as it is turned from waste into new valuable products. See more details in Sustainable Innovations section, page 52. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Business Assurance’s 3 626 NOK MILLION Business Assurance’s 1978 EMPLOYEES share of total share of total (21,551) (11,832) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Consumer demands and investor scrutiny of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) performance require companies to take a more holistic approach to managing their supply chains. In order to achieve transparency in their supply chains, roles and responsibilities to be clearly defined, technologies companies are also turning to blockchain-powered solutions and information management processes put in place and staff and other digital technologies to optimize their processes and trained. Certification can also ensure legal compliance. track and trace products throughout product life cycles. Digital solutions and assurance guarantee the immutability of data, and DNV GL continues its commitment to developing standards enable the collection and verification of data. The collection of by participating in ISO technical committees. Standards help data also allows producers to transform their value chains and to build trust, facilitate trade and foster innovation, but must operate more efficiently. continue to evolve, more rapidly, to fit today’s business context and digital environment. In 2019, there was an expected drop in management system certifications after the bumper year before. Our training portCustomers find data protection challenging folio grew, complemented by the launch of an online learning management platform. The occupational health and safety standard ISO 45001 is still under migration and will close in 2021. A DNV GL ViewPoint Survey carried out in 2019 highlighted that most firms fail to fully master data protection; 64% indicated human factors as the biggest risk and that 90% of security breaches start due to human error. However, the vast majority of companies that have certified their system to the ISO/EN 27001 Growing product assurance Information security management standard experienced greater management commitment and were able to implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures. ISO also launched its Privacy Information Management Systems standard (ISO/EN 27701), helping companies address new legislation such as GDPR. The ISO certification requires policies, Product assurance grew by 6.8%, a rate well above that of the general Test, Inspection & Certification industry. Medical devices and hazardous area certification, in addition to functional safety and inspection, continue to be primary drivers of growth. This growth rate was a result of the strategic focus on highvalue, high-growth segments coupled with investment in the DNV GL Presafe Group. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Pending the migration to the EU Medical Device Regulation about how digital technologies can support food safety efforts, coming into force in 2020, considerable investments have been companies are already moving to apply blockchain-enabled made in the notified body application to Norwegian authorities. solutions. DNV GL’s My Story™ and other digital solutions are With the new regulation and higher quality demands for notified used to manage, track and communicate product stories to bodies, strong market growth is expected. consumers in an immediate and trusted way. The continued strong performance in automotive function safety, Seafood continues to be a strategic area for DNV GL. Partnering in particular, is strengthening DNV GL’s market position in Japan with Deloitte, an aquaculture report looking into how blockchain and Korea. This foothold was expanded to China to serve the can revitalize trust in the seafood industry by boosting transparexpected trend towards semiand fully autonomous vehicles. ency was released at the North Atlantic Seafood Forum in March. Advancing strategic industries DNV GL VIEWPOINT SURVEY CONDUCTED IN 2019 ON FOOD SAFETY: What’s next to assure food safety? 88% The number of respondents that believe protecting consumers is the most important driver for their food safety efforts. The healthcare sector has a significant potential to use digital solutions to improve the quality of care and patient safety through a more dynamic hospital accreditation scheme and by 31% see the lack of food safety making medical device regulation compliance more efficient. culture a risk for their companies. DNV GL experienced significant growth in hospital accreditations in the United States and China. 4/10 Within the food and beverage industry, food safety continues to be a major concern worldwide. Globally, almost one in 10 people fall ill every year owing to food safety issues, and there are an estimated 420,000 fatalities a year. The industry recognizes these challenges and accepts the importance of standards and certification to safeguard consumers. see digitalization supporting This view was confirmed in DNV GL’s Viewpoint survey involving food safety within three years. 1,700 food & beverage companies. In addition, companies with advanced food safety management systems are adding food safety culture programmes to strengthen their efforts to ensure food safety. While the DNV GL survey indicates less certainty ANNUAL REPORT 2019 41 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Digital excellence in data and software In 2019, Digital Solutions completed its second full year of operation, helping customers realize opportunities and manage risks associated with digital transformation. Throughout the year, Digital Solutions continued working towards its strategic ambition to be a leading global and trusted provider of industrial software solutions, data analytics and platform services. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 2019 REVIEW Veracity FACTS ABOUT VERACITY Digital Solutions made significant strides with its digital platform, Veracity, in 2019. Veracity facilitates secure connectivity between industry players – driving business innovation and digital transformation. The Veracity team has worked throughout 2019 to increase industry collaboration and the capturing, storing and sharing of data, as well as offering an open marketplace for services, data and analytics. In 2019, Veracity and the provider Arundo Analytics partnered with Klaveness to help them realize greater operational efficiencies. The Veracity data platform and ecosystem of service providers are used to unlock thousands of potential data points on board the Klaveness fleet. In addition, Veracity launched 360-degree image storage. Klaveness now uses these images for verification of fleet-wide cargo hold conditions when switching between wet and dry cargo. The Veracity Marketplace, which enables internal and external 110 Veracity grew by 110 users per day in 2019 customers to sell their products via Veracity, experienced strong 1 300 uptake in 2019. Veracity collaborated with OREDA (Offshore & developers innoOnshore Reliability Data) in 2019 to make oil and gas industry vated on the Veracity reliability data more accessible and efficient. platform in 2019 Vast amounts of offshore and onshore reliability data were made available through Veracity, as OREDA provided access to its new 1.5 and updated electronic version on the Veracity Marketplace. DNV GL’s own Oil & Gas business area has made its Oil & Gas million service subRecommended Practices and Standards available on the Veracity scriptions in 2019 Marketplace. Digital Solutions also signed an agreement with China-based, world-leading wind turbine provider Goldwind in 2019 to offer the company’s Load Portal service on the Veracity Marketplace. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Digital Solutions’ share of total 1 046 NOK MILLION Digital Solutions’ share of total 870 EMPLOYEES (21,551) (11,832) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Golden anniversary for Sesam In 2019, DNV GL’s Sesam software celebrated 50 years of supporting the design, optimization and strength of ship and offshore structures. Sesam has continued to evolve throughout its lifespan and, in September 2019, Digital Solutions launched Sesam Insight, the first cloud-based Sesam product. This product is the first from Digital Solutions’ ‘Structure’ ecosystem to utilize cloud technology. Sesam Insight enables a new level of collaboration in offshore engineering by offering shared access to 3D analysis models. In 2019, Sesam’s Cloud Compute service for offshore wind successfully impacted the industry by enabling multiple design iterations per day. Before Cloud Compute, this task would have required two to three days for a typical set of design load cases Throughout 2019, the development teams behind Bladed and for a fatigue analysis. Analysis results obtained using Sesam’s Sesam increased their collaboration to target the offshore wind Cloud Compute Services can then be shared and collaborated turbine market. This partnership will continue in 2020, with a on through Sesam Insight. In 2019, Sesam reported a significant focused campaign to highlight software solutions for customers increase in usage related to offshore wind. entering and/or growing their offshore wind turbine portfolio. ShipManager moves to the cloud Digital Solutions continued its focus on advancing its software for the Maritime industry. In November 2019, the company presented its cloud-based ShipManager software. The first module to be offered to the market was ShipManager Procurement, with more modules to come in 2020 and beyond. This software is part of DNV GL’s ambition to develop modern cloud solutions for managing fleets, while also enabling an updated and modern user experience and fleet overview. The solutions are built on the latest technology, web-based and cloud-ready, with easy Strides for renewables in wind and solar markets In 2019, Digital Solutions launched its SolarFarmer software in Europe and the US and made it commercially available worldwide. The SolarFarmer software enables the more accurate and efficient modelling, design and analysis of solar photovoltaic plants, particularly in complex terrains. Digital Solutions also had a major release of its WindFarmer: Analyst software in 2019. This allows customers to perform end-to-end wind resource energy assessments. The WindFarmer: Analyst software was made available on Veracity Marketplace during the year as well, making it the first Digital Solutions software to be sold directly from Veracity. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS device accessibility. In 2019, Digital Solutions also released a new analytics module for ShipManager and a mobile QHSE Digital Health in the Nordics inspection app for online and offline use. Throughout the year, Digital Solutions closed ShipManager and Navigator contracts covering 971 vessels. Healthcare represents one of the world’s largest sectors. Demographic trends make current delivery models unsustainable. Digital Solutions also secured a contract with Anglo-Eastern DNV GL believes that the necessary transformation towards Ship Management Ltd in 2019, which was the largest-ever becoming a sustainable sector can be enabled by digital techorder for its Navigator Port software, covering installation on nologies, powered by the extensive and intelligent use of data. 650 vessels. In Digital Solutions, this is referred to as ‘digital health’ and it is considered a new growth position for the company. Digital Cyber Security for critical infrastructure Solutions has established an incubator that focuses on the Nordic healthcare sector, starting with Norway. Norway aims to create a ‘learning healthcare system’ in which digitalization is a prerequisite DNV GL is an independent advisor on cyber security, offering for a more patient-driven approach. The Digital Solutions digital a wide range of domain knowledge for IT and control system health incubator has explored roles and associated assurance security. Cyber Security Services in Digital Solutions has conservices as an independent trust enabler, facilitating sharing and solidated business in 2019, preparing for significant growth use of health data. The sharing of sensitive health data raises in 2020 and onwards. Risk management, security governance, issues around privacy, security, standardization, data managecompliance assessments and security testing are key disciplines ment and quality; areas where DNV GL has strong competence. within this area. In 2019, Digital Solutions initiated testing of Variant Exchange, a service that enables medical genetics laboratories to share DNA variant classification data with trusted partners. Data sharing will improve safety for patients and lead to efficiency gains in the laboratories. This is the first time this kind of data has been routinely shared by clinical laboratories across borders. In partnership with Crayon AS and Inmeta, Digital Solutions entered into an exclusive framework agreement with Norsk Helsenett SF to deliver public cloud services over the next six years. Norsk Helsenett SF is a Norwegian state-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Health and Care Services, entrusted with modernizing Norway’s ICT infrastructure for the health and care service sectors. As a partner in this agreement, DNV GL will work to ensure the viability and sustainability of cloudbased solutions, as well as to identify and reduce risks. In 2019, the Petroleum Safety Authority (PSA) of Norway requested independent studies to help them optimize their ICT security work relating to the Norwegian oil and gas industry. DNV GL won the contract and, by November 2019, the team had delivered thorough reports. This team was led by Digital Solutions’ Cyber Security team, with significant contributions from other business areas. In 2019, DNV GL also announced that Digital Solutions has signed an agreement to conduct cyber security certification assessments as an ISO/IEC 17065 accredited ISASecure certification body. This made DNV GL the third certification body within the ISASecure certification programme in South East Asia. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 45 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY Our vision of being a trusted voice to tackle global transformations sets the direction of our business and our conduct. This section includes how we support our customers through the products and services we provide, how we aim to continuously improve on the safety of our employees and opportunities for career development, how we protect the environment and maintain our standards of ethics and compliance in our own operations and with our business partners. We continue to report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core option. Our GRI index can be found at the back of this report. KPMG has provided limited assurance of the sustainability content in this report. Their assurance statement can also be found at the back of the report. Contents VALUE TO CUSTOMERS VALUE TO EMPLOYEES VALUE TO SOCIETY 48 Sustainable innovations 58 Employee health 74 Ethics and compliance 53 Data privacy and security and safety 79 Economic contribution 56 Customer satisfaction 66 People 82 Environment and climate 86 Sustainable procurement 90 Partnerships ANNUAL REPORT 2019 47 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS VALUE TO CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS Supporting sustainable transformations 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters At DNV GL, we work to make an impact on creating a better our products, services and expertise help customers become future in two ways. Firstly, we work to reduce our own footprint more efficient, improve their performance, and operate safely and make our worldwide operations as sustainable as possible. and sustainably. Investment in research and partnerships We are guided by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact provides clarity on today’s sustainability challenges and insight and our Code of Conduct. Sustainability is embedded within the into potential solutions. We use the findings in our work with DNV GL management system and we seek continual improvement customers and, where they can benefit a wider group of stakethrough certification to external standards, such as ISO 14001 for holders, we make them freely available. environment and ISO 45001 for occupational health and safety. The examples presented here are some of the ways we Our second, and far greater, impact is through the services contribute to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. we provide to our customers. In each of our business areas, We support the UN Global Compact principles and actively work with customers and partners to deliver on the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Remi Eriksen, Group President & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 49 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS Sustainable innovations We have the greatest positive impact on sustainability through the services we provide to our customers. The examples below show some of the ways we work with our customers and in partnership with other stakeholders to deliver sustainability benefits and how we contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2019, as part of a long-running research consortium Energy-saving SDG 7, 9, 13 working with the University of Applied Sciences Emden/Leer in Germany, DNV GL tested an innovative rotor sail ready for Flettner rotor sail designed to provide wind assistance commercialization to seagoing vessels. The tests have shown the rotor sail is a highly effective additional power source, reducing energy use and emissions from a ship’s main engine. The tests have also proven its seaworthiness and that the sail is ready for commercialization. Originally developed a century ago, a rotor sail is a tall, rotating cylinder that uses side winds to produce forward thrust. The new ECO FLETTNER rotor represents a complete redesign, and for testing it was installed on the 4,250-tonne Fehn Pollux cargo vessel. The sail is an 18-metre tall, three-metre diameter cylinder, and is constructed of lightweight materials. It uses high-performance bearings that allow it to rotate at high speeds. The testing over a six-month period exceeded all predictions and has demonstrated fuel savings of 10–20% depending on wind speeds and direction, the speed of the ship and its main engine performance. On the Fehn Pollux, the ship saves an annual average of 108 kW at sea, equivalent to a 15% saving in energy and emissions for the ship’s 650 kW main engine. Helping companies focus on the ALL SDGS Sustainable Development Goals SDG Lens is a freely available, self-assessment tool developed by Business Assurance to help companies better understand the areas where they can best contribute to the SDGs. Through the assessment, the SDG Lens reveals the individual SDGs and associated targets in priority order, based on a company’s potential to influence the Goals and become more sustainable. Since its launch in 2018, 224 companies have registered for the SDG Lens. Of these, 47 completed their self-assessments. The results provide a picture that will grow over time as more assessments are completed, giving greater insight into trends for From the assessments completed to date, the most frequently specific Goals and sector-wide approaches. It is widely accepted prioritized Goals are SDG 8, Decent work and economic growth; that collective action at a systemand value chain-level will be SDG 12, Responsible production and consumption; and SDG 13, required to achieve the SDGs and gathering sector-wide data will Climate action. The least prioritised goals are SDG 14, Life below be useful in assessing system-based approaches to the SDGs. water and SDG 16, Peace, justice and strong institutions. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Capturing carbon for crop nutrition Hybrid battery power boosts offshore rig efficiency We are supporting our customer, Taiwan Power Company (TPC), to develop plans to reduce carbon emissions from its coal-fired Taichung power plant. The plans include TPC’s first-ever carbon capture pilot project, an important step towards realizing Taiwan’s SDG 7, 13, 17 carbon reduction goals. Our power plant and carbon capture and storage experts from the Arnhem Power Laboratory in the Netherlands are developiong the design concept for the pilot. The Netherlands team is working closely with our Taiwan team who understand TPC’s needs, the local culture and regulations. The scope of work includes studying the application of carbon capture technologies and any direct effects they may have on power generation. This is currently a DNV GL worked with Northern Drilling to make their West Mira drilling rig the first to be awarded the DNV GL Battery (Power) class notation. With this new notation, we are helping customers in the offshore industry take advantage of new hybrid battery power technology for safer, more energy-efficient and environmentallySDG 7, 13 friendly operations. The diesel-electric hybrid power system on the West Mira is a world first on a drilling rig and is a prime example of cooperasmall-scale pilot project, reducing carbon by 0.05% for one unit, tion between the project partners — Northern Drilling, Seadrill, however, the purpose of this pilot is to develop all the necessary Siemens, Kongsberg Maritime and DNV GL. The power solution data. The results will allow realistic modelling and scaling up uses Lithium-ion batteries as an additional power source during towards a commercial carbon capture plant. peak power demand. They also act as a reserve power source in the event of a blackout. Four converter-battery systems provide The project also intends to demonstrate a use for the captured CO2, up to six megawatts of power reducing runtime of the rig’s diesel using it to grow fruit and vegetables. DNV GL will help design an engines by up to 42%. This saving results in an estimated reduction agricultural factory equipped with a CO2 distribution network. The in NOX emissions of 12% and CO2 emissions of 15%, equivalent crops from the factory will be served in an adjoining visitor centre. to annual emissions from approximately 10,000 cars. Floating solar in Singapore SDG 7, 13 In Singapore, DNV GL is acting as technical advisor for PUB, Singapore’s national water agency, on a public tender for a 50 MW floating solar photovoltaic project. The Tengeh Reservoir floating solar project is due to be operational by 2021 and will become the largest floating solar system in Southeast Asia and one of the largest in the world. It will power the reservoir’s water treatment facilities, eliminating 28,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year, equivalent to the emissions of around 6,000 cars. Despite limited renewable energy options, Singapore has made independent energy assessment, technology benchmarking and firm commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and business model studies. We will also carry out design reviews, solar power is the country’s most viable renewable energy source. testing and commissioning reviews during construction, and DNV GL’s energy experts have completed preliminary design, performance analysis and testing once operational. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 51 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS Supporting San Marino’s drive Using data to help customers for sustainability with blockchain mitigate climate change risks The ‘San Marino Low Carbon Ecosystem’ is a blockchain system designed to reduce CO2 emissions and stimulate a circular economy SDG 13 business model in the Republic of San Marino. Proposed by DNV GL, in collaboration with VeChain, the platform aims to encourage environmentally-friendly practices by citizens in areas such as energy use, water saving and waste disposal. Sustainable behaviour by individuals will be rewarded with a cryptocurrency-like utility token, the San Marino Innovation Token, which can be used to access other services offered within the Republic. The introduction of the low carbon ecosystem is the first example globally of using a public blockchain and utility token to incentivize citizens to protect the environment. The impact of climate change will be felt significantly by many in the oil and gas sector including operators, investors and insurers. New and extreme climatic conditions will test existing technologies, systems and institutions to the limit. With multiple, global climate and hazard models, the amount of climate risk data can be overwhelming for decision makers who need clear, concise information they can act on quickly. To rise to this challenge, we have developed a state-of-the-art, digital climate-risk solution called C-GEAR Core (Climatic Geo Enhanced Assessment of Risks). The system integrates several applications and platforms into a cloud-based solution that captures, analyzes and visualizes climate, weather and hazard-related information. For marine services customers, predictions include wavelength changes, airgap decreases, wind strength, precipitation and storm surges. Alongside DNV GL standards and guidance for mitigating risk, C-GEAR Core enables us to deliver industry-leading support SDG 9, 11, 12 in this growing and important area of risk. Traceability for ocean plastics SDG 14 DNV GL has joined forces with Dutch NGO, The Ocean Cleanup, to address one of today’s major environmental challenges, ocean plastic pollution. The ocean is core to DNV GL’s business and we are keen to contribute to solutions with our expertise. The Ocean Cleanup is trialling advanced technologies to collect ocean plastic from the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, the world’s largest accumulation of plastic waste, spanning an area of 1.6 million square kilometres. The collected plastic will be recycled into new products and sold to consumers, creating value from the waste and funding The Ocean Cleanup’s continued work. bringing transparency to this rapidly-developing market. DNV GL In a growing market for products made with ocean plastic, it is will now verify that plastic collected by The Ocean Project is 100% currently not compulsory to independently verify that plastic has, in ocean plastic according to the newly created standard. fact, been sourced from the ocean. This means products labelled as “ocean plastic” may not be entirely sourced from the ocean. We The verification process is designed to provide transparency and have worked with The Ocean Cleanup for the past 18 months to support consumer trust in the market for ocean-plastic products. develop a process and set of requirements that enables verification In 2020, we will develop the process and transparency requirements of the source of ocean plastic. The new process delivers the highest into a new public standard that will be open to all parties interested level of traceability and clarifies how ocean plastic is defined, in ocean plastic product certification. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY Data protection in the digital age ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS Why it matters For DNV GL, data security DNV GL is a strong advocate for digital technology. We believe is a natural extension of our in harnessing its benefits to improve how we operate and to make a difference to our customers and wider society. At the same time, purpose within the digital age there are clear risks to be managed relating to cyber-crime and – ‘to safeguard life, property data protection, and these are high priorities for our stakeholders. For DNV GL, data security is a natural extension of our purpose and the environment. within the digital age – ‘to safeguard life, property and the environment’. To mitigate digital and data risks we focus on ensuring our own system works to protect the right to privacy of our employees, cyber security and using our skills to help customers do the same. customers, suppliers and business partners in line with the Alongside digital security, our data protection management European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Progress in 2019 In March 2019, we set a heightened state of IT security and Data risks activated our Computer Emergency Response Team as a To ensure our approach remains focused on risks for data subjects precautionary measure due to a ransomware attack on a large – any person whose personal data is collected or stored – we Norwegian enterprise, a customer of DNV GL. After three started a risk assessment process in 2019. Stakeholders from days we restored normal IT security levels. During the period around DNV GL have been asked to identify personal data risks of heightened security, we quarantined all e-mails from the in their area of the business so that mitigation measures can be customer and enabled Safe Links capabilities in our software defined in 2020. We have identified risks in 12 main categories, to validate the safety of website links before end-users could including: governance and accountability; data flows and data open the webpage. We also ensured that all VerIT computers transfer; security and Privacy by Design; data subjects’ rights; connected to the DNV GL IT platform had up-to-date antivirus and training and awareness. and that the computers were patched properly. Awareness and training Personal data protection Following the alignment of our data protection approach with Maintaining high levels of awareness is critical to successful data GDPR in 2018, we continued to improve our data protection protection. During 2019, we provided further data protection management system in 2019 and ensure it is fully established training for our employees. Until year-end, over 6,600 employees throughout the business. To support this, the Group Compliance have completed an e-learning on data protection and over 1,000 function has convened a cross-business network to improve an e-learning on handling data breaches. At our Global Shared communication on data protection, create common underService (GSS) Centre in Poland, workshops with finance and standing on legal requirements and promote alignment human resources focused on handling personal data breaches across DNV GL. All business areas, Group functions and our and local requirements of Polish data protection law. Global Shared Services unit are represented on the network. Through the network, advice on data protection measures is Our GSS Quality Management function ran training in GSS units shared and progress is reported back to Group Compliance. on storage for personal data. Finally, in 2019, targeted Human Resources training has been provided by Group Compliance to The network met twice in 2019 and uses a digital collaboration business area and GSS human resources employees to increase tool to communicate new developments in data protection. awareness on matters of relevance. These include privacy when Business areas and GSS are responsible for implementing data handling employee images and badges, and payroll and health protection measures and Group Compliance provides a centralized data, as well as privacy in recruitment processes, performance governance function. All business areas have conducted data and talent management. The training has been been completed protection risk assessments and have incorporated personal by around 500 employees. data risk into their business area risk management processes. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Looking ahead Data privacy remains an essential part of ensuring legal compliContinuing the risk assessment started in 2019, we will focus ance. We maintain our understanding of the data protection our attention in 2020 on the areas of high risk for data subjects landscape through our data protection network, external trainthat we have identified. These include lifecycle management ing, legal advice and monitoring cases raised by data protection of applications from launch to end-of-life, roles and responsiauthorities in the countries and regions where we operate. bilities linked to personal data, and unstructured data outside of production systems, such as SharePoint or Excel applications. In Brazil, a new personal data protection law, very similar to GDPR, We will also continue to focus on emerging financial or reputawill come into force in August 2020. This reflects a growing tional risks related to data protection identified through our global trend of countries establishing national data protection risk assessments. laws. Before the deadline in Brazil, Group Compliance will support the local implementation team to ensure a smooth Internally, we will ensure we maintain high awareness of cyber transition to compliance with the new requirements. security and data protection issues and our approach. Approach Personal data protection IT and data security DNV GL has an established data protection management Our Global Shared Services IT function invests significant system that is in line with the ISO 19600 standard on compliresources in continuously monitoring and repairing ance management. Responsibility for data protection sits with IT-system vulnerabilities, following best practices on Group Compliance and the Global Data Protection Officer. patching. We work on the cyber-security principle of ‘assume breach’. This principle assumes that competent We have a comprehensive suite of policies, guidelines and and resourceful attackers will be able to break into our instructions that set our standards for data privacy and ensure systems and we therefore direct resources into our we protect the personal data of employees and customers. ability to detect and mitigate such security breaches. All of our documentation and processes are aligned with, and fulfil, GDPR requirements. An important enabler for data During a typical month DNV GL’s security system will protection is training all employees, and particularly those stop 200,000–300,000 phishing attacks and 40,000– dealing with personal data as part of their daily work. 50,000 instances of payload / malware. We use machine learning to develop smarter algorithms with our main Customer data is handled in accordance with the confidenIT vendor, IBM, to identify which of these pose the tiality obligations outlined in the terms and conditions of our most significant threats in order to detect and prevent customer contracts. We are also a Binding Corporate Rules cyber attacks. Most attack attempts on DNV GL use (BCR) certified company, meaning that customer and employee email as the attack vector and, as a result, we believe data can be transferred within DNV GL Group to countries that investing in employees’ cyber security awareness outside the European Union and European Economic Area. and competence is essential. To ensure that DNV GL adheres to the highest level of data protection, our information security management systems for GSS IT, Energy, Oil & Gas, Digital Solutions and Maritime are certified to the ISO 27001 information security standard. We have a detailed information classification system to segment and secure more sensitive information within our IT system. Our GSS IT department operates a Computer Emergency Response Team that is activated during more complex and advanced cyber security situations. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 55 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer centricity in everything we do OUR VISION A trusted voice to tackle global transformations Why it matters We believe that a customer-centred approach – one that delivers excellent customer experiences and creates close, value-adding relationships – leads to competitive advantage. This ambition is at the Our success relies on maintaining strong relationships with our heart of our strategy and each of our business areas is tasked with customers. We focus on delivering services that truly meet our maintaining high customer satisfaction. We support our customercustomers’ needs, helping them solve problems, make the most focused approach with a business model that is based on trust of their opportunities and, ultimately, enhance their own business and a commitment to never compromise on quality or integrity. success. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Progress in 2019 Each of our business areas measures customer satisfaction ENERGY has improved its annual customer relationship strength separately using measures that are suited to their services and indicator (CRSI) among their key accounts from 64% in 2016 market segment. to 75% in 2019 (2018: 69%). This was right on target and shows very positive progress towards our target CRSI of 80% in 2020, MARITIME conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey. In 2019, which reflects our high ambitions for customer centricity. the online survey received 2,000 responses from 940 customers. Overall, customer satisfaction is high with a rating of 5.46 out of BUSINESS ASSURANCE conducts an annual online customer seven (2018: 5.45). Customers again rated Maritime very highly on satisfaction survey and received around 10,000 unique answers the core elements of service delivery and commercial interaction. in 2019. This provided a customer satisfaction index score of Compared to 2018, customers’ appreciation of DNV GL’s plat5.14 out of 6, improving on the 2018 score of 5.09 and well form, Veracity, and information provision has increased. above the threshold of full satisfaction. OIL & GAS measures individual customer satisfaction by conductDIGITAL SOLUTIONS has improved its customer satisfaction ing a survey with customers on project completion. Customers score from 74% to 76% over the past two years. Nearly 1,000 provide a rating from one to ten and, in 2019, the average score customers responded to the satisfaction survey, representing was 9 (2018: 9.1). However, the number of responses was quite low. approximately 35% of the customer base. Separately, project Initiatives have been taken to increase the number of responses completion surveys show a satisfaction score of 87%. in 2020 to ensure that results better represent the customer base. Looking ahead Improving customer satisfaction Brand strength In 2020, we will work to standardise and adopt best practice Maintaining the trust of our customers has enabled DNV GL on how we seek customer satisfaction feedback across our five to grow over its 155-year history. Continuing this is essential business areas. As the first year of implementation, 2020 will to sustaining our success in the future. To understand current provide a baseline on overall satisfaction, preference of DNV GL levels of trust in DNV GL compared to our competitors, over other suppliers, and recommendation across the company. we carried out a global brand survey in 2018. We use the One key objective is to gauge better how our customers rate results to identify areas to maintain or improve our services. their satisfaction and strength of their relationship with DNV GL We plan to re-run the brand survey in the next 2–4 years. overall, providing a strong leading indicator for our future business performance. Approach A customer-centred approach to business is anchored in our Our aim is to continually serve our customers in a proactive and 2020 business strategy. For DNV GL this approach means: responsive way, including using digital solutions to improve their experiences and our cost competitiveness. We continue to focus Putting our customers at the centre of our business to on developing a more customer-centred working culture, one deliver services that truly meet their needs, help them solve in which our commitment to customers drives a curiosity and problems and make the most of their opportunities desire to anticipate their needs. . Getting close to our customers, spending time with them, The success of our customer-centred approach is measured by meeting them in their environment, and building business the value we create for the customer through projects, customer relationships based on trust. satisfaction and market share within our business areas. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 57 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES VALUE TO EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY A safe place to work 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters Our vision is zero harm to anyone working for, or on behalf of health and wellbeing every day. Our risk assessments show the DNV GL. Our view is that no work is so urgent or important that main health and safety risks our people face come from: field work; it cannot be conducted in a safe and healthy way. Safeguarding slips, trips and falls; stress linked to high workload; and driving. our people is not only about preventing accidents and injuries, Our approach is to address safety and health risks with both it is also about maintaining a healthy and resilient workforce. immediate and more long-term initiatives. We want to demonstrate that DNV GL cares about its people and equips them to In striving to be the safest place to work, we continue to empower deliver exceptional safety performance over the long term. our people to make the right decisions about their own safety, Progress in 2019 Safeguarding our people Individual resilience Our overall goal is to prevent injury and occupational illness to Our 2018 Health and Safety Culture survey showed important everyone linked with our business activities. Our occupational improvements to our health and safety culture, especially related health and safety performance in 2019 continued the positive to health and safety competence and compliance within DNV GL. and stable trend seen over the last three years as we strive It also showed areas for improvement with some employees towards our ambition of zero harm. feeling they struggle to manage conflicting goals and demands, both at business unit and individual level. The weakest scores were for individual employee resilience, including work-life balance and health and wellbeing. In 2019, our rates involving employees: Lost time injury rate, stable at 0.9 (2018: 0.9) In 2019, therefore, our priority focus areas were resilience and Absence rate, stable at 2.3% (2018: 2.4%). health and wellbeing. Resilience is an inner strength that can be developed like any other skill. It enables employees to be more prepared to manage work challenges, recover from setbacks and thrive in an ever-changing work environment. Full details of our performance, including regional breakdowns, Improving our global resilience framework are provided in the performance section on page 62. Our resilience framework is a long-term initiative to help strengthen Enhancing resilience and wellbeing in DNV GL employees’ individual resilience and develop a growth mindset. With a growth mindset, people believe that their most basic We rolled out our global medical health check guideline in 2019. abilities can be developed through dedication and hard work, Developed in 2018, the guideline is applicable to DNV GL field and that brains and talent are just the starting point. This view workers in all countries. It details the minimum requirements that creates a passion for learning and a resilience that is essential medical check-ups for these employees need to cover and helps for high levels of accomplishment. ensure our employees are fit for the work they do. The objective is to ensure that field workers performing high-risk activities are In 2019, we improved and relaunched the resilience framework aware of their own state of health and can do their job without — a set of tools, techniques and knowledge resources aimed at a detrimental effect on their own and other’s health or safety. building healthy and lasting habits. It is available to all employees through our intranet. The revised version includes additional Although voluntary, employees are encouraged to have a medical resources, competitions and challenges for individuals and teams, health check and are recommended to raise issues with their line and includes modules on physical activity, nutrition, sleep and manager to adjust their work, if necessary. However, this is not mental wellbeing. In 2019, the updated framework was accessed a requirement and all test results are confidential and do not by 3,025 employees. The number of visits was in line with expecneed to be shared with DNV GL. tations and we will explore further developments of the framework in 2020. We comply with applicable local legislative, industry-specific, or client requirements for employee health checks. We comply The relaunch of the framework also includes a pilot health awarewith whichever requirements are most stringent or our own ness initiative, called Global Challenge. 1,386 employees took medical health check guideline. part and some key highlights include: ANNUAL REPORT 2019 59 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES 65% of participants now achieve the recommended 10,000 My work schedule is flexible enough to deal with family steps per day vs. only 17% pre-Global Challenge or personal life 53% are now more aware of what they eat My manager cares about me as a person 56% of those who tracked their weight have lost weight DNV GL really cares about my health and well-being 66% now get the recommended amount of sleep vs. I find my workload manageable. 50% pre-Global Challenge 66% have reported a decrease in their stress levels either Through the pulse survey, these four questions are frequently at home or at work asked across DNV GL and the new approach is replacing our 58% have reported an increase in either their productivity global Health and Safety Culture survey, which was conducted or concentration. every three years, most recently in 2015 and 2018. The frequency varies between business areas, ranging from weekly to every Resilience Index 2–3 months. Results from the pulse surveys in 2019 show a slight improvement in resilience through the year. As part of our new global pulse survey approach for engaging employees (see page 67), we have developed a Resilience Index By reflecting on resilience and wellbeing in our daily work, and to measure employee resilience at a Group level and help measuring progress with our employees through the pulse surveys, managers to follow-up locally in a timely manner. The index we are moving further towards a learning culture on resilience. includes the following questions: As a result, our approach to health and wellbeing is progressively becoming more mature and more integrated. Looking ahead Health, safety and environment governance In 2020, we will continue to work on improving the health, safety and environment (HSE) management and support structure that ensures we safeguard our people and deliver a more agile way of working in line with our digital transition. During 2019, we refreshed our company values. Our new values are WE CARE, WE DARE, WE SHARE . In terms of how we approach HSE: WE CARE for ourselves and our colleagues to ensure we stay safe, resilient and fit for work; we balance our work and home priorities. Health and wellbeing We will continue our health and wellbeing programme in 2020. This includes: WE DARE to say no and stop work Developing resources for employees and line managers if it is not safe, or if it compromises to support them in strengthening the resilience of themon quality or our integrity. selves and their teams. Incident reporting and learning from incidents WE SHARE our expertise, As in 2019, we will continue to focus on near miss and hazard knowledge and learnings from reporting in 2020. We will also continue with the initiative to incidents to continuously grow, automate incident and hazard reporting using machine learning. develop and improve. This will simplify the process and reduce time spent on HSE case reporting and processing. By capturing more incidents, we aim to learn more about the risks we face and improve prevention. Our refreshed values will be fully incorporated into our HSE work processes during 2020. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Approach Health and safety management Health and safety is fully embedded in our purpose, vision and A record of common hazards across DNV GL are maintained at values, and our commitment to safeguarding people extends to the group and regional level. These generally relate to officeeveryone linked to our business. Our approach is based on our related work, travel and driving. HSE policy and global health and safety management system, which is fully integrated within the overall DNV GL management Business areas identify and manage the significant hazards system. associated with their field work and laboratory and test site activities. Hazards associated with team building and other Our health and safety policy and management system cover events in the workplace are managed by the event organizer. all functions, processes and activities related to the management and delivery of our products and services across DNV GL. Risk assessments are required at the planning stage of activities, Our management system complies with all laws and regulations involve relevant people associated with the activity and are docuin countries where we operate and is certified to the ISO 45001:2018 mented. The process includes a review of reported incidents standard. In areas where legislation is weak or does not exist, and hazards, and any changes to our services or major incidents we adhere to our Group requirements, which comply with within the industry. No activities should be undertaken unless Norwegian regulations. the associated risks have been reduced to an acceptable level. Our work is never so urgent or important that we cannot take time The work-related hazards that pose a risk to do it safely. The right to say ‘no’ if an employee does not feel of high-consequence injury safe is embedded in our HSE policy. The main hazards associated with DNV GL activities that present a risk of high-consequence injury include: Governance Within DNV GL, health and safety is structured on two lines of Line of fire hazards, in particular objects dropped or falling responsibility – by geography and by business area. The Group from height, high pressure/tension releases, contact with CEO and Executive Committee are responsible for all HSE matters, moving vehicles, moving parts of machinery and work ensuring they receive attention at the highest level. Health and equipment safety performance are reported to the Executive Committee Vehicle collisions and over-turning vehicles every two months and the CEO reports to the Board of Directors Places at height or at ground level from which a person at least every two months. Quarterly HSE reports are made could fall from height, including transfers at sea with a risk available to all employees on the intranet. of drowning and/or crushing Entry into confined spaces where an oxygen deficient It is the responsibility of our line managers to ensure safe and or toxic atmosphere may be present healthy working conditions for their employees. They are also Hot environments. responsible for promoting open communication and a culture where incidents and feedback are treated as learning opportuIn DNV GL, high-consequence hazards are considered those nities. All our health and safety support resources are internal, where the most probable outcome is death or significant and we do not outsource any health and safety responsibilities. disability or impairment, including the following: We conduct a management system review process annually. Serious multiple fractures This is a bottom-up process and ensures continual improvement All amputations of our occupational health and safety performance. The review Permanent loss of sight or reduction of sight in one has a fixed agenda with elements such as risk management or both eyes (including HSE and quality) and information related to perforCrush injuries leading to internal organ damage mance and effectiveness of the management system. Serious burns (covering more than 10% of body; third-degree burns; internal electrical burns; or damage to the eyes, Risk assessment respiratory system, or other vital organs) DNV GL has set clear principles and processes, and has defined Nervous system injuries with loss of function key responsibilities, for hazard identification and risk assessment Unconsciousness caused by head injury, asphyxia, heat, relating to working at office premises, travelling, driving, conducelectric shock or chemical exposure ting field work, operations at laboratories and test sites. OccuThe person cannot, does not or is not expected to recover pational health and safety risks, including those related to field to pre-incident health status within 6 months. and laboratory work, are periodically identified, assessed and reviewed by business areas or through the global risk register. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 61 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES We determined these hazards by several means, including concerned about revealing their identity can anonymously operational risk assessments, audit findings and incident report incidents and hazards. analysis. They are recorded in health and safety risk registers, which include: All reported cases with the potential for high-consequence injury are investigated and corrective actions implemented. A description of the risk – the main hazards, the causes Any cases with the potential for high-consequence injury are and contributory factors for the risk reviewed in the next health and safety risk assessment. The risk control measures and monitoring/assurance process An evaluation of the risk with a risk rating based on the Learning from incidents likelihood and severity of harm A significant objective of incident and hazard reporting is to share Actions to reduce the residual risks to an acceptable level experiences across the business and learn from them. Learnings and ongoing monitoring activities. are shared regularly through presentations on incidents with mediumor high-consequence injury potential in several levels Incident reporting of the organization, including top management. We also maintain We manage and report incidents and hazards using Synergi Life, an open-access incident and hazard database. a commercial HSE software platform developed in-house by DNV GL. Our approach complies with Norwegian regulations Involving employees and is aligned with the ILO code of practice on recording and We share information and consult with elected representatives notification of occupational accidents and diseases. Read more. of employee works councils and unions in accordance with our collective agreements and local legislation. Employees involved in, or observing, a work-related incident or hazard are required to report it through Synergi Life. Employees Performance in 2019 0.9 Injury rate from to lost day injuries per million employee working hours. Our health and safety performance is considered sound and stable. The lost time injury rate is stable and a there is a slightly decrease in the sickness absence rate. However, we are contin2.3% uously attempting to improve. Our focus is on preventative measures identified by our Peakon employee survey, cases Absentee rate recorded with the potential for high loss and increasing awareness. due to sickness. Lost time injury rate 0.15 In 2019, we had an employee injury rate of 0.9 (2018: 0.9), continuing the stable trend of the last three years. There were Incidents and no serious injuries involving employees in 2019 that lead to hazards reported lost time. per employee. Three lost time injuries to other workers were reported in 2019. The lost time injury rate for other workers was 1.1. Unfortunately, one serious accident occurred in September. A contractor installing a met mast and was working at height when the mast The most common types of injuries recorded were toppled, badly injuring the contractor. A full recovery is expected. bruises/contusions, cuts/punctures and sprains/strains. The two other cases related to a finger injury during field work Field work continues to be a focus area, and in some cases, and a slip, trip, fall injury when a sub-contractor was travelling lack of awareness and stress are contributing factors. home after an audit. No workers are involved in activities with a high incidence of specific diseases. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FIGURE 01 LOST TIME INJURY RATE BY REGION Employees 2019 Employees 2018 Employees 2017 0.6 Nordics 0.0 0.4 2.8 Central Europe 2.3 1.4 West, South and 0.7 1.4 East Europe 1.9 1.6 Great Britain 1.6 0.0 0.0 North America 0.3 0.3 0.0 South America 0.0 0.0 0.0 North Asia 0.4 1.5 1.6 South Asia 0.0 1.4 India, Middle East, 0.7 1.4 and Africa 1.3 0.9 DNV GL 0.9 1.0 Lost time injuries 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 per million hours worked FIGURE 02 RECORDABLE INJURY RATE BY REGION Employees 2019 Nordics 0.9 Central Europe 2.8 West, South and 1.4 East Europe Great Britain 2.2 North America 2.0 South America 4.3 North Asia 0.0 South Asia 4.1 India, Middle East, 1.4 and Africa DNV GL 1.6 Number of cases 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 per million hours worked ANNUAL REPORT 2019 63 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES Absentee rate Our absentee rate continues at a low level of 2.3% (2018: 2.4%). 5.5% of the near misses reported had the potential for highOur reporting system does not currently capture absence by region. consequence injury to the people involved (related to fieldwork, laboratory and driving). All these near misses are closed and Incident and hazard reporting actions to mitigate the risk implemented. During the year, 1,781 incidents and hazards related to occupational health, safety and the environment were reported (2018: 1,995). This represents 0.15 reports per employee (2018: 0.16). TABLE 01 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2019 2018 2017 Work-related fatal accidents 0 0 0 High-consequence injuries, employees 0 High-consequence injuries, other workers 1 High-consequence injury rate, employees 0 High-consequence injury rate, other workers 0.4 Recordable injuries, employees 36 Recordable injuries, other workers 3 Recordable injury rate, employees 1.6 Recordable injury rate, other workers 1.1 Injuries with lost time, employees 19 19 23 Injuries with lost time, other workers 3 4 4 Occupational diseases with lost time, employees 13 14 24 Occupational diseases with lost time, other workers 2 1 0 Near misses with the potential for high consequences 21 39 11 Lost time injury rate, employees 0.9 0.9 1.0 Lost time injury rate, other workers 1.1 Absence rate (%) 2.3 2.4 2.4 Absentee rate (%): Total hours of absence Injuries with high consequence: Injuries Recordable injuries: Work-related injury DEFINITIONS due to sickness/worked hours x 100. that results in a fatality or in an injury from or ill health that results in any of the following: which the worker cannot, does not, or is death; days away from work; restricted work Hazard: Unsafe act or unsafe condition not expected to recover fully to pre-injury or transfer to another job; medical treatment with the potential to cause an incident. health status within 6 months. beyond first aid; loss of consciousness; significant injury or ill health diagnosed Lost time injury rate: Number of injuries Near-misses: An event or exposure(s) by a physician or other licensed healthcare with lost days per million worked hours. which did not result in injury, ill health or enviprofessional, even if it does not result in ronmental impact, but where, given a slight death, days away from work, restricted work Injuries with lost time: Any work-related shift in time or position easily could have. or job transfer, medical treatment beyond injury which prevents an injured employee first aid, or loss of consciousness. or other workers from doing any work on Occupational diseases with lost days: any day (or shift) after the day (or shift) on A harmful effect on a person caused by which the injury occurred, including weekprolonged or repeated exposure(s) with ends and holidays. lost days (not back to work the next day). 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CASE STUDY Mental health focus in UK In the UK, ‘Time to Talk Day’ is a national awareness day In the past year, as well as participating in ‘Time to Talk Day’ held in February each year, providing an opportunity to and other national awareness days, we have introduced bring the nation together to get talking and break the mental health awareness training for line managers. silence around poor mental health. Around 60 managers have attended the one-day Mental Health Awareness training so far, and courses will We were inspired by this at DNV GL and used ‘Time to continue in 2020. Talk Day’ to launch a continuous focus on mental health and wellbeing in our UK offices. Some of our other activities include: Quarterly ‘Time to Talk’ events, with social lunches The response from employees was very positive and followYoga and mindful movement classes up activities were arranged at all of our UK locations. Lunch and learn sessions with visiting speakers. Outcomes and specific suggestions from employees were shared in Yammer posts. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 65 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES PEOPLE Connecting with our people 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters Our 12,000 employees represent the face of DNV GL with Our aim is to attract, retain and develop people who are customers and other stakeholders all over the world, every day. committed to our purpose, vision and values. We see diversity The relationships we develop with our customers are based within our workforce as a way of delivering excellence and on trust in our technical ability and the integrity and personal we recruit the best people regardless of their background. conduct of our people. Our values — WE CARE, WE DARE, WE This is backed up by an attractive employee-value proposition SHARE — are beliefs that shape our performance. These ideals and varied development and career opportunities. By continare the behaviours expected of all of us and are important for uously developing our people’s competencies, we enhance achieving our purpose and vision. the skills and expertise we offer to our customers. Progress in 2019 After facing a challenging financial reality for a number of years, ment among employees. This has continued into module two with associated headcount reductions, we experienced a more with 2,900 employees taking part since its launch in September. stable and sustainable situation in 2019. Although headcount fell slightly in 2019, this was due to the divestment of the KEMA HR system Laboratories in the Energy business area (see page 35). We launched a new global human resources (HR) platform in late 2017, which provides improved efficiency and people Investing in our digital transformation analytics. In 2019, we broadened the system’s functionality, We continued to invest in our digital transformation in 2019, including performance management, regular check-in underpinning our belief that being a digitally-agile organization dialogues, onboarding and succession. will support our future strength and success. Employee engagement Training is a key component of our digital transformation and Following successful pilots in 2018, we have implemented across 2018 and 2019, more than 1,100 managers have taken our pulse surveys across DNV GL in 2019 to assess engagement DNV GL/INSEAD Leading Digital Transformation programmes. among our employees. Pulse surveys involve more frequent, The programmes are designed to enhance our capability with less comprehensive assessments with quicker, more targeted both digital technologies and methods to accelerate our transfollow-up actions. It is a more agile approach than previous formation into a truly digital organization. annual engagement surveys and provides an effective way to enhance communication between employees and management. Building on this success, we have designed a condensed proThe case study provides more information on our pulse surveys. gramme for all employees. All 12,000 employees have been invited to participate in weekly online challenges related to To engage employees in our strategy and provide feedback to Digital Transformation. To engage participants, questions have leadership, we have created a ‘Strategy Champions’ initiative. been posted on Yammer, the DNV GL social media channel. Almost 100 strategy champions from all business areas and The first module broke our internal record for Yammer activity, more than 20 countries are selected and execute strategywith over 4,900 messages posted and 51,000 read messages. related ‘missions’ in their local offices. The goal is to stimulate In total, over 5,300 employees – almost 45% of our workforce – discussions about how strategic goals are understood and took part in module one, demonstrating a high level of engageacted on in a local context. Looking ahead DNV GL launched a new vision and revised values in January 2020. Our people-related governance documents will be revised and We will run various initiatives throughout 2020 to embed the simplified in 2020 to enable a more empowered organization. new vision and values across the organization. A new DNV GL We will also review the DNV GL compensation and benefits Strategy will also be introduced in 2020 and we will review our approach and we will revise our short-term incentive / profit current people policies and principles to ensure they are aligned share system for implementation in 2021. with and support our new vision, values and strategy. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 67 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES Approach As a professional services provider, we rely on the knowledge To support our diversity efforts, we run mentoring programmes, and skills of our people to deliver our products and services. including the reverse mentoring of senior leaders by ‘next generWe strive to foster a company culture with people who are ation’ colleagues. We also hold an annual global summit for committed to our purpose, vision and values. up-and-coming talent. Strategy and management system Human rights Our Group strategy and management system, including our DNV GL is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. people policy, governs how we attract and develop employees We are committed to adhering to its principles in the areas of and build our company culture. This system also underpins our human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and value-based leadership approach. anti-corruption in our business strategy, day-to-day operations, organizational culture and sphere of influence. Our people processes are designed to create a common culture within a flexible work environment and provide career and Our Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to nondevelopment opportunities for all. discrimination, equal opportunity, the right to join labour unions and fair employment. All employees are introduced to the Governance company’s policies during the onboarding process and human The Group President and CEO approves our people, leadership, and labour rights are part of this. and roles & responsibilities policies. The Group HR function establishes these policies and sets the direction for HR management. DNV GL’s Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking It works closely with HR teams in the business areas and Global has been issued further to section 54 (1) of the UK’s Modern Shared Services to ensure an aligned approach company wide. Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the DNV GL UK’s slavery People management is a line responsibility and line managers and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending are supported by HR managers and a range of HR tools. 31 December 2019. We have broad geographic employee representation on DNV GL’s Freedom of association and collective agreements Board of Directors. Our management works constructively with employee organizations through the Global Employee Forum, Employees’ right to freedom of association and collective barregional and local works councils and unions. gaining is documented in DNV GL’s management system and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Around 45% of Diversity and equal opportunity our employees are covered by collective agreements. We seek diversity at all levels of our company in terms of age, gender, nationality, experience and mindset. Diversity is a source of Employee training and development strength for DNV GL. It provides the widest access to global talent Our approach to employee development and competence is and is the best basis for delivering excellence to our customers. detailed in internal governing documents. We follow the 70:20:10 Managed well, diverse teams can also identify and capture more learning model; with 70% gained from on-the-job experience, opportunities and manage more risks than homogenous teams. 20% through interaction with others, and 10% from e-learning and classroom training. Training provided through individual business areas ensures the right competencies are in place 116 nationalities are represented to deliver our different services. among our employees, and 22 countries have In addition to a range of mandatory training, cross-DNV GL 100 or more employees. programmes develop leadership and technical stewardship. Mentoring is a key part of how we work and we enable learning from colleagues around the globe through various mentoring 87 programmes. of employees have a higher % education at PhD, Master or Bachelor degree levels. Our global career model facilitates employees’ competence development. Competence development planning includes an individual development plan, which is a key part of our performance management process. 33% All employees are assessed annually on results and behaviour of employees are female through a structured performance management process. and 37% of new hires The assessment, development and selection of new managers in 2019 were women. is based on DNV GL’s expectations for leaders: respect and care, foresight, customer centricity, and results orientation. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration As a knowledge-based company whose main resource is our Grades 1–9: all eligible employees receive a percentage of employees, we depend on cooperation, teamwork and knowtheir base salary in bonus, based on DNV GL Group results. ledge sharing. DNV GL remuneration systems are set up to Grades 10–15: the annual individual profit share is detersupport this. Our annual salary review and remuneration promined based on grade and a target percentage, individual cess is the same for all employees, including management, and assessment rating, annual base salary and DNV GL Group is outlined in the DNV GL management system. Our collective and business area EBITA at reference rates versus targets. agreements with employee groups do not include voting on remuneration policies. In addition to these global schemes, sales schemes are available in some business areas. No employee can be a member External remuneration consultants are used to benchmark of more than one scheme. remuneration in our markets. For the largest countries in which we operate, this happens through country-specific salary and Career endings benefit databases covering thousands of people. There is no Transition assistance programmes are implemented locally to relationship between our management and the remuneration meet local legislation and requirements. In the case of signifconsultants. icant headcount reductions, local assistance programmes are set up. At all times, we seek to retain the employees in the For the Executive Committee, the review procedure differs organization, including the following ways: slightly. The Board’s Compensation Committee conducts a review and makes recommendations before the procedure is All available positions are advertised internally concluded. The final decision on remuneration for the Group External recruitment restrictions are used to facilitate President and CEO is taken by the Board of Directors, using internal transfers input from the Compensation Committee. All employees should have a development plan which focuses on DNV GL’s future capability needs and the Profit sharing employee’s own career ambitions. Profit-share schemes provide the most appropriate variable pay structures to support our values. We have two major The DNV GL management system stipulates that mitigating global profit-share schemes: actions are to be sought before staffing reductions are considered or executed. CASE STUDY set different survey frequencies, ranging from weekly to every A new approach to second month. With more frequent surveys, fewer questions are asked per survey. Currently, the DNV GL response rate is 83%, employee engagement which is close to the benchmark of other companies. The benefits of DNV GL Pulse surveys include: More regular, open and honest communication between In the past, DNV GL conducted annual Engagement Surveys to test managers and their teams employee engagement and highlight areas of positive perforEnabling employees to provide regular feedback to managers mance and areas for improvement. In July 2019, we shifted our on what’s working and what needs improving global approach to a pulse survey methodology. Compared to Allowing employees to anonymously share comments with annual engagement surveys, the pulse survey approach is more their managers, which managers can acknowledge or respond frequent and more agile. Annual surveys only provide a snapshot to without the identity of the employee being disclosed of employee engagement and do not identify issues in a timely Providing managers with real-time feedback through dashway, meaning it can be slow to establish corrective action and boards, allowing them to identify issues as they arise and to changes can only be measured a year later. address them swiftly, together with their teams Allowing managers and their teams to track changes in In contrast, the pulse methodology allows much more frequent engagement over time, to see if what they are doing is engagement leading to swifter responses. Our pulse surveys are making a difference in their team aligned with regular manager-employee check-ins, which were Tracking the DNV GL Transformation Index and the DNV GL introduced earlier in 2019, and are intended to be part of the day-toResilience Index (page 60). day operation of our business areas, rather than an annual project. Feedback received so far from managers and employees suggest The pulse survey includes 21 common questions asked to all the benefits outlined are being delivered at the local level. Results DNV GL employees. Individual business areas can ask additional are also actively being used by senior management to track the questions based on their specific needs. Each business area has development of business areas and the company as a whole. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 69 Performance Workforce profile TABLE 02 EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER FIGURE 04 EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY Employment contract Female Male Total Permanent employees 33% 67% 11 643 NORWEGIAN Time-limited employees 51% 49% 189 Total 3 896 7 936 11 832 AMERICAN DUTCH Permanent employees INDIAN GERMAN Full-time 31% 69% 10 902 POLISH BRITISH CHINESE Part-time 60% 40% 741 Total 3 799 7 844 11 643 Norwegian 1 652 Subcontractor and temporary personnel American 1 288 Temporary staff 14% 86% 1 442 German 1 279 British 955 External business support 20% 80% 1 454 Chinese 845 Supplier 15% 85% 222 Polish 683 Subcontractor 21% 79% 5 951 Indian 622 Total 1 759 7 310 9 069 Dutch 535 Italian 393 South Korean 325 Spanish 315 TABLE 03 EMPLOYEES BY REGION Brazilian 258 Danish 221 Permanent Time-limited Total Region employees employees Singaporean 190 French 156 Nordics 2 515 11 2 526 Japanese 133 West, South and East Europe 2 218 66 2 284 Swedish 132 North America 1 686 3 1 689 Malaysian 123 Greek 123 Central Europe 1 337 5 1 342 Australian 118 North Asia 1 237 54 1 291 Canadian 114 UK, Ireland 994 10 1 004 Mexican 101 India, Middle East and Africa 748 21 769 South Asia 656 19 675 Nationalities > 100 shown in table Nationalities > 500 shown in pie chart South America 252 252 In total there were 116 nationalities among Grand Total 11 643 189 11 832 the permanent and time-limited employees at the end of 2019 (128 for all staff categories). Permanent employee: Temporary staff: E.g. summer Supplier: External service or On DNV GL payroll without temps and interns. product supplier. Registered in contracted time limitation. order to be granted certain access. External business support: Time-limited employee: Hired from other companies Subcontractor: Hired from On DNV GL payroll with to do work for DNV GL under other companies to do work on contracted time limitation. their own management system. behalf of DNV GL under DNV GL management system. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Employee turnover TABLE 04 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER AND NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES BY AGE, GENDER AND REGION AGE GENDER Employee turnover <31 31–40 41–50 51–60 >60 Total Employee turnover Female Male Total Total number 110 412 276 165 78 1 041 Total number 339 702 1041 Rate* 13% 11% 7% 6% 9% 8.8% Rate* 9% 9% 9% Opening count 2019 857 3 603 3 720 2 764 902 11 846 Opening count 2019 3 739 8 107 11 846 New employee hires New employee hires Total number 367 336 125 57 8 893 Total number 326 567 893 Hires 41% 38% 14% 6% 1% Hires 37% 63% GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES REGIONS West, India, South Middle Central and East Great North South North South East and Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa Total Employee turnover Total number 193 97 229 91 215 32 42 76 66 1 041 Rate* 7% 7% 10% 9% 13% 13% 3% 12% 9% 9% Opening count 2019 2 576 1 374 2 386 966 1 658 251 1 221 646 768 11 846 New employee hires Total number 118 48 221 97 210 28 53 64 54 893 Hires (% of total hired) 13% 5% 25% 11% 24% 3% 6% 7% 6% Only permanent employees are included, as the other employment categories by contract are intended to join/leave. Turnover is based on number of employees leaving the company in the year divided by the opening count (1 January). * Turnover as a % of total employees ANNUAL REPORT 2019 71 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES Employee training and development TABLE 05 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING* PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE GRADE HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE * Basis of reporting Employee Employee Employee employee training: grade Female Male grade Female Male grade Female Male Internal training only is included. External training is not consistently tracked. 2 11.8 5.3 7 17.5 16.3 12 9.8 14.2 7.5 hours per day is used. Permanent and time3 5.8 14.7 8 15.2 16.7 13 7.3 9.0 limited employees only are included. Subcon4 10.3 8.5 9 15.0 19.8 14 2.8 4.9 tractors and temporary staff are excluded as their 5 13.0 16.1 10 12.5 18.2 15 5.1 5.6 inclusion is not relevant for internal competence 6 19.6 22.3 11 11.7 15.4 Total 15.1 17.2 development activities. TABLE 06 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Rated performance Unrated performance Female Permanent employee 99.3% 0.7% Time-limited employee 95.6% 4.4% Male Permanent employee 99.7% 0.3% Time-limited employee 98.8% 1.2% Total, male and female 99.5% 0.5% TABLE 07 EMPLOYEE EDUCATION LEVEL IN OUR TEN BIGGEST COUNTRIES AND GLOBALLY PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Professional / Technical College Bachelor Master Country Basic education (0–3 years) (two-years) degree degree Doctorate Norway 106 37 61 368 1 268 187 United States 179 8 65 638 445 85 Germany 82 221 16 157 752 48 China 11 3 43 462 263 18 United Kingdom 29 17 22 209 254 99 Poland 28 7 1 130 449 8 The Netherlands 33 32 11 181 179 31 Singapore 40 7 4 154 108 20 Italy 81 5 21 101 92 21 India 9 2 1 172 124 4 Global workforce 771 390 318 3 886 4 997 621 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Diversity and equal opportunity TABLE 08 GENDER AND AGE PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE GRADE GENDER AGE GROUPS TOTAL Grade Female Male % female < 31 31–40 41–50 51–60 > 60 2 8 5 62% 2 3 2 5 1 13 3 48 19 72% 20 16 13 15 3 67 4 218 72 75% 70 102 74 28 16 290 5 569 245 70% 259 262 176 95 22 814 6 776 619 56% 501 470 232 156 36 1 395 7 659 802 45% 252 690 318 153 48 1 461 8 555 1 298 30% 89 978 462 263 61 1 853 9 445 1 620 22% 9 734 811 425 86 2 065 10 343 1 459 19% 282 843 514 163 1 802 11 152 958 14% 52 441 477 140 1 110 12 86 519 14% 5 171 329 100 605 13 22 187 11% 50 114 45 209 14 10 92 10% 13 56 33 102 15 5 41 11% 2 23 21 46 Grand total 3 896 7 936 33% 1 202 3 594 3 608 2 653 775 11 832 10% 30% 30% 22% 7% TABLE 09 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY AGE, GENDER AND NATIONALITY GENDER AGE Nationality Female Male < 50 > 50 Danish 10% 10% British 10% 10% German 10% 10% Norwegian 30% 40% 20% 50% Grand total 40% 60% 20% 80% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 73 VALUE TO SOCIETY VALUE TO SOCIETY ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Upholding our reputation for integrity 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters As a business based on knowledge and technical expertise, Our Code of Conduct provides the framework for what we trust is an essential part of attracting and retaining customers. consider ethical, responsible and sustainable conduct. Along Building trust in our services, our skills and our behaviour everywith our values, it provides the foundation for our business where we operate is essential and is reflected in DNV GL’s values. activities. It supports our vision and our business ambitions, Trust can only be achieved when we consistently maintain high and applies to everyone involved in DNV GL’s business. standards of business and personal conduct and strict adherence to our Code of Conduct which is built on DNV GL’s values supports this. Progress in 2019 In 2019, we focused on awareness of export control law, an area So far, 90% of our employees have completed the training of increasing importance in a world with many volatile political and we are following up on completions. We also continued environments. We also continued to implement measures on to offer our interactive web-based team training for ten highdata privacy aligning our approach with relevant stakeholders. risk countries (see page 76). Our approach is not to simply impose a set of rules, but to deliver our compliance programme in a way that raises awareAnother area of training for 2019 was export control and ness by explaining the background and practical implications sanctions compliance. We continued to promote our e-learning of compliance. course on export control laws and sanctions, which was developed in 2018 for a specific group of employees in operations Training handling projects related to export control law. Managing supply chain risks continues to be a global trend. In response, one of our focus areas in 2019 was training suppliers Export control laws and sanctions — including subcontractors, agents and freelancers — on risks We completed a number of initiatives to define export control related to ethical conduct, anti-corruption, antitrust, personal risks and build awareness. Group Compliance asked all business data protection, reporting of misconduct, export control and areas to perform global risk assessments to evaluate export sanctions, and impartiality. The web-based training includes control risks relating to their services. We also reviewed our interactive exercises and requires suppliers to confirm they existing processes and risk workshops have been completed understand and commit to comply with the expectations set in Norway, France, Germany and the US. out in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Following the workshops, local export control manuals were The training was rolled out in 2019 by business areas and Global published in Germany and Norway during 2019, and manuals Shared Services, with each applying a risk-based approach for were prepared for the US and France for release in 2020. The suppliers in countries with a Transparency International Corrupmanuals support compliance with all aspects of local export tion Perception Index score below 60. The training includes control law and provide proof of proper export control processes a Supplier Declaration for those who have not signed it before. for local authorities. Each document reflects the specific requireWhere no access to the e-learning platform was possible, ments in that country, including clear instructions, roles and responweb-files were made available. We will continue to roll out the sibilities, a process for evaluating whether an export license training in 2020 and beyond. is necessary, and administrative requirements, such as record keeping, monitoring and handling non-compliance situations. With the aim of supporting employees in their daily work, we continue to introduce training and relevant guidelines on a range To ensure constant monitoring of sanctions, our business of topics identified through internal audit findings, potential areas’ customer relationship management tools automatically compliance issues and discussions in workshops. check sanctions and blacklisting of potential business partners. Group Compliance continues to raise awareness on the imporIn 2019, a mandatory e-learning for all employees was rolled out, tance of automated sanction checks with our business areas designed to create further awareness on reporting misconduct. and encourages them to ensure complete implementation. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 75 VALUE TO SOCIETY Compliance High-risk countries We continued the compliance trend of previous years in 2019, As part of our compliance process, we have identified ten with no critical concerns leading to legal actions or disclosure countries with a high-risk of corruption and fraud for the period to authorities. Also, no legal actions were pending or completed 2018–2020. These were the focus of targeted actions in 2019. during the year regarding anticompetitive behaviour or antitrust Our internal audit function completed compliance reviews in and monopoly legislation. There have not been any significant several of these countries using the existing fraud and corrupfines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws tion questionnaire. The results showed that knowledge, awareand/or regulations relating to environmental, social or economic ness and commitment to DNV GL‘s compliance programme issues. In a few cases, we have taken disciplinary action at the is at an adequate level. Risks identified through the reviews employee level. will be the focus of further action in 2020 and include those related to subcontractors, agents, travel expenses and facilitation payments. We also plan to complete additional Anti-corruption compliance reviews in other high-risk countries in 2020. In the US, we acted to improve our local compliance programme in line with new guidance from the US Department of Justice on In addition, we continued to offer our interactive team-training on corporate compliance programmes. We established a network anti-corruption and fraud. The training includes group sessions to connect our employees responsible for the US compliance where employees describe typical corruption scenarios and programme, which also includes export control law. In addition, collectively develop actions for avoiding and handling these we ran a compliance workshop. Within our US operations, the scenarios. By year-end, 96% of employees in the high-risk Compliance Liaison Members will be updated on a quarterly basis. countries for 2018–2020 had been trained. Looking ahead Awareness Status check The Group Compliance function’s aim is to maintain high levels To measure the status of awareness on the Code of Conduct of awareness on all topics in the compliance programme. In line within DNV GL, we plan to conduct a survey at the end of 2020. with the wider DNV GL digitalization strategy, we will use new digital tools to develop awareness on compliance topics. Export control and sanctions In 2020, we will focus on personal data protection and ensuring We will work at a country level to increase awareness of export alignment with other initiatives, such as IT Security. We will also control and sanctions requirements during 2020. We will also work with our Group human resources function to align with other develop processes to strengthen export control and sanctions employee initiatives. Based on a risk evaluation in late 2019 and compliance across the business, monitor implementation and early 2020, we will use communication, training and monitoring offer additional trainings, focusing on topics identified through to ensure potential compliance risks regarding data protection business requests. are handled in line with GDPR. Approach Code of Conduct The Code sets out high-level principles in two main areas: Firstly, the conduct of our business operations overall and, The DNV GL Code of Conduct outlines our requirements and secondly, the personal conduct of people involved in DNV GL’s expectations for ethical conduct. It clearly expresses what is business at all levels, both in ordinary work situations and when expected from DNV GL as a business and from every individual there are challenges to our personal or professional integrity. working for, or on behalf of, DNV GL. The Code of Conduct can Separately, instructions and guidelines for employees are be downloaded here. in place for all issues covered in the Code of Conduct. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FIGURE 05 COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME ACCORDING TO ISO 19600 Top level commitment Lessons learned Regular risk assessment Code of Conduct and instructions REACT Training programme Actively manage and follow up on cases, Monitoring and control PREVENT case register Driven by Communication Group compliance Global compliance network DETECT Regular audit programme Procedures for reporting of misconduct Ombudsmen system Zero tolerance Governance We do not tolerate any violation of applicable laws, including Effective compliance is based on the global governance of our those on anti-corruption, privacy and export control, nor of our compliance programme and clear reporting lines. The comCode of Conduct or internal instructions. Violations can result pliance programme is governed and managed at Group level. in disciplinary procedures, including termination of employment It involves close cooperation between our Group Compliance or contract, as well as potential legal proceedings. unit, all business areas and Global Shared Services, within a global compliance network. The global compliance network Compliance programme works to communicate the compliance programme and raise As a global company operating in over 100 countries and with awareness of compliance issues in the countries we operate in. activities in a range of sectors, we work to multiple sets of local regulations and practices. This results in a diverse landscape of The CEO and Board Audit Committee receive quarterly upcompliance risks. Our compliance programme protects against dates and the latest legal and political developments through these and our business areas review risks annually as part of our presentations and training. The Board of Directors and Control risk reporting process. We also develop a common understandCommittee receive annual updates. ing of our compliance requirements and integrity performance through tailor-made awareness initiatives. Anti-corruption We manage corruption and fraud risks through our Group Our compliance programme is based on the Code of Conduct risk management process and the Group compliance officer and is owned by the Board of Directors. All focus areas – antiis a member of DNV GL’s Group risk forum. All business areas corruption, antitrust, export control law and sanctions, and conduct an annual risk assessment using the DNV GL risk personal data protection – are based on the ISO standard 19600 management tool, which includes identified and active fraud for compliance management. This creates an integrated and tailorand corruption risks. In addition, we review risks reported made approach. Lessons learned are used to build competence by high-risk countries in a separate risk reporting process. and resilience, enabling our employees to understand the structure and requirements of the compliance management The risks are evaluated and discussed annually in the Group system and meet customer requirements. risk forum. Actions to mitigate identified risks are developed based on these discussions. Training Training and raising awareness are at the core of our approach. Awareness is key to reducing compliance risks and we continually invest in new and updated trainings on a number of topics related to the compliance programme (see page 76). ANNUAL REPORT 2019 77 VALUE TO SOCIETY Antitrust Commercial policy and pricing are set independently and We continue to advise on, and actively monitor, implementation never agreed with competitors or other non-related parties. of our Group-wide instruction on subcontractors and intermediIt is a fundamental corporate principle of DNV GL Group AS aries, as well as conducting risk-based due diligence checks in all and its subsidiaries to compete vigorously and fairly, in full business areas. The sustainable procurement section (page 86) compliance with all applicable antitrust and competition laws. provides more details on how we work with suppliers. Any obstruction of free and open competition is strictly prohibited. Reporting misconduct Our employees and customers are encouraged to report actual For employees, antitrust is part of our mandatory training or suspected misconduct. This could include concerns related programme and our antitrust instructions are supplemented to bribery, fraud, labour grievances, discrimination or other by a guideline on the ‘dos and don’ts for competition law’. ethical issues concerning colleagues, suppliers, subcontractors or agents working on behalf of DNV GL. A new mandatory Supply chain e-learning on reporting of misconduct for our employees was We expect our suppliers and subcontractors to uphold the same made available in early 2019. standard of business ethics as we do and we have a supplier Code of Conduct outlining our requirements. A supplier training is Channels for raising concerns are set out in our instructions available, emphasizing the ethical and sustainability standards on reporting misconduct, the Code of Conduct, the DNV GL that extend to our relationships with suppliers (see above). intranet and on our website. Performance TABLE 10 REPORTED NEW POTENTIAL COMPLIANCE CASES Benchmarking our compliance reporting Case type 2019 2018 2017 In 2019, a benchmark of the number of DNV GL’s reported compliance cases was completed, covering: Labour cases (suspicion of harassment, discrimination Labour or breach of other labour-related requirements) (suspicion of harassment, 10 5 9 Financial (suspicion of financial misconduct) discrimination or breach of other labour-related instructions) Data protection (suspicion of breach of data protection laws) Ethical behaviour (suspicion of unfair treatment) Legal/internal (suspicion of breaches of laws or internal Financial instructions). 6 9 11 (suspicion of financial misconduct) The benchmark reviewed sustainability reports of comparable organizations and data from NAVEX, a provider of comprehenData Protection sive ethics and compliance software. (suspicion of breach of data 20 17 5 protection laws) The results showed that while DNV GL has seen an increase in reporting rates since 2014 (2014: 32 cases, 2019: 67 cases), this is in line with comparable companies and global trends. Ethical Behaviour 16 15 25 The increases can be attributed to increasingly diverse report(suspicion of unfair treatment) ing channels, maturing compliance programmes leading to enhanced employee awareness, and general awareness due Other to media coverage. (all other suspicions of breach 15 12 12 of law or internal instructions) In summary, this shows that companies, including DNV GL, need to be prepared to investigate and manage higher numbers of reports of potential compliance issues. We view the increase Total 67 58 62 in case numbers as an opportunity to address the issues and take preventive actions. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 VALUE TO SOCIETY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Maintaining sustainable operations ANNUAL REPORT 2019 79 VALUE TO SOCIETY Why it matters For DNV GL, ensuring robust financial performance is essential By delivering a profit, we are able to generate sustainable to maintaining our independence as an organization. A solid benefits to society; from creating direct and indirect employfinancial base enables us to deliver our strategic ambitions, ment, to paying taxes where we operate, which contributes develop our people, building their skills and competence, to local communities. Ultimately, being a profitable company and invest in research and innovation, so we remain relevant to ensures we maintain sustainable operations, invest in our our customers. Economic performance is part of how we view future and deliver on our purpose. sustainability – delivering long-term value in financial, environmental, social and ethical terms. Progress in 2019 By being a profitable company, Revenue for the year was NOK 21,551 million with an operating we ensure that we maintain profit of NOK 2,334 million. At the end of 2019, DNV GL Group sustainable operations, invest had a total equity of NOK 15,419 million. We employed 11,832 employees paying a total of NOK 11,716 million in employee in our future and deliver on wages and benefits. Total tax expenses were NOK 610 million our purpose to safeguard life, for the year. property and the environment. We continue to commit 5% of our annual revenues to research and innovation programmes, which helps us to fulfil our purpose to safeguard life, property and the environment. 5% of our annual revenues Looking ahead are dedicated to research and innovation Towards the end of 2019, we started work on developing a new programmes five-year strategy that will support robust financial and sustainable performance from 2021 to 2025. Our strategy project will run into 2020 and the strategy will be completed and launched at the end of the year. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Approach Tax policy We are solely owned by Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, an DNV GL’s approach to managing our tax affairs are as follows: independent Norwegian foundation with the long-lasting purpose to safeguard life, property and the environment. DNV GL is dependent upon society’s trust This purpose is realized mainly through the 100% ownership DNV GL shall not participate in tax planning or financial of DNV GL Group AS. transactions which can damage this trust DNV GL is to comply with the letter and spirit of tax law in all countries in which we operate Our owner requires DNV GL to run profitable operations so All group company transactions are to be made on an arm’s that society at large benefits from the employment, taxes and length basis as set out under the OECD Guidelines other economic activity we create. As a result, many stakeTax cost and risk assessments are to be integrated in all core holders, including employees, suppliers and subcontractors, business considerations, both strategic and in day-to-day and customers, rely on DNV GL to effectively manage our operations economic performance. DNV GL is committed to being fully compliant and will provide sufficient information and economic context when reporting Sustainable and profitable growth is a key criterion for our to and negotiating with tax authorities. success. All business areas are expected to meet or exceed their annual revenue targets, but growth must not take place More information on our tax liabilities in 2019 is available in the at the expense of profitability, quality or the integrity of our financial statements on page 106. operations. Performance West, India, South Middle The economic value we generated Central and East Great North South North South East and and distributed globally in 2019 was: Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa Revenues 1 5 881 1 457 3 267 1 461 3 909 321 2 786 1 121 1 397 Operating costs 2 1 849 98 1 077 417 1 611 164 857 378 610 Employee wages and benefits 3 240 1 403 1 758 906 1 926 170 1 038 598 678 Payments to providers of capital 3 8 48 2 2 0 -1 0 1 8 Payments to governments 108 3 109 15 13 4 282 30 50 Community investments 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Economic value retained 666 -94 322 120 360 -16 609 113 51 1 External revenue and interest income 2 Operating costs excluding employee wages and benefits, amortizations and impairment 3 External interest expenses ANNUAL REPORT 2019 81 VALUE TO SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Reducing our climate impact 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters In 2019, more than ever, climate change and the need for rapid — by reducing our own environmental impact and by providaction to tackle it has been a high-profile issue. In the coming ing services to our customers that help them do the same. years, climate action needs to be a priority for all — for governments, for businesses and for individuals alike. We offset our greenhouse gas emissions from offices, laboratories and travel in order to be carbon neutral, while continuing At DNV GL, our aim is to deliver safer, smarter and greener to focus on reducing our footprint across the business. performance in everything we do. We achieve this in two ways Progress in 2019 In line with the commitment set out in our Group strategy to test the reliability of high-voltage electrical equipment. 2015–2020, we became carbon neutral in 2018. This continued In 2019, the KEMA laboaratory in Chalfont emitted 48 kg of in 2019 with verified carbon offsets from the Isangi REDD+ SF6 gas and in Arnhem the laboratory emitted 970 kg. In total project in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Rainforest we emitted 1,018 kg of SF6 (2018: 147.8 kg), which is equivalent Community project in Peru, and projects providing efficient to 23,210.4 tCO2 (2018: 3,400 tCO2e). cooking stoves in Ghana. The offsets were provided by South Pole, a provider of carbon credits. Energy use In 2019, we used 94.7 gigawatt hours (GWh) of energy in During the year we continued with initiatives to reduce greenour operations, down 13% from 2018 (109 GWh)1. 25% of this house gas (GHG) emissions from our three main emission sources energy was from certified renewable sources. — employee air travel, company cars and our laboratories and offices. These initiatives include restrictions on non-customerIncidents and compliance related air travel and managing our company car fleet to reduce emissions. We had no environmental incidents in 2019 and no noncompliances or fines related to environmental regulations. We also developed and communicated a new Energy Efficiency Guideline to encourage energy and emissions reductions in 100% our nearly 300 offices. Our Green Building Guideline was also introduced in the last quarter of 2019, which outlines our goal of our emissions of seeking green building certification and reducing floor space in 2019 were offset in our offices (see also page 86). through verified schemes. GHG emissions In 2019, we emitted a total of 78,635 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) emissions, 20% up from 2018 (65,496 tCO2e). 43% of 78.6 our emissions are from business air travel, 51% from offices and labs, and 6% from business car travel. thousand tonnes of CO2e emitted from offices, lab The key reason for the rise in our GHG emissions is increased operations, air and car travel. testing activity at our KEMA Laboratories. Our laboratories use Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), a powerful greenhouse gas, 1 The reported energy use in 2018 was adjusted to replace estimations with actual numbers. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 83 VALUE TO SOCIETY Looking ahead During 2020, we will work on programmes that further reduce A new environmental strategy will be launched in 2020. GHG emissions from our main sources—travel by air and car, and The strategy consists of five key initiatives: emissions from offices and laboratories (see the sustainable procurement section on page 86 for more details). Reduce our GHG emissions by 25% per employee and by revenue by 2025, using 2018 as a baseline year In January 2020, we completed the sale of our KEMA Laboratories, Initiate a project to reduce plastic consumption that include the Arnhem and Chalfont laboratories. This will and plastic waste positively impact our total environmental footprint. Encourage employees to travel less, instead making Energy efficiency use of digital technology to interact with external We will continue to review the impact of the European Energy and internal stakeholders Efficiency Directive on our operations. Under the Directive, Engage our employees on environmental topics large companies are required to independently audit their energy consumption every four years to help identify ways Invest in natural carbon capture and storage to reduce it. Our review to date has shown the need for more opportunities as a complement to offsetting. quantitative energy targets and additional energy audits in our operating countries. Approach Our purpose and vision promote environmental protection. Environmental management reporting system and tool Our aim is to continuously reduce the environmental and climate We measure and monitor our key environmental aspects and impact of our own operations and those of our customers (see any environmental incidents using Synergi Life software, which also sustainable innovations on page 48). was developed in-house. We measure GHG emissions from air and rail travel with reporting tools from our travel agencies. As signatories to the UN Global Compact, we take a precautionary approach to managing our environmental and climate Green supply chains impacts. Our Code of Conduct also commits us to reduce the environmental impact of our operations, procurement, and As part of our approach to sustainable procurement (page 86), investment and property management. all suppliers are required to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, including our environmental policies and standards. Environmental management system Since 2008, DNV GL Group has been independently certified Climate and environmental governance to the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard. Our health, safety and environment (HSE) policy sets out our Periodic audits take place to maintain our certification, which common approach, processes and systems for managing is key to identifying and reducing our environmental impacts environmental performance throughout the Group. The Group on an ongoing basis. It also contributes to our reputation HSE function is responsible for governing and controlling as a service provider that enables the safe and sustainable environmental performance across the Group. performance of our customers. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 How we calculate our GHG emissions We calculate our GHG emissions in line with the GHG Protocol. We use the financial and operational control approach, with the operational control criteria defining the boundary for consolidating the greenhouse gas emissions. Location-based emissions are reported globally. We use Defra CO2 emission factors for calculating air travel, chemical consumption and fossil fuel use. Indirect emissions from electricity and district heating have been calculated using country-specific grid average emission factors published in the IEA 2019 revision. We report on SF6 emissions from the KEMA laboratories. We do not report the greenhouse gases CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs or NF3. We do not report on NOX and SOX emissions. We are not aware of having any emissions of ozone depleting substances. Performance ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWH) 2019 2018 2017 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) Basis of reporting GHG emissions Scope 1 and 2 emissions come from DNV GL energy consumption and burning of liquid fuel and gas within our offices Energy consumption (GWh) 94.7 109 103.4 and operations and emissions of SF6 gas. Scope 3 emissions come from business air, rail and car travel. Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions per person from DNV GL operations were 6.7 tCO2e per employee (2018: 5.4). GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 2019 2018 2017 Air travel resulted in 33,850 tCO2e in 2019 (2018: 36,307) and is based on data from travel agencies covering 97.5% Scope 1: Direct GHG permanent and temporary employees 25.5 5.6 9.9 emissions from operations (2018: 97%). Emissions are estimated for the remaining 2.5% of employees. Scope 2: Indirect GHG Car travel resulted in 4,575 tCO2e in 14.7 18 15.5 2019 (2018: 5,550). Numbers for private emissions from consumed energy cars are taken from our financial system. Air travel 33.8 Scope 3: Direct GHG emissions 38.4 41.9 43.7 from air, car and rail travel SF6 23.2 Buildings 17.0 Total GHG emissions 78.6 65.5 69.1 Car travel 4.6 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 85 VALUE TO SOCIETY SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Reducing our footprint through purchasing 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Why it matters We use our procurement DNV GL is a global organization with operations in more than process to achieve energy 100 countries. To deliver our products and services effectively, and greenhouse gas we are supported by a global network of subcontractors and suppliers. It is important to us to build a sustainable supply chain. reductions. Progress in 2019 In 2019, we created an Energy Efficiency Guideline that outlines Improving procurement processes how employees can help to save valuable resources, reduce greenIn 2019, we continued working on our ongoing sustainable house gas emissions and save money at home and in the office. procurement projects. This included evaluating the best options The advice includes suggestions on energy and water saving for procurement software that will provide standardized in our daily operations, reducing travel, increasing video conferand more automated purchasing and payment, as well as encing and encouraging recycling in all offices. The launch of supporting our internal and external compliance requirements. the guideline sparked employee engagement and discussions, We also completed a procurement guide outlining our endwhich show that DNV GL employees care about the environment to-end procurement process, including standard templates. and are eager to do more. All relevant governance documents for procurement were Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions reviewed and updated in line with business needs and changes. We use our procurement process to focus on energy and greenProcurement staff who joined DNV GL since February 2018 house gas reductions. This includes more fuel-efficient company attended a training course on procurement governance in cars and renting environmentally-sound offices. Oslo in late 2019. Company cars Assessing suppliers Over 2018 and 2019, we have changed how we manage our DNV GL’s internal requirements state that all supplier contract global fleet of approximately 1,500 company cars to make shall include our Supplier Code of Conduct. We continued our the procurement and administration process more efficient. programme of auditing suppliers against the code. 13 indirect A global fleet management team was set up and a fixed suppliers were audited, who are suppliers that support our maximum CO2 emission limit was established (160 g/km for business activities but are not involved in delivering products passenger cars1). We have also added electric and hybrid and services to customers. The audits showed no significant cars to the list of company cars. infringements. Green offices The risk assessment tool for indirect suppliers developed over Our goal is for all offices with more than 100 employees to the last two years will be used to screen key suppliers’ risk level have a gold-rated, or equivalent, green building certification against the requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct. by the end of 2024. This means our minimum requirement is the The risk assessment tool was launched in 2019. second highest rating by any of the green building standards. Currently, 27% of our office space (measured by floor area) is in green-certified buildings (BREEAM excellent or LEED Human rights gold standard), including offices in Oslo, Houston, London, Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectation that Singapore, Shanghai and Arnhem, the Netherlands. suppliers are not complicit in human rights abuses. Green buildings are estimated to consume 30 to 50% less We have not identified any human rights breaches in our energy, use 30 to 40% less water, emit 30 to 40% less CO2 and supplier audits in 2019 (see above). We will continue to assess produce up to 70% less solid waste than standard offices. suppliers through our supplier audit programme. 1 This is based on the latest EU standard WLTP (Worldwide harmonized Light vehicle Test Procedure) for car emissions, which is an update of NEDC (New European Driving Cycle). ANNUAL REPORT 2019 87 VALUE TO SOCIETY 27% of our offices are in green-certified buildings. 2024 Our goal is for all our offices with more than 100 employees to have a green building certification by the end of 2024. Looking ahead We will continue to embed our global procurement programme Improving office efficiency in 2020. It has established common processes, tools and systems To deliver modern, practical and fit-for-purpose offices, we rely for the whole company with the aim of improving the efficiency, on our real estate guidelines and a recently developed standard quality and digitalization of procurement. The key objectives are to: for effective office spaces. The standard aims to improve workplace performance, office efficiency and reduce energy Set up a standardized procurement process and templates consumption. Our aim is to increase visibility and connectivity across DNV GL. between teams and managers in order to enhance teamwork Pilot and roll out a purchase-to-pay software system and and knowledge sharing. contract management tool that combines supplier and contract management. Part of our office standard involves reducing vacant office space. Improve supplier assessment, monitoring and management Analysis of our future office needs indicates that we can reduce to ensure compliance with DNV GL governance documents. office space by 30% by 2024. The plan will lead to a reduction in energy use and related CO2 emissions. For office leases signed Assessing suppliers in 2019, we have successfully reduced floor space per employee Our audit programme for indirect suppliers will continue in from an average of 25 m2 in 2017 to 16 m2 today. 2020, with a minimum of 10 supplier audits planned. We will select the suppliers to be audited based on how critical they are to our business. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Approach Our suppliers need to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct All suppliers must accept our Supplier Code of Conduct and and to consider our sustainability goals in their own operations. must sign the code or accept it as a mandatory attachment to We work closely with our suppliers and monitor their progress the contract. towards more sustainable operations through our global procurement programme, which includes systematic and standardized Further guidelines that promote high standards and support procurement policies and processes across the company. sustainability are provided in our management system documents, such as instructions for contracting subcontractors and Global governance, local purchasing intermediaries, policy for real-estate management and realAlthough we procure most of our products and services locally, estate leasing guidelines. our procurement strategy, policy and processes are managed centrally by our Global Shared Services (GSS) unit, which also Risk management manages global procurement projects. Although our supplier portfolio is mostly service-related and has a low risk of non-compliance, all new indirect suppliers are Our suppliers are divided into two groups: Direct suppliers screened for inherent sustainability risks before we complete contribute to our service to customers, for example, subconthe contracting process. We also carry out audits on selected tractors providing technical expertise or working on customer suppliers. projects. Indirect suppliers provide goods and services that support our overall business activities but are unrelated to our To manage risk, and ensure cost savings and transparency, service to customers. Examples include, facilities management, we are working to consolidate suppliers globally and select travel, ICT hardware and software, financial services, insurance, trustworthy suppliers whose values and service quality meet and office supplies. our requirements. Individual business areas are responsible for direct procurement, Competence development while indirect procurement is managed by GSS. Our largest We train new employees involved in procurement centrally supplier category is subcontractors, which makes up 24% of the every year. Training includes general procurement governance, total procurement spend. The other large supplier categories management systems instructions and guidance related to are office and real estate expenses, ICT, travel and insurance. procurement, and the Supplier Code of Conduct. Setting high standards Our expectations for suppliers are outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. It is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption. Our expectations for suppliers are outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. It is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 89 VALUE TO SOCIETY PARTNERSHIPS Partnership for sustainable development 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 At DNV GL, we firmly believe that we can achieve more in partnership with others than on our own. We collaborate with several organizations, contributing our expertise in technology and sustainability as well as providing funding to reach shared goals. Why it matters Our purpose and vision establish an ambition for sustainability We work widely on projects of shared interest with customers, both in how we operate and how we make a difference. Our vision, suppliers and competitors in industry associations, and on in particular, commits us to tackling global transformations. initiatives at national, regional and global levels. We strive Yet, many of today’s sustainability challenges cannot be tackled to bring our primary skillset – technical insight and market in isolation. They are global in nature, and delivering solutions foresight – into our collaborations to help create sustainable with global reach can be best achieved by combining knowbusiness solutions. ledge, ideas and effort. As a knowledge-based organization, we constantly need to learn, be challenged and inspired by other organizations, and in turn to challenge and inspire them. Industry partnerships DNV GL Group Energy United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) International Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) EURELECTRIC Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) WindEurope Maritime Business Assurance International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) Independent International Organisation Entity for the Quality Assessment and Certification of for Certification (IIOC) Organisations Recognised by the European Union (QACE) International Association of Trusted Blockchain International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC) Applications (INATBA) Oil & Gas Digital Solutions Norwegian Oil and Gas Association (NOROG) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) International Gas Union (IGU) Pipeline Simulation Interest Group (PSIG) Oil and Gas UK American Gas Association (AGA) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 91 VALUE TO SOCIETY UN Global Compact DNV GL became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2003. Sustainable Ocean Business We are committed to embedding the ten principles on human DNV GL is a founding member of the UN Global Compact Action rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our corpoPlatform for Sustainable Ocean Business. In 2019, we managed rate strategy, management system and day-to-day operations. and edited the UNGC report Global Goals, Ocean Opportunities. Our annual report acts as our Communication on Progress, The report gives an overview of how ocean Global Goals, outlining our progress against the principles of the Global industries contribute towards the SDGs. Ocean Opportunities Compact. In 2019, we continued our long-standing collaboraIt also presents key opportunities for scaling tion with the UN Global Compact, working together on initiup existing efforts and commitments in this atives to find solutions to global challenges and opportunities critical area, focusing on the links between a to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). healthy, productive and well-governed ocean. World Business Council for DNV GL has been an active member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since 1999. Sustainable Development Our Group President and CEO is a member of its Executive Committee. We use our membership of the WBCSD as a platform to advocate for more sustainable and responsible business practices globally. Vision 2050 DNV GL is part of the Vision 2050 project, which is working to identify a pathway to a world in which nine billion people can live well and within the planet’s resources by mid-century. The project is tasked with reviewing significant social, economic and political shifts and providing business with the positive, opportunity-based, action agenda it needs to achieve the SDGs and further progress beyond these. In November, DNV GL and Yara, the only two Norwegian Executive Committee members, hosted a group of CEOs to discuss how Norwegian businesses can contribute to achieving Vision 2050. The discussion centred on how systems transformation can help to deliver the Vision 2050 goal of nine billion people living within our planetary boundaries. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Red Cross DNV GL has partnered with the Red Cross since 2004 with the and the 33rd International Conference. A data specialist from dual objective of strengthening its capacity to carry out humanDNV GL also joined a field trip to a community-based health itarian work and creating opportunities for our employees to workshop in Malawi in order to understand how digital transvolunteer on Red Cross projects. We support the partnership formation can be implemented at local level and provide financially and with our skills. We make an annual financial advice as to how digital strategies could be implemented. contribution to the Norwegian Red Cross organizations, alongside ad hoc donations, and our employees provide technical, Donations and volunteering digital, safety and sustainability expertise to Red Cross projects that are related to our core business. Many of our employees volunteer as blood donors to help alleviate the national shortage in Norway. We invite the Red Cross blood donation bus to our headquarters at Høvik Helping the Red Cross achieve several times a year. In 2019, 179 bags of blood were filled. digital transformation Employees also donated clothes for recycling and volunteered during fundraisers. As part of our sponsorship of the Norwegian Red Cross, we are helping the Red Cross with their digital transformation and competency development, including providing input into a digitization roadmap for the Red Cross Strategy 2030. Digital transformation is one of seven transformations targeted through their 2030 strategy and has the aim of utilising data and digital technologies to strengthen the work of the Red Cross. Through this process, we have worked closely with both the Norwegian Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross in Geneva. Staff from our Digital Technology Centre provided training in data management and data quality, and provided advice at various Red Cross events, including the Global Innovation Forum, Digital Transformation Workshop ANNUAL REPORT 2019 93 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors’ report provides a comprehensive review of DNV GL’s strategy and performance for the year as well as the Board’s outlook for the future. The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and regulations on simplified IFRS. The sustainability reporting is according to the GRI Standards Core option. KPMG has audited the financial reporting and provided limited assurance on the sustainability reporting. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 95 Board of Directors’ report 2019 The company recorded operating revenues of NOK 21,551 million in 2019 and strengthened its position with key customers and targeted segments. The Board sincerely thanks the management and employees for the hard work and commitment they have displayed throughout 2019. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In the shipping markets, almost every sector faced challenging Strategy conditions in 2019. Growth in seaborne trade was markedly lower than in 2018, falling to 1.7%. However, freight rates remained steady as fleet growth slowed, resulting in improved earnings across most The Board’s objective is to further develop DNV GL as a world ship segments. This strength did not translate into ship newbuildleading assurance and risk management company. ing activity, with orders falling far short of the 2018 totals. A new corporate vision (a trusted voice to tackle global transformaIn the newbuilding market, DNV GL captured the largest market tions) and new set of company values (we care, we dare, we share) share of all the classification societies, with 24% of orders measured were developed in 2019 and launched at the beginning of 2020. in gross tonnes (GT). At the end of 2019, the DNV GL-classed Many employees throughout DNV GL were involved in the process. fleet stood at 11,297 vessels and mobile offshore units, totalling The objective is to inspire and unite the company and give it a 284 million GT — an increase of almost 1.5%. With 20% of the direction and ambition for the next decade, as well as to moderntotal world fleet measured by gross tonnage, DNV GL retained ize and simplify the company values to ensure they resonate with its position as the largest classification society. employees today and in the future and contribute to achieving DNV GL’s purpose and vision. In the current strategy the ambition has been to direct DNV GL DNV GL will continue to develop towards a digital, agile and efficient future. The strategy aims to its employees’ skills and knowledge leverage digital technologies to position DNV GL as a data smart company that can develop new revenue streams and market in order to stay at the forefront of positions across all business areas. technology and innovation and fulfil DNV GL has conducted detailed analysis into understanding its purpose and vision. the energy transition. The transition will affect both DNV GL, its customers and society. Our research into the transition and technologies for the future shapes our thinking as we create our For the third time in a row, DNV GL was named the top classifinext strategy. Work on developing the 2025 strategy is well under cation society by Lloyd’s List. This influential publication noted way with a plan to have it approved by the end of the year. DNV GL’s “pure dominance in the general cargo segment and leadership in unitised vessels” as well as its global reach and The company is upholding its commitment to invest 5% of its annual many R&D projects. revenues in research, development and innovation activities. More than half of these activities are dedicated to digitalization. OIL AND GAS. DNV GL – Oil & Gas had surpassed its growth DNV GL is actively pursuing joint innovation projects and partnertargets by September 2019 as the industry displayed rising ships with academia and business in areas such as artificial confidence in achieving acceptable margins. intelligence, machine learning and autonomous systems. Companies across the oil and gas value chain entered the year DNV GL will continue to develop its employees’ skills and knowshowing signs of greater resilience to volatile market conditions ledge in order to stay at the forefront of technology and innovation and of increased capital spending. DNV GL assisted customers and fulfil its purpose and vision. on safety, efficiency and decarbonization efforts as the sector adapted to the energy transition. The business area maintained its focus on innovation and compeMarket tence building to create long-term value for oil and gas customers. For example, together with Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, DNV GL is supporting academic advances in additive MARITIME. Over the past few years, the maritime industry has manufacturing – the process of 3D printing – for the maritime, been asked to demonstrate its resilience and adaptability in the oil and gas and other industries through a four-year research face of tectonic shifts in the market, technology and regulations collaboration agreement. that are driven by increased digitalization and the push towards decarbonization. The Oil & Gas business area also improved its internal efficiency, through the continued roll-out of a new production system to This rapid transformation is creating challenges which DNV GL create a common way of managing and delivering projects for is working to help address on many fronts, ranging from new customers and enhancing worldwide collaboration between cyber security rules and notations to research to aid the safe DNV GL’s experts. The further digitalization of services for delivery adaptation of environmental technology, and joint industry on Veracity, DNV GL’s secure platform for digital innovation and projects to enable the wider uptake of less carbon-intense fuels. industry collaboration, included a Deep Search add-on for the Hence, the role of class as an independent technical advisor ultra-rapid retrieval and analysis of business-sensitive text and that takes a holistic view is more important than ever. In addition, image data. many new initiatives in class operations and digital tools, such as digital certificates, remote surveys, Direct Access to Technical DNV GL separated the inspection services from the Oil & Gas Experts, and smart survey booking, have enhanced the effectivebusiness area and formed an Independent Business Unit (operaness of DNV GL’s services to its customers. tional from 1 January 2020) in order to create a more effective service model for customers. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 97 ENERGY. Advisory services relating to power and renewables assurance offerings. Several projects were piloted with customers experienced high demand in 2019 as climate concerns grew, and with positive results, mainly in the food & beverage and healthbusinesses and governments continue to seek solutions to help care sectors. Enabled by blockchain technology and new digital reduce carbon emissions. Globally, renewable energy will provide business models, innovative solutions related to ecosystems and almost 80% of the world’s electricity by 2050. This electrification supply chains are ready to be launched in 2020. will drive many changes for the energy industry. It will require investment in the expansion and reinforcement of power grids, extensive DIGITAL SOLUTIONS. In 2019, DNV GL’s Digital Solutions business demand-response solutions to balance variable wind and solar area entered its second year of operation, continuing to build power, increased electrification of manufacturing processes, a position as a leading, global and trusted provider of software including heating, and an increase in the production of batteries and platform services as well as data analytics. Digital Solutions for electric vehicles alongside investments in new technology experienced overall global growth of 14.7% in 2019, largely driven to store excess energy. by sales of software licenses, software services and cyber security services. During the year, Digital Solutions focused on establishing new growth positions for DNV GL, particularly within cyber security and digital health. In addition, Digital Solutions continued to proDNV GL Group recorded operating vide support to the other four DNV GL business areas, helping revenue of NOK 21,551 million in 2019, them to succeed in their own digital transformations. NOK 1,912 million more than in 2018 Digital Solutions’ primary market segments are aligned with the and representing growth of 9.7%. company’s key markets; maritime, oil & gas, energy and healthcare. Digital Solutions continues to invest on behalf of DNV GL in data These developments boosted the need for expert support in management and platform services through its Digital Technology decision-making in a complex energy market and meant that Centre and the Veracity industry platform. In mid-2019, Veracity DNV GL’s energy business improved, growing by 8%. Large new revised its strategy, resulting in a prioritization of the maritime contracts were secured with leading energy industry players. and renewables industries. Veracity currently has more than 185,000 activated users and 1.5 million subscriptions. In 2019, Certification services for renewables experienced growth in 2019, Digital Solutions also explored how its data quality advisory up 5% from 2018, which was combined with a consistent focus services can complement solutions offered on the Veracity data on cost-cutting measures, business process optimization and platform and thereby increasing the benefit to customers. improved customer relationships. In 2019, DNV GL established a Renewables Certification office in the United States to meet During the year, Digital Solutions continued to advance on its the growing demand for certification services for the nascent strategic ambition to move more of its on-premise software to offshore wind industry. a Software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform. There are clear signs of strong customer appreciation, indicated by a year-on-year At the end of 2019, DNV GL sold the KEMA Laboratories to doubling of revenue. CESI, an Italian inspection and technical consultancy company. The transfer includes the sale of the KEMA brand and all the Digital Solutions is exploring digital opportunities in the health high-voltage and high-power testing and inspection activities in sector through a digital health incubator. This unit has established Europe. The sale of US assets was concluded early March 2020. the Nordics as its key region of operation. The divestment gives DNV GL a more focused global energy organization of 2,000 power and renewables experts which can be scaled faster in the years to come in order to meet rapidly Financial performance changing market and technology demands as the electrification and decarbonizing of the world continues. DNV GL Group recorded operating revenue of NOK 21,551 million BUSINESS ASSURANCE. A significant part of DNV GL – Business in 2019, NOK 1,912 million more than in 2018 and representing Assurance´s revenue is generated by management system growth of 9.7%. The sale of the KEMA Laboratories business in certification. The management systems market was extremely December generated a sales gain of NOK 141 million in 2019. challenging in 2019 following a peak year in 2018, when many The currency adjusted growth (6.3%) was primarily driven by customers transitioned to new versions of ISO standards. For regulatory requirements in the maritime industry and volume DNV GL, this contributed to an expected contraction in this area. growth in the energy and oil & gas industries. Emphasis was put on efforts to streamline and create opportunities for growth in the future. Capitalizing on last year’s full acquisiBusiness area Maritime recorded revenue of NOK 7,744 million tion of Presafe, product certification showed solid growth. The in 2019, corresponding to growth of 15.5% compared to 2018. continued focus on supply chain management paid off and the Oil & Gas reported revenue of NOK 4,839 million, representpositive footprint here continues to grow. ing growth of 8.6%. Energy achieved 15.9% revenue growth and revenue of NOK 4,196 million, including the sales gain The increasing demand for greater transparency and traceability from divestment of the KEMA Laboratories business (3.9%). throughout supply chains brought new market opportunities. Business Assurance ended the year with revenue of NOK 3,626 There is a growing need to verify the identity and ecological million, in line with last year. Digital Solutions experienced footprint of products and assets and to bridge the physical and growth of 14.7% in 2019 and delivered external revenues digital worlds. DNV GL is responding to this trend with new digital of NOK 1,046 million. 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization DNV GL Group AS has total assets 31 December 2019 of NOK (EBITDA) increased by NOK 1,557 million from NOK 1,972 million 17,261 million and a total equity of NOK 11,085 million. The Board in 2018 to NOK 3,529 million in 2019. Of this, NOK 421 million proposes to transfer the profit for the year to other equity. comes from the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, which technically led to reduced operating expenses and increased depreciation. The Board confirms that the going concern assumption applies and The operating profit (EBIT) for 2019 ended at NOK 2,334 million, that the financial statements have been prepared on this basis. NOK 1,785 million up from NOK 549 million in 2018. The EBITDA The Board regards DNV GL’s financial performance as strong and EBIT improvements are primarily driven by strong growth and liquidity as very good. Both parameters contribute to a robust and financial performance in business area Maritime. platform to achieve our strategic targets and maintain our independence as a financially strong and trusted company. The Board The net financial expenses were NOK 349 million in 2019, compared also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the information to NOK 273 million in 2018. The change from 2018 is primarily presented in the financial statements gives a true and fair view of due to the implementation of IFRS 16, which led to a NOK 67 million the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the DNV GL interest cost on lease liabilities as well as interest expenses on a Group for the period, and that there are no other material events loan from the parent company, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS. after the balance sheet date affecting the 2019 financial statements. The other main financial items are net interest costs of NOK 27 million from defined benefit pension plans, net currency losses of NOK 143 million and other financial expenses. The 2019 tax expense of NOK 610 million represents an average tax Corporate risk management cost of 30.7%. The average corporate income tax is 26% of the pretax profit from operations, while the additional tax cost is caused The Board underlines the importance of continuously having a by withholding taxes on remitted earnings, losses from operations comprehensive understanding of the risks facing DNV GL that could without recognition of tax assets and non-tax-deductible items. affect corporate values, reputation and key business objectives. The net profit for the year was NOK 1,375 million, compared to DNV GL has processes in place to proactively identify such risks at last year’s net profit of NOK 116 million. an early stage and initiate adequate mitigating measures and actions. DNV GL’s risk management policy is part of the management system The Board regards DNV GL’s and ensures that the risk management processes and culture are an integral part of everything the company does. The policy is financial performance as strong aligned with the ISO 31000 framework. and liquidity as very good. The Board formally reviews the risk management status and outlook twice a year. The review of risks and opportunities is conducted The cash flow from operations ended at NOK 2,679 million in 2019, as part of both the strategy revision process and the annual plan compared with NOK 1,091 million in 2018. This improvement comes process. primarily from the strong financial performance (EBITDA) in 2019. The implementation of IFRS 16 had no net cash flow effect but DNV GL calculates its risk-adjusted equity on an annual basis, led to an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease taking into account the most important risk factors. Based on in cash flow from financing activities of NOK 421 million in 2019. value-at-risk methodology, the analysis includes potential losses from operations, foreign-exchange exposure and pension plan The cash flow from investments was NOK 733 million in 2019. assets and liabilities. The book equity less the maximum calcuThe net cash effect of divesting the KEMA Laboratories business lated loss illustrates DNV GL’s total risk exposure and the amount in December 2019 was NOK 1,139 million. The investment of that can be lost in a worst-case scenario. This exercise gives the NOK 280 million in intangible assets relates to the development Board a measurable overview of the key quantified risks and of commercial software within Digital Solutions, in-house Oracle DNV GL’s capacity to take on additional risk. ERP implementation and system integration in the business areas. In order to mitigate cyber security risks, DNV GL’s information Financing activities of NOK 2,234 million, of which NOK 1,400 million security management systems for GSS IT, Energy, Oil & Gas, Digital pertain to the payment of dividend to Det Norske Veritas Holding Solutions and Maritime are certified to the ISO 27001 informaAS, led to a net positive cash flow for the year of NOK 1,178 million. tion security standard. The Board continues to review the cyber security risk annually. At year-end, the DNV GL Group had liquidity of NOK 3,809 million plus an unused credit line of NOK 1,000 million. The Group has a Severe quality, safety and integrity risks in the company represent strong balance sheet, with an equity ratio of 51.1% of total assets. another focus area. Numerous barriers exist to minimize the chance A NOK 2,100 million dividend to the parent company, Det Norske of such events occurring, and DNV GL’s management system is Veritas Holding AS, and Group contributions after tax of NOK 131 constantly being scrutinized to ensure that the company is managmillion were declared in 2019 and reduced the equity accordingly. ing this risk satisfactorily. A net actuarial gain of NOK 460 million from defined benefit DNV GL’s main financial risks are its market risk (interest rate and pension plans was recognized in equity at the year-end. foreign currency risk), credit risk, liquidity risk, pension plan risk The accounts of the parent company, DNV GL Group AS, show and political risk related to trade sanctions. a profit for the year of NOK 1,478 million, mainly generated from dividends from subsidiaries and group contributions received. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 99 Addressing global concerns about DNV GL issues an annual Corporate Governance Report to verify corporate governance in accordance with the Norwegian Code the climate is a major driver of the energy of Practice for Corporate Governance (“Code of Practice”) to the transition which will affect both DNV GL extent relevant for the DNV GL Group as a private limited company. DNV GL’s Corporate Governance Report deals with each of the and its customers. DNV GL conducts 15 topics covered by the Code of Practice and describes DNV GL’s significant research into this, which is adherence to the Code of Practice. The Corporate Governance Report also describes the legal basis and principles for DNV GL’s fed into our strategy development. corporate governance structure. Interest rate risk: as the company has limited borrowings, its The management company of the DNV GL companies is DNV GL exposure to interest rate risk is primarily connected to the risk of Group AS, registered in Norway and governed by the Norwegian changes in market interest rates for DNV GL’s forward exchange Private Limited Liability Companies Act. DNV GL Group is owned 100% contracts. by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (“DNV Holding”). DNV Holding is a private limited company registered in Norway and is fully owned Foreign currency risk: DNV GL has revenues and expenses in by Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas. Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas issues approximately 70 currencies. Of these, six (NOK, EUR, USD, CNY, a separate annual corporate governance report available on KRW and GBP) make up 77% of the total revenue. In most currencies, www.detnorskeveritas.com. The Board of Directors of DNV GL the company has a natural hedge through a balance of revenues Group AS consists of ten Board members. Six of these are elected and expenses. The foreign currency policy is to focus on hedging by the shareholders while four are elected by and from among expected cash flows, primarily in US dollars. However, DNV GL DNV GL employees worldwide. The Board consists of six men is also materially exposed to the re-evaluation of balance sheet and four women from four nationalities, with an average age of items, including net investments in foreign subsidiaries. 58.2 years. The Board’s combined expertise represents a range of stakeholders, markets and competences. Credit risk: receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis, with the result that the company’s exposure to bad debts is In June 2019, Morten Ulstein, Lasse Kristoffersen, Birgit Aagaardlimited. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within Svendsen and Silvija Seres were up for re-election. Morten Ulstein the company. With respect to the credit risk arising from the other was replaced as Vice-Chairman of the Board by Jon Fredrik Baksaas, financial assets, which comprise cash, cash equivalents and certain while Lasse Kristoffersen, Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen and Silvija derivative instruments, DNV GL’s exposure to this arises from any Seres were re-elected. default of the counterparty, with maximum exposure equal to the Of the Board members elected by and from among the employees, market value of these instruments. Clemens Keuer was re-elected by the constituency “Europe Liquidity risk: DNV GL monitors its liquidity risk on a continuous (except Norway)” and David McKay was elected to replace Tian basis. The liquidity planning considers the maturity of the finanDa Wei as a Board member representing the constituency cial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, other financial assets) and “Worldwide (except Europe)”. projected cash flows from operations. Because of the changes in corporate governance that were Pension plan risk: the company has closed all existing defined decided on by the Board in June 2018, the position of Observer benefit pension schemes to new entrants. However, DNV GL is to the Board, held by Nikolaos Papanikos, was discontinued as exposed to volatility in the financial markets affecting the value of 31 July 2019. of the pension plan assets. The Group is also exposed to interest The Board sincerely thanks Tian Da Wei, Nikolaos Papanikos and rate volatility affecting the pension commitments. Lower interest Morten Ulstein for their contributions as Board members of the rates over the past years have led to an increase in the pension company. commitments. The Board held six ordinary Board meetings and five extraordinary Political risk: compliance with applicable trade sanctions is monimeetings in 2019. The average attendance at these Board meettored at business area and Group level. This risk is considered to ings was close to 100%. The Board’s Audit Committee held four be limited. ordinary meetings in 2019 and the attendance at these was 100%. The Board’s Compensation Committee held three ordinary Climate risk: international concern about the climate emergency meetings in 2019 and the attendance at these was 100%. has moved up the agenda. Addressing these concerns is a major driver of the energy transition which will affect both DNV GL and Further information related to DNV GL’s corporate governance its customers. DNV GL conducts significant research into this, can be found in the company’s Corporate Governance Report which is fed into our strategy development. for 2019 published on the DNV GL website. Corporate Governance DNV GL pursues continuous improvement in its sustainability perforDNV GL considers sound corporate governance to be fundamental mance and its management systems are for securing trust in the company and a cornerstone for achieving sustainable value creation in the best interests of DNV GL’s certified to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 customers, employees, owner and other stakeholders. and OHSAS 18001 standards. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In addition, 9,069 qualified subcontractors and expert personnel Corporate sustainability were engaged throughout the year. Employee turnover was 8.8%, with voluntary turnover at 6.5%. The decline in the number of employees over the past year is mainly the result of the DNV GL’s commitments to customers, employees and business divestment of KEMA Laboratories. partners are guided by DNV GL’s purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment. DNV GL strives for diversity at all levels of the organization and is firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects DNV GL pursues continuous improvement in its sustainability of employment. A career in DNV GL should not be hindered by performance and its management systems are certified to the nationality, gender or age if the employee has the competence, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. attitude and values needed for the role. The Board considers the company’s purpose, vision and values to be instrumental in DNV GL has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact attracting and retaining a diverse workforce necessary in global since 2003, and the Board sees the integration of the ten principles markets. The Board also emphasizes the importance of sound on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance management of human and labour rights. The DNV GL statement and anti-corruption as critical for achieving long-term value. pursuant to the UK Modern Slavery Act is signed by the Board and published on the company website. In 2019, DNV GL continued its partnerships with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Red Cross The employees represent 116 nationalities, and DNV GL has 100 and the UN Global Compact. or more employees in 20 countries. The largest DNV GL operations are in Norway, US, Germany, the UK and China. DNV GL supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals and aims to use this framework to create customer value through Of the permanent employees, 86.5% have a higher education. meeting societal needs. The Board considers the UN Sustainable The proportion of female employees is 33% and the proportion Development Goals to be a framework for strengthening the of female managers is 27%. company’s market positions. DNV GL provides strong business solutions for many of these global goals, including 7) Affordable As of 31 December 2019, the Executive Committee consists and Clean Energy, 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, of 3 women and 7 men. and 13) Climate Action. The Group strategy also reflects relevant market opportunities for the goals 3) Good Health and Well-being, 12) Responsible Consumption and Production, and 14) Life below Water. Health and safety DNV GL reports in accordance with the core level GRI Standards. The journey towards being the safest place to work continues KPMG has conducted limited assurance of the sustainability – focusing on the resilience of its people. DNV GL’s vision is zero reporting on material topics. A global brand survey conducted harm to, and a healthy working environment for, its workforce. in 2018 sought to identify the factors that stakeholders value To achieve this goal, the company continued to empower its when selecting assurance and advisory services. The replies were people to make the right decisions about their own safety, health used to guide the priorities for reporting in 2019 and onwards. and wellbeing every day. No work is so urgent or important The Board refers to the Annual Report for a complete account that employees cannot do it in a safe and healthy way. DNV GL of corporate sustainability, including information on the priorities, addresses safety and health with both immediate and more management approach, targets and performance within the long-term initiatives. DNV GL cares about its people in tangible topics of: sustainable leadership; health and safety; business ways and equips them with a stronger ability to embrace change ethics and anti-corruption; people, environment and climate; and deliver results in a sustainable manner. DNV GL is continusustainable procurement; and partnerships for sustainability. ously looking for ways to improve the health of employees and The Board’s audit committee has reviewed DNV GL’s sustainencourage a healthy lifestyle. To support this, global medical ability reporting, including recommendations made by KPMG. health check-up requirements have been implemented and an improved resilience framework has been re-launched. In addition, a resilience index has been developed to measure progress and for managers to follow up. Organization and people The company’s main occupational health and safety risks are related to slips, trips and falls, field work, driving and stress due The DNV GL Group has employees in close to 80 countries to a high workload. and headquarters located at Høvik, just outside Oslo, Norway. DNV GL is organized in a group structure with five business areas: The long-term trend in the number of injuries and occupational Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance, and Digital diseases has been stable for the last couple of years, with a slight Solutions. An Independent Business Unit for Inspection was improvement in the injury and absentee rates in 2019 compared with established and became operational on 1 January 2020. 2018. The number of workdays lost among employees increased Common support is provided through a global support in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in reported hours lost organization – Global Shared Services. mainly relates to stress and a high workload. More details are provided in the health and safety section of the annual report. The total number of employees at year-end 2019 was 11,832, of whom 98.4% are permanent employees. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 101 Employee health and safety performance is reviewed by the Board consumption, emissions to air and waste management are followed twice a year and part of the CEO report for every Board meeting. up annually. Internal and external audits are undertaken to assure DNV GL’s health and safety performance is on par with industry performance. DNV GL is certified to ISO 14001 and this is monibenchmarks, and a programme is in place to continuously tored continuously across all locations. Performance is reported strengthen the resilience of our employees and foster a learning to the Board twice a year. health and safety culture. Climate change mitigation and adaptation initiatives are prioritized by DNV GL. DNV GL was verified as carbon neutral in relation to office buildings, laboratories and travel activity also in 2019. Business ethics and anti-corruption A new environment and climate strategy has been outlined which will include further carbon reduction initiatives, measurable goals and a clear direction for how operations are to be managed. DNV GL’s business model and success are based upon trust at all The Board is monitoring the implementation of the strategy to levels and in all business environments. Building trust is enshrined ensure that DNV GL continues to set ambitious targets and reduce in the company’s values and new vision. The Board emphasizes the the environmental impact of its operations. necessity of reflecting DNV GL values and demonstrating ethical leadership in society. DNV GL prefers suppliers and subcontractors that provide services The DNV GL group has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and in compliance with the Group’s environmental and climate policies. unethical behaviour that applies to all employees, subcontractors, In 2019, zero cases of non-compliance with environmental regulations agents and suppliers. DNV GL’s compliance programme and and zero fines related to environmental aspects were registered. related instructions are based on the Code of Conduct for which the Board is responsible. For further details about DNV GL’s environmental and climate performance, please see the sustainability section of DNV GL’s The Code of Conduct covers anti-corruption, antitrust, export annual report. controls, sanctions and personal data protection, and processes to handle cases are in place. Information on how to report occurrences or suspicions of misconduct is published on the company website and the intranet, and a mandatory e-learning module on Outlook the reporting of misconduct is available to all employees. There is also an ethical helpline and anonymous whistleblowing channel. Late in 2019 the world economy slowed, with weakened trade, Compliance risks are regularly assessed as part of the corporate manufacturing and investments. The IMF cut the GDP growth risk management process and measures are taken accordingly. forecast. The Group Compliance Officer reports on performance to the The coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak has already brought Board’s Audit Committee quarterly, as well as to the Executive considerable human suffering and major economic disruption. Committee when relevant. Growth prospects for 2020 and 2021 are therefore highly uncertain. Risk aversion has increased in the financial markets, with interest In 2019, 67 (62) potential compliance cases were reported and rates falling to record low levels and equity prices declining sharply, handled. There was no legal action regarding anti-competitive commodity prices have dropped, and business and consumer behaviour or violations of antitrust or monopoly legislation in which confidence have turned downwards. DNV GL was identified as a participant during the reporting period. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions or non-compliance Relative to other pandemic in modern times, such as the SARS with laws and/or regulations in the environmental, social or outbreak in 2003, the global economy has become substantially economic areas were identified. more interconnected, and China plays a far greater role in global Measures implemented in 2019 to sustain a high level of integrity output, trade, tourism and commodity markets. This magnifies the include training, communication and updates to governing docueconomic spillovers from an adverse shock in one region to all ments following statutory amendments. The company performed other countries. Even if the peak of the outbreak proves shortcompliance reviews in countries identified for special anti-corruption lived, with a gradual recovery in output and demand it will still and fraud measures. A training course for suppliers in all business exert a substantial drag on global growth in 2020. areas were made available, and improvements were made to export Provided the effects of the COVID-19 virus outbreak fade, the control law handling. Around 800 employees received individual impact on confidence and incomes of well-targeted policy actions training on compliance programme topics. in the most exposed economies could help global GDP growth to recover in 2021. However, there is a downside risk in that the impact of the COVID-19 virus proves longer lasting and more intensive Environment and climate than assumed in the present projections, possibly with second and third waves of the pandemic. Safeguarding the environment is part of DNV GL’s purpose. The The COVID-19 virus outbreak is in an early state, and ahead we company is committed to take a precautionary approach, managing already see significant business impact for DNV GL. The situation and continually improving its environmental and climate perforis monitored closely and the impact on employees, customers and mance. Assessments, improvement actions, incident reporting business will be assessed continuously and necessary mitigations and performance monitoring of material topics such as energy will be implemented as required. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DNV GL has an ambitious program of digital transformation and The oil & gas industry is being challenged to set ambitious targets using these digital tools and processes will be critical in the new for reduced emissions from its production and to engage in making business environment. The effects of the cost restructuring and end-products cleaner. 2020 will be a difficult year for DNV GL’s productivity initiatives implemented across all business areas oil and gas customers and we foresee a very demanding year for and in the shared services organization the past four years have DNV GL’s services to the oil & gas industry. contributed to improved performance and positioned DNV GL to better deal with the prevailing market conditions. The trend towards decarbonization of the world’s energy systems strengthened in 2019, leading to a demand for renewable energy, The trade tensions between China and the US will be a decisive power grid and storage services. The energy transition, with planned factor for future economic development, including world trade. grid integration and an increased transition to renewable energy The signing of the “Phase 1” trade agreement in January 2020 sources, is expected to continue in many countries. Energy reduces and stabilizes the tension in the US-China trade relations. efficiency will continue to be high on the agenda, particularly in the US and Middle East. The successful divestment of the KEMA Europe has a relatively open economy and is therefore very Laboratory business has contributed to a more focused strategy exposed to global trade developments. The political uncertainty for our energy services, and a better position for further investin Europe related to Brexit and Europe’s relatively weak ability ments in our core areas. to implement social reform programmes may have a negative influence on the global economy. After the extraordinary growth achieved by DNV GL management system certification services in 2018, driven by the implementation The strong political wind blowing in the direction of ambitious of new ISO standards, 2019 was a year of stabilization. We expect climate transition targets enforced by further regulation will 2020 to be a good year for our management system services, continue, and all markets and industries will search for solutions however, executing the order book will be challenging given the to the climateand environment-related challenges — which many COVID-19 lockdown in many countries. The underlying demand for companies see as business opportunities. product assurance, supply chain assurance and digital assurance is strong and is expected to create new business opportunities For 2020, a fall in seaborne trade and a higher level of scrapping, post COVID-19. DNV GL will continue to strengthen its industry is expected. The IMO 2020 global sulphur cap requirements led to position within the food & beverage, healthcare, automotive and a peak in retrofit and conversion projects in 2019 and will continue aerospace sectors. to have some impact in 2020. The consequences of the COVID-19 virus, political risks in major economies, trade wars and sanctions The revenue from DNV GL’s portfolio of software products and will contribute to increased volatility in the market. Competition other digital services grew in 2019, and pre-COVID-19 this trend continues to be fierce, but DNV GL has managed to maintain its was expected to be maintained in 2020 based on the upgrade market share in the newbuilding market. The global ship newof several applications and continued move towards a softwarebuilding market has stabilized at a 40–50 million GRT level, and as-a-service platform. The Veracity platform will continue to be we expect this to continue into 2020. The company aims to win developed, with increased attention to the maritime and energy 25% of global newbuilding contracts measured in gross tonnes markets, the creation of digital wallet functionality and an increase and will work to attract new tonnage from targeted customers in the number of registered users to benefit from network effects and minimize the transfer of DNV GL classed ships to other and drive scale. classification societies. The Board believes that DNV GL’s performance in 2019 demonIn the oil and gas market, oil prices are highly volatile. The oil strates that the company has responded well to the challenges producing countries have not been able to reduce production posed throughout the year and is entering the next decade more to the level of oil demand and the oil prices are record low. Trade robust than ever. The company will continue to develop its broad tensions and unrest in the Middle East region add to the volatility. competence and resource base to provide guidance and support The trade war is also limiting the important LNG expansion in to customers in a business environment where trust is at a premium the US. Offshore oil and gas developments will focus on less and where the need for technical expertise and risk management capital-intensive projects with a shorter payback time. The existwill be in increasing in demand to tackle the extraordinary situation ing infrastructure across the value chain, including pipelines and the world currently faces and the global transformations ahead. refineries, will continue to demand operations support services. HØVIK, 1 APRIL 2020 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY JON FREDRIK BAKSAAS LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN CLEMENS KEUER CHAIRMAN VICE-CHAIRMAN NINA IVARSEN JON EIVIND THRANE BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN LISELOTT KILAAS REMI ERIKSEN SILVIJA SERES DAVID MCKAY GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 103 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LEIF-ARNE LANGØY (CHAIR) JON FREDRIK BAKSAAS (VICE-CHAIR) Member of the board: Since 2010 Member of the board: Since 2019 Chair since 2011 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1954 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1956 Position: Board pluralist Position: Managing Director, LAPAS AS Education: Norwegian School of Economics Education: MSc Norwegian School of and Business Administration, 1979, and IMD Economics and Business Administration PED, 1991 Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Chairman of Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Kværner ASA; Chairman of Sparebanken Møre; Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding Vice Chairman of The Resource Group AS (TRG); AS; Ericsson AB; Handelsbanken AB; Chairman Chairman of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; of Statnett SF Chairman of Det Norske Veritas Holding AS LISELOTT KILAAS CLEMENS KEUER Member of the board: Since 2016 Member of the board: Since 2013 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1959 Nationality: German Born: 1959 Position: Professional board member Position: Chair of German Works Council, DNV GL Education: MBA, IMD International; MSc in Math. Statistics Education: Msc in Computer Science, University of Hamburg Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Orkla ASA; Norsk Hydro ASA; Folketrygdfondet; Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Peab AB; Nobina AB; Ambea AB; StaminaAvonova; Coala Life 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN SILVIJA SERES Member of the board: Since 2017 Member of the board: Since 2017 Member of the board: Since 2017 Nationality: Danish Born: 1956 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1972 Nationality: Norwegian (originally Hungarian and Yugoslavian) Born: 1970 Position: Independent Board professional Position: President and CEO Torvald Klaveness; Various board positions in daughter companies Position: Education: Constructional Engineering, of Torvald Klaveness Independent Investor and Board Member The Technical University of Denmark, 1980. Graduate Diploma in Business Administration, Education: Executive Manager Program, Education: Top Leadership Course at the Copenhagen Business School, 1985. Misc. INSEAD, Paris, 2004. Senior Manager Program, Norwegian Defence College, Oslo, 2015. MBA executive program at IESE, Barcelona. IMD, IMD, Lausanne, 2002–2003. MSc Naval architecProgram, INSEAD, France and Singapore, 2013. Lausanne. INSEAD, Paris. ture and marine engineering, NTH, 1995. PhD and MA in Mathematical Sciences, Oxford University, UK, 2001. MSc and BSc in Computer Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Deputy Chair Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Science, University of Oslo, 1996. Dalhoff Larsen & Horneman A/S, Copenhagen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding Malmö Port AB, Audit Committee Chair in Prosafe AS; President and CEO; Various board positions Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen SE, Aker Solution AS, Seadrill Ltd. and West in daughter companies of Torvald Klaveness Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding of England Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Ass., Group; President / Chairman of Norwegian AS; NRK; Academedia AB; Ruter AS; Chairman Board member Otto Mønsted A/S, Reapplix A/S, Shipowners’ Association; Board member and Rikstoto; Owner of Technorocks AS; President Axis Offshore Pte. Ltd, Stiftelsen Det Norske Vice President of ICS of Polytechnic Society of Norway; Corporate Veritas and Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Assembly Member of Telenor ASA; Advisory Board of Digital Norway NINA IVARSEN JON EIVIND THRANE DAVID MCKAY Member of the board: Since 2016 Member of the board: Since 2018 Member of the board: Since 2019 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1962 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1961 Nationality: British Born: 1963 Position: Chair of VEFF and Head of Global Position: Head of Group IT office, DNV GL Position: Chief Surveyor Offshore / Director Employee Forum, DNV GL of Projects, North America, DNV GL Education: MSc Applied Physics, Trondheim Education: Master of Management, Stavanger Education: BSc in Naval Architecture, University; a number of courses from other univerDirectorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det University of Strathclyde, 1985 sities, incl. University of Denver, US, and a PhD Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS programme in Psychology from the University Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det of Oslo. Digital Leadership course with INSEAD Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 105 Financial performance The financial statements for DNV GL Group AS include consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, statement of cash flow, statement of changes in equity and notes for DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which DNV GL Group AS directly or indirectly has actual control. 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Key figures AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 1 2018 2017 2016 2015 DEFINITION OF RATIOS INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenue 21 551 19 639 19 475 20 834 23 390 Profitability EBITDA 3 529 1 972 1 342 1 352 2 649 EBITDA: Earnings before financial Depreciation 765 358 336 364 370 items, tax, depreciation, Impairment of fixed assets 0 552 14 4 5 amortization and impairment EBITA 2 764 1 062 993 984 2 274 EBITDA margin: Amortization 420 513 503 519 536 EBITDA x 100 / Operating revenue Impairment of goodwill EBITA: and other intangible assets 9 0 15 311 0 Earnings before financial items, tax, amortization EBIT / Operating profit 2 334 549 474 154 1 738 and impairment Net financial income (expenses) (349) (273) (110) (18) (12) EBITA margin: EBITA x 100 / Profit before tax 1 985 276 364 136 1 726 Operating revenue Profit for the year 1 375 116 61 (216) 1 014 Operating margin: Operating profit x 100 / Operating revenue BALANCE SHEET Pre-tax profit margin: Profit before tax x 100 / Non-current assets 18 350 17 155 16 631 15 469 16 575 Operating revenue Current assets 11 821 10 992 12 112 11 533 13 705 Net profit margin: Profit (loss) for the year Total assets 30 171 28 147 28 743 27 002 30 279 x 100 / Operating revenue Cash flow Equity 15 419 15 951 18 810 17 509 18 850 Non-current liabilities 7 167 5 423 4 010 3 798 4 046 Net cash flow: Net change in liquidity Current liabilities 7 585 6 773 5 924 5 695 7 383 from cash flow statement Liquidity: Cash and bank deposits CASH FLOW ITEMS Net cash flow from operations 2 679 1 091 656 662 2 214 Leverage Net cash flow from investments 733 (425) (669) (682) (1 099) Equity ratio: Net cash flow from financing activities (2 234) (1 698) 45 (607) (908) Equity x 100 / Total assets Net cash flow 1 178 (1 032) 32 (628) 207 Liquidity 3 809 2 631 3 660 3 628 4 193 FINANCIAL RATIOS PROFITABILITY EBITDA margin 16.4% 10.0% 6.9% 6.5% 11.3% EBITA margin 12.8% 5.4% 5.1% 4.7% 9.7% EBIT / Operating margin 10.8% 2.8% 2.4% 0.7% 7.4% Pre-tax profit margin 9.2% 1.4% 1.9% 0.7% 7.4% Net profit margin 6.4 % 0.6% 0.3% -1.0% 4.3% LEVERAGE Equity ratio 51.1% 56.7% 65.4% 64.8% 62.3% NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 11 832 12 101 12 715 13 550 14 954 1 The group implemented IFRS 16 from 01.01.2019 by applying the modified retrospective approach. Previous years have not been restated. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 107 Consolidated income statement DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2019 2018 NOTE 2019 2018 OPERATING REVENUE 28.0 26.2 Sales revenue 4 21 409.9 19 638.5 0.0 0.0 Gain divestment (sale of operations) 3 141.1 0.0 28.0 26.2 Total operating revenue 21 551.0 19 638.5 OPERATING EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 5,7,8 11 715.6 11 223.9 29.8 29.4 Other operating expenses 6,7 6 306.6 6 442.7 (1.8) (3.2) EBITDA 3 528.8 1 971.9 0.0 0.0 Depreciation and amortization 12,14 1 185.1 871.3 0.0 0.0 Impairment 12,13,14 9.3 552.0 (1.8) (3.2) Operating profit (loss) 2 334.4 548.7 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 Loss from associates 15 (5.6) (3.2) 1 670.6 2 028.6 Other financial income 8,9 48.0 42.5 (169.4) (147.4) Financial expenses 8,9 (391.5) (312.1) 1 501.2 1 881.2 Net financial income (expenses) (349.1) (272.8) 1 499.5 1 877.9 Profit before taxes 1 985.3 275.9 (21.5) 27.6 Tax expense 11 (610.4) (159.9) 1 478.0 1 905.5 Profit for the year 1 374.8 116.0 Profit for the period attributable to: Non-controlling interest 14.1 12.9 Equity holders of the parent 1 360.7 103.1 Total 1 374.8 116.0 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2019 2018 NOTE 2019 2018 1 478.0 1 905.5 Profit for the year 1 374.8 116.0 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 460.2 (21.1) Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Currency translation differences / Translation differences foreign operations 44.4 133.4 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 4.6 0.6 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 509.2 112.9 1 478.0 1 905.5 Total comprehensive income for the period 1 884.0 228.9 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Non-controlling interest 14.1 12.9 Equity holders of the parent 1 869.9 216.0 Total 1 884.0 228.9 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 109 Consolidated statement of financial position ASSETS DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC 19 31 DEC 18 NOTE 31 DEC 19 31 DEC 18 NON-CURRENT ASSETS INTANGIBLE ASSETS 0.0 17.7 Deferred tax assets 11 1 012.1 1 198.5 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 12,13 8 531.7 8 781.2 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 12 2 536.2 2 852.2 0.0 17.7 Total intangible assets 12 080.0 12 831.9 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 0.0 0.0 Land, buildings and other property 1 812.5 2 142.7 0.0 0.0 Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 563.0 1 034.3 0.0 0.0 Right-of-use assets 1 796.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total tangible fixed assets 14 4 172.3 3 176.9 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 11 813.4 11 813.4 Investments in subsidiaries 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in associates 15 182.3 183.4 0.5 0.6 Equity instruments 27.4 27.4 411.0 411.0 Other investments 8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension asset 8 1 483.9 539.7 2 472.9 3 760.7 Loan to subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other long-term receivables 18 403.8 395.9 14 697.8 15 985.6 Total non-current financial assets 2 097.5 1 146.4 14 697.8 16 003.4 Total non-current assets 18 349.8 17 155.1 CURRENT ASSETS DEBTORS 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 17 4 479.2 4 426.0 0.0 0.0 Contract assets 2 630.8 3 078.1 186.7 74.1 Other receivables group companies 7.2 16.5 22.3 1.0 Other debtors 895.1 840.8 209.0 75.1 Total debtors 8 012.4 8 361.5 2 354.0 1 133.2 Cash and bank deposits 21 3 809.0 2 630.6 2 563.0 1 208.3 Total current assets 11 821.4 10 992.0 17 260.8 17 211.7 TOTAL ASSETS 30 171.1 28 147.2 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated statement of financial position EQUITY AND LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC 19 31 DEC 18 NOTE 31 DEC 19 31 DEC 18 EQUITY PAID-IN CAPITAL 100.0 100.0 Share capital 24 100.0 100.0 9 323.5 9 323.5 Share premium 9 323.5 9 323.5 RETAINED EARNINGS 1 661.9 2 283.9 Other equity 5 953.7 6 475.7 0.0 0.0 Non-controlling interest 42.0 51.7 11 085.4 11 707.4 Total equity 15 419.2 15 950.9 LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 8 2 689.0 2 479.3 2.8 0.0 Deferred tax liabilities 11 373.5 412.5 2 563.8 2 670.8 Loan from group companies 23 2 100.0 2 100.0 0.0 0.0 Lease liabilities 20 1 550.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current provisions 19 95.0 138.5 0.0 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 358.7 292.5 2 566.6 2 670.8 Total non-current liabilities 7 166.7 5 422.8 CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 22.0 30.7 0.0 0.0 Trade creditors 427.8 544.7 0.0 0.3 Taxes payable 11 515.1 357.4 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 439.1 366.7 3 607.6 2 761.0 Current liabilities group companies 23 1 113.8 600.3 0.0 0.0 Lease liabilities 20 409.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current provisions 19 163.2 264.6 1.3 72.2 Other current liabilities 16 4 494.3 4 609.1 3 608.8 2 833.4 Total current liabilities 7 585.3 6 773.5 6 175.4 5 504.3 Total liabilities 14 751.9 12 196.3 17 260.8 17 211.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 30 171.1 28 147.2 HØVIK, 1 APRIL 2020 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY JON FREDRIK BAKSAAS BIRGIT AAGAARDJON EIVIND THRANE NINA IVARSEN CLEMENS KEUER CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN SVENDSEN REMI ERIKSEN LISELOTT KILAAS LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN SILVIJA SERES DAVID MCKAY GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 111 Consolidated statement of cash flow DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2019 2018 NOTE 2019 2018 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 1 499.5 1 877.9 Profit before tax 1 985.3 275.9 0.0 0.0 Gain on disposal of tangible fixed assets 14 (2.8) (202.8) 0.0 0.0 Loss (gain) on divestments 3 (141.1) 23.7 0.0 0.0 Loss (gain) from change of defined benefit pension plans 8 (6.4) 11.2 (150.7) 0.0 Group contributions recorded as financial income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 14 1 194.4 1 423.2 0.0 (42.5) Tax payable 11 (614.6) (477.8) 0.0 0.0 Change in work in progress, trade debtors 247.1 57.7 and trade creditors (62.6) 64.4 Change in accruals, provisions and other 17.6 (19.8) 1 286.2 1 899.8 Net cash flow from operations 2 679.4 1 091.4 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions 3 0.0 (44.6) 0.0 0.0 Divestments of subsidiaries 3 1 138.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible fixed assets 14 (146.8) (306.4) 0.0 0.0 Investments in intangible assets 12 (279.9) (358.9) 0.0 0.0 Sale of tangible fixed assets (sales value) 20.3 287.9 0.0 0.0 Change in other investments 0.0 (3.4) 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from investments 732.6 (425.4) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 1 180.8 327.5 Change in loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in overdraft (8.6) (14.1) 110.6 (585.0) Change in net position towards participants (194.6) 215.8 in the cash pool system 0.0 0.0 Change in lease liabilities (420.9) 0.0 (1 400.0) (1 900.0) Dividend paid (1 400.0) (1 900.0) 43.1 (83.6) Group contribution (paid) /received (209.4) 0.0 (65.5) (2 241.1) Net cash flow from financing activities (2 233.6) (1 698.3) 1 220.8 (341.3) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and bank deposits 1 178.4 (1 032.3) 1 133.2 1 474.4 Liquidity at beginning of period 2 630.6 3 659.7 0.0 0.0 Cash in acquired companies 0.0 3.1 2 354.0 1 133.2 Liquidity at end of period 3 809.0 2 630.6 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated statement of changes in equity CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS SHARE SHARE OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2018 100.0 9 323.5 4 345.2 13 768.7 Profit for the period 1 905.5 1 905.5 Group contribution 33.2 33.2 Dividend decleared (4 000.0) (4 000.0) Equity at 31 December 2018 100.0 9 323.5 2 283.9 11 707.4 Profit for the period 1 478.0 1 478.0 Dividend accrued (700.0) (700.0) Dividend paid (1 400.0) (1 400.0) Equity at 31 December 2019 100.0 9 323.5 1 661.9 11 085.4 CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CURRENCY NONSHARE SHARE OTHER TRANSLATION CONTROLLING AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY DIFFERENCES INTEREST TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2018 100.0 9 323.5 5 599.0 3 748.0 39.7 18 810.1 Profit for the period 103.1 12.9 116.0 Dividend declared (4 000.0) (4 000.0) Group contribution (161.3) (161.3) Merger difference merger Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS 1 082.2 1 082.2 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans (21.1) (21.1) Exchange differences 133.4 133.4 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 0.6 0.6 Other equity changes (8.3) (0.8) (9.2) Equity at 31 December 2018 100.0 9 323.5 2 594.3 3 881.4 51.7 15 950.9 Adjustment on correction of error related to previous years ¹ (158.3) (158.3) Equity at 1 January 2019 (restated) 100.0 9 323.5 2 435.9 3 881.4 51.7 15 792.6 Profit/(loss) for the period 1 360.7 14.1 1 374.8 Dividend paid (1 400.0) (1 400.0) Dividend accrued (700.0) (700.0) Group contribution payable (130.7) (130.7) Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 460.2 460.2 Exchange differences 44.4 44.4 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 4.6 4.6 Other equity changes (2.9) (23.8) (26.7) Equity at 31 December 2019 100.0 9 323.5 2 027.9 3 925.8 42.0 15 419.2 1 In 2019, prior year’s errors of NOK 158.3 million have been identified. The main effects are related to pre 2019 imbalances in group internal trade receivables and payables built up over multiple financial years, cleared during 2019. The accumulated effect (NOK 115 million) has not been possible to allocate back to the respective financial year. The majority of the remaining corrections relate to old DTA differences related to pensions and GAAP differences in Germany. The errors are considered material and thus an adjustment is made to the opening balance as at 1 January 2019. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 113 NOTES 01 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS FOR PREPARATION. The financial statements are prepared in SUBSIDIARIES. Investments in subsidiaries are recognized at cost in the accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act § 3-9 and Regulations accounts of the parent company. Investments carried at cost are measured on Simplified IFRS as enacted by the Ministry of Finance 3 November at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 2014. In all material aspects, Norwegian Simplified IFRS requires that the The fair values of the investments are tested annually based on external IFRS recognition and measurement criteria (as adopted by the European and/or internal indicators implying revaluation. If estimated fair value is Union) are complied with, but disclosure and presentation requirements less than the carrying amount, the investments are impaired in the Balance (the notes) follow the Norwegian Accounting Act and Norwegian Generally sheet statement and the corresponding cost is recognized in the income Accepted Accounting Standards. statement. Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are reversed if the basis for the impaired value no longer exists or have decreased. The financial statements are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK) and all values are rounded to the nearest million (NOK million), except when In the accounts of the parent company, dividends, group contributions otherwise indicated. and other distributions are recognized in the same year as they are recognized in the financial statement of the subsidiary according to CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES. The consolidated statements include the the Norwegian Regulation of simplified IFRS § 3-1. If dividends / Group parent company DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which the parent contribution exceed withheld profits after acquisition, the excess company directly or indirectly has controlling interest. The Group controls amount represents repayment of invested capital, and the distribution an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable return will be deducted from the recorded value of the acquisition in the from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns Balance sheet statement for the parent company. through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and deconsolidated DIVIDEND TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY. Dividends from the date that control ceases. The Group accounts show the Group’s declared to shareholders are recognized as a liability at the end of the consolidated Income statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, reporting period according to the Norwegian Regulation of simplified Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash IFRS § 3-1. Flow as a single economic entity. Subsidiaries follow the same accounting principles as the parent company. All intra group assets and liabilities, INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES. An associate equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between is an entity in which the Group has a significant influence but does not Group entities are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. control the management of its financial and operating policy decisions (normally when the Group owns 20%-50% of the company). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of going concern. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL. Business combinations joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquiof an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant sition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. measured at the acquisition date at fair value. Acquisition-related costs The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control, are expensed in Income statement as incurred. are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recognized as the for using the equity method. residual value between fair value of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the identifiable net assets. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognized at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumuadjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the lated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition date, allocated to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit the investment and is not tested for impairment individually. from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of profits after tax of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees is presented The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed if new as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change information on the fair value becomes available and is applicable on recognized directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the the date when control is assumed. The allocation may be altered within Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in the one year from acquisition date. statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its TAXES. Income tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. Current and deferred tax is Group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred legal or recognized in the Income statement, except to the extent that they relate constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. to items recognized in equity or other comprehensive income, of which The aggregate of the Group’s share of profits (or losses) of an associate the tax is also recognized in equity or other comprehensive income. and a joint venture is shown in the income statement as financial items. Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. for the same reporting period as the Group. The current and deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates The recognized value of the associate or joint venture in the Statement (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted, in the of Financial Position is tested for impairment annually or more frequently countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income at when deemed necessary. the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST. The non-controlling interest in the provisions where appropriate. consolidated financial statements, represent the minority’s share of the carrying amount of the equity in entities with minority shareholders. Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. bases as well as on tax losses carried forward at the reporting date. The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial position Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary based on current/non-current classification. An asset is current when it is: differences. Deferred tax assets for temporary differences and tax loss Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or consumed in normal carry forwards are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future operating cycle taxable income will be available at the level of the relevant tax authority Held primarily for the purpose of trading for utilization. Tax increasing and tax reducing temporary differences Expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting period expected to reverse in the same period are offset and calculated on or a net basis as far as this relates to the same taxable entity and the same Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or taxation authority. used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that All other assets are classified as non-current. sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred Current and non-current liabilities are classified correspondingly. tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognized to the extent that it has become Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to liabilities. be recovered. Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Short-term debt is recognized at fair value and subsequently measured Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are at amortized cost. Transaction cost on short-term borrowings are usually expected to apply in the year when the asset is realized or the liability minor, and the value of short-term debt at amortized cost is therefore is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or normally identical with face value. substantively enacted at the reporting date. Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value is expected FOREIGN CURRENCIES. The Group’s consolidated financial statements not to be temporary, fixed assets are impaired to the recoverable amount. are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), which is also the parent Fixed assets with a limited useful economic life are depreciated in company’s functional currency. The functional currency of an entity is accordance with a linear depreciation plan. the currency of the economic environment in which the company primarily operates. For each entity the Group determines the functional currency REVENUE RECOGNITION . Revenue is recognized when control of a and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured product or service is transferred to the customer. For sale of services, the using that functional currency. revenue is recognized over time by applying percentage of completion method. Stage of completion is measured by reference to actual expenses Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated expenses for each entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the contract. When the contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and liabilities is recognized only to the extent that the expenses incurred are recoverable. denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional A contract asset is recognized for all work performed, not yet invoiced. currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognized When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract in the Income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in revenue, the expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately. terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the Revenue from sale of software licenses are recognized at a point of time. exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. For software maintenance services delivered in the maintenance period, revenue is recognized over time based on the stage of completion of the Forward exchange contracts are included at market value at the contract. reporting date. DEBTORS. Trade receivables and other current receivables are recorded On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, includin the balance sheet initially at fair value and subsequently measured at ing goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated into NOK at the amortized cost less provision for impairment. The group applies the IFRS rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date. The Income state9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a ments are translated at the average exchange rate for the financial year. lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract Exchange rate differences arising are recognized in other comprehensive assets. DNV GL Group use a provision matrix as a practical expedient to income (OCI). On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of calculate the expected credit losses on trade receivables. The provision OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognized in the matrix represents the Group’s expected credit risk. Impairment of trade Income statement. receivables are recognized in the income statement. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 115 Realized and unrealized currency effects not reflected in OCI are The lease payments included in the measurement comprise of: included on a net basis in either other financial income or other financial expenses. Fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant and equipment Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated measured using the index or rate as at the commencement date impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis Amount expected to be payable by the Group under residual value over the expected useful life of the assets. The estimated useful life, guarantees residual values and depreciation method are reviewed, and adjusted if The exercise price of a purchase option, if the Group is reasonably appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Periodic maintenance certain to exercise that option costs are capitalized and depreciated over the expected maintenance Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term period. Other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the Income reflects the Group exercising an option to terminate the lease. statement as incurred. Improvement and upgrading are assigned to the purchase cost/ carrying amount and depreciated along with the asset. The Group do not include variable lease payments in the lease liability arising from contracted index regulations subject to future events, An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal such as inflation. Instead, the Group recognises these costs in profit or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the or loss in the period in which the event or condition that triggers those continued use of the asset. Any gains or losses is determined as the payments occurs. difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying LEASES . The Group has applied IFRS 16 using the modified retrospecamount to reflect the lease payments made and remeasuring the tive approach. carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications, or to reflect adjustments in lease payments due to an adjustment in IDENTIFYING A LEASE. At the inception of a contract, the Group assesses an index or rate. whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, Group presents its lease liabilities as separate line items in the statea lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified ment of financial position. asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To determine whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified MEASURING THE RIGHT-OF-USE ASSET. The right-of-use asset is asset, the Group assesses whether: initially measured at cost. The cost of the right-of-use asset comprise: The agreement creates enforceable rights of payment and obligations The amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability The identified asset is physically distinct Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, It has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits less any lease incentives received from use of the asset Any initial direct costs incurred by the Group It has the right to direct the use of the asset An estimate of costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling The supplier does not have a substantive right to substitute the asset and removing the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is throughout the period of use located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, unless those costs are SEPARATING COMPONENTS IN THE LEASE CONTRACT. For contracts incurred to produce inventories. that constitutes, or contains a lease, the Group separates lease components if it benefits from the use of each underlying asset either on its The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumuown or together with other resources that are readily available, and the lated depreciation and impairment losses. The Group applies the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor highly interrelated depreciation requirements in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment with, the other underlying assets in the contract. The Group then accounts in depreciating the right-of-use asset, except that the right-of-use for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from asset is depreciated from the commencement date to the earlier of non-lease components of the contract. The Group allocates the considerthe lease term and the remaining useful life of the right-of-use asset. ation in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative The Group has elected to not apply the revaluation model for its stand-alone price of the lease component and the aggregate stand-alone right of use asset for leased buildings. price of the non-lease components. If an observable stand-alone price is not readily available, the Group estimates this price by maximizing The Group applies IAS 36 Impairment of Assets to determine whether the use of observable information. the right-of-use asset is impaired and to account for any impairment loss identified. RECOGNITION OF LEASES AND EXEMPTIONS. At the lease commencement date, the Group recognizes a lease liability and corresponding Group presents its right-of-use assets as separate line items in the right-of-use asset for all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, consolidated statement of financial position. except for the following exemptions applied: Borrowing costs are recognized in the Income statement in the period Short-term leases (defined as 12 months or less) in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other Low value assets costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. For these leases, the Group recognizes the lease payments as other INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured operating expenses in the statement of profit or loss when they incur. on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. MEASURING THE LEASE LIABILITY. The lease liability is initially measured Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less at the present value of the lease payments for the right to use the underany accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. lying asset during the lease term that are not paid at the commencement Except for capitalized development costs, all other internally generated date. The lease term represents the non-cancellable period of the lease, intangibles are reflected in the Income statement in the period in which together with periods covered by an option to extend the lease when the the expenditure is incurred. Group is reasonably certain to exercise this option, and periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or to exercise that option. indefinite. 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful economic Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as part of the Group’s annual life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that plan process and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period for an may be impaired. intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverIntangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are able amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generloss is recognized. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be ating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually reversed in future periods. to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment prospective basis. annually at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS. Research costs are expensed CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS. Cash and bank deposits in the Balance as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project is sheet comprise petty cash and cash at bank and short-term deposits recognized as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and bank deposits are initially and The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that subsequently measured at fair value. the asset will be available for use or sale Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset PROVISIONS. Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present How the asset will generate future economic benefits obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event. It is probable The availability of resources to complete the asset (more likely than not) that the Group will be required to settle the obligaThe ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development tion and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are disFollowing initial recognition of the development expenditure as an counted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of the asset begins when provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a financial expense. development is complete and the asset is available for use. The asset is amortized over the period of expected future benefit. During the RESTRUCTURING PROVISIONS. Restructuring provisions are recognized period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. only when the Group had a constructive obligation, which is when a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS. The Group assesses, at concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline, and the impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for employees affected have been notified of the plan’s main features. an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generONEROUS LEASE. Provision for onerous lease contracts in 2018 repreating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. sents the present value of the future lease payments that the Group is The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless presently obligated to make under non-cancellable onerous operating the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of lease contracts, less revenue expected to be earned on the onerous those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount lease, including estimated future sub-lease revenue, where applicable. of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered The estimate may vary as a result of changes in the utilization of the impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. leased premises and sub-lease arrangements where applicable. On initial application of IFRS 16 1 January 2019, the onerous lease In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to provisions were recognized as impairment of the right of use assets. their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. The group operates various postIn determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions employment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an approcontribution pension plans. priate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contribution into a separate entity (a fund/insurance company) The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and foreand will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contricast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s butions. The pension cost related to the defined contribution plans CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and is equal to the contributions to the employee’s pension savings in the forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer accounting period. periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. Multi-employer plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contriFor assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting bution plan. In the defined benefit plans, the Group’s obligation is to date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognized provide the agreed benefit to current and former employees, actuarial impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such indication risk and investment risk fall in substance on the Group. The Group’s exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. defined benefit plans are both funded and unfunded. A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverActuarial assumptions are made to measure the pension obligation and able amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. The reversal the pension expense. Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatible is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its and reflect the economic relationship between factors such as inflation, recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have rate of salary increase and discount rate. The actuarial assumptions been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been comprise: demographic assumptions such as mortality and employee recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in turnover and financial assumptions such as discount rate, rate of the Income statement. salaryand pension benefit increase. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 117 The pension obligations are measured on a discounted basis. Pension The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing plan assets are valued at their fair value. The fair value of plan assets basis. Update of accounting estimates are recognized in the period is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation of which the estimate is updated, if the update affects only that period, when determining the net defined benefit liability or assets. or in the period of the update if the update affects both current and future periods. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized through other comprehensive income (OCI). Actuarial gains and losses are not reclassified to profit or CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND ASSETS. Contingent liabilities are loss in subsequent periods. not recognized in the annual accounts. Significant contingent liabilities Changes to existing defined benefit plans that will lead to changes in are disclosed, with the exception of contingent liabilities that are pension obligation are recognized in the statement of income as they unlikely to be incurred. Contingent assets (unless virtually certain) occur. Gains or losses linked to changes or terminations of pension are not recognized in the annual accounts but are disclosed if the plans are also recognized in the statement of income when they arise. inflow of economic benefits is probable. Net interest on the net defined benefit/ assets is presented as part of EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD. New information on the financial items. company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period which becomes known after the reporting period is recorded in the annual Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, gains accounts. Events after the reporting period that do not affect the and losses on curtailments and non-routine settlements is presented as company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period but part of payroll expenses. which will affect the company’s financial position in the future are disclosed if significant. USE OF ESTIMATES. The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with simplified IFRS requires management to CASH FLOW STATEMENT. The cash flow statement is presented make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, of assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period that are not bank deposits and other short-term, highly liquid financial assets readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumpwith maturities of three months or less. tions are based on historical experiences and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 02 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CONSISTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY DNV GL GROUP AS AND THE FOLLOWING SUBSIDIARIES: SHARE CAPITAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP BOOK VALUE IN 1000 LOCAL CURR.1 DNV GL AS Bærum, Norway NOK 5 000 100% 9 567.5 DNV GL Business Assurance Group AS Bærum, Norway NOK 1 033 100% 1.1 DNV GL Netherlands B.V. Arnhem, The Netherlands EUR 9 015 100% 2 236.7 Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS Bærum, Norway NOK 8 129 100% 8.1 Total investment in subsidiaries 11 813.4 1 incl. share premium 194 legal entities are consolidated in DNV GL Group’s financial statements at 31 December 2019 of which 6 entities has non-controlling interest. 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 03 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND SALE OF OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2019 30 December 2019, the KEMA Laboratories in Arnhem (KEMA B.V.) laboratories in Arnhem and Prague. A sales gain of 141 million and Prague (Zkusebnictvì a.s.) were sold to CESI. The transfer from the transaction is included in the income statement for 2019. comprised KEMA and all the high-voltage and high-power testing The net sales amount of NOK 1 139 million was settled in cash and inspection activities performed by its personnel in its own in 2019. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2018 With retroactive effect from 1 January 2018 the shares in the real Body and EU Notified Body. By having full ownership of the company, estate company Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS were transferred from DNV GL secures a strong business foundation with single leadership, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS to DNV GL Group AS through a comenabling it to create a more competitive and agile organization. bined demerger-merger transaction. Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS Presafe is fully consolidated from 1 June 2018 in the 2018 financial has consequently been consolidated into DNV GL Group in 2018. statements. Until 31 May 2018 Presafe was recognized in The financial statements for 2017 have not been restated. accordance with the equity method. 1 June 2018, DNV GL acquired the remaining 50% shares of the 31 December 2018, DNV GL sold its solar testing labs to the manageassociated company, DNV GL Presafe AS (Presafe), leading to a 100% ment of DNV GL PVEL LLC. USA (PVEL). NOK 24.7 million has been ownership of the company. Presafe is an accredited Certification recognized as a loss of sale PVEL in 2018 (note 6). ACQUISITIONS 2018 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST, LOCAL REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE CURRENCY IN 2018 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY MILL MILL NOK Presafe 01/06/2018 100% NOK 25.4 44.9 The total purchase price for the shares in Presafe (total of fair value/ acquisition cost paid 1 June 2018 for 50% of Presafe and the book value of the 50% joint venture investment as per 1 June 2018) in excess of net book value of the equity, NOK 34.9 million, has been allocated to goodwill. CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 3.1 Consideration paid in cash (25.4) Net cash flow on acquisition (22.3) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 119 04 EXTERNAL OPERATING REVENUE DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHICAL AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 2018 Nordic countries 5 697.7 5 028.6 Europe and Africa 6 298.8 6 337.9 Asia Pacific 5 183.4 4 413.9 North and South America 4 230.0 3 858.1 Total operating revenue 21 409.9 19 638.5 BUSINESS AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Maritime 7 743.6 6 701.7 Oil & Gas 4 838.8 4 454.7 Energy 4 055.5 3 620.2 Business Assurance 3 626.4 3 645.4 Digital Solutions 1 046.3 911.9 Real Estate 8.2 205.5 Other 91.2 99.2 Total operating revenue 21 409.9 19 638.5 For management purposes, the Group is organized into business Operating revenue in DNV GL Group AS of NOK 28.0 million areas based on the industries in which the Group operates. (NOK 26.2 million in 2018) mainly consist of global liability DNV GL is structured into five business areas; Maritime, Oil & Gas, insurance expenses charged to subsidiaries. Energy, Business Assurance and Digital Solutions, and one independent business unit, DNV Real Estate. 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 05 PAYROLL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 2018 Salaries 8 696.8 8 496.2 Bonus expenses 597.0 400.0 Payroll tax 1 016.5 958.7 Pension costs 785.4 779.9 Effect of pension plan changes / curtailment effects (6.4) 11.2 Other contributions 626.3 578.0 Total payroll expenses 11 715.6 11 223.9 Full time equivalent 11 618 11 877 06 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 2018 Travel expenses (refundable and non-refundable) 1 091.6 1 067.1 External hired assistance 1 890.9 1 764.8 IT and communication expenses 588.5 586.8 Rent and real estate expenses 433.6 1 878.5 Losses on accounts receivables 56.2 75.5 Loss on sale DNV GL PVEL LLC. USA 0.0 24.7 Other expenses (refundable and non-refundable) 2 245.8 2 045.4 Total other operating expenses 6 306.6 6 442.7 1 The change in rent and real estate expenses is related to the implementation of IFRS 16. See note 28 for further details ANNUAL REPORT 2019 121 07 REMUNERATION TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR THE GROUP CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION DURING 2019. Ahead of the salary MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The remuneration review process that takes effect as of 1 April every year, the senior guidelines for the members of the Executive Committee (EC) includexecutive compensation is compared to external benchmarks at a ing the Group CEO support DNV GL’s vision of being a global organhome country and pan-European level. Data is collected from Korn ization with a focus on sustainability and a long-term perspective. Ferry or similar service providers. Information publicly accessible The main compensation elements are a market-based salary, from other comparable companies is also reviewed in this process. a bonus/profit-share scheme, and selected common employee benefits in line with the local market. The Group CEO is not part of the general bonus/profit-share programme, but has a discretionary bonus determined annually The Group CEO and Executive Committee participate in the penby the Board of Directors. The bonus calculation is reviewed against sion and insurance schemes applicable in the country where their the principles for the other EC members, as well as some specific employment contracts are signed (currently Italy, Netherlands, individual goals for the Group CEO. The bonus should not exceed and Norway). 50% of annual base salary. Bonus pay-out for the Group CEO in 2019 based on the 2018 results was NOK 2.000.000. DNV GL has a bonus/profit-share scheme in place for employees in higher employment grades, including the Executive Committee The compensation package for Remi Eriksen consists of: except for the Group CEO. The scheme is based on a combination of Annual base salary of NOK 5 900 thousand and a car allowance the DNV GL results at Group and business areas levels: achievement of NOK 250 thousand. Eriksen has a right to retire at 65 years. of financial targets (EBITA) at Group level (60%); and achievement of If terminated from DNV GL while in the position as Group CEO, financial targets (EBITA) at business area level (40%). Target bonus Eriksen is entitled to 12 months of base salary beyond notice for the Executive Committee is 25% of base salary with maximum period. value at 50% of base salary, which is in line with the guidelines for all companies organised as ASAs in Norway. The total pay-out across DNV GL will be capped at 20% of EBITA for 2019. REMUNERATIONS LOANS AT 31 DEC. 2019 REMUNERATIONS AND LOANS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2019 SALARY OTHER BONUS PENSION LOAN INTEREST REPAYMENT SECURITY AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND BENEFITS COST AMOUNT RATE PERIOD Remi Eriksen 5 984 281 2 000 387 Thomas Vogth-Eriksen 2 953 184 545 340 782 1.13 % Apr. 2024 Mortgage Gro Gotteberg 1 640 195 298 111 Luca Crisciotti 3 177 100 711 2 839 3 Kenneth Vareide ¹ 1 114 96 155 108 Ditlev Engel 3 598 503 532 211 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 2 900 354 655 2 285 Liv Hovem 2 332 255 444 255 Klas Bendrik 2 592 697 176 111 Ulrike Haugen 1 562 165 417 111 1 Member of the Executive Committee from 1 June 2019, remuneration disclosed for June to December 2 Bonus paid net of tax due to International Assignment status 3 Statutory payments to the Italian social security institute INPS 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 07 REMUNERATION TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATIONS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAID OUT IN 2019 BOARD OF BOARD BOARD DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Leif-Arne Langøy 445 45 Morten Ulstein ¹ 201 13 7 Jon Fredrik Baksaas ² 148 27 15 Nina Ivarsen 297 Clemens Keuer 297 Liselott Kilaas 297 53 Lasse Kristoffersen 297 David McKay 4 126 Nikolaos Papanikos ³ 171 Silvija Seres 297 29 Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen 297 66 Da Wei Tian ³ 171 Jon Eivind Thrane 297 1 Vice-chairman of the Board of Directors until 31 July 2019 2 Vice-chairman of the Board of Directors from 1 August 2019 3 Member of the Board of Directors until 31 July 2019 4 Member of the Board of Directors from 1 August 2019 FEES TO THE AUDITORS FOR 2019 GROUP AUDITOR GROUP AUDITOR OTHER NORWEGIAN NON-NORWEGIAN OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND DNV GL GROUP AS ENTITIES ENTITIES AUDITORS TOTAL Statutory audit 2 055 4 107 24 603 463 31 227 Tax consulting services 908 778 1 685 Other audit related services 177 1 178 Non-audit services 10 76 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 123 08 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION LIABILITIES DNV GL Group AS has both defined contribution pension plans (closed in 2017) are financed through a separate pension fund, and defined benefit pension plans. 10 137 employees are covered while the other plans are mainly financed through independent by the defined contribution pension plans while 2 921 persons administrative funds/insurance companies. The pension cost and (employees and pensioners) are covered by defined benefit pension the pension liabilities as included in the accounts and in this note, plans. All defined benefit pension plans are closed for new entrants, are based on the presented actuarial assumptions, together with however active members still build up their pension rights under remuneration of the employee and length of service. these plans. End of service benefit schemes in some countries outside Norway (mainly Middle East and Asian countries with statutory Contribution to the Group’s pension plans are made in accordance defined benefit plan requirements) are still open for new entrants. with common actuarial methods and statutory regulations in the These end of service benefit schemes are required by law and fully country where the pension plan is administered. Total pension settled at retirement/ resignation. costs for 2019 are NOK 779.0 million of which NOK 185.0 million are related to the defined benefit pension plans and NOK 593.9 The structure of the defined benefit pension plans depends on million are related to the defined contribution pension plans and the legal, tax and economic conditions in the respective country, end of service benefit schemes. and is usually based on length of service and remuneration of the employee. The defined benefit pension plans are covered through The Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to the Norwegian separate pension funds, through arrangements with independent Pension Act. The companies’ pension schemes fulfil the requireinsurance companies or through unfunded plans. ments of the law. Norwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees The defined benefit pension plans in Norway are financed mainly employed after 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan through a separate pension fund. For defined benefit pension plans organized in one Norwegian pension fund (employees employed in Germany, the major plans are unfunded with the gross liability before 1 January 2005) and in one unfunded pension plan (employees reflected as a pension liability, however there are also pension plans employed before 1 January 2005). The pension assets in the in Germany financed through independent insurance companies. Norwegian pension fund are invested as follows: Of the other defined benefit pension plans, the major UK plans MARKET VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS IN NORWAY AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Buildings and property 188.0 181.0 Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 4 355.7 3 622.2 Norwegian bonds and bond funds 1 843.8 1 567.2 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 110.3 98.8 Bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 640.2 784.3 Total market value of plan assets Norway (DNV GL Pension fund) 7 138.0 6 253.5 Actual return / (loss) on plan assets 960.9 (64.7) Capital contributed from DNV GL Group AS to the Norwegian Pension Fund, NOK 411 million, is reflected as other investments in the balance sheet for DNV GL Group AS. 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 08 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED PENSION COST – BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 129.0 137.1 39.2 40.4 5.1 5.7 Effect of plan changes/curtailments 0.0 0.0 (6.4) 0.0 0.0 11.2 Payroll tax 18.2 19.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 147.1 156.4 32.7 40.4 5.1 16.9 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (16.1) (17.8) 46.8 42.8 (1.7) (0.7) Payroll tax (2.3) (2.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (18.3) (20.3) 46.8 42.8 (1.7) (0.7) FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED NET PENSION ASSET (LIABILITIES) BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS – DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Market value of plan assets 7 138.0 6 253.5 75.9 69.9 2 185.9 1 881.5 Actuarial present value of pension liabilities (5 617.0) (5 697.9) (2 700.8) (2 498.4) (2 194.0) (1 850.8) Payroll tax (93.1) (97.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension asset (liabilities) 1 427.9 458.2 (2 624.9) (2 428.5) (8.0) 30.7 END OF SERVICE BENEFIT SCHEMES NORWEGIAN SCHEMES GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Net liability 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (184.9) (171.5) Hereof recorded in the balance sheet as: Net pension asset 1 427.9 458.2 0.0 0.0 56.0 81.5 Pension liabilities 0.0 0.0 (2 624.9) (2 428.5) (64.1) (50.8) Other non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (184.9) (171.5) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 125 08 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION The assumptions (discount rate, covered bonds) for calculation of the The assumptions (discount rate ) for calculation of the pension pension liabilities in Norway have been changed from 2.5% to 2.3%, liabilities in Germany have been changed from 2.0% to 1.3%. the real income in society has been reduced from 0.75% to 0.25%. The changed assumptions led to increased pension liabilities The changed assumptions led to reduced pension liabilities of NOK of NOK 222 million in 2019. 98 million in 2019. NOK 460.2 million net actuarial gain on defined benefit pension plans have been reflected in other comprehensive income / other equity in 2019. THE CALCULATIONS OF THE PENSION LIABILITIES ARE BASED ON THE NORWEGIAN SCHEMES2 GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES FOLLOWING ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS: 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Discount rate1 2.30% 2.50% 1.3% 2.0% 0.5-5.3% 0.5-7.0% Projected annual salary adjustment 2.25% 2.75% 2.5% 2.5% 2.0-5.0% 2.0-5.0% Projected annual increase in pension benefit 1.58% 1.75% 1.5% 1.5% 0.5-2.9% 0.5-2.3% Projected annual increase of Norwegian government basis pension 1.75% 2.25% Expected annual return on plan assets 2.30% 2.40% 2.0% 1.8% 0.5-5.3% 0.5-7.0% 1 Covered bond rate for Norwegian schemes. 2 The pension liability calculations for the Norwegian schemes are based on K2013BE (standard best estimate mortality table). The retirement age in the Group differs from country to country. from 65 to 67 years based on the year of birth of the plan members. In the most significant pension plans the ordinary retirement age is Some managers and employees are entitled to early retirement 67 years (Norway) and 65–67 years (Germany). To align with German before 67, with full pension rights earned. regulations, the major German pension plans are gradually shifting SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PENSION CALCULATIONS. The sensitivity reporting period, while keeping all other assumptions unchanged. analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible Sensitivities decrease (increase) defined benefit obligation year-end. changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the DISCOUNT RATE FUTURE SALARY INCREASES ASSUMPTIONS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE Impact on defined benefit obligation Norwegian plans 434.8 (493.4) (137.8) 169.3 Impact on defined benefit obligation German plans 196.0 (200.7) (21.6) 21.4 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 09 FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2019 2018 2019 2018 1 406.4 2 003.2 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 150.7 0.0 Group contribution received 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit (loss) from investment in associates (note 15) (5.6) (3.2) 13.1 0.0 Gain from sale of available for sale investments 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (Note 8) (26.8) (21.8) 13.6 3.6 Other interest received 49.8 37.2 6.5 0.8 Net interest income (expense) group companies (61.6) (16.9) 0.0 0.0 Interest expense for lease liabilities (66.8) 0.0 (17.1) (20.7) Other interest expenses (43.3) (53.8) (66.5) (103.9) Currency gains (losses) (143.2) (141.8) (5.4) (1.7) Other financial items (51.5) (73.5) 1 501.2 1 881.2 Net financial income (expenses) (349.1) (272.8) 10 FINANCIAL MARKET RISK The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, foreign A change in EUR exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead to currency risk, credit risk, interest rate risk and pension plan risk. a change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 45 million and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/4 million. LIQUIDITY RISK. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing basis. The liquidity forecasting considers planned investments CREDIT RISK. Receivable balances (NOK 4 634 million) are monitored in non-current assets, financing activities, working capital needs, on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad as well as projected cash flows from operations. debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. With respect to credit risk arising from the FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK. The Group has revenues and expenses other financial assets of the Group, which comprises cash and cash in approximately 65 currencies. Of these, six currencies (EUR, USD, equivalents (NOK 3 809 million) and certain derivative instruments NOK, GBP, CNY and KRW) make up for 76% of the total revenue. (NOK 54.8 million), the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from In many currencies the Group has a natural hedge through a balance default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to of revenue and expenses. The policy of the Group is to hedge significant the market value of these instruments. project exposures and future cash flows through forward exchange contracts. As part of the hedging strategy, the Group has nominal INTEREST RATE RISK. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes value of forward exchange contracts equivalent to NOK 2 377 million. in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s forward The Group does not apply hedge accounting and realized and exchange contracts and the multi-currency revolving credit facility. unrealized gains and losses are recognized in the income statement. Both risks are considered to have limited effect. Unrealized gain at year-end is NOK 54.8 million. PENSION PLAN RISK. The Group is exposed to volatility in the financial NOK 1 069 million of the NOK 2 377 million nominal value of forward market affecting the value of the pension plan assets. The Group exchange contracts is hedging of the settlement of the KEMA Laborais also exposed to interest rate volatility effecting the pension liabiltories in EUR. Net hedge gain of NOK 13.7 million has been reflected ities. In addition, inflation and real wages development will have in the sales gain from divestment of KEMA Laboratories in 2019. impact on the pension liabilities. A change in USD exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead to a change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 36 million and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/NOK 4 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 127 11 TAX DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2019 2018 2019 2018 Tax expense consists of: (0.0) 0.3 Norwegian income tax 82.8 1.0 1.0 0.5 Income tax outside Norway 531.8 476.8 1.0 0.7 Total tax payable 614.6 477.8 0.0 (9.9) Tax effect group contribution 36.9 48.2 20.5 (18.4) Change in deferred tax in Norway 35.4 (68.7) 0.0 0.0 Effect of changed tax rates 0.0 30.6 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (76.4) (328.0) 20.5 (18.4) Total change in deferred tax (41.0) (366.1) 21.5 (27.6) Tax expense 610.4 159.9 329.9 431.9 Tax on profit at 22% (23% in 2018) 436.8 63.5 Tax effect of: 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches 0.0 (1.0) 1.0 0.5 Non refundable foreign withholding taxes 61.0 37.2 0.0 0.0 Gain sale of shares (114.3) (0.2) (309.4) (460.7) Other permanent differences 41.3 67.6 0.0 0.8 Effect of changed tax rates 0.0 30.6 0.0 0.0 Changes of previous years taxes 152.9 (57.8) 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognized current year 21.8 14.2 0.0 0.0 Differences between tax rates in Norway and abroad 11.0 5.8 21.5 (27.6) Tax expense 610.4 159.9 Effective tax rate 31 % 58 % Net tax-reducing/tax-increasing temporary differences: 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets 1 355.2 945.8 12.7 0.0 Current assets 40.1 (115.6) 0.0 (80.6) Liabilities (2 620.2) (2 359.8) 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward (1 133.7) (1 667.6) 12.7 (80.6) Basis for deferred tax asset/liability (2 358.6) (3 197.1) 22 % 22 % Tax rates applied 17%–42% 17%–42% 0.0 17.7 Deferred tax asset 1 012.1 1 198.5 (2.8) 0.0 Deferred tax liability (373.5) (412.5) In addition to the tax loss to be carried forward of NOK 1 133.7 million NOK 109.9 million deferred tax cost related to actuarial gains above, the Group has accumulated tax-loss to be carried forward on defined benefit pension plans, has been reflected in other amounting to NOK 794 million. As the future utilization of these comprehensive income/ other equity, together with the related tax losses cannot be demonstrated, the related deferred tax asset actuarial gain. (DTA) of NOK 166 million, is not recognized in the balance sheet. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CUSTOMER OTHER CONTRACTS INTANGIBLE AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION GOODWILL AND RELATIONS TRADEMARKS ASSETS TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2018 9 075.9 2 740.4 558.5 2 354.6 14 729.4 Additions 35.3 0.0 0.0 356.1 391.4 Disposals (20.0) (2.9) 0.0 0.0 (22.9) Currency translation differences 49.3 16.0 3.0 7.2 75.5 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2018 9 140.5 2 753.5 561.5 2 718.0 15 173.4 Additions 0.0 0.0 0.0 279.9 279.9 Disposals from divestments (note 3) (188.5) (92.8) (130.5) (3.9) (415.6) Currency translation differences (60.8) (19.4) (3.6) (8.3) (92.1) Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2019 8 891.2 2 641.3 427.4 2 985.7 14 945.6 Accumulated amortization and impairment 1 January 2018 (359.3) (1 465.5) 0.0 (1 181.8) (3 006.6) Amortization 0.0 (251.3) 0.0 (261.7) (513.0) Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 5.6 0.0 0.0 5.6 Currency translation differences 0.0 (15.9) 0.0 (10.1) (26.0) Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2018 (359.3) (1 727.1) 0.0 (1 453.7) (3 540.1) Amortization 0.0 (233.8) 0.0 (186.7) (420.5) Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 (9.3) (9.3) Disposals from divestments (note 3) 0.0 72.8 0.0 0.0 72.8 Currency translation differences (0.3) 11.9 0.0 7.6 19.3 Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2019 (359.6) (1 876.2) 0.0 (1 642.0) (3 877.8) Net book value 31 December 2019 8 531.7 765.2 427.4 1 343.6 11 067.9 31 December 2018 8 781.2 1 026.4 561.5 1 264.3 11 633.4 Useful life 1–10 years Indef. 5–10 years Other intangible assets are amortized linearly, based on evaluation of useful life. Other intangible assets mainly consist of capitalized software development costs and acquired software. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested annually for impairment (note 13). Trademarks have an indefinite useful life and are not amortized but tested for impairment annually. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 129 13 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL Goodwill obtained through acquisitions is allocated to the Group’s The test is performed at year end. An impairment loss is recognized business areas and followed up and tested collectively for the if the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying group of cash-generating units that constitute the business area. amount of the cash generating unit. The cash-generating units correspond to DNV GL’s business areas Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance and Digital Solutions. Goodwill is allocated to the business areas as follows: AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2019 2018 Maritime 3 121.4 3 141.5 Oil & Gas 3 488.5 3 512.6 Energy 1 688.1 1 893.7 Business Assurance 185.8 185.4 Digital Solutions 47.9 47.9 Total goodwill 8 531.7 8 781.2 The Group has used value in use to determine recoverable amounts are approved by the Board of Directors and executive management. for the cash-generating units. Value in use is determined by using Budgets and long-term plans cover maximum a five year period. the discounted cash flow method. The expected cash flows are After the five years of explicit plans, the cash flows are stipulated based on the business areas’ budgets and long term plans, which by extrapolation. COST OF LONG-TERM KEY ASSUMPTIONS PER CAPITAL (WACC) NOMINAL CASH-GENERATING UNIT – POST TAX GROWTH RATE Maritime 7.5 % 1.5 % Oil & Gas 7.6 % 1.5 % Energy 7.6 % 1.5 % Business Assurance 7.5 % 1.5 % Digital Solutions 8.2 % 1.5 % SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS. In connection with impairment test of None of the other cash-generating units will be in an impairment goodwill, sensitivity analyses are carried out for each individual situation unless there are material changes in the key assumptions, cash-generating unit. For Energy a decrease in EBITA-margin and these changes are considered to be outside the probable of 4.4% or an increase in WACC of 5.5% will lead to impairment. outcome. For Oil & Gas a decrease in EBITA-margin of 1.9% or an increase in WACC of 1.5% will lead to impairment. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 14 FIXED ASSETS LAND, BUILDINGS OFFICE EQUIPAND OTHER MENT, FIXTURES RIGHT-OF-USE AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION PROPERTY AND FITTINGS ASSETS TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2018 1 701.2 4 126.0 0.0 5 827.3 Additions 117.2 189.2 0.0 306.3 Additions from business combinations 1 710.4 308.9 0.0 2 019.2 Disposals (47.5) (226.4) 0.0 (273.8) Currency translation differences 12.9 29.6 0.0 42.6 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2018 3 494.2 4 427.3 0.0 7 921.6 Recognition of right of use asset on initial application of IFRS 16 1 879.2 1 879.2 Total acquisition cost 1 January 2019 3 494.2 4 427.3 1 879.2 9 800.8 Additions 48.8 97.9 318.1 464.9 Disposals (8.6) (48.0) 0.0 (56.5) Disposals from divestments (note 3) (355.3) (1 085.6) 0.0 (1 441.0) Currency translation differences 7.9 14.7 25.2 47.8 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2019 3 187.0 3 406.4 2 222.5 8 815.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 January 2018 735.8 2 547.2 0.0 3 283.0 Depreciation 129.2 229.0 0.0 358.2 Impairment 58.2 493.8 0.0 552.0 Additions from business combinations 424.6 280.3 0.0 705.0 Disposals (9.1) (179.5) 0.0 (188.7) Currency translation differences 12.8 22.4 0.0 35.2 Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec. 2018 1 351.5 3 393.2 0.0 4 744.7 Depreciation 135.5 203.4 425.7 764.6 Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals (4.3) (34.8) 0.0 (39.0) Disposals from divestments (note 3) (111.9) (727.6) 0.0 (839.5) Currency translation differences 3.7 9.2 0.0 12.9 Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec. 2019 1 374.5 2 843.5 425.7 4 643.7 Net book value 31 December 2019 1 812.5 563.0 1 796.8 4 172.3 31 December 2018 2 142.7 1 034.3 0.0 3 176.9 15–67 years Useful life 3-15 years 1-15 years indefinite (land) Depreciation plan Linear Linear Linear The right-of-use assets consist of leased office premises. cash flows covering a 30-year period and no residual value. Due to a significant deterioration in the market conditions for High Discount ratec (WACC) was set to 7.9%. Power laboratory testing, an impairment loss related to Energy laboraThe disposals for 2018 are mainly related to sale of properties tories of NOK 552 million was recognized in 2018. The impairment loss and a plot of land in Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS, leading was based on the value in use estimated using the future expected to a gain of NOK 196.9 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 131 15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES DNV GL Group AS’ ownership (through DNV GL AS) in StormGeo Holding AS is 26.4%. The investment is recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. COMPANY SHARE OF LOSS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP ACQUISITION COST FOR THE YEAR BOOK VALUE StormGeo Holding AS Bergen 26% 145.5 (5.6) 182.3 Total investment in associates (5.6) 182.3 16 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Contract liabilities 2 241.8 2 559.5 Accrued bonus to employees 597.0 400.0 Accrued holiday allowances 428.4 428.5 Unrealized loss and interest related to forward contracts 0.0 80.5 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 1 227.1 1 140.7 Total other current liabilities 4 494.3 4 609.1 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 17 TRADE DEBTORS DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Gross trade debtors 4 633.7 4 600.6 Provision for bad debts (154.5) (174.6) Net trade debtors 4 479.2 4 426.0 18 OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Loans to employees 19.7 29.0 Other long-term receivables 384.2 366.9 Total other long-term receivables 403.8 395.9 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 133 19 PROVISIONS DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CLAIMS AND OTHER ONEROUS LEASE RESTRUCTURING TOTAL CONTINGENCIES PROVISIONS Balance at 1 January 2018 121.6 136.4 252.4 116.8 627.2 Currency translation differences 0.4 1.9 1.3 0.2 3.9 Additions 0.0 30.3 113.9 36.3 180.5 Utilization (5.8) (67.4) (220.4) (54.8) (348.4) Reversal (34.3) (3.7) (20.2) (1.8) (60.1) Balance at 31 December 2018 82.0 97.4 127.0 96.7 403.1 Current 82.0 27.0 115.3 40.2 264.6 Non-current 0.0 70.4 11.6 56.5 138.5 Recognition of impairment of right of use asset on initial application of IFRS 16 (97.4) (97.4) Balance at 1 January 2019 82.0 0.0 127.0 96.7 305.7 Currency translation differences (0.3) 0.0 1.4 (1.2) (0.2) Additions 34.1 0.0 76.7 16.5 127.2 Utilization (26.1) 0.0 (83.5) (11.1) (120.7) Reversal (41.5) 0.0 (12.4) 0.0 (53.8) Balance at 31 December 2019 48.2 0.0 109.2 100.8 258.2 Current 16.2 0.0 109.2 37.8 163.2 Non-current 32.0 0.0 0.0 63.0 95.0 Provisions for claims and contingencies reflect fair value of pending expected from sub-lease) under the onerous lease contracts. legal disputes from acquisitions and provisions for other pending The provisions have been discounted. On initial application legal disputes. of IFRS 16 1 January 2019, the onerous lease provisions were recognized as impairment of the right of use assets. The exposure for other claims classified as contingent liabilities, less likely than not to materialize, amounts to less than NOK 20 million. Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous contracts Onerous lease provisions 31 December 2018 represent best and lease contract dilapidations. estimates of the net lease obligations (net of incoming cash flows 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 20 LEASE LIABILITIES OVERVIEW OF FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE Within one year 409.9 After one year but not more than five years 1 148.2 More than five years 469.9 Future minimum lease 2 027.9 SUMMARY OF THE LEASE LIABILITIES IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At initial application 01.01.2019 1 976.7 New lease liabilities recognised in the year 244.9 Cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liability (420.9) Interest expense on lease liabilities 66.8 Reassessment of the discount rate on previous lease liabilities 65.7 Currency exchange differences 27.2 Total lease liabilities at 31 December 2019 1 960.4 Non-current lease liabilities 1 550.5 Current lease liabilities 409.9 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 135 21 CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS DNV GL Group AS has the following cash pool systems: BALANCE OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 19 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIES (MILL NOK) Danske Bank NOK 200 All DNV GL subsidiaries in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, 633 Finland, UK, Ireland, Faroe Islands, and the Baltics Deutsche Bank EUR 20 Several subsidiaries in Europe 1 182 Bank of America Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in US 236 Bank of America Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in Canada 19 DNB ASA NOK 50 Some of legacy DNV legal entities 135 Handelsbanken Some DNV GL subsidiaries in Sweden, Poland, Finland, Estonia, 29 Latvia, Lithuania and Germany Citibank – AED Some DNV GL legal entities in Middle East 4 Citibank – AUD Some DNV GL legal entities in Australia 12 Citibank – USD (UAE) Some DNV GL legal entities in Middle East 69 Citibank – USD (SG) USD 13 Some DNV GL legal entities in Singapore and South East Asia 34 Citibank – SGD Some DNV GL legal entities in Singapore and South East Asia 27 Citibank – EUR Some legacy DNV legal entities in the Euro-countries (27) Balances on bank accounts participating in the cash pooling systems are considered as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis other Group participants. Cash pool balances 31 December are included in Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet at 31 December. The following DNV GL Group AS’ wholly owned subsidiaries have the following local credit facilities guaranteed by DNV GL Group AS or DNV GL AS through parent company guarantees: DRAWN OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 19 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIY (MILL) Citibank China CNY 50 Det Norske Veritas China Company Ltd Undrawn Citibank India INR 40 + INR 30 DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Ltd Undrawn Citibank India INR 200 Garrad Hassan India Private Ltd Undrawn Citibank Korea KRW 17 000 DNV GL Korea Ltd Undrawn Citibank Brazil BRL 15 DNV GL Classificacao Certificacao e Consultoria Brasil Ltda BRL 10.1 Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 22 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS DNV GL Group AS has an agreement for a NOK 1 000 million multidispose of material assets. The credit agreement requires that currency revolving credit facility with Handelsbanken Norwegian DNV GL Group AS on a consolidated basis maintains a certain branch of Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The facility expires in May minimum level of equity and that the net interest bearing debt does 2022 and was undrawn per year-end 2019. The credit agreement not exceed a set level relative to total equity. DNV GL Group AS supporting this facility has certain covenants, including a negative was well within all covenants at year-end. pledge clause, and also restrict DNV GL Group AS’ ability to freely 23 LIABILITIES GROUP COMPANIES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 Non-current liabilities 2 100.0 2 100.0 Group internal loan from Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 2 100.0 2 100.0 463.8 570.8 Group internal loans from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 2 563.8 2 670.8 Total loans from group companies 2 100.0 2 100.0 Current liabilities 0.0 0.0 Group contribution 167.6 209.4 700.0 0.0 Dividend accrued 700.0 0.0 2 839.9 2 727.5 Debt to cash-pool participants 185.8 380.8 67.7 33.5 Group internal accounts payable 60.4 10.1 3 607.6 2 761.0 Total current liabilities group companies 1 113.8 600.3 6 171.4 5 431.8 Total liabilities group companies 3 213.8 2 700.3 24 SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERS The share capital of DNV GL Group AS consist of 1 000 000 shares, with par value of NOK 100 each. The company is owned 100% by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, with business office in Bærum, Norway. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 137 25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office building in DNV GL AS has a service agreement with the related party Stavanger, Norway with the related party DNV GL Pension fund, DNV GL Pension fund for management and administrative the rent expensed in 2019 amounts to NOK 7.3 million. services. The revenue recognized for these services in 2019 is NOK 0.3 million. DNV GL AS has a management services agreement for the delivery of general management and administrative services with the related party Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (100 % shareholder). The revenue recognized for these services in 2019 is NOK 7.5 million. 26 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 31 DECEMBER 2019 31 DECEMBER 2018 DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OTHER INSTRUMENTS OTHER AT FAIR VALUE AMORTIZED FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL AT FAIR VALUE LOANS AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION THROUGH P&L COSTS THROUGH P&L LIABILITIES THROUGH P&L RECEIVABLES FOR SALE LIABILITIES ASSETS Non-current assets Equity investments 27.4 27.4 Loans to employees 19.7 29.0 Other long-term receivables 384.2 366.9 Current assets Cash and bank deposits 3 809.0 2 630.6 Trade debtors 4 479.2 4 426.0 Other debtors 1 005.4 857.4 Forward contracts 12.7 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-current Other non-current liabilities 358.7 292.5 Current Trade creditors 427.8 544.7 Overdrafts 22.0 30.7 Forward contracts 80.5 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 GUARANTEES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 18 0.0 0.0 Guarantee commitments not included in the accounts 367.6 304.6 These guarantees are not secured by mortgage. currency revolving credit facility and a NOK 5 000 million term loan Guarantee commitments are mainly related to customer contracts with a bank syndicate consisting of Danske Bank, Handelsbanken entered into by DNV GL Group subsidiary companies. Norwegian branch of Svenska Handelsbanken AB and Nordea. The facilities are secured with a pledge in properties belonging The 100% shareholder of DNV GL Group AS, Det Norske Veritas to Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS. Holding AS, has an agreement for a NOK 1 500 million multi28 IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW STANDARDS ISSUED IFRS 15 REVENUES FROM CONTRACTS AND IFRS 9 FINANCIAL The Group measured the lease liabilities at the present value of the INSTRUMENTS.The Group has initially applied IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 remaining lease payments, discounted using the Group’s incremental from 1 January 2018. The implementation of the new IFRS standards borrowing rate 1 January 2019. The Group also recognised right-ofhave no material impact on DNV GL’s consolidated financial use assets on a lease-by-lease basis measured at an amount equal statements and no implementation effects have been recognized to the lease liability. in 2018. A lease liability of NOK 1 977 million and a right-of-use (ROU) asset of NOK 1 880 million was recognized 1 January 2019. The difference IFRS 16 LEASES. At 1 January 2019, DNV GL Group implemented between the lease liability and the ROU asset being recognized relates IFRS 16 applying the modified retrospective approach with no to the derecognition of former onerous lease contract provisions of restatement of comparable figures for 2018. At the date of initial NOK 97 million which are now presented as impairment of ROU asset. application of IFRS 16, the Group recognised a lease liability for leases previously classified as operating leases after IAS 17 Leases. See note 14 for right-of-use assets and note 20 for lease liabilities. EFFECT OF IMPLEMENTING IFRS 16 31 DEC. 19 31 DEC. 19 Deferred tax asset 17.3 Other equity (54.4) Tangible fixed assets 1 796.8 Non-current liabilities 1 486.2 Total assets 1 814.0 Current liabilities 382.2 Total equity and liabilities 1 814.0 29 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS During the first quarter of 2020, the spread of the Coronavirus the impact on employees, customers and business is assessed (COVID-19) has impacted an increasing number of countries with continuously and necessary mitigations are and will be implemented increasing severity. In March 2020, the World Health Organization as required. The full extent, consequences and duration of the (WHO) declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting operational and economic The COVID-19 outbreak is in an early state. The impact of the impact for DNV GL cannot be predicted at the time of publication outbreak for DNV GL for the first two months was limited and varies of the DNV GL Group consolidated financial statements for 2019. among the business areas. The situation is monitored closely and ANNUAL REPORT 2019 139 Independent auditor’s report TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF DNV GL GROUP AS REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it OPINION. We have audited the financial statements of DNV GL Group AS, which exists. comprise: Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence The financial statements of the parent company DNV GL Group AS (the Company), the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019, the As part of an audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standincome statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes ards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, and We also: The consolidated financial statements of DNV GL Group AS and its subsidiaries identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial state(the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at ments, whether due to fraud or error. We design and perform audit procedures 31 December 2019, the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a idated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. In our opinion: The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and regulations. obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for The accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s position of the Company as at 31 December 2019, and its financial performance or the Group’s internal control. and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with simplified application of international accounting standards according to section 3-9 of the Norwegian evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableAccounting Act. ness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2019, and its financial basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with simplified material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast signifiapplication of international accounting standards according to section 3-9 of the cant doubt on the Company and the Group’s ability to continue as a going Norwegian Accounting Act. concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial BASIS FOR OPINION. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including InterOur conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date national Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Company and the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial as required by laws and regulations, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsistatements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements bilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. fair presentation. obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial inforOTHER INFORMATION. Management is responsible for the other information. The mation of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an other information comprises information in the annual report, except the financial opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the statements and our auditor’s report thereon. direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and responsible for our audit opinion. we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to We communicate with the Board of Directors regarding, among other matters, read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS nothing to report in this regard.. OPINION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT. Based on our audit of the RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director presented in the Board of Directors’ report concerning the financial statements, (Management) are responsible for the preparation in accordance with law and the going concern assumption and the proposed allocation of the result is consistregulations, including fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance ent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. with simplified application of international accounting standards according to the Norwegian Accounting Act section 3-9, and for such internal control as management OPINION ON REGISTRATION AND DOCUMENTATION . Based on our audit of determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on AssurIn preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis has fulfilled its duty to produce a proper and clearly set out registration and of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease documentation of the Company’s accounting information in accordance with the operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. law and bookkeeping standards and practices generally accepted in Norway. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, Oslo, 1 April 2020 Øyvind Skorgevik and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a KPMG AS State Authorised Public Accountant high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Independent auditor’s assurance report TO THE READERS OF DNV GL GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2019 We have been engaged by the management of DNV GL GROUP AS (‘DNV GL’) to Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles provide limited assurance in respect of the sustainability reporting in the Annual Report of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality of DNV GL. Included in the scope is the following sections; What is important to us, and professional behavior. Sustainability, Value to customers, Value to employees, Value to society and GRI index 2019 (hereafter sustainability reporting 2019). The scope excludes future LIMITED ASSURANCE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2019. The procedures events or the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of DNV GL selected depend on our understanding of the sustainability reporting and other and information contained in webpages referred to in the sustainability reporting engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material 2019 unless specified in this report. misstatements are likely to arise. Our procedures for limited assurance on the sustainability reporting 2019 included, amongst others: OUR CONCLUSION. Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability to, the matters outlined in this report. issues for DNV GL in the reporting period; We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at corporate level to provide a basis for our conclusions. concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the Based on the limited assurance procedures performed and the evidence implementation of these across the business; obtained, as described below, nothing has come to our attention, to indicate Enquiries to management to gain an understanding of DNV GL’s processes that the sustainability reporting 2019 is not presented, in all material respects, for determining material issues for key stakeholder groups; in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Standards; Core option. Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing the information, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating MANAGEMENT OF DNV GL’S RESPONSIBILITY. The management of DNV GL is the data in the sustainability reporting 2019; responsible for the preparation and presentation of the sustainability reporting Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test basis, 2019 in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Standards; Core option. in order to determine the reliability of the sustainability reporting 2019; It is important to view the information in the sustainability reporting 2019 in the Assessment of the GRI index; context of these criteria. Reading the sustainability reporting 2019 to determine whether there are These responsibilities include establishing such internal controls as management any material misstatements of fact or material inconsistencies based on our determines are necessary to enable the preparation of the information in the understanding obtained through our assurance engagement. sustainability reporting 2019 that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engageOUR RESPONSIBILITY. Our responsibility is to provide a limited assurance conclusion ment is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained on DNV GL’s preparation and presentation of the sustainability reporting 2019. had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): “Assurance Engagements other than PURPOSE OF OUR REPORT. In accordance with the terms of our engagement, this Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International assurance report has been prepared for DNV GL for the purpose of assisting the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. management in determining whether DNV GL’s limited assurance sustainability ISAE 3000 requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited information is prepared and presented in accordance with the GRI Standards; assurance about whether the information in the sustainability reporting 2019 is Core option and for no other purpose or in any other context. free from material misstatement. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Oslo, 1 April 2020 Mona Irene Larsen Anette Rønnov standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. KPMG AS State Authorized Director We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of Public Accountant the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics CONTACT INFORMATION PUBLISHED BY: SUBSCRIPTION: FEEDBACK: CONCEPT AND DESIGN: Group Communications, You can subscribe to annual Please let us know your views or DNV GL Group AS and half-year reports from comments on this report by email fasett.no Editor: Ellen Skarsgård DNV GL on dnvgl.com/ to communications@dnvgl.com publications/annual-report or write to us at: DNV GL, Group Communications, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. Sturlason AS Polyfoto – Oslo: Shutterstock: pages 12, 13, 30, 31, DNV GL / Holger Martens: pages 94, 56, 58 pages 4, 85, 96 32, 36, 37, 38, 38, 40, 41, 45, 51, 89 DNV GL / Elin Eike Worren: pages 14, 60, 66, 74, 79, 82 Johs Bøe: pages 22–23, 104–105 Offset by Shutterstock: page 40 DNV GL / Max Emanuelson: pages 3, 88, 106 Courtesy thyssenkrupp Getty Images: cover, pages 6, DNV GL / (made by Spice VR): page 24 (probehead): page 28 13, 18, 34, 42, 45, 48, 53, 55 DNV GL / Damir Cvetojevic: page 86 Red Cross: page 93 DNV GL / Jörg Autermann: pages 46, 65 DNV GL / Seung Young Kang : pages 12, 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 141 GRI index This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, core level. The report is independently assured by KPMG and their independent auditors assurance report concludes that the report is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the core level of the GRI Standards. This report also constitutes our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GOVERNANCE 102–1 Name of the organization Company 3 www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/ 102–18 Governance structure 100 corporate-governance.html Activities, brands, products, Company 3 102–2 and services Business areas at a glance 12–13 102–3 Location of headquarters Group structure 10–11 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Company 3 102–40 List of stakeholder groups What is important to us 16–17 102–4 Location of operations Group structure 10–11 Collective bargaining 102–41 People > Approach 68 Group Structure 10–11 agreements 102–5 Ownership and legal form Group information 119 Identifying and selecting 102–42 What is important to us 16–17 stakeholders Company 3 102–6 Markets served Business areas at a glance 12–13 What is important to us 16–17 25–45 Approach to stakeholder Markets 102–43 Customer satisfaction 56–57 engagement 66 People DNV GL at a glance 3 102–7 Scale of the organization Key figures 8–9 What is important to us 16–17 12–13 Key topics and concerns Business areas at a glance 102–44 Customer satisfaction 56–57 raised 58 Health and safety Information on employees 102–8 People > Performance 70–73 and other workers 102–9 Supply chain Sustainable procurement 86–89 REPORTING PRACTICE 102–10 Significant changes to Group structure 10–11 Entities included in the consol102–45 Financial performance 106 the organization and its Significant changes idated financial statements supply chain in Group structure 119 66 Defining report content and People 102–46 What is important to us 16–19 topic boundaries Precautionary Principle 102–11 Environment and climate 84 102–47 List of material topics What is important to us 16–19 or approach 15 102–48 Restatements of information Health and safety 58 102–12 External initiatives Partnerships 90–93 102–49 Changes in reporting What is important to us 14–17 102–13 Membership of associations Partnerships 90–93 102–50 Reporting period GRI index 143 102–51 Date of most recent report GRI index 143 STRATEGY Statement from senior 102–52 Reporting cycle Annual N/A 102–14 CEO statement 4–5 decision-maker Contact point for questions 102–53 Contact information 141 regarding the report ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Claims of reporting in accord102–54 Sustainability section 142 ance with the GRI Standards Values, principles, standards, 102–16 Ethics and compliance 74–78 and norms of behaviour 102–55 GRI content index GRI Index 142–143 102–56 External assurance Assurance statement 140–141 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Omissions from the GRI Standards Reporting period and format 1 205–2 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. The reason for the 2 403–10 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. DNV GL The reporting period for the information provided is omission is a lack of information on employee category and monitors the work-related ill health of employees, the 2019 calendar year. Our sustainability reporting is region for our communication of anti-corruption policies but we have chosen not to report on this fully. integrated into our Annual Report. The Annual Report and procedures. As 98% and 97% of all employees across for 2018 was made available on 5 April 2019 on the categories and regions have completed the mandatory company website. Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption and Antitrust e-learning respectively, we will not register more details. TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE MANAGEMENT APPROACH OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Explanation of the material What is important to us, and 14–17, Occupational health and safety 103-1 403-1 Health and safety 58-65 topic and its boundary in each topic specific chapter 48, 53, management system The management approach What is important to us, and 56, 58, Hazard identification, risk assess103-2 403-2 Health and safety 58-65 and its components in each topic specific chapter 66, 74, ment and incident investigation 79, 82, Evaluation of the management What is important to us, and 103-3 86 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and safety 58-65 approach in each topic specific chapter Health and safety 403-102 Work-related injuries 58-65 *Partially reported ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value 201-1 Economic contribution 79 generated and distributed TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training 404-1 People 70–73 ANTI-CORRUPTION per year per employee Communication and training Percentage of employees 404-3 receiving regular performance People 70–73 205-21 about anti-corruption Ethics and compliance 74–78 policies and procedures and career development reviews ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Legal actions for anti-competThe Executive Committee 22–23 Diversity of governance bodies 206-1 itive behaviour, anti-trust, and Ethics and compliance 75 405-1 People > Performance 70 and employees 104–105 monopoly practices Board of Directors’ profiles EMISSIONS NON-DISCRIMINATION 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment and climate 82–85 Incidents of discrimination People 66 406-1 and corrective actions taken Ethics and compliance 74 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 Environment and climate 82–85 GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 305-3 Environment and climate 82–85 GHG emissions Negative social impacts in the 414-2 Sustainable procurement 86–89 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment and climate 83 supply chain and actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE CUSTOMER PRIVACY Non-compliance with environSubstantiated complaints Data privacy and security 307-1 Environment and climate 83 53–55 mental laws and regulations 418-1 concerning breaches of customer Ethics and compliance > 77 privacy and losses of customer data Performance SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Negative environmental Non-compliance with laws and 308-2 impacts in the supply chain Sustainable procurement 86–89 419-1 regulations in the social and Ethics and compliance 76 and actions taken economic area EMPLOYMENT New employee hires and 401-1 People > Performance 70–73 employee turnover ANNUAL REPORT 2019 143 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER HEADQUARTERS: ABOUT DNV GL DNV GL AS We are the independent expert in risk management and quality assurance. NO-1322 Høvik, Norway Driven by our purpose, to safeguard life, property and the environment, Tel: +47 67 57 99 00 we empower our customers and their stakeholders with facts and reliable www.dnvgl.com insights so that critical decisions can be made with confidence. As a trusted voice for many of the world’s most successful organizations, we use our knowledge to advance safety and performance, set industry benchmarks, and inspire and invent solutions to tackle global transformations. dnvgl.com The trademarks DNV GL®, DNV®, the Horizon Graphic and Det Norske Veritas® are the properties of companies in the Det Norske Veritas group. All rights reserved. ©DNV GL 04/2020 Design: Fasett
