Annual Report 2019 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA We are We are helping shape today's world. Our products touch many RHI areas of modern life. From steel, Magnesita cement and glass to copper and aluminium. From the bridges that connect us, to the vehicles that cross them. The work we do may be hidden from view, but the value we add is considerable. Contents CE0's Innovation Sustainability review Page 10 Page 30 Page 62 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements 01 Group highlights 74 Chairman’s introduction to Corporate 122 Consolidated Statement of Financial 02 At a glance Governance Position 04 Investment case 76 Corporate Governance statement 123 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 06 How we create value 84 Board of Directors 124 Consolidated Statement of 08 Chairman’s statement 88 Executive Management Team Comprehensive Income 10 CEO’s review 90 Nomination Committee report 125 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 13 Strategic framework 92 Corporate Sustainability Committee report 126 Consolidated Statement of Changes 14 Competitiveness 93 Audit Committee report in Equity 18 Business model 96 Remuneration Committee report 128 Notes to the Consolidated Financial 22 Markets 100 Directors’ remuneration policy Statements 2019 26 People 118 Annual Report on remuneration 204 Company Financial Statements of 30 Innovation 110 Compliance with the Dutch Civil Code RHI Magnesita N.V. 34 Solutions portfolio 206 Notes to the Company Financial 36 Market overview Statements 2019 40 Operational review Other Information 46 Key performance indicators 48 Financial review 215 Independent Auditor’s report 53 Risk management approach 225 Alternative performance measures 60 RHI Magnesita stakeholder index (“APMs”) 62 Sustainability Governance 226 Shareholder information 65 Climate & Environment 69 People & Communities B R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Group Financial highlights highlights Revenue Adjusted EBITA €2.9bn €408m 2019 €2.9bn 2019 €408m 2018 €3.1bn1 20181 €448m Adjusted EBITA margin Working capital intensity2 14.0% 18.3% 2019 14.0% 2019 18.3% 20181 14.3% 2018 15.4% Net debt/adjusted EBITDA3 Available liquidity5 1.2x €1.1bn Innovation 2019 1.2x A portfolio based on innovative technologies and digitalisation 20184 1.3x Read more on page 30 Operational highlights 0.28 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIF) €64m Spend on technology 2.2% of annual Improvement from 0.43 in 2018 revenues See our Strategic priorities in action €70-80m €90m 13 Run rate cost savings by 2022 Synergies realised since 2017 identified for the Production Page Optimisation plan and Sales strategies 1 On a constant currency basis. 2 Measured as a percentage of last three months of annualised revenue. 3 Net debt comprises of total debt less cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. 4 Adjusted to include the impact of IFRS 16 leases to improve comparability between periods. 5 Available liquidity comprises cash, cash equivalent, and €600 million of undrawn committed facilities. 01 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA At a Refractory products are used in all the world's high-temperature glance industrial processes, exceeding 1,200°C in a wide range of industries including steel, cement, non-ferrous metals and glass. Sectors Steel Industrial The Steel Division provides its customers The Industrial Division provides a range of products and services for steel production, products and services for the cement, lime, consisting of refractories (basic and non-basic non-ferrous metals and glass industries as well as mixes and bricks), machinery, flow control the environment, energy and chemicals ( EEC ) systems, and broader solutions. sector, and broader solutions. Revenue (Steel Division): Revenue (Industrial Division): €2,018m (2018: €2,253 million) 1 €904m (2018: €873 million)1 Gross profit of Gross profit of €467m representing 23.1% gross margin €250m representing 27.7% gross margin (2018: 24.2% gross margin)1 (2018: 24.2% gross margin)1 People, The people and culture agenda is built on attracting the best talent, creating a culture ready Culture & for transformation, and further developing its people. This is underpinned by its leaders, who are critical to driving the long-term and Sustainability sustainable success of RHI Magnesita. Read more on pages 28 and 29 1 Adjusted for 2019 foreign exchange rates. 2 Employees at 31 December 2019. 02 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Where Optimally positioned to provide products, services and solutions for clients around the globe. we operate Headquarters Technology hubs Raw materials production Finished refractory products production Raw materials and finished refractory products production Countries shipped to Employees2 Sales offices Revenue split by geography 125+ 13,650+ 70+ Europe 26% North America 24% APAC 21% Finished goods sites Combined sites Raw material sites South America 16% 19 8 5 MEA-CIS 13% 03 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Clear and compelling investment case 1 2 Opportunity for Strong cash further growth in conversion and refractories margin robust balance sheet Stable and growing refractories margin, at 9% in 2019 Strong cash flow generation operating free cash flow of €359 million. Further €95-115 million EBITA upside by 2022 from Robust balance sheet with leverage at 1.2x net debt fast‑payback management self help to adjusted EBITDA Additional margin contribution from backward integration, Capital flexibility to pursue both growth albeit varying with prevailing raw materials pricing and shareholder returns (long‑term margin of at least 2%) 04 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 3 4 Strong competitive Growth opportunity position from new markets, solutions offering and M&A Market leader with a global footprint and a local for local Opportunity to grow materially in under-represented strategy with 15% global market share (30% ex-China). markets such as India and China Clear market leadership in Americas, Europe and Middle East Technical leadership, with opportunity to develop Greater penetration of value-added solutions offering technology and digital solutions across regions to customers, improving margins and retention and portfolio Low-cost, high-quality backward integration providing Opportunity for further consolidation through M&A security of supply of raw materials and unique solutions for the market, alongside high return on assets 05 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA How we As the leading company in the refractory industry, RHI Magnesita create has developed a resilient business value model to create value sustainably for all our stakeholders across the world. Strengths and differentiators Largest global Full suite of products Skilled and footprint and services motivated people Benefiting from scale and Delivering value through The knowledge, proximity to customers more than refractory competency and customer through our unique global materials to address our focus of c.13,650 employees footprint with more than 70 customers' needs, such as will be the key to driving sales offices worldwide and digital services, logistical long-term success. services customers in more services and technical than 125 countries around services. the world. Strong relationships Financial capital Backward with stakeholders Our focus on working capital integration We operate with integrity, management and cash With an integrated value honesty and reliability generation remains strong; chain, RHI Magnesita on a daily basis, ensuring we continue to be well benefits from the security respectful relationships financed with high liquidity of supply of high quality amongst employees and a robust balance sheet. raw materials. and with all customers, suppliers, shareholders and business partners. 06 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Continuous research & development Increase competitiveness Prepare the production network for the trade environment of the next decade Reduce cost and increase efficiency Digitalising High-quality raw the refractory materials and world products Digital solutions We focus on driving through 4.0 will allow value at customer sites our customers to track and optimise refractory performance Value creation Meeting customer Maintaining demands market share in core markets Providing bespoke Maintaining market share solutions and services to through our solutions our customers through business model, applied R&D delivering client benefits Increasing and client cost savings market share in growth markets A local for local strategy for profitable growth in China and India, and further establish our market position 07 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Chairman’s statement My report to you in 2018 covered your Company’s first full year since we gained a listing in the Premium Segment of the London Stock Market 2019 has, in many aspects, been in late 2017. In that report I outlined our strategic priorities, how we were committing to a year of considerable progress for sustainability in the context of climate change, our commitment to cultural diversity and the RHI Magnesita, it has had (and continues) wider governance agenda as well as our obligations to you, our shareholders. Whilst I have to navigate in a most challenging global heard it said that business is a journey without market environment. It’s a credit to end, it is only appropriate that my annual report candidly reviews how we have performed in the the management that they have past 12 months in these critically important areas. continued to successfully execute 2019 in summary Let me start my report to you by reviewing the the long-term strategy. integration progress of RHI and Magnesita, two leading refractory companies with headquarters in different continents and which were brought together only in November 2017. In 2019, we completed the planned and successful final phase of this integration. Critically, this has resulted in one integrated management team and delivered €90 million of cost savings. Herbert Cordt As you read our 2019 Annual Report, you will Chairman of the note that whilst 2019 has, in many aspects, been a year of considerable progress for RHI Magnesita, Board of Directors it has had (and continues) to navigate in a most challenging global market environment. It’s a credit to the management that they have continued to successfully execute the long-term strategy. We have retained our position as the technology leaders in the refractory industry and reinforced our market position. With these global headwinds our financial performance fell short of our original plans, however, we delivered a resilient performance of profitability and free cash flow generation. Also against this background, we remain confident that our strategy and growth plans will deliver superior returns to our shareholders and all stakeholders. Strategic priorities Our strategy remains based on three major pillars: • Competitiveness: we will continue with our programme that optimises our supply chain from the mine to the market, improving service levels and cost-effectiveness. • Business model: we will enhance our business by driving the development and implementation of innovative product and customer solutions with an increased focus on energy and emission reduction. • Markets: we aim to maintain our leadership position in core product and geographic markets that are growing. You can read more about our strategies and priorities on page 13. 08 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Sustainability during 2021. It is also worth mentioning that Despite the Group's strong financial position, RHI Magnesita is the leading global supplier in the Executive Management Team, 22% are the uncertainty relating to COVID-19 means that of refractory products, services and solutions also female. As a truly international business we alongside the efficiency measures we are taking essential in the production of Steel, Cement, have plants in 15 counties. Another measure of to preserve cash, the Board has decided not to Glass and Copper and other critical products our diversity is reflected in the 37 different recommend the payment of a final dividend for that are the basic infrastructure materials nationalities we have in senior management 2019. This decision will be reviewed later in the indispensable for the needs of 21st century life. roles. In 2019, we also launched our global year once the outlook becomes clearer. The Not only are we committed to a material reduction Diversity & Inclusion Strategy, focusing on Board believes that this is an appropriate and in our own emissions, but perhaps of greater gender, international representation and prudent measure to take as it seeks to preserve importance is our ability to assist our customers, generation management. You can read further RHI Magnesita's strong liquidity, cashflow and largely significant energy users themselves, that information on our diversity goals on page 71. financial position through these uncertain times. by adopting our innovative products and systems The Directors are also constantly striving to Share buybacks remain as an integral part of they can also reduce their own energy improve their pratical knowledge of our business the Company’s capital allocation policy and our consumption and emissions. and its operations. This in turn adds to their ability approach to total shareholder returns. The Board The climate crisis is the defining challenge of to question and challenge the executive both in regularly considers whether it is appropriate to our times and it continues to be a focus of your strategic and performance terms. Part of this commence the purchase of RHI Magnesita’s Company. The emission reduction plans we knowledge building is our programme of site own shares and in doing so takes into account, have in place will drive down our CO2 emissions visits. In 2019, the Board travelled to Brumado and amongst other factors, investment opportunities, Scope 1, 2 and 3 (raw materials) by 15% by 2025, Contagem in Brazil. The visit also gave Directors the prevailing value of the company, its share compared to 2018. Additionally, I was pleased to the opportunity to meet local management, plant price, dividend, liquidity and cash resources, etc. note that our first submission to the CDP, (formerly employees, tour a mine and the R&D centre. In This policy will continue going forward. the Carbon Disclosure Project), where the addition, the Directors visited a major customer, one of Brazil’s largest steel mills. At first-hand, Conclusion Company received a C rating. the Directors experienced the culture of these Your Company is a truly international company, The establishment of our own Corporate operations and the local opportunities with operations in 39 countries and in all five Sustainability Committee ( CSC ) will provide and challenges. continents. In reflecting on the characteristics that a major input to the Board’s deliberations on this I believe are essential in building a world class and critical matter and is a further demonstration of The Board high performing company, I would suggest the our commitment. A full report on the work of There were several Board changes in 2019. Firstly, following must be an integral part of its makeup. the CSC can be found on page 92. we said goodbye to Fersen Lambranho, who • Committed, talented and diverse employees stepped down from the Board on 21 January 2019. Corporate Governance and Diversity I’d like to use this opportunity to thank Fersen for with high integrity. Whilst my report to you covers 2019, I am of his significant contribution. • Market leading and innovative products course conscious of the review published by the designed to improve the efficiency of our Financial Reporting Council in January 2020 As mentioned above, following the 2019 Annual customers whilst contributing to improving and its call for improved governance from all plcs. General Meeting ( AGM ) Fiona Paulus and the environment of the world in which we live. As still a young member of the London Stock Janet Ashdown were appointed as new Exchange and despite having less than 1% of our Non-Executive Directors. • Have a global presence where we can be a employees based in the UK, we are committed to ‘local’ supplier to our global customers. I would also like to record the appointment of these principles which we believe will indeed Ian Botha, who joined the Company in April 2019 • Possess a culture that is committed to promote sustainability and trust in business. as Chief Financial Officer and who was also continual success over the long term for These matters are reported in depth, within our appointed as an Executive Director at the 2019 our shareholders and all our stakeholders. Corporate Governance report on pages 74 to 121. AGM. Ian has moved with his family from South Africa to live in Vienna, and has already I believe that RHI Magnesita is such a company But let me now touch on some of the key matters. armed with a strategy that will deliver. contributed much to the development of During the year I was delighted to welcome the Company. I could hardly conclude my report to you without two new Directors to the Board, namely Janet mentioning COVID-19, where near-term concern Ashdown and Fiona Paulus. Both brought new Shareholder returns remains high and financial impact uncertain. skills and experience (see page 87) to the Board As I have said, the Company has not been table and now play a significant part in the Board’s immune from the difficult and challenging global This too will pass. affairs. Both are contributing to our governance markets and trading conditions, particularly in the Thank you for your support. programme and as members of our committees second half of 2019, and now with the uncertainty and Janet also chairs our newly established of COVID-19. However our margins and cash Corporate Sustainability Committee. flows have remained resilient and we remain Herbert Cordt As a result of Janet and Fiona’s appointments, confident that our strategy and focus will, in the Chairman of the Board of Directors your Board now has 23% female Directors long term, deliver attractive shareholder returns. (excluding the employee nominated Directors), and we have plans to increase this to over a third 09 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA CEO’s Review Q&A What have been the main highlights What impact did this have on the Group’s The Group has significant liquidity of in 2019? financial performance? €1.1 billion, comprising cash and undrawn committed facilities. In 2019, we completed the final phases of RHI Magnesita’s revenues were 6.5% lower the integration between RHI and Magnesita, in 2019 at €2,922 million. This reduction is On a divisional basis, our Steel business, bringing two former competitors together primarily attributable to lower refractory which represents approximately 70% of to establish the global market leader in the volumes from the Steel Division, as a result the Group’s revenue, saw revenue decline refractory industry. We have continued to of inventory destocking at customers’ sites by 10.4% from the prior year at constant invest in research and development to amid a weak steel production market currency as a result of the lower customer create products, systems and solutions that environment. Gross profit was €717 million, demand. This was partly offset by our will revolutionise production processes down from €756 million on a constant Industrial Division, which has continued at 1200° C and beyond. We have also currency basis in 2018 mostly due to lower to perform well, with revenue up by 3.6% maintained our focus of developing raw material prices, weaker end-markets, on a constant currency basis, driven by a integrated solutions and services which exiting the Iranian market and lower fixed particularly strong year in the Cement will provide a tremendous benefit for the cost absorption. Gross margin, however, segment. efficiency of our customers’ processes. increased by 30bps to 24.5%, supported What is the Company’s strategy? by the implementation of the Price Our ambition is clear: We want to leverage As outlined in the Capital Markets Day Management Programme introduced in our position as the leading refractory player in November 2019, our strategy is built April 2019, which further contributed to globally, and we believe that innovation and around three key pillars: increasing EBITA, and a €15 million benefit from the technology will be the enabler for us to competitiveness through cost reduction, turnaround of the previously identified achieve this in a sustainable way. enhancing our business model and driving operational issues in 3 of the 4 plants. A significant focus for us in 2019 was While lower raw material prices in the market leadership and growth in new sustainability. We made good progress year reduced the profit contribution from markets. Delivering our strategy relies towards our targets set out in 2018, but backward integration, this aspect of our on our greatest asset: our people, who are there is still a lot more to do. During 2019, business model continued to be financially the true value creators of the company. we accelerated our climate action plan. beneficial as well as strategically important. Our culture roll-out programme with over We increased our CO2 emissions target 60 culture champions is focused on Benefiting from the synergies in 2019, and from a 10% reduction to a 15% reduction bringing them even closer together. additional efficiency improvements, the by 2025, extending it to include emissions Group continued to grow its refractory The Company has reviewed its capacity from the processing of raw materials in our margin in the year, rising 60bps to 9.0%. and global footprint to ensure production supply chain. Increasing our reductions This contributed to a broadly stable overall matches regional demand and efficiency beyond this point will require new EBITA margin, down 30bps at constant is maximised. As a result, management has technology and developing these currency to 14.0%. The Group continued taken the decision to consolidate some of solutions remain a focus for the Company. its successful integration of the merger the Group’s plants via its Production RHI Magnesita continues to support the throughout 2019, delivering a further €20 Optimisation Plan, which will deliver run UN Global Compact and its 10 principles million of synergies. This takes the total to rate cost savings of €40 million by 2022. in support of Human Rights, Labour, €90 million since the merger in 2017, 29% Environment and Anti-Corruption. ahead of our original target of €70 million. In sales, we are focused on expanding What was the market environment like The additional synergies anticipated in our solutions business, complemented in 2019? 2020 were to be primarily derived from by digital solutions, as we move towards procurement savings, however given the a value-based pricing model. These Despite challenging market conditions, broader macroeconomic backdrop, lower initiatives, combined with the Price RHI Magnesita delivered a resilient activity levels and raw materials prices, Management Programme, are expected to performance. During the year, the global we no longer expect to see any further generate an additional €40-€60 million economy grew at its slowest pace since synergies in 2020. of EBITA by 2022. the 2007/2008 global financial crisis, with rising trade barriers and increasing Operating free cash flow of €359 million What are your other key strategic geopolitical tensions the main contributing in 2019 (2018: €438 million) was a resilient initiatives? factors. This had an inevitable impact on performance, lower than 2018 primarily The Company will continue to prioritise it’s industrial and construction activity, and due to the weaker economic backdrop and supply chain projects in 2020 and beyond, we saw a decline in demand in many working capital cash consumption. The as part of our dedicated supply chain of our end-markets. Group also focused on further extending transformation programme, to achieve its debt maturity profile and increasing its Global steel production outside China better customer service with lower liquidity. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio declined by nearly 1.7% in 2019. This decline capital demand. reduced slightly to 1.2x (2018: 1.3x in demand was exacerbated by customers including the impact of IFRS 16 leases). reducing volumes through the year and destocking their inventories of our products. 10 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 We are an industry-leading business that is focused on meeting the needs of our customers around the world. Stefan Borgas Chief Executive Officer, RHI Magnesita Strategy section page 13 11 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA CEO’s Review – Q&A continued What is your strategy for new contribution from our own raw material products and solutions of our business. growth markets? plants. However, we continue to derive an We create and customise refractory important margin contribution from our products that suit the unique needs of our New markets remain a key strategic focus backward integration, and enjoy the customers, and we offer over 100 value for us, as we look to expand in higher security of high-quality supply. adding services. growth countries where we currently have modest market shares such as India, China We have also continued to grow our Through these data and digitalisation and Turkey. Our sales teams in China have margin from refractories in the year, products customers will gain greater created a ‘local for local’ approach and built benefiting from the integration synergies insight into the wear rates of our refractory new relationships in this region, creating and further efficiencies. products so that they can operate more strong foundations for the business. efficiently, cut costs and energy wastage. Can you comment on the progress The team has now started to develop and in your Safety programme? Further details of our new developments deliver high-tech solutions designed for can be found in the innovation section Chinese customers specifically. In the first We believe a safe workplace is a on pages 30 to 33. half of 2019, our China team won a major fundamental right of our employees, and it solutions contract worth €20 million with is the Group's responsibility to keep our What is the outlook for 2020? Guangxi ShengLong, which represents the staff, contractors and customers safe within In 2019, RHI Magnesita has further Group’s first such contract in the Chinese our operations. While our lost time injury demonstrated strong progress in executing high-quality steel market. A second frequency (LTIF) rate reduced further this our strategy, resolving previously identified major solutions contract was secured in year, to 0.28, (down from 0.43 in 2018), we operational issues and implementing the January 2020. can never be complacent. Nothing less initiatives that will underpin our long-term than zero accidents is acceptable. We are As part of the strategic expansion in India growth. We have delivered a resilient also focused on protecting our employees to increase capacity and improve customer financial performance in the year, despite in all possible ways we can from the spread services, we bought Intermetal Engineers difficult market conditions and lower raw of COVID-19. Pvt., a metallurgical equipment material prices, particularly in our Steel manufacturer in May 2019 for €1.3 million, We are deeply saddened by the loss of life Division in the second half. and separately acquired a refractory brick during 2019 of one contractor and one Looking forwards, we will benefit from plant in September 2019 from Manishri employee on our production sites, and the steps we have taken to strengthen the Refractories & Ceramics Pvt. Ltd. for send our sincere condolences to their business, particularly from the Production €5.5 million. families, friends and colleagues. One Optimisation Plan. However, the difficult immediate consequence is a greater focus In addition to the two transactions in market environment in the second half of on contractor safety, and contractors who India outlined above, the Group acquired 2019 has continued in the first quarter of work at our sites will be included in our LTIF Missouri Refractories Co. Inc. (Morco) in 2020. Whilst COVID-19 has not had a data going forwards. To implement this, we January 2020 for $10 million, the first material financial impact on the business are defining safety requirements by type of production asset for RHI Magnesita in the to date, we have seen a recent slowdown in service provided and assigning Mid-south of the United States. customer activity, particularly in our Steel accountability to site managers. We will Division, and the future demand As previously disclosed, the potential also place the same focus on the total environment is very uncertain. We have acquisition of Kumas Manyezit Sanayi AS. is recordable injury frequency (TRIF) as we undertaken extensive scenario testing, currently under review by the competition do on LTIF. factoring in a range of potential outcomes, authorities in Turkey and we hope to have How is innovation playing a role at which indicate that the Company has an update on the process later in Q2. RHI Magnesita? sufficient liquidity to withstand an More broadly the Group continues extended period of uncertainty. Innovative technologies including to monitor a select number of other digitalisation continue to be at the heart of Longer term we see clear opportunities acquisition opportunities as part of its our business and enable us to better meet to further progress our refractory margin, long-term growth plans. customer demands. Throughout 2019, whilst also continuing to benefit financially What has been the impact of raw particular areas of focus have been: and strategically from our backward material price movements on margins recycling of refractory products, CO2 and integration. The business benefits from a during the year? energy reduction, coating technologies, strong financial position, with low leverage new production techniques and and significant liquidity, and is well During 2019, we have encountered a automation and digitalisation. Investment positioned to take advantage of growth significant decline in specific raw material in R&D totalled €64 million in 2019, opportunities when markets improve. prices against the peak seen in 2018, at the representing 2.2% of Group revenue. height of the raw material supply constraints. The lower price of these raw It is through our innovation expertise that materials has reduced overall Group profit we will continue to strengthen the 12 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Strategic framework The merger of RHI and Magnesita created the global refractories leader. The Group has a resilient business model, clear strategy and a strong balance sheet. The strategy is built on the three pillars of competitiveness, business model and markets, all supported by our people. Strategic priorities Competitiveness Business Model Markets People Low-cost producer of The leading service and Worldwide presence with Hire, retain and motivate technically advanced solution provider in the strong local organisations talent and nurture a refractory materials with refractory industry with an and solid market positions meritocratic, performancesafe production network. extensive portfolio based in all major markets. driven, customer-focused on innovative technologies and friendly culture. Deliver cost savings through and digitalisation. Measured consolidation restructuring. opportunities. Maximise value from sales Improve operational strategies. cash flow. Increase number of solutions contracts. 13 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action Competitiveness Execute cost reduction The Company has reviewed its capacity and global footprint to ensure production matches regional demand and efficiency is maximised. 14 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 RHI Magnesita has taken the decision to consolidate plants in our Production Optimisation Plan and we have identified run rate cost savings of €40 million by 2022. Stefan Borgas, Chief Executive Officer 15 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action Competitiveness Strategic priority Low-cost producer of technically advanced refractory materials with safe production network. Progress in 2019 Outlook for 2020 In 2019, the Company further Execution of cost reductions will increased its dolomite raw material be key for 2020. Specifically, the supply, to support the backward Company will achieve this through integrated model and provide high plant optimisation in Europe and the quality, low-cost raw material. Americas, focusing on local for local Firstly, the mine in Chizhou (China) production. This will balance regional was re-opened, including the capacity with regional demand. construction of a state-of-the-art Secondly, it will focus on optimising rotary kiln. Secondly, the company its raw material strategy through approved €40 million for the production, purchasing and recycling. construction of a new dolomite Operations globally Resource Centre in Europe. This Automation and digitalisation of will allow Dolomite for the entire production and of the supply chain 39 countries European market to be mined and processed at the Hochfilzen site in Tyrol, and transported sustainably by will further lower costs and bring additional opportunities. Read more about the Production rail, to sister plants in France. Optimisation Plan in the Capital Markets Day presentation, available on Additionally, the Supply Chain rhimagnesita.com Management transformation was a key focus in 2019, and the Group focused Backward integration basic raw materials on four specific workstreams; Tactical Network Optimisation, Supply Chain 70% Performance Management, Integrated Business Management Planning and Data Quality. Safety a priority The Company prioritises the safety of its employees at all times. It is committed to reducing the impact of its operations, and have an active role in shaping the industry’s standards. Read more on pages 69 and 70 16 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Production Optimisation Programme Production Optimisation Plan ( POP ) 2022 run-rate savings €40m In Europe, the Company will address overcapacity issues and improve efficiency by ramping down two plants in 2020 with a further one scheduled for closure in 2021. In the Americas, the Company will optimise its production network through specialisation of regional hubs in the USA, Mexico and Brazil, as well as a consolidation of our production capabilities of the Burlington plant in Canada, into York in Pennsylvania. Raw Material Strategy The Company will continue to build on its backward integration model, which is key to providing low-cost, high quality raw materials. Given recent raw material price volatility, the Group has been re-evaluating regional supply options. As a result, the Fused Magnesia ( FM ) production in Norway and Brazil have been mothballed in 2019, whilst the Company entered into a long-term purchasing agreement with a Chinese supplier to more appropriately meet demand, and maintain margin. Sustainability Innovative thinking is required in the refractory industry in order for it to become more sustainable. RHI Magnesita will continue to lead the way on sustainability. It has started key initiatives and research programmes to significantly reduce its carbon footprint as well as partnering with customers to reduce their emissions. Driven by reduced primary raw material demand, energy savings and efficiency improvements and deliver cost savings as well as improve sustainability. Read more on pages 62 to 72 17 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued Business model Expanding the business model In the Sales department, we focus on expanding our solutions business, including digitalisation and recycling, as we move towards a valuebased pricing model, and further growth in India and China. 18 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 We want to make recycling an integral part of the solution to our customers. Doing so allows complete optimisation of the supply chain, customer operations and the reverse supply chain. Paul Glaubitz, General Manager Recyling 19 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued Business Strategic priority model Leading service & solution provider in the refractory industry with an extensive portfolio based on innovative technologies and digitalisation. Progress in 2019 Outlook for 2020 The Company launched several sales In 2020 the Company will continue strategies in 2019, which will focus to establish itself as the leading on expanding the solutions business performance partner in the refractory as we move towards a value-based industry. The Company will continue pricing model. The solutions offering to expand the business model to comprises technical services, increase value in the core markets logistical services, digital services and maintain market share. From and solution services to support product delivery, to installation the product portfolio. services, to recycling and digital services, the Company’s objective Number of solutions contracts The Company invested in its is to deliver customer value through worldwide recycling business throughout 2019, reducing costs and driving 128 and made good progress towards efficiencies, in a sustainable way. its target of achieving 10% recycling target by 2025. The Company will continue to build an autonomous and profitable Read more about solutions on page 34 recycling business in 2020, ahead of its 10% recycling target by 2025. Read more about recycling on pages 62 and 66 Number of patents 1,598 Automated Process Optimisation APO – Automated Process Optimisation uses AI methods to better understand the correlation between production parameters & refractory performance. Read more on page 31 20 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Solutions Amount invested into The Company will continue the expansion of technology €64m its business model to increase value through its services and solutions portfolio in core markets and in selected growth markets. Read more about the solutions model on pages 34 and 35 Digital services The Company has three key digital products in the 2020 pipeline: APO – Automated Process Optimisation uses AI methods to better understand the correlation between production parameters & refractory performance. QCK – Quick Check uses images to provide high-accuracy short-time 3D scan measurement. BST – Broadband Spectral Thermometer uses greybody radiation curve to accurately & online determine the temperature of any body in sight. Recycling Recycling is an essential part of the Company CO2 reduction strategy, and will be the largest contributor in reducing the Company's CO2 footprint. The Company is targeting a 10% recycling rate by 2025, which will mitigate approximately 300,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. In partnership with Outokumpu, an RHI Magnesita customer, and the R&D team, the Company developed a way to use spent refractories that are unfit for the recycling process as slag conditioner. This further improves the sustainability of the customer’s processes, and drives cost savings for both RHI Magnesita and its customer. Read more on page 41 21 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued Markets Growth in new markets New markets remain a key strategic focus for the Company, to expand in higher growth countries where we currently have modest market shares such as India, China and Turkey. 22 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 In the first half of 2019, our China team won a major solutions contract worth €20 million with Guangxi ShengLong, which represents the Group’s first such contract in the Chinese high-quality steel market. A second major solutions contract was secured in January 2020. 23 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued Markets Strategic priority Worldwide presence with strong local organisations and solid market positions in all major markets. Progress in 2019 Outlook for 2020 In order for the Company to continue In 2020. the Company will continue to establish itself as the global leader to focus on defending its leadership in refractories, it developed a position in core markets, and further differentiated core strategy for each establishing market share in growth major region to maximise value markets. The strategy for organic creation and market share growth. growth in India, China and CIS will be supported by selective M&A. As an example, the Sales team in China have created a local for local Across these diverse markets, the culture and built relationships with Company will continue to derive 70+ a new mindset in this region, creating strong foundations for the business. The teams have also developed a benefit from its global footprint, as well as the proximity between supply and production, and the location of Sales offices worldwide localised product portfolio, as well the customer base. as improved local technical support. The Production Optimisation Plan The Company completed two small will be implemented in 2020, where M&A transactions in India. In January the production footprint will be 2020, the Company also announced consolidated to ensure production the acquisition of Missouri Refractories matches regional demand. 15% Co Inc, the first production asset for RHI Magnesita in the Mid-south of the United States, a region that is rapidly Global market share (30% ex-China) growing in importance. M&A is also an important part of the strategic expansion to increase targeted capacity and improve customer services. India expansion In 2019 the Company acquired two local Indian companies to expand our local footprint in addition to heavily investing in our existing plants and local organisation. Read more on page 45 24 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Core markets First solutions contract Focus on preserving market share and growing in China €20m value through our extensive services and product portfolio in Europe and the Americas, including digitalisation. In 2019, the Company announced the Production Optimisation Plan, which will leverage the ‘local for local’ production footprint. Growth markets In China, the Company will focus on further developing the sales force, strengthening the localised product portfolio, and improve local technical support. In India, the Company will focus on additional MGU production, sales expansion in the Industrial Division, and increasing the production of non-basic products for Cement/Lime. This is supported by local Research and Development to further localise the product portfolio and decrease time-to-market. M&A To accelerate growth in-line with the Company strategy, the Company takes a pragmatic approach to growing the business in its growth markets through Mergers and Acquisitions. This includes actively looking for opportunities to increase backward integration, complement the geographic refractory production footprint, as well as strengthening technological leadership. 25 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued People Our greatest asset, our people In 2019, RHI Magnesita developed a new method to identify and rotate top talent in the company, within the People Cycle. 26 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 The process for succession planning is very well structured and RHI Magnesita is really increasing efforts to promote women in leadership roles. Sabrina Salmen, Head of Integrated Business Planning 27 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Strategic progress in action continued People Strategic priority Hire, retain and motivate talent and nurture a meritocratic, performance-driven, customer focused and friendly culture. Progress in 2019 Outlook for 2020 In 2019 further developed, In 2020 the Company will focus disseminated and promoted the on driving a better company culture company culture, with dedicated for the successful delivery of the effort from over 60 local culture strategy, including prioritising champions. diversity towards meeting the internal Number of employees target of 33% females in leadership A diversity framework was 13,650+ positions by 2025. established, including the Diversity Steering Committee to meet the The Company will continue to Company diversity targets by 2025. develop its workforce with new skills in the field of services and The roll out of a new leadership Employees by tenure digitalisation, to better equip the programme (FitToLead), a new bonus company with its expanding business scheme, new mobility framework, model. It will also re-position new salary benchmarks and flexible its employee brand in 2020, work schemes were finalised. in a continuation of the progress Lastly, several initiatives have been made in 2019, which will support established to enhance career the employee value proposition, development, including the People as well as hiring and retaining talent. Cycle, and individual development Read more about our diversity targets on plans which include rotation page 71 programmes. >10 years 36% 7-9 years 14% 4-6 years 19% <3 years 32% Workforce profile At 31 December 2019, RHI Magnesita had a total workforce of 13,650 employees, The main centres of employment were South America, with approximately 5,400 employees, Western Europe 4,200, Asia Pacific 2,500, North America 1,100, Near and Middle East 240, Africa 100 and Eastern Europe 80. The people of RHI Magnesita are from many countries, communities and cultures. 28 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Diversity & Inclusion Participants of global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is critical to the future development programmes 1,250 success of the business. In today’s globalised business environment, diverse teams are proven to be more productive and better equipped to succeed. Diversity has been listed as one of the key issues for stakeholders and the business. Diversity is now embedded in the Company's culture and strategy. Our commitment is to meet the Hampton-Alexander target of 33% female representation of leadership roles by 2025. Culture Our Cultural Themes are an important compass on how employees interact and make decisions at RHI Magnesita; act customer focused and With FitToLead we make our leaders fit for the innovatively,have open decision making in future and enable them to bring our business a respectful environment, operate crossfunctionally, collaboratively and pragmatically to excellence. across the organisation, and be performance driven and accountable. Simone Oremovic The Company has achieved great results during Executive VP People and Culture, the first two years as one organisation, however and Communications there is still progress to be made. To ensure we continue to make progress, the Company established a global team with over 60 culture champions dedicated to embedding culture by hosting workshops and townhalls. Leadership FitToLead is RHI Magnesita’s new leadership framework, consisting of a network of leaders, and defined by specific Leadership Capabilities. The Leadership Capabilities were established based on our strategy, culture, external benchmarking and internal workshops. FitToLead offers different tailored learning opportunities and empowers 150 leaders to be in the driver’s seat of their own development. It focuses on the executive level, but there is a lot more to come. Read more on page 71 Employees by region South America 40% Western Europe 31% Asia Pacific 18% North America 8% Near and Middle East 2% Africa 1% Eastern Europe 1% South America 40% Western Europe 31% 29 Asia Pacific 18% North America 8% S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Innovation RHI Magnesita's aim is to be the leading solution provider in the refractory industry based on innovative technologies and digitalisation, achieved through its raw material advantage, innovation and solutions offerings. RHI Magnesita’s aim is to be the leading solution Applied R&D New product revenue as a %1 of revenue provider in the refractory industry based on RHI Magnesita continues to develop customer16% innovative technologies and digitalisation, specific solutions, ensuring leadership position in achieved through its raw material advantage, our markets. The efficiency of the Applied R&D applied R&D capabilities, innovation and activities is being increased, focusing on solution offers. delivering high return, fast payback projects, with This year, the Company has demonstrated a short response time. This allows us to maintain through its 4.0 sales initiatives that it is able to a high level of support to our customers, while offer much more than the traditional refractory redirecting some substantial resources to products. As the leader of the industry, the innovation topics. Company aims to be at the forefront of developing 4.0 sales initiatives R&D and Technical marketing spend advanced refractory technologies, digital 2019 marked an important year for RHI Magnesita €64m products and integrated solutions to meet evolving customer needs. and its progress in innovation. Firstly, the Company established a dedicated “4.0” The Group expenditure on Technology in 2019 department. This emphasises the importance was €64 million, or 2.2% of revenue. of digitalisation and automation, as these factors become ever more relevant in how the Company R&D capabilities and developments does day-to-day business and in improving The progress made in innovation during 2019 efficiency, as well as adding value, for was thanks to the industry-leading R&D team, its customers. made up of 480 technical experts across R&D, technical marketing and product management, Ongoing advancements in the 4.0 department of which 110 people hold either a Masters aim to meet the needs of RHI Magnesita qualification or PhDs. RHI Magnesita’s R&D hubs customers, through leveraging data, connectivity, are located in Leoben (Austria) and Contagem artificial intelligence and predictive maintenance. (Brazil), and these are supported by three R&D Through constant evolution of our product centres based in York (USA), Dalian (China) offering, the Company’s objectives remains the and Bhiwadi/Visakhapatnam (India). same: to implement new business and service models that fulfil the demands of the The total R&D spend in 2019 was €35 million, Company’s customers. before subsidies and including opex and capex. This is in line with the Company ambitions, as outlined in the 2018 Annual Report, to commit 1.2% of Group Revenues to R&D and innovative technologies on an annual basis. Furthermore, 1 New product revenue includes new brands the Group achieved 16% of new product revenue created in the past five years, as a % of total revenue in 2019. 30 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Among the many projects currently being Quick Check – QCK Broadband Scanning Thermometer – BST developed, three projects have been selected to QCK is an innovative measurement technology BST is an innovative method for continuous demonstrate RHI Magnesita’s 4.0 sales initiatives that, by applying stereoscopic methods to images temperature measurement. It uses the grey body for the next couple of years. Dedicated project recorded by latest technology cameras, produces radiation curve (visible light emission spectrum) teams (consisting of project managers, technical high-accuracy 3D scans of metallurgical vessels. to accurately determine online the temperature experts, programmers and data scientists) It generates refractory lining wear measurements of any object in sight. Application of BST for have been established, and starting in 2020, that are both significantly faster (up to 10 times) measuring liquid metal melts (in most cases, will help to bring these three projects successfully and have higher resolution (up to five times) than this is currently done offline by using disposable to the market. those produced by state-of-the-art laser probes) can have several immediate benefits scanning devices. Improved quality of monitoring for the customer: Automated Process Optimisation – APO increases the availability of vessels by reducing APO is a unique, patented solution that allows • Online temperature measurement of the risk of unexpected downtime or break-outs, for a greater understanding of the correlation the melt will allow for better controlling of thus optimising plant logistics and efficiency. between production parameters, refractory the temperature and, in turn, optimise the In addition, QCK is easy to install and does not application and maintenance by analysing the customer process. This helps to reduce require high investments for customers. The associated data in a cloud-based environment overall energy consumption as overheating current focus of QCK is the application to steel using artificial intelligence methods. the melt is avoided, and less external heating ladles, but other applications are also being is needed. In turn, this reduces consumption APO enables the plant manager to monitor actively investigated. of graphite electrodes used for heating and, process conditions and their effects, check consequently, CO2 emissions. the status of the refractory lining, and manage • Usage of disposable temperature probes can maintenance cycles more effectively. APO uses be completely avoided or at least significantly artificial intelligence to create a digital twin to reduced, leading to immediate cost savings make the refractory lifetime predictable. The for the customer. digitalised view created by APO aims to increase safety, optimise production and achieve fewer • Productivity is increased through higher production losses. equipment availability (no time is needed for performing discrete temperature APO works by integrating data from laser measurements). measurement, the steel making process and • Reduced melt temperature levels have sends this data to the cloud. A refractory wear beneficial effect on refractory consumption. model is calculated and provided in real time to the user via the APO app. This provides wear lining prognosis and scenario analysis, and makes planning, controlling and synchronising maintenance cycles easier. APO has already been successfully applied to analyse and optimise Basic Oxygen Furnace, Electric Arc Furnace, Ladle and RH Degasser refractory applications, at several customers' sites. Currently, usage of APO for applications outside of the steel industry is also being actively pursued. 31 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Innovation continued These examples of our R&D developments CO2 reduction Intellectual property and patents demonstrate our continual efforts to innovate The Company is committed to reaching a 15% Given the industry-leading R&D capabilities and progress, in order to meet environmental reduction in CO2 by 2025. CO2 is an inevitable of the Group, we place great importance on and social pressures and to increase efficiency, by-product in the chemistry of the refractory protecting its intellectual property. both in the internal production processes of RHI brick production process. It is generated in the Magnesita, and to meet the changing needs During 2019, 11 priority patent applications were production of dead burned magnesia and dead of customers. filed. The Group continuously examines the burned doloma, as well as the fuels used in the patentability of product developments, new raw internal processes. It is therefore our priority, and Sustainability developments materials, systems and technologies in order to our responsibility, to reduce these emissions In 2019, key themes were established within the provide protection for the Group’s assets. where possible, and improve the wider innovation department to address sustainability carbon footprint. By the end of 2019, the Group’s patent portfolio issues and create increased efficiency for our accounted for 139 patent families, comprising customers. It is more critical than ever to support RHI Magnesita also continues to explore new of 1598 patents and patent applications. customers through low carbon solutions and technologies in CO2 capture, CO2 usage and more efficient processes. value chain, and clean production processes. A key achievement in the Cement/Lime segment during 2019 was the adoption of Spinosphere Recycling Coating technologies technology, in a series of refractory bricks. The The recycling of used refractory products The Company aims to constantly improve patent application was filed last year in order continues to be a key strategic initiative for the the performance of our refractory solutions. to protect this new development, unique to Group based on the many benefits it carries, One technology which will help achieve this is RHI Magnesita. through significant reductions in energy enhanced coating whereby refractory properties In 2019, a number of third parties formally consumption as well as increased security of are modified through depositing layers on either challenged the validity of recently granted supply. RHI Magnesita is targeting 10% recycled grains or products. This surface property patents, and the Group has been largely materials by 2025, which equates to c. 300,000 functionalisation leads to the development of new successful in actively defending the portfolio. tonnes of CO2 emissions saved and c. 150,000 refractory formulations with improved properties tonnes of material being saved from going such as: corrosion resistance, flexibility and Our partnerships to landfill. thermal conductivity. The Group continues to collaborate with external During 2019, the Company focused on the business Pioneering production techniques partners such as accelerators, start-ups, open development stage of the recycling strategy, and innovation platforms, companies and institutions. RHI Magnesita, through using pioneering focused on finalising contracts, trading, outsourcing production techniques, is targeting a 5% In 2019, RHI Magnesita had active programmes and construction. The Company also focused on reduction of energy per tonne of product with the following leading institutions: increasing the proportion of secondary raw material in plant by 2025. in refractory product through new technology • University of Leoben (Austria) and processes. The Company will develop new processes • Johannes Kepler University (Austria) for refractory and raw material production with Looking ahead, throughout 2020 and 2021, the significant cost reduction, as well as energy • University of Graz (Austria) Company will establish its own distinct recycling savings. This should be achieved through • Vienna University of Technology (Austria) operations, including new facilities, defined processes currently in development such as recycling containing products, and additional • Federal University of São Carlos (Brazil) microwave drying used for much faster drying R&D projects. Some longer-term technologies • Slovak Academy of Sciences (Slovakia) times, and the production of refractories that are being developed to ensure higher levels of no longer require firing or tempering. • Seoul National University (South Korea) recycling usage, such as automatic sorting, • Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft (Germany) cleaning and stabilisation processes, following the The Company has researched new production technology roadmap that has been established. techniques for refractory products using nanomaterials throughout 2019, specifically to improve both mechanical and thermal properties of the finished product. This research is additionally being rolled out to non-refractory type of applications. 32 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 RHI Magnesita is involved in a number of The Committee addressed the following key Product optimisation and production partnerships, as part of the Athor programme themes during 2019: method development funded by the EU commission: RHI Magnesita is continuously developing new • identifying new technologies, and advising on existing technologies; products and production routes to meet customer Academics: demand through value adding and sustainable • University of Limoges (France) • supporting and challenging the R&D technologies. The department achieves this team; and • AGH University of Science & through a combination of material development, Technology (Poland) • expanding the Company’s technology design development in the simulation network into external partnerships. department and production process • University of Aachen (Germany) The main topics evaluated by the Committee development. The department also examines • Montanuniversität Leoben (Austria) raw material alternatives on an ongoing basis, throughout 2019: • University of Orléans (France) in order to secure raw material availability and to • University of Minho (Portugal) • automation and digitilisation; optimise the customer’s total cost of ownership, • functionalisation of refractory surfaces; one of the fundamental activities of R&D. • University of Coimbra (Portugal) • fast drying and low temperature sintering Innovative raw materials and production Industrial partners: technologies; processes are key for developing new products. • Altéo Alumina – Gardanne (France) • CO2 emission reduction, capture and Pilot installations are available in our R&D hubs in • Imerys Refractory Minerals – Villach (Austria) utilisation; and Leoben and Contagem which allows developing new raw materials solutions. New sintered or • Pyrotek Scandinavia AB – Ed (Sweden) • innovation fostering. fused raw materials are tested in the Company's • Saint-Gobain – Cavaillon (France) The advisers approved the relevance of the facilities before being scaled up to production • Tata Steel – IJmuiden (Netherlands) strategic R&D themes and provided guidance for sites. Among different raw material projects new contacts potential collaboration in the scope executed in 2019, the development of a new • Safran (France) of the priority projects. Dead Burned Doloma based of RHI Magnesita Additionally, RHI Magnesita also worked closely proprietary raw stones was one of the main with the following technology leaders in the Fundamental research – key 2019 highlights in supporting the Company in Steel industry: focus areas establishing a further step in the direction In the recent years modelling and simulation of being more backwardly integrated in the • Voestalpine Stahl Donawitz has become an important discipline in the field production of basic refractories. • Voestalpine Stahl Linz of refractory materials. State-of-the-art In 2019, RHI Magnesita continued its work in • Bohler Edelstahl methodologies are being applied to develop, developing new fused non-oxidic raw materials as • Primetals Technologies improve and optimise refractory products. a substitute to classic oxidic raw materials, in order Constant investment in fundamental research to improve thermomechanical properties of its • Montanwerke Brixlegg in that field offers new opportunities for future products. The Company believes there is a • Fronius developments. One key aspect in 2019 was to promising future for this new class of raw materials. • OMV at competence centres promoted by link measurements and material properties with the Austrian Research Promotion agency. the finite element method in order to improve In 2019, the Company also prioritised developing the predictability of potential failure events of new recycling containing solutions to preserve Technical Advisory Committee our products in use and derive measures to raw material resource, reduce C02 footprint and The TAC was established in 2018, making 2019 avoid it. This is key for a reliable digital product energy consumption as well as lowering the first full year in operation as a new committee. development. Focusing on a customer-centric customer refractory costs. The TAC meets bi-annually with senior approach more than 170 simulation projects were The development of coated refractory grains management present and includes Board carried out for internal and external customers. via the so-called Spinosphere technology was representation with the attendance of Andrew A new full-scale water model facility for the transferred from the Company's laboratories to Hosty, Non-Executive Director in a supervisory continuous casting process was developed and production sites and finally to some customers. capacity. The committee comprises senior put in operation this year. This highly automated The Company produced magnesia spinel bricks external professionals, R&D and Technical model will support the flow control growth which exhibit enhanced mechanical properties Marketing leaders, and consultants as required. strategy, especially in Asia. and are being used in rotary kilns of various cement producers. 33 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Solutions portfolio RHI Magnesita offers a full suite of RHI Magnesita is focused on creating innovative solutions to provide value for its customers engineering services and solutions through increased productivity, capex savings, improved working capital, improved Health and Safety, supply flexibility, environmental impact to complement its extensive range reduction, direct cost reduction and through improving product quality. The Company can of refractory products. achieve this for its clients through offering technical, logistical, digital and solution services, to complement its product range. The solutions model is designed to provide dual benefit for both the customer and RHI Magnesita. Through procuring more services from the portfolio, the combined packages create value through driving cost savings and efficiencies for our customers, and limiting the use of natural resources. The range of products Products Technical services and services within the sales portfolio is extensive, and can • RHI Magnesita offers a wide range of refractory • Our technical services team offers a full range be a bespoke package to suit a products, such as standard refractories, functional of engineering expertise variety of customer demands: refractories, minerals and low emission refractories. It also offers equipment machinery, non-refractory • These include installation, on-site training, consumables and mechanics such as slide gate engineering, supervision, maintenance, mechanisms laboratory analysis and simulation • The team also offers consulting services • The technical services team helps the customer increase their productivity on site, as well contributing to a safer working environment and a better quality end product Digital services Logistics services Solution services • The sales team partners with the R&D department • Our logistics hub is designed to provide ease of • RHI Magnesita will develop a contract with to provide innovative solutions that support transport and physical inventory management the customer which is based on product output, customer processes through digital reporting through logistics consulting, supply chain rather than refractory consumption, incentivising tools and visualisation. A key development in management, transport and packaging and less consumption across both parties, providing digitalisation this year was the APO application. warehouse management cost savings and also higher productivity for Read more on page 31. the customer • This contributes to flexibility of supply for customers, • Application of RHI Magnesita digital services and improves their working capital efficiency contributes to better productivity through automation 34 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Products can either be combined in bespoke packages or offered as a full-line service solution. In a full-line service solution contract, RHI Magnesita supplies all of the main applications of the customer site (EAF, Tundish and ladle), in addition to a range of services. The solutions model Our solutions-based model offers the And RHI Magnesita receives the following benefits to our clients following benefits in return Reducing refractory specific costs Opportunity to increase market share in other 1 (per tonne of steel) 1 applications, improving customer relationships Increasing asset productivity and final Opportunity to increase profitability by 2 steel output 2 improving steel production performance. This is achieved through higher quality refractory products and on-site technical Reducing consumption of materials such as fuel, Value specialists to provide consultation. 3 energy, electrodes, aluminium & ferroalloys creation Reducing capex by reducing the need to 4 invest in new equipment & inventory Improved visibility at customer sites, allowing 3 for direct insight into market demand. Improving steel quality and 5 conversion efficiency Controlled costs Client cost structure The untapped value centre within the steel plant RHI Magnesita creates value for customers not Service solutions contracts enable RHI Magnesita Market driven Plant controlled only by reducing refractory consumption, but also to form a partnership with the steel plant to 80% of costs 20% of costs through indirect operational savings. These cost minimise these costs as much as possible, savings can be greater than the overall refractory through the bespoke range of services. expense itself, which accounts for between J Conversion efficiency savings are achieved 2-3% of steel input, and contributes towards A 2 through continually monitoring and modifying 20% of the plant controlled costs. slag processes and refractory applications. B Plant controlled costs are made up of the The chemical behaviour and reactions between I consumables, labour and overhead involved in steel, slag and refractory materials have a C steel production. Of the plant-controlled costs, a profound influence on the quality and 1 up to 20% is made up of the variable costs driven profitability of each tonne of finished steel. by the two aspects of steelmaking – conversion D Refractory applications savings are achieved efficiencies and refractory applications. through optimising the service life of high-heat H E operating equipment, maximising furnace uptime and generating the lowest possible cost per tonne F 3 of steel produced. G The service solutions model can help reduce refractory consumption, improve conversion efficiency, reduce downtime and reduce 1 Raw material 2 Conversion efficiency consumption of other consumables. This results G Scrap 10% potential savings H Alloys A Slag engineering in increased asset availability, refractory inventory I Energy B Energy consumption reduction and improved use of working capital. J Gasses C Yield improvement 3 Refractory applications 10% potential savings D Equipment utilisation E Consumables F Steel quality 35 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Market overview Demand for refractory solutions is underpinned by the mega trends that support long-term growth across our industry. As our products and solutions help provide a safe, efficient and digitalised production environment to our customers, we become essential in helping shape the world. Megatrends Demand Key industry drivers for RHI Magnesita 1 Urbanisation 1 Steel production 2 Globalisation New cities, roads, 3 Motorisation railways, houses, 2 Raw material pricing offices, cars 4 Industrialisation 3 Construction & infrastructure 5 Sustainability 36 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Steel production is one of the main market drivers replacement campaign introduced by the Steel production for the Group, as production volumes are correlated to the demand for refractory products Chinese government, which aims to replace less efficient, old, steelmaking facilities that and are therefore closely linked to the performance were previously idled or closed with new of the Group’s Steel Division. In 2019, total crude steelmaking capacity that is less steel production for the year was up 3.4% (2018: environmentally harmful. +4.6%). Excluding China, however, steel demand slowed, and production has declined 1.7% year-on-year (2018: +2.0%). The contraction in the manufacturing sector, particularly in the auto industry fuelled by the uncertainty in trade and geopolitical matters have weighed on investment and slowed GDP in developed economies in 2019, which as a driver of steel demand, also directly impacts our Steel Division. Some of the key contributors of 2019’s performance were: • Poor manufacturing performance, ongoing environmental pressures from governments Key geographical drivers of refractory and lacklustre demand in the automotive demand in the Steel end market Steel production industry remain key catalysts for weak Mt The 10 largest steel producing countries performance in Europe, particularly in 1,100 Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Poland. 1,000 Stagnant steel demand in the Eurozone region 900 amid deteriorating export and investment 800 environment also contributed to the 4.9% 700 contraction of the 28 main countries in 600 Europe (EU-28)1. 500 400 • In North America, new investments directed towards capacity expansion were responsible 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 for higher production levels in 2019, which were up 1.5%, particularly as prices and China steel production margins have improved for US metals World Ex-China steel production companies in 2019. • In South America, steel production declined 2019 (Mt)1 Change (%)2 8.4% in the region, led by a reduction of 9% China 996.3 +8.3 in Brazil and 10% in Argentina, as steelmakers World steel production ex-China adapt their footprint for the more challenging India 111.2 +1.8 Mt market backdrop in order to meet steel demand. Japan 99.3 -4.8 • In China, despite the pressures from trade United States 87.9 +1.5 -1.7% negotiations with the United States and 900 sluggish manufacturing performance Russia 71.6 -0.7 890 indicating signs of a slowing economy, steel South Korea 71.4 -1.4 production volumes increased and helped 880 Germany 39.7 -6.5 offset the weak performance in the rest of the 870 world. This was mainly due to the increased Turkey 33.7 -9.6 860 demand from the property construction Brazil 32.2 -9.0 850 sector. and a newly implemented capacity 840 Iran 31.9 +30.1 2017 2018 2019 Source: World Steel Association, Deloitte, S&P Global 1 Steel production output in metric tonnes. 2 Compared against 2018 steel production figures. 37 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Market overview continued One of the key raw materials used for refractory Looking at the Group’s core raw material prices Raw material products are magnesia and doloma, minerals that used in refractory production, prices in 2019 the Company mines in its underground and surface dropped significantly relative to the last two pricing quarries and mines. These minerals and their years as a result of a surge in supply as customer thermochemical properties enhance refractory destocking was intensified in 2019, and to a larger performance and are critical for the safety and extent, general uncertainty in the steel end DJI_0039_Bergbau-Brumado_Tag-1.jpg DJI_0044_Bergbau-Brumado_Tag-1.jpg productivity of our customer's applications. markets. The Chinese environmental sanctions imposed in 2017, led to a short-term shortage of Currently, the Group has a 70% level of backward raw material which in turn, drove raw material integration in basic raw materials. By internally prices to unprecedented levels. In 2019, as sourcing the majority of the Company’s raw Chinese producers' supply of magnesia increased material needs, RHI Magnesita is not only able during the year, prices were taken back to levels to deliver high-quality raw materials, provide seen before 2017. The weak demand from end certainty of supply to its customers and produce markets, as a result of an uncertain Steel and refractories at a lower cost, but also, mitigate the economic backdrop may lead to a slower risk of fluctuating raw material prices which recovery of raw material prices. can impact Company margins. Whilst most of the refractory products are priced according to the complexity of their composition and often sold as a solution offering package, some refractory products are impacted by the DJI_0047_Bergbau-Brumado_Tag-1.jpg DJI_0053_Bergbau-Brumado_Tag-1.jpg price of certain raw materials. 70% Backward integrated in basic raw materials Raw material prices – rebased to 100 in Q4 20151 % 600 500 400 300 200 168 100 117 88 0 01/16 01/17 01/18 01/19 DBM high grade (China) DBM medium grade (China) DBM high grade (Europe) 1 Source: Asian Metal 38 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 The Industrial Division, which accounts for • In 2019, global clinker demand grew 1% Construction & approximately 30% of the Group’s revenue, is mostly driven by global GDP, as most of the ex-China supported by 4% growth in India and broadly stable performance in other Infrastructure Division’s performance is linked to longer-term markets. In contrast, China, the world’s largest investment projects. cement and clinker producer, is reducing capacity due to environmental pressures and Refractory solutions in this Division service accumulated overcapacity leading to a global the cement, lime, non-ferrous metals and other clinker market contraction of c.3-4%. process industries, which comprise glass, EEC and minerals segments. • The glass industry in 2019 has benefited from the positive momentum in the sector, driven Whilst refractory products for cement by healthy demand growth across all regions, applications tend to be treated as both supported by favourable environmental trends. consumables and investments from our customers' perspective, the demand for refractory Production of and demand for non-ferrous metals solutions for the other segments of the Division are closely associated with their market prices, (Non-ferrous metals and other process industries) with copper and zinc being the most relevant are more project based, and therefore closely to our business. linked to global growth. • LME-listed base metals have remained Demand for cement and glass is closely linked relatively stable for the most part of the year, to the construction industry and construction with the exception of Nickel, up c.28% in markets are estimated to account for c.50% 2019, as Indonesia export bans drove prices of overall refractory demand. higher in Q3. 2.9%1 Global GDP in 2019 saw 2.9% growth, with a projection of 2.4%1 in 2020. • Cement markets have benefited from the 2019 global GDP growth steady long-term growth in line with GDP and construction activity, despite the growing environmental pressures linked to CO2 emitting industries. 2019 LME-listed base metals price2 % 175 165 155 145 135 129 125 115 105 106 101 95 99 94 88 85 75 01/19 02/19 03/19 04/19 05/19 06/19 07/19 08/19 09/19 10/19 11/19 12/19 Aluminium Copper Tin Lead Zinc Nickel 1 Source: OECD 2 Source: Bloomberg 39 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review This operational review provides a The successful implementation of the Price Management Programme, introduced in regional breakdown of performance April 2019, made an important contribution to profitability in 2019, which has helped offset the weaker demand environment. The programme in the Steel Division, and by raised refractory prices across the product portfolio, enabling the Company to further segment in the Industrial Division. accelerate investment in technology, environmental solutions and production infrastructure to better serve its customers. It also provides an overview of our Steel volumes were, however, impacted by the Price Management Programme, partly as a result growth markets, India and China. of strategic market share loss. 2019 revenues were also reduced by RHI Magnesita's exit from the Iranian market in November 2018. Gross profit for the division was €467 million, Steel Division Refractory products in steel plants are used to down from €545 million in 2018 on a constant protect applications such as the basic oxygen currency basis. The Division achieved a gross furnace (BOF), electric arc furnace (EAF) and margin of 23.1% in 2019, down by 110 bps from ladles from the hot liquid steel. The lifetime of the the previous year. refractory lining in a steel application ranges from as little as 20 minutes up to as long as two months One of the near-term strategic initiatives for the and are therefore regarded as consumables to the Company is to drive the business model towards Steel Division revenue steel industry and as an operational expense by delivering a suite of services for customers beyond €2,018m our customers. Refractory products and services refractory products. These services range from are estimated to contribute c. 2-3% to the total supplying technical expertise and digital customer cost base. solutions through to the complete package of a full-line service offering. The full-line service In 2019, steel demand was impacted by ongoing offering provides bespoke solutions to RHI geopolitical issues and trade tensions which Magnesita customers, which cover all of their together contributed to global uncertainty. refractory needs for specific steel applications, Steel Division gross profit This was particularly felt in the automotive, creating efficiencies for both the customer and €467m manufacturing and construction sectors, key RHI Magnesita. RHI Magnesita China won the first drivers of the steel industry. Global automotive solutions contract in the Chinese high quality production contracted in 2019, with material steel market, worth €20 million, with Guangxi declines in several key automotive markets, ShengLong which was concluded in the first half including Germany, Turkey and South Korea. The of 2019. This was followed by a second large automotive industry continues to be challenged contract in China in January 2020. Geographical breakdown by environmental pressures and the transition in Steel Division towards hybrid electric vehicles. Global Another key strategic initiative to enhance the construction growth slowed in 2019, due to Company’s business model has been to establish weakening economic fundamentals and in the last quarter of 2019 a new and fully constraints in construction capacity. dedicated global Flow Control Business Unit, consisting of a specialised multifunctional team The weakening global steel demand impacted to drive growth in this area of the Division. the Company, with the Steel Division revenues of €2,018 million in 2019, 10.4% lower than in 2018 Furthermore, in 2019 the Company implemented (€2,253 million in 2018 on a constant currency a global installation services team, which will basis). On a reported basis, the Steel Division enable the Steel Division to pursue high value revenue was down by 8.8% (€2,213 million projects at customer sites that had previously in 2018). been unattainable. The Steel Division revenues were impacted by North America 26% the customer de-stocking that has taken place Europe 25% throughout the year. This effect was exaggerated by the elevated stock levels in 2018, where APAC 19% customers had purchased additional refractory South America 18% products in reaction to the rising raw material prices. CIS-MEA 11% 40 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Europe In Europe, the Company's Steel Division faced strong headwinds throughout 2019. Revenue reported for the region was €513 million, down 17.6% from €622 million in 2018 on a constant currency basis. Revenue was negatively impacted by significantly reduced demand levels from steel producers, as demand declined at rates not seen since the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008. Lower demand was exacerbated with higher iron ore prices, a 70% rise in the price of emission-trading certificates since mid-2018, in addition to the escalating trade tensions. Steel production in Europe slowed in 2019, as the region faced overcapacity due to import tariffs in the US, and cheap steel from China, Russia, Turkey and others trading into Europe. Industry safeguard measures were put in place by EU officials, but the market reached overcapacity once the quotas were reset in July 2019. This was especially prevalent in Europe’s largest steel producing countries, Germany and Italy, where production declined by 6.5% and 5.2%, respectively. Overall, the EU steel production output declined by 4.9%. The effect on global steel trading was coupled with a significant slowdown in the EU automotive Outokumpu in Alabama – industry. Lower steel prices in 2019 have Recycling programme contributed to several customers announcing By using the crushed recycled cost reduction programmes and production cuts. In 2019, the Company secured its first major refractories instead of dolomitic Regional revenues were affected by intensified services contract to include recycling, with lime, we reduce waste, increase price competition and reduced stock levels Outokumpu in Alabama, the global leader in stainless steel. Outokumpo requested, as part cost savings and ultimately, in customers’ plants. of their contract with RHI Magnesita, for the create sustainability. During 2018, customers increased their inventory installation of an on-site refractory recycling levels in response to rising raw material prices facility. In the first half of 2019, we successfully increasing, following the raw material shortage implemented the facility and this was an Craig Powell, (especially in dolomite), and as a result of trade important factor in our securing the material Steel Business Unit Head, tariff discussions. This led to customer destocking contract for a further five years. This is a defining of inventory throughout 2019, contributing to North America moment for RHI Magnesita, as Outokumpo are softer sales compared to the previous year. the first customer to have an on-site recycling This trend has continued into Q1 2020, with programme, including the dismantling of potential further weakness as growth slows refractories, as well as installation services with weakening economic fundamentals. for the plant ladle, tundish, Argon oxygen decarburization (AOD) and Electric Arc furnace (EAF) refractories. Link to strategy Read more on page 13 41 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review continued North America South America APAC In North America, revenue was €518 million in In South America, revenue was €361 million in The Steel Division revenue in the APAC region 2019 down by 7.5% on a constant currency basis, 2019, down by 0.9% on a constant currency basis was €388 million, down by 1.3% on a constant from €560 million in 2018. The implementation compared to €364 million in 2018. Revenue was currency basis, from €393 million in 2018. of value-based price management, a customer negatively impacted by lower levels of steel In India and China, revenue grew by 0.3% solution-oriented approach, and an adaptable production in the region throughout 2019, with to €206 million and 6.8% to €48 million, portfolio of products, resulted in the Company production levels 8.4% lower than the previous respectively, on a constant currency basis. Whilst improving pricing and delivering higher revenue year, primarily led by a 9.0% fall in Brazil and the performance in India was impacted by the per tonne, however, this only partially offset the by a 10.0% fall in Argentina. country’s economic issues, the Company will impact of materially lower volumes. However, profitability for the Company was largely continue to focus on its growth trajectory, and Lower sales volumes were the result of ongoing maintained despite the decline in demand for on maintaining its position as the country’s challenges in Company's end-markets, with refractories, thanks to the improved product mix largest refractory supplier. increased political uncertainty throughout 2019 and better technical results in performance In China, the Company now has a full range of and the impact of recently imposed trade tariffs. contracts. This demonstrates the Group’s improved products for this market and is already showing resilience through its strategy of solutions-based The introduction of trade tariffs initially led improved win-rates in recent tenders into 2020, contracts and following the successful to more steel production and the creation of compared to 2019. We will continue to focus on implementation of the Price Management additional capacity, but then domestic overwinning market share into 2020 and beyond Programme with some key clients. capacity, an increase in imported tariff-exempted in China. steel and subsequent weakened demand drove In South America, infrastructure investment Outside of India and China, revenue was down by steel prices down to pre-tariff levels. The is constrained by economic uncertainty and 5.5% on a constant currency basis to €128 million softening of steel prices put pressure on the government budget issues. from €135 million in 2018. Regional revenues Company to assist with cost-saving initiatives In 2019, market conditions remained challenging, followed negative trends in steel production in by customers to address declining profitability. particularly in Brazil and Argentina. There have South Korea and Thailand, which according to Tariffs on Chinese goods entering the United been some signs of an improving economic WSA decreased output by 1.4% and 34.6%, States persisted throughout 2019. However, the environment in 2020, particularly in Brazil. respectively. However, this was partially off-set Company benefited from the tariffs limiting the However this is likely to be undermined by by strong performance in Japan and Taiwan, participation of low value refractory competition the potential impact of the COVID-19. which both outperformed the market. entering the market. Revenue was negatively CIS-MEA In APAC, the Company will strategically grow impacted by the decline of the price of magnesite certain product segments, and add value through which put subsequent pressure on refractory For countries of MEA and the Commonwealth the solutions business model. prices. Results were also affected negatively by of Independent States (CIS), revenues were €230 the closure of several steel plants in the second million, down by 19.3% on a constant currency half of 2019, which struggled to retain basis compared to €286 million in 2018. competitiveness as steel prices declined. This is mostly related to ceasing business in Iran Looking ahead, the Company will implement with the last shipments being sent in Q1 of 2019, higher value service contracts with its customers, fulfilling orders that had been made during 2018. driving higher revenue per tonne in 2020. The impact of the exiting the Iranian market in 2019 was €35 million of revenue, of which Volume recovery continues to be an emphasis, €30 million were from the Steel Division. with local production to serve local customers, and the Company expects to benefit from the Performance was otherwise reflective of the ability to convert opportunities quickly into overall steel market in these regions, where there regular volumes. was limited growth and significant volatility. Conflict in Ukraine has particularly impacted Challenging steel conditions are anticipated in output across the market, and there is uncertainty 2020, attributed to weakened economic growth around when this may recover. and also uncertainty over trade negotiations. Steel producers will continue to focus on cost Following the currency crisis in Turkey, mitigation with plant idling expected. construction slowed in the country as a result of the government’s decision to slow capital projects, impacting steel demand. In 2020, the Company will look to strengthen its overall market position. In the CIS, in particular the Company is intending to grow certain product segments and will continue to add value through the solutions business model. 42 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 The Industrial Division provides refractory magnesite and dolomite raw material availability Industrial solutions to customers across the cement, lime, glass, non-ferrous metals and environment, during 2018. The market demand for lime is broadly stable, and Division energy and chemicals (EEC) industries. The this trend continued throughout 2019. However, Industrial Division segments are subject to longer revenues were up significantly compared to 2018, replacement cycles as the lifetime of a refractory largely thanks to a strong project pipeline product in these industries varies anywhere throughout the year. Additionally, there has between one year to twenty years. Cement is been increased customer demand for the full more similar to steel however, in its refractory solutions offering. consumption characteristics, as it has a replacement cycle for clinker production (clinker Initial forecasts for the global cement and lime is the main ingredient in cement production) markets were for a stable market in 2020 with Industrial Division revenue of almost a year and so is likened more to a growth of c.1-2% excluding China. However, €904m consumable by the Cement customers. the impact of COVID-19 is likely to impact this. Demand for cement is closely linked to the Other process industries construction industry, and lime is linked to the steel industry. Non-ferrous metals industries are Other process industries comprise the glass, EEC closely linked to the market price of non-ferrous and mineral segments. Revenue amounted to Industrial Division gross profit metals, and EEC is linked to oil prices. €339 million and contributed 12% to Group €250m revenue and 38% to Industrial revenue. 2019 The Industrial Division has continued to perform revenue was 2.0% higher than 2018 revenue, very strongly with 2019 revenues of €904 million at €330 million on a constant currency basis. up 3.6% and gross profits of €250 million. The The glass industry has continued to grow in 2019, gross margin improved again to 27.7%, up by 350 also supported by the recent trend in consumer bps compared with 2018. demand towards recyclable glass packaging and away from single use plastic packaging, Cement/Lime in response to increased environmental Detail on the macro perspective The Cement/Lime segment in 2019 contributed awareness and potential health risks. is provided in the sections below, €344 million to Group revenues, or 12%. as well as in the Market overview Europe, Africa and Americas all benefited from Cement/Lime revenues amounted to 38% of the section on pages 36 to 39. increased demand, and Eastern Europe and CIS Industrial Division’s revenues. Revenue for the regions performed well, thanks to an increase in Cement/Lime segment were up by 6.4% in 2019 projects, whilst activities slowed in the Middle from €324 million in 2018 on a constant currency East and Africa and Asia Pacific. China and India basis, constituting a record year for the have begun transitioning to higher performance Cement/Lime segment. materials for better glass quality and longer This performance, which also included an furnace life times. improved margin, was driven by selective price The float glass sector maintained momentum Industrial split increases, improved product portfolio choices throughout 2019, predominantly through the and increasing demand for the services offered repairs business. For the investments business, from the Cement/Lime segment leading to the key driver of growth was the construction market share gains specifically across China, industry, through both regional expansions and MEA and CIS. from increased demand for eco-friendly buildings In 2019, global cement demand grew 1% which conserve heat through multiple glass ex-China. While China continues to be the sheet windows, and through coating with better world’s largest cement producer, it is removing heat absorption. cement capacity due to overcapacity and In the EEC sector, volumes were flat, whilst environmental considerations leading to a global revenue and profitability increased in 2019, cement market contraction of c. 3-4%. India is the as customer take up for services increased. highest growth market with 4%. Other regions Cement/Lime 38% showed a stable, but locally volatile demand In particular the sector experienced increased Other process industries 38% picture, such as in the Middle East and demand from customers in construction services, Non-ferrous metals 24% South America. refractory engineering and supervision services. The strong performance was mostly thanks to Demand in Europe has been slightly weaker in several large projects in H1 2019, followed by 2019, given customer destocking, following the significant maintenance demand in H2 2019. inventory build-up that took place at customer sites during 2018 as a result of tightening 43 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA After just over a year, our team in Research & Development succeeded in solving a problem that has been a hard nut to crack for the entire industry for a long time. Stefan Rathausky, Head of Cement/Lime China, India and North America all benefited from repair business. Similar to 2018, the business was Ankral-X series higher demand for project orders, from increased predominantly driven by repairs and maintenance In 2019, the Company successfully rolled out a investment activities. Greenfield projects in work, rather than new greenfield projects. Looking new product line, the Ankral-X series, developed Europe and the Middle East slowed due to forward, there are several new smelters in an by our in-house Research and Development team lower demand. advanced planning stage in Indonesia, where using Spinosphere technology. The Spinosphere an ore export ban has driven demand for new technology involves using treated spinels to 2019 saw strong demand in the pelletising industry, domestic facilities. Further demand for refractories increase thermal shock resistance and flexibility coke oven business and in energy generation, used in copper and cobalt production (and other to the rotary kiln bricks, but without any whereas development of other applications was flat battery metals) is anticipated throughout the substantial impairment to other important year-on-year, due to fewer investment projects year, with the increase in electric vehicles. properties. In response to increased (greenfield and capital projects). The platinum-group metals PGM sector, environmental pressures on end-markets Throughout 2020, the Company expects a more in the cement industry, the segment has also notably palladium and platinum which are complicated environment due to macroeconomic introduced a low CO2 emission series this both used in automotive catalytic converters, uncertainties. However, 2019 proved that the year, containing recycled materials. performed well during the year as the Company streamlined business is working well and will provided large repairs for long-term customers, continue to be effective throughout 2020 mainly in South Africa. Aluminium continues to be in growing the glass business, and expanding a commoditised business in terms of refractory Link to strategy service solutions for our customers. supply to the primary aluminium sector. However, in 2019, the Company completed its largest ever Non-ferrous metals aluminium project in China, for an original Revenue contribution from the non-ferrous equipment manufacturer OEM . metals business amounted to €221 million, contributing 8% to Group revenue and 24% to Looking ahead, with the many new global Read more on Industrial Division's revenues. The non-ferrous trade barriers in place and the slowdown in the page 13 metals business grew by 1.5%, up from €218 automotive and steel industry, there may be an million in 2018 on a constant currency basis. overall stagnation in refractory demand for the non-ferrous sector. However, this should be The business performed well in the first half, compensated for by demands from new capacity however experienced lower order intake than in the environmental industries as well as for expected in the second half, in line with the e-mobility related applications. broader global slowdown triggered by trade barriers and macroeconomic concerns. Additional demand from customers for solutions has strengthened the performance of the At the beginning of 2019 the LME listed metals, business throughout 2019, as well as demand including copper and zinc, showed upwards price for digital 4.0 offerings. This trend is expected movements, whereas all other listed base metals to continue throughout 2020. and precious metals were at comparably low levels. RHI Magnesita’s main LME listed metal end-market is copper, and elevated prices in 2019 meant that RHI Magnesita saw an uptick in the 44 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 China India New Markets RHI Magnesita China revenues were up by 9.7% in 2019 on a constant currency basis compared to India continues to be one of the key growth markets for the Company and has been delivering the previous year. The region recorded revenue steady growth in revenue and margin, as well as of €184 million, up from €168 million in 2018. gains in market share over the years. As part of its strategy to penetrate new markets, In 2019, India was flat on a constant currency the Company has focused on increasing market basis, at €252 million, versus €251 million in 2018. share in China. In particular, the Cement/Lime The demand and consumption of the Indian steel segment showed exceptional performance in industry has continued to grow, with production China over the course of the year and now has increasing by 1.8% compared to 2018. However, around 10% market share. In 2019, the new China revenue from the second quarter of 2019 onwards, the dolomite hub in Chizhou began operations and domestic steel industry witnessed sluggish €184m this will enable China to increase its backward demand on the back of slow GDP growth and a integration and cost-efficient production. slowdown in the automotive and construction The Company celebrated the success of winning sectors, following the liquidity crisis. The its first ever solutions contract in China, with slowdown continued until the end of the year, GuangXi ShengLong, in the first half of 2019. creating demand and margin pressure for India revenue This was followed by a second large solutions the Company. contract in China in January 2020. €252m However, there has been an overall slowdown in Chinese steel demand as demand is linked to fixed asset investment growth, which has been Against this backdrop, the Steel Division revenue for India was broadly flat in 2019, down to €206 million versus €208 million achieved in the previous year on a constant currency basis. declining since mid-2019. Furthermore, Chinese Despite the economic backdrop, the Indian steel demand has been affected by the weaker operations maintained their effective deployment automotive sector. The higher quality and of internal cost control, inventory management, specialist steel segment in China fared more receivable recovery and synergy measures, positively, however, being less affected by the which helped the Company navigate these underlying demand volatility. more difficult market conditions. The Chinese economy has had a material impact Throughout the year, the Group continued to from the effect of COVID-19. drive operational efficiencies and synergies in its Whilst there is likely to be actions from the Indian operations. The Group was able to achieve government to stabilise the economy, the substantial integration of its production, supply performance overall for 2020 is uncertain. chain and sales network, which will deliver significant value to our customers and other stakeholders. As part of the strategic expansion in India to increase capacity and improve customer services, we bought Intermetal Engineers Pvt., a metallurgical equipment manufacturer in May 2019 for €1.3 million, and separately acquired a refractory brick plant in September 2019 from Manishri Refractories & Ceramics Pvt. Ltd. for €5.5 million. With Government interventions such as lower interest rates, corporate tax cuts and various reforms including large planned infrastructure spend, steel consumption growth in India is forecast at 5% CAGR for the next 3 years. However, in the short term, this may be undermined further by broader economic slowdown. 45 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Key performance indicators The Board and Management have identified the following indicators which it believes to reflect the financial and non-financial performance of the business. Revenue Adjusted EBITA margin 2019 €2,922m 2019 14.0% 2018 €3,081m 2018 13.9% 2017 €2,681m 20171 9.7% KPI relevance KPI relevance This demonstrates the organic growth of the business. By increasing our global EBITA margin provides a measure of profitability and demonstrates the successful refractory market share, continually enhancing our product and service offering, execution of the integration and the Company’s corporate strategy. Synergy targets, the Company is focused on achieving revenue growth and aims to outperform which impact EBITA margin performance, are included in Directors’ remuneration. the refractories market on an annual basis. How it is measured How it is measured Total Group revenue, as reported in the financial statements. Adjusted EBITA divided by revenue, as reported in the financial statements. 2019 performance 2019 performance Revenue for 2019 amounted to €2,922 million, 5% lower than 2018. This Adjusted EBITA margin was 14.0%, 10bps higher than the previous year performance is mainly attributable to weaker steel end markets, raw material reported figures, driven mainly by the successful implementation of the Price price reduction steel customers' destocking of refractory inventory. Management Programme and the turnaround of operational issues despite the deteriorating volume environment in the steel market, raw material price reduction and a lower fixed cost absorption. Safety: LTIF R&D & Technical Marketing spend 2019 0.28 2019 €64m 2018 0.43 2018 €63m 2017 1.06 2017 n/a KPI relevance KPI relevance Safety is paramount to the successful running of our business and therefore sits This demonstrates our commitment to driving innovation and to being the at the core of everything we do. LTIF is the main safety KPI we use to measure the leading provider of services and solutions within the refractories industries. safety performance of the Company. Directors’ remuneration is directly linked Excellence in R&D and strong Technical Marketing capabilities are key to safety objectives. contributors to our competitiveness. The Company aims to invest 2.2% per annum of revenue in R&D and Technical Marketing going forward. How it is measured How it is measured The number of accidents resulting in lost time of more than eight hours, Annual spend on research and development, before subsidies and including per 200,000 working hours, determined on a monthly basis. opex and capex. 2019 performance 2019 performance LTIF reached an all-time low of 0.28 in 2019, with improvements in all regions. €64 million was committed to R&D and Technical Marketing in 2019, equating This represents a 35% reduction compared to 2018. to 2.2% of revenues, in line with the Group's annual commitment. 46 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Link to strategy Competitiveness Business Markets People model See our strategy page 13 Adjusted EPS Leverage 2019 €5.57 2019 1.2x 2018 €5.31 20181 1.3x 2017 n/a 20171 2.1x KPI relevance KPI relevance Reflecting the income statement in a clear way and taking the equity structure A suitable leverage provides the business with headroom for compelling into account, the Board believes adjusted EPS to be one of the indicators which investment opportunities but also enables distribution to shareholders. Directors’ demonstrate value being created for its shareholders. remuneration is directly linked to free cash flow generation, which impacts Group leverage. The Board has defined a long-term leverage target range of 0.5 to 1.5x across the cycle. How it is measured How it is measured Earnings per share, excluding items such as FX effect, merger-related costs, Net debt to adjusted EBITDA1. re-financing costs and other financial income and expenses. 2019 performance 2019 performance Adjusted EPS of €5.57 reflected robust performance of the business as well as Net debt at Year-end amounted to EUR 650 million, comprising total debt the achievement of synergies, improving from Adjusted EPS of €5.31 achieved of EUR 1,055 million, cash and cash equivalents of EUR 467 million and leases last year. of EUR 62 million. This compared to net debt of EUR 639 million in 2018, which excludes the impact from IFRS 16 leases. Voluntary employee turnover Gender diversity in leadership 2019 6.5% 2019 17% 2018 6.6% 2018 12% 2017 n/a 2017 8% KPI relevance KPI relevance Voluntary employee turnover is considered to be one way of measuring the Diversity is important in terms of maintaining the Group’s competitiveness and Group’s success in retaining its people. economic success and gender diversity is a key component of this. The Company has a target to increase women on our Board and in senior leadership to 33%. How it is measured How it is measured The percentage of employees who voluntarily left the Company during the year Number of women as a percentage of all those in leadership positions and were replaced by new employees. (CEO, EMT and EMT direct reports). 2019 performance 2019 performance Voluntary employee turnover was 6.5% for 2019. Female representation at leadership level slightly improved to 17%. The Company is maintaining current progress to meet the Company target of 33% by 2025. 1 2017 and 2018 figures have been adjusted to include the impact of IFRS 16. 47 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review Revenue split by industry Despite difficult end markets in 2019, the Group has recorded resilient margins, solid balance sheet position and strong cash flow generation to support our capital allocation strategy. Steel 69% Industrial 31% Cement/Lime 12% Reporting approach Revenue Other process industries 12% 2019 revenue amounted to €2,922 million, The Company uses a number of alternative 6.5% lower than 2018 (2018: €3,126 million). Non-ferrous metals 8% performance measures (“APMs”) in addition This reduction is primarily attributable to lower to those reported in accordance with IFRS, refractory volumes from the Steel Division, as which reflects the way in which Management a result of inventory destocking at customers’ assesses the underlying performance of the sites amid a weak steel production market business. The Group’s results are presented on environment. Global steel production ex-China an “adjusted” basis, using APMs which are not declined 1.7% in 2019 with production weakening defined or specified under the requirements as the Year progressed. Additionally, the exit from Revenue by geography of IFRS, but are derived from the IFRS financial the Iranian market and the implementation of the statements. The APMs are used to improve Price Management Programme contributed to the comparability of information between further volume losses. In the Industrial Division, reporting periods and to address investors’ the Group continues to benefit from the positive requirements for clarity and transparency of momentum seen in 2018, with improved the Group’s underlying financial performance. performance in all three segments (Cement & The APMs are also used internally in the Lime, Non-ferrous metals, and Process Industries). management of our business performance, This performance in the Industrial Division was budgeting and forecasting. Reconciliation underpinned by the positive dynamics in of certain metrics to the reported financials customer industries despite the weak raw is presented in the section titled APMs. material pricing environment. All references to comparative 2018 numbers The Group’s Steel Division revenue amounted to Europe 26% in this review are at constant currency, unless €2,018 million, (2018: €2,253 million) down 10.4% North America 24% stated otherwise. Figures presented at from the previous year. The Industrial Division constant currency represent 2018 translated benefited from positive global GDP growth of 2.9% APAC 21% to average 2019 exchange rates. and was able to drive organic growth, increasing South America 16% revenue to €904 million in 2019 (2018: €873 MEA-CIS 13% million), up 3.6% from the previous year. From their elevated prices in 2017 and 2018, raw material prices have fallen in 2019 particularly in the fourth quarter. Accumulated overcapacity in supply and inventory coupled with a sluggish market environment, have had a significant impact on raw material prices. These lower levels are expected to continue in the short-term. Despite the current lower prices, the Group’s high level of raw material backward integration continues to deliver benefits to RHI Magnesita, in terms of additional margin contribution, customer supply security and enabling unique product solutions for the market. 48 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Gross profit Adjusted EBITA Foreign exchange and derivative variances Gross profit declined 5.2% to €717 million in 2019 Adjusted EBITA for the Year was €408 million, amounted to €17 million in the Year (2018: €81 (2018: €756 million), as a result of decreasing 8.9% lower than 2018 (€448 million) and million), all of which referred to derivative losses raw material prices, lower deliveries to Steel adjusted EBITA margin was 14.0%, 30 bps related to the Group’s previous hedging policy. customers amid weaker end markets, which has lower than 2018. This was primarily driven by In August 2019, the Group has restructured its consequently led to lower fixed cost absorption. the deteriorating volume environment in the steel hedging policy and will no longer be exposed to This was partially offset by the successful market, raw material price reduction and lower these derivative variances and also minimised the implementation of the Price Management fixed cost absorption, which was partially offset foreign exchange translation effects on the P&L. Programme and the turnaround of operational by the successful implementation of the Price Other net financial expenses recorded €39 issues identified in H2 2018 in certain plants of €15 Management Programme launched in H1 2019, million (2018: €43 million), which primarily refer million. This represented a gross margin of 24.5%, a €15 million benefit from the turnaround of the to non-cash adjustments related to the provision 30 bps higher than in the previous year. On a operational issues in 2018 alongside delivery of for the unfavourable contract required to satisfy divisional level, gross profit from the Steel Division an additional €20 million in synergies in 2019. the EU remedies, pension and non-controlling reached €467 million, with 23.1% gross margin in interest related expenses. 2019 (2018: 24.2%). Gross profit for the Industrial Net finance costs Division was €250 million, representing a gross Net finance costs in 2019 amounted to €75 Items excluded from adjusted margin of 27.7% in the Year (2018: 24.2%). million (2018: €163 million), which represented performance a 54% decrease from the previous year. This In order to accurately assess the performance SG&A significant decrease is largely due to the Group’s of the business, the group excludes certain Total selling, general and administrative efforts aimed at reducing interest expenses on non-recurring items from its adjusted figures. expenses, before R&D related expenses, stood at borrowings, reducing the translation effects on These adjustments comprise: €309 million (2018: €316 million), representing non-euro denominated debt and derivatives, 10.6% of revenue in 2019 (2018: 10.3%). The moving to a euro-based debt portfolio to further • €108 million recorded in “Other income delivery of the remaining synergies targeted for reduce funding costs, increasing its exposure and expenses” predominantly related to the the Year contributed to the lower spend in 2019. to floating interest rates and repaying higher restructuring costs associated with the closure interest legacy debt. and downsizing of two plants in Europe, as part of the Production Optimisation Plan As a result of these initiatives, interest expenses on with severance costs of €18 million and borrowings for 2019 amounted to €28 million impairments of €52 million, additional (2018: €49 million), mainly attributable to severances of €19 million for corporate refinancing on legacy high interest-bearing debt. reorganisation costs and the impairment of Interest income recorded €9 million, broadly flat with the previous year (2018: €10 million). Adjusted EBITA margin progression % 16 RHI RHI 13.9% 14.0% 14 standalone Magnesita 12 9.7% 10 9.5% 9.0% 9.2% 8.5% 7.9% 8 7.6% 7.7% 9.0% 8.4% 6 6.8% 7.3% 6.7% 6.7% 6.1% 5.7% 5.9% 4 5.1% 2 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Backward integration margin Refractory margin At current raw material prices, backward integration contributes 2.5% to 2020 forecast EBITA margin (as at 1 April) 49 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review continued Earnings per share: Adjusted profit after tax €284m Items excluded 2019 from underlying 2019 €m reported performance adjusted EBITA 300 108 408 Amortisation (26) 26 Net financial expenses (75) 14 (62) Share of profit in joint ventures 1 10 11 Profit before tax 200 358 Income tax1 (51) (23) (74) Adjusted earnings per share €5.57 Profit after tax 149 284 Profit attributable to shareholders 139 274 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (m) 49.2 49.2 Earnings per share €2.82 €5.57 the Norway plant in Porsgrunn of €14 million. RHI Magnesita’s tax rate is sensitive to changes in Total restructuring and write-down expenses the geographical distribution of worldwide profit associated with these initiatives amounted and losses and tax regulations in each region. to €112 million. Other key factors affecting the sustainability of the Group’s effective tax rate are set out in note • €14 million related to non-cash other net 45 to the financial statements, which provides financial expenses. These include €9 million additional information on the Group’s tax rate. non-cash present value adjustment of the provision for the unfavourable contract Profit after tax and earnings per share required to satisfy the EU remedies and €4 On a reported basis, the Company recorded a million of foreign exchange movements on the net profit of €149 million and earnings per share Group’s certain non-Euro denominated debt, (“EPS”) of €2.82 per share in 2019 (2018: €187 as detailed in the “Net Financial Expenses” million profit and €3.52 per share respectively). section. These intercompany loans have been restructured in July 2019 and there will no Adjusted earnings per share for 2019 were €5.57 future foreign exchange movements. (2018: €5.31), which is stated after excluding items detailed above and amortisation of intangible • €10 million write-down of a joint venture loan assets (€26 million). related to the restructuring of Sinterco (European dolomite mine) Cash flow • An adjustment to effective tax rate excluding Operating free cash flow amounted to €359 one-time charges such as the restructuring million in 2019 (2018: €438 million), primarily and impairment expenses to reflect the due to the weaker operational performance underlying effective tax rate. and working capital cash consumption. Taxation Total free cash flow, which includes the one-off cash disbursements from the Magnesita minority The Company’s effective tax rate for the Year was acquisition, share buyback expenses and 25.5% (2018: 23.9%). The increase year-on-year restructuring costs related to the merger is mainly due to one-off tax charges related to totalled €105 million. the closure of production facilities. These costs resulted in non-deductions across tax regions for RHI Magnesita. Excluding these one-time charges, as set out above, the effective tax rate for the Year would have amounted to 20.6%. 1 Effective tax rate for adjusted EPS is calculated by applying the effective tax rate normalised for restructuring expenses and impairments. See APMs for further detail on page 225. 50 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Operating and free cash flow: Working capital Free cash flow Working capital at 31 December 2019 was €523 €105m 2019 €m million (2018: €511 million), up slightly due to the Adjusted EBITA 408 higher cash consumption in accounts payable of €145 million in 2019, as fewer purchases of raw Working capital (23) material were made during the Year. This was Changes in other assets/liabilities (17) offset by a material improvement in inventory levels, which have reduced year-on-year, leading Capex (156) to cash generation of €111 million. This was mainly Depreciation 146 driven by the Group’s efforts to reduce stock in our Operating free cash flow 359 warehouses, improve efficiency of raw material and finished goods inventory by adjusting Cash Tax (68) production to current demand levels. Accounts Working capital intensity 18.3% Net interest expense (42) receivable also improved in 2019 when compared to the previous year with €11 million of positive Restructuring and transaction costs (6) cash impact due to ongoing improvement of Magnesita minority acquisition (45) client terms, material reduction of outstanding Dividend payout (76) receivables, and to an extent, lower revenues. Total cash flow consumption from working Share buyback (19) capital in 2019 amounted to €23 million. Free cash flow 105 In terms of working capital intensity, measured as a percentage of last three months annualised Capital expenditure revenue, the Group recorded 18.3% at year-end, Capital expenditure for 2019 stood at €156 290bps higher than 2018. This was primarily million (2018: €123 million), which comprised driven by lower revenue recognised in the last €110 million of maintenance capex and €46 three months of the Year amid weaker market million of project expenditure. As announced demand. On a half-on-half basis, working capital, at the Capital Markets Day in November 2019, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of additional project expenditure is expected to revenue has improved. Cash flow generation from continue until 2022 to support the Company’s working capital in H2 2019 amounted to €95 strategy for the Production Optimisation Plan, million (H1 2019: €-118 million) and working Sales Strategies, R&D and other small, fast capital intensity improved 270bps against payback projects. In 2020, project expenditure intensity recorded in H1 2019. is expected to be around €65 million, of which Working capital financing, used to provide low €55 million will go towards the Production cost liquidity to the Group, was at €290 million Optimisation Plan and Sales Strategies initiatives at the end of the Year (2018: €316 million). This and €10 million to support other small, fast comprised €223 million of accounts receivable payback projects. Maintenance capex is financing (factoring) and €67 million of accounts expected to be around €85 million in 2020 payable financing (forfeiting). Going forward the and €95 million for subsequent years. Group expects its working capital financing level to stay below €320 million. Improving working capital performance will continue to be a focus area in 2020. In H2 2019, the Group rolled out its Tactical Network Optimisation modelling tool to optimise raw material and refractory plant loading for best value. In addition, and to support decision making and enhance demand planning with global customers and suppliers, the Group is implementing an Integrated Business Planning system in H1 2020. This will enable the Company to move towards its target of 15-18% working capital intensity in the medium term. 51 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review continued Net debt Key initiatives Net debt to EBITDA Net debt at the end of the Year amounted to €650 RHI Magnesita announced its plans for the next million, comprising total debt of €1,055 million, cash and cash equivalents of €467 million and IFRS 16 leases of €62 million. This compared to round of savings and investment opportunities at a Capital Markets Day in November 2019. Two key initiatives were presented and are expected to 1.2x net debt of €697 million in 2018, which includes bring an additional €70-80 million of EBITA the pro forma impact from IRFS 16 leases (2018: benefit by 2022. €58 million). Net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.2x, 0.1x • The Production Optimisation Plan, targeting lower than the previous year (2018: 1.3x). despite the Company’s global production footprint, the remaining cash outflows related to the payout increasing plant specialisation, improving raw to Magnesita’s minority shareholders (€45 material integration and implementing state million). This low leverage profile has allowed the Company to improve liquidity and extend the of the art technologies is expected to bring Available liquidity €1.1bn €40 million of EBITA benefit by 2022. maturity profile of its instruments. Total liquidity is now at €1,067 million, as the Group increased its • Sales Strategies will be focused on expanding undrawn facilities from U$400 million to €600 the Company’s presence in growth markets, million and more than 60% of the Group’s improving the solutions offering and investing maturities are due on or after 2023. in digitalisation, are expected to generate an added €30-40 million in EBITA benefit. Total cost to achieve the aforementioned EBITA Amortisation schedule benefit from these two initiatives will amount to (€m as at 31 December 2019)1 €220 million by 2022, of which €165 million 1,067 will consist of additional capex and €55 million will relate to restructuring costs. The Company also anticipates approximately €70 million of non-cash impairments to be recorded as a result of the plant closures in Europe, of which 600 €52 million was recorded in 2019. 600 Returns to shareholders Despite the Group's strong financial position, the uncertainty relating to COVID-19 means that 401 alongside the efficiency measures we are taking to preserve cash, the Board has decided not to 300 recommend the payment of a final dividend for 467 2019. This decision will be reviewed later in the year once the outlook becomes clearer. The 127 110 72 Board believes that this is an appropriate and 45 prudent measure to take as it seeks to preserve RHI Magnesita's strong liquidity, cashflow and 2022 Liquidity 2020 2021 2023 2024 2025 2026 financial position through these uncertain times. Amortisation Cash Undrawn RCF Synergy delivery The Group has continued its successful integration during 2019, achieving incremental synergies of €20 million, bringing the annualised total to €90 million. The additional €20 million of synergies achieved in 2019 had an associated restructuring cash cost of €6 million, taking the total cash cost since merger to €84 million. As set out above, there will be no further synergies in 2020. 1 Revolving credit facility increased to €600 million in January 2020 with maturity in 2025 and optionality of additional 2 year extension 52 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Risk management approach The Group has developed a Risk The approach is based on an assessment of “Risk Appetite” formed by the Board covering Management approach with the the key risk categories. Given its importance to the Group, the Board has additionally defined a more detailed “Risk Appetite” for Sustainability risks. objective of identifying, assessing The risk management approach combines top-down, bottom-up and subject specific risk and controlling uncertainties assessments. The top-down risk assessment is performed by the Executive Management Team, and risks related to existing and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the reporting against these risks is inherent within foreseeable future operations. each Board meeting, EMT meeting and strategic review. The bottom-up risk assessment is based on each of the operations' sites who maintain ongoing risk management activity which is linked the quality management-based governance practices. Subject specific risk assessments are performed for areas of emerging or important risks. In 2019 detailed risk assessments were Group Risk chart performed on Sustainability, IT and Fraud Risks and these were reviewed by the EMT and Impact Audit Committee. Rapid – minor low moderate high critical within 3 months Development of the risk identification and assessment process Moderate – very likely within 12 months The risk management approach is effectively the approaches at the time of the merger with Slow – enhancements added in the subsequent period. > 12 months It is recognized that while each element of the risk likely management approach has been supported by Likelihood 2 appropriate training and is undertaken with the 9 4 3 1 appropriate diligence and management review, possible RHI Magnesita would benefit from basing all risk 11 6 management activity on a single integrated 10 Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework. unlikely An ERM will be designed and implemented in 2020 with the aim of improving consistency 5 8 and efficiency of risk management. rare 7 Risk mitigation All risks considered to be unacceptable on account of their nature or their potential financial or qualitative impacts are mitigated by appropriate 1 Macroeconomic environment and condition 7 Sustainability – Health & Safety risks of customer industries leading to significant strategies. The implementation and effectiveness sales volume reductions 8 Regulatory and compliance risks of the defined mitigation measures are reviewed, 2 Raw material prices drop sharply, fluctuations and additional actions are defined if necessary. in exchange rates and energy prices 9 Cyber and information security risk For this purpose, the impacts of risks are 3 Inability to execute key strategic initiatives considered before and after the implementation 10 Product Quality Failure of those mitigation measures. 4 Significant changes in the competitive environment or speed of disruptive innovation 11 Inconsistent demonstration of RHIM culture, values and related behaviours 5 Business interruption and supply chain disruption 6 Sustainability – Environment risks 53 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risk: our internal control system Our principal risks The impact of the COVID-19 virus has the procedures to ensure that adequate accounting The principal risks are those the Board considers potential to crystallise elements (or raised the records are maintained and transactions are may have a significant impact on the results inherent likelihood) of principal risks 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, recorded accurately and fairly to permit the of the Group and on its ability to achieve its 8, 9. preparation of financial statements in accordance strategic objectives. with the applicable accounting standards. For the Board and Management Control Systems accounting process, an accounting handbook is The risks can occur independently from each RHI Magnesita aims to follow both the corporate available that addresses all the internal control other or in combination. Extraordinary events, governance requirements of the regulations of issues into the accounting process. such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have the both the Netherlands, given the location of its potential to crystallise multiple principal risks The Group has an Internal Audit function, with a incorporation, and the UK, given the location simultaneously, with the effect that the impact reporting line to the Chair, Audit Committee and of its listing. Where possible the disclosures are could be significantly magnified. As a response a secondary reporting line, for day to day combined in this report, however there are areas to the current circumstances, a bespoke risk operational matters, to the CFO. The Internal where the respective governance requirements assessment was undertaken by the Executive Audit function provides assurance to the Audit necessitate similar but separate assessments. Management Team to assess the cumulative Committee and the Board on the design and Such an area is the required disclosure and impact and the appropriate mitigating actions. effectiveness of the internal control framework. description of RHI Magnesita’s control This is not an exhaustive list of risks faced by the environment and systems. Therefore, the The re-modelled global internal audit function Company but encompasses those considered Company provides both a “Management was launched in January 2019 working to a single to be most material to business performance. In-control Statement“ as required by the Dutch risk-based annual audit plan and using a Corporate Governance Code and an Internal consistent approach across the Group. During In compiling the current principal risks, specific Control System’s report as required under the U.K. 2019, the Internal Audit function established risks on Product Quality and Achieving a Corporate Governance Code. Both outline the dedicated resource based in Europe, Americas Consistent Corporate Culture have been added measures that RHI Magnesita takes to ensure and Asia and also engaged specialist co-source based on their assessment by the Board during a strong control environment. support to provide subject matter experts where 2019. To support more effective disclosure and necessary. The 2019 annual internal audit plan reflect the high level of focus on Sustainability the Internal Control System included audits focussing on strategic risks, global risks on Environment and Health & Safety have The Board is ultimately responsible for business processes, IT and business been shown separately in this report. maintaining effective Corporate Governance, transformation and has been delivered. The Audit which includes the Group’s risk management Committee has conducted an assessment of the A risk appetite rating has been applied to each approach, the Group’s system of internal controls effectiveness and capability of the Internal Audit risk, ranking from averse to minimalist, cautious and the Group’s internal audit approach. function in 2019 based on the outputs delivered and flexible. and stakeholder feedback and concluded that the We assess our principal risks in terms of their The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system performance of internal audit is appropriate for the potential impact on our ability to deliver our of internal financial, operational and compliance requirements of the Group. Further improvements strategic objectives, their likelihood to occur controls and the risk management framework. to internal audit will be delivered in 2020 and their potential velocity. Those risks and The Board examines whether the system of including efficiencies in the audit approach their assessments are reviewed by the Board. internal controls operated effectively throughout and increased alignment of internal audit work the year and will make recommendations to strategic risks. 1 Macroeconomic environment and condition when appropriate. of customer industries leading to significant During 2019, Internal Audit conducted 25 sales volume reductions These systems are based on the three lines of planned internal audits and 11 special 2 Raw material prices drop sharply, fluctuations defence model, supported by an internal control investigations, reporting the most relevant in exchange rates and energy prices guideline reflecting the responsibility for risk observations and recommendations to 3 Inability to execute key strategic initiatives management and internal controls at all the Audit Committee. 4 Significant changes in the competitive management levels. In 2019, the Group has not identified any environment or speed of disruptive innovation The Group’s risk management framework is individual material failings in its internal risk 5 Business interruption and supply chain designed to enable the application of the Group’s management and control system however the disruption risk appetite. This typically seeks to avoid or reports by management and Internal Audit 6 Sustainability – Environment risks mitigate risks rather than to eliminate completely facilitated consideration by the Audit Committee 7 Sustainability – Health & Safety risks the risks associated with the accomplishment of and appropriate management responses on the 8 Regulatory and compliance risks the Group’s strategic objectives. It provides following key control framework challenges:9 Cyber and information security risk reasonable assurance but not absolute assurance 10 Product Quality Failure against material misstatement or loss. • Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is 11 Inconsistent demonstration of RHIM culture, consistently adopted across the full scope of values and related behaviours The Group has in place a specific risk Group operations. management approach and an internal control • Revisiting relevant legacy issues to ensure framework in relation to its financial reporting they reflect the current approach to process and the process of preparing the financial Corporate Governance. statements. These systems include policies and 54 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 • Establishing appropriate delegated authority and quarterly EMT review and challenge of Viability statement levels for local country-based management operational financial performance, zero-based The assessment process and key teams in the context of new global corporate business planning process, improving the assumptions policies and approaches. financial reporting processes, continued deployment of the corporate culture and values Assessment of the Group’s prospects is based • Continuing to enhance controls over especially to the more remote areas of the upon the Group’s strategy, its financial plan and Information Security. Company, reinforcement of the Code of Conduct principal risks. The Group’s focus during 2019 • Balancing the objectives of speed and has been to complete the integration process through increased trainings and communication, effective governance in delivering strategic and deliver €90 million of synergies, execute deployment of tools to increase leadership objectives such as shared service centres. the price management programme, strengthen capabilities, enhancing the response to issues • Accelerating the delivery of post-merger raised via the whistle-blowing process and its market position in China and India, improve activities to provide an integrated internal strengthening the capability of the Internal Audit, working capital performance and launch the control framework particularly in the Compliance and Legal functions. All key changes Production Optimisation Programme. These IT platforms. in the internal control framework were reviewed actions are expected to improve cash flow • Ensuring the internal control framework by the EMT. Each leader is accountable for the generation and liquidity, strengthen the balance is aligned with the innovative, empowered effectiveness of the internal controls within their sheet and create sustainable value through the and dynamic Group culture. areas of responsibility and is required to complete disciplined allocation of capital. A financial a self-certification reporting their assessment. forecast covering the next three years is prepared Although the Board considers the Company’s Measures are applied in each functional area to based on the 2020 Budget and projections for risk management and internal control system assess the effectiveness of internal controls and the following years. It is reviewed on a regular are appropriate and effective to give reasonable, any identified issues are escalated. Control basis to reflect changes in circumstances. but not absolute assurance against material weaknesses identified by management and those misstatement or loss, given the continued The financial forecast is based on a number of key identified through the quality management assumptions, the most important of which include evolution of the Company post-merger and the system reviews, risk management activity and decentralised nature of the Group, there is need product prices, exchange rates, estimates of internal audit reports are escalated to the EMT production, production costs and future capital for further strengthening of the internal control and Audit Committee for review and resolution. system in 2020. expenditure. The forecast does not assume the In 2019 risk management activity focused on the rollover of debt that is maturing or the raising of Management “In-Control” Statement top 20 Company risks and thematic studies of key new debt. A key component of the financial risk areas such as Sustainability, IT and Fraud Risk. forecast is the expected regional growth of steel The Board and EMT are responsible for ensuring This complemented the established process for production and the output of non-steel clients, the Company has adequate risk management the recording and management of operational combined with the development of the specific and internal controls systems in place. risks in specialist software. This approach sought refractory consumption taking account of The core design of the internal control systems is to focus the discussion and monitoring by the technological improvements. based on extensive work conducted as part of the EMT and Directors on key risk areas. The Audit merger activity in 2017. The internal control Committee was informed about the outcome Assessment of principal risks system was operated in line with this core design of this process and steps to improve the The principal risks are those the Board considers throughout 2019. Given that the internal control effectiveness were defined. In addition, may have a significant impact on the results of the systems are subject to continual evolution and the risk appetite was discussed and approved Group and on its ability to achieve its strategic that key initiatives such as Integrated Business by the Audit Committee and the Board. objectives. These are set out on pages 56 to 59. Planning will be launched in 2020, it is planned to reassess and update the design of the internal During 2020 the focus will be on completing the The risks can occur independently from each control systems in 2020. establishment of an Enterprise Risk Management other or in combination. Extraordinary events, approach by pulling together the various risk such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have the During 2019, the Board and EMT reflected the management activities. Focus will also be potential to crystallise multiple principal risks transition of the Company by placing increased given to providing management with a more simultaneously, with the effect that the impact reliance on the post-merger assessments of the incisive set of Key Risk Indicators to drive the could be significantly magnified. As a response risk management and internal control systems prompt identification of, and response to to the current circumstances, a bespoke risk in addition to the definitive independent changing and new risks. assessment was undertaken by the Executive assessments performed by third-party experts Management Team to assess the cumulative at the time of the merger. Whilst no material impact and the appropriate mitigating actions. deficiencies have been identified, management have included enhancing internal controls as part of wider strategic changes and in response to internal assessments. The key internal control measures during 2019 included reviews of financial performance and key control weaknesses at each Board meeting, monthly 55 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risk management approach continued Assessment of viability • Scenario C: A severe outbreak of COVID 19 Viability statement The assessment of viability has been made with with a reduction of revenue and volumes The Directors believe that the Group is wellreference to the Group’s current position and globally for March to December 2020 by placed to manage its principal risks successfully. expected performance over a three-year period, 31% in 2020 compared with the outlook in In making this statement the Directors have using forecast product prices, sales volumes and February 2020 (with a reduction of 55% in considered the resilience of the Group, taking expected foreign exchange rates. The impact of Q2 2020) and with a reduction of 15% and 8% account of its current position, the risk appetite, the COVID-19 virus has crystallised elements (or in 2021 and 2022. This was combined with the the principal risks facing the business in severe raised the inherent likelihood) of multiple reduction of the benefit arising from the Sales but reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness principal risks to the Group. Consequently, Strategic initiatives by 80% in 2020 and of any mitigating actions. financial performance and cash flows have then by 50%-60% in 2021 and 2022. The consequential financial effects, such as The Directors have a reasonable expectation that been subjected to stress testing and sensitivity the under-absorption of fixed costs and the Group and Company will be able to continue analysis over the three-year period. The Executive risk of increased working capital, were in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Management Team applied sensitivities which also considered. over the period to December 2022. The Directors were informed by internal and external data have determined that the three-year period to sources, including a review of the Group’s current Based on the most recent available external data December 2022 is an appropriate period having production levels and short-term order book, as described above, the Group’s performance to regard to the Group’s business model, strategy, customer feedback and review of regional date is substantially in line with the financial principal risks and uncertainties, and viability. macroeconomic forecasts. These data were forecast used for modeling the downside aggregated to model a range of severe, but scenarios and shows Scenario C is unlikely to The Directors believe that the abovementioned plausible downside scenarios for the potential occur. In all of the scenarios the Group maintained business plan and the conducted risk analysis impact of COVID-19 on the Group. the necessary liquidity levels.The impact of each provide evidence of the viability of the business of the scenarios showed declining earnings, cash over the next three years and no material risk that The scenarios tested include material reductions outflows and increasing leverage. The Board could endanger the viability or continuity of in demand and changes to working capital: believes it can sufficiently mitigate these impacts the business. • Scenario A: A reduction in revenue and through the introduction of broad-based cost volumes globally for March to December 2020 savings initiatives, Capex and Opex saving by 14% compared with the outlook in February, programmes, working capital reduction measures with a reduction of 10% and 5% in 2021 and and financing activities. The Group’s current 2022. This was combined with the reduction of financing facilities’ key covenant is that the net the benefit arising from the Sales Strategic debt (excluding IFRS16 leases) to EBITDA ratio is initiatives by 80% in 2020 and by 40%-50% beneath 3.5x. In the event of further deterioration in 2021 and 2022. The consequential financial of market conditions as a result of the COVID 19 effects, such as the under-absorption of fixed outbreak, after mitigation measures have been costs and risk of increased working capital implemented the Group will remain compliant were also considered. with its financing covenant and will have sufficient • Scenario B: A more prolonged impact of liquidity to meet obligations when they fall due. COVID-19 with a reduction of revenue and As at 31 December 2019, the Group has available volumes globally for March to December cash resources of €467 million comprising cash 2020 by 22% compared with the outlook in and cash equivalents, as well as committed and February, with a further reduction of 15% and unutilised credit facilities of €600 million. The 8% in 2021 and 2022. This was combined Group has maintained similar levels of liquidity with the reduction of the benefit arising from during the first quarter of 2020, including after the Sales Strategic initiatives by 80% in 2020 the interim dividend payment in January 2020. and by 50% 60% in 2021 and 2022. The liquidity position of the Group remains robust The consequential financial effects, such under the downside scenarios outlined above. as the under-absorption of fixed costs and risk of increased working capital, were also considered. 56 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Link to strategy Appetite Competitiveness Business model Market People Averse Minimalist Cautious Flexible Actions taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 1. Macroeconomic environment Changes in the global economic environment • Decreasing investment in • Diversification in terms of geographies and condition of customer and adverse political developments may have infrastructure projects (therefore and industries an impact on the Group’s revenue and reducing steel and cement industries leading to significant profitability. demand) leading to lower • Optimisation of the production network sales volume reductions refractory consumption and through complexity reduction and efficiency increases The macroeconomic environment changes lower sales volumes • Delivering reductions in SG&A costs Link to strategy leading to sales volume reductions can arise • Customers focusing on lower from industrial factors or from wider global cost products • Re-focus of strategy to products and issues such as a pandemic. markets with growth potential • Lower sales volumes leading to The demand for refractory products is directly lower fixed cost coverage influenced by steel production, the investment Target risk appetite climate, metal and energy prices and the production methods used by customers. Changes in international trading relationships, the application of tariffs and evolution of trade treaties can markedly impact the Group’s ability to sell to certain markets. Due to the Group’s cost structure, fluctuations in sales volume have an impact on the utilisation of the production capacities, and consequently on the Group’s profitability. 2. Raw material prices drop The Group has invested significantly and • Increasing volatility of revenue • Active balance sheet and exposure sharply, fluctuations achieves competitive advantage through its and profit management backward integration model – the resulting in exchange rates and benefits and competitive advantage are • Loss of competitiveness of • Developing a more agile business with energy prices reduced in periods of low raw material prices. operations lower fixed cost base and integrated • Increasing price pressure and business planning loss of margin • Improvement of energy efficiency Link to strategy Low raw material prices can cause a reduction of sales margin. Due to the Group’s global sales and production activities, revenue and profitability may be impacted by currency fluctuations, which can Target risk appetite be caused by many factors. The Group’s production processes rely on high volumes of energy consumption. 3. I nability to execute key The Group’s strategy includes numerous • Failure to develop the strategy into • Group-wide refresh and strategic initiatives strategic initiatives including sales expansion, specific actions communication of a simplified, more new product and service models, network • Failure to react in a timely manner focused and prioritised strategy optimisation, digitalisation and M&A projects. to a changing environment • Strengthening of project management Link to strategy culture and approach The failure to effectively execute these • Resistance to change initiatives because of external or internal • Failure to ensure Group has • Active postponement or cessation circumstances may lead to lower than capability to deliver the strategy of non-strategically important projects planned financial performance including • Leadership directives to accelerate loss of revenue and margin. project delivery and take appropriate Target risk appetite risks to deliver the strategy The Group is dynamic with a large appetite for continual improvement – the inherent capability limitations to deliver change require effective prioritisation and alignment between strategy and execution 57 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risk management approach continued Actions taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 4. S ignificant changes in the Customer demand for environmental features, • Disruptive product technology • Create a climate allowing innovation competitive environment or digitalisation and services may evolve more introduced by a competitor and “out of the box” thinking quickly than expected. speed of disruptive innovation • Disruptive production process • establishment of fast-acting local R&D introduced by a competitor structure in all major markets Increasing focus on digitalisation and services • Competitors being more agile and • Continued investment in R&D Link to strategy may lower the entry barriers for existing and faster to respond to changing new competitors. • focus development activity on customer requirements “speedboat” projects aimed at agile Depending on the capacity of the Group to and fast impact on the market develop adequate products and services, this may present either an opportunity or a threat by Target risk appetite increasing pressure on demand and margins. 5. Business interruption and As a production company, the Group is • Production interruption at single • Diversified production network in terms supply chain disruption exposed to business interruption risk resulting source manufacturing site of geographies from events including natural catastrophes, • Failure of single source supplier • Implementation of an optimized pandemics, fire, machinery breakdown, production footprint to meet planned Link to strategy supply chain disruptions or cyber-attacks. • Natural disaster or major political crisis at one or several requirements The Group relies on a small number of production sites or a small number of manufacturing sites or in • Establishment of a best in class external suppliers for certain materials. one region integrated supply chain • Loss of mining rights • Operational risk management and The inability to produce or supply those maintenance policies Target risk appetite materials may have a significant impact on • Risk based investment policy the Group’s capacity to produce and deliver its products. • Global insurance coverage The Group has an integrated global supply chain so global operations can be interrupted by issues in a specific geography. 6. S ustainability – Controlled emissions and usage of potentially • Uncontrolled emissions • Recyling strategy Environment risks hazardous materials are inherent to the • Inability to meet sustainability • Regular environmental audits and risk production of refractory products. targets monitoring at all sites Link to strategy The risk of failing to meet environment • Establishment of Board Level regulatory targets or uncontrolled emissions Sustainability Committee supported at our production sites exists and may result by focused management efforts in high financial losses and liabilities. The changing regulatory environment and Target risk appetite the Group’s commitment to Sustainability lead to increasing investment and effort being dedicated to achieve environment aims. There are future environment targets which can only be met by the Group continuing to find new technological solutions to change production processes. The Group is heavily dependent on Environmental improvements being delivered by suppliers and customers to reduce the overall impact of the Group’s activities. 58 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Actions taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 7. Sustainability – Especially at our production sites, employees • Fatal or serious accident at • Health & Safety objectives defined as Health & Safety risks and contractors may be exposed to Health manufacturing or customer site core Company objective & Safety hazards which cannot be • Health & Safety being top agenda item completely eliminated. at all Group meetings Link to strategy Our activities and products may potentially • Health & Safety approach based on cause accidents at our customers sites. leading global standards and practices • Collaboratively enhancing the Health Beyond the harm to individuals a Health & Safety approach at customer and & safety incident can lead to high financial supplier sites Target risk appetite penalties, site closure and a loss in reputation • Greater emphasis on “near miss” for the Group. reporting and root cause analysis • Regular risk monitoring at all site • Specific action plans in the event of Health issues (eg pandemic) 8. Regulatory and We strive to establish a culture of compliance • Failure to act in accordance with • Ethical values supported by strong compliance risks throughout the organisation however we face our “Code of Conduct” corporate culture increasing regulatory complexity. • Violation of anti-corruption law by • Code of conduct and compliance employees or third-party policies and procedures Link to strategy We are exposed to regulatory and compliance representatives risks which may result in financial losses or • Strengthen capability of compliance operational restrictions. • Violation of data privacy department regulations • Enhancement of global training and Regulatory changes could impact the documentation of compliance matters profitability of our operations and require Target risk appetite investment to achieve compliance. 9. C yber and information Our growth strategy (including mergers and • Intellectual property or • Dedicated Information Security security risk acquisitions, entries into new geographies, confidential data breach organisation with capability regularly the design of new products and digitalisation) • Personal/Private data breach re-assessed against threat level results in a growing cyber and information Link to strategy security risk exposure. • Customer or Supplier data breach • Global Information and Cyber Security Policies • Critical business process There is a fast evolving cyber and information interruption • Continuous awareness campaign security global threat landscape. and training • Loss of (user) productivity • Regular risk assessment and The possible impact of cyber and information • Loss of trustworthiness of data penetration testing Target risk appetite security risks could range from operational • Loss of proofing capability • Cyber security detection and disruptions, loss of intellectual property, legal response team compliance issues / frauds, or significant reputation losses. • Data classification and protection implementation 10. Product Quality Failure The Group value proposition is fundamentally • Failure of product at a customer • Specialist quality management teams based on a high-quality product performing incurring consequential loss and quality management system to agreed specifications • Loss in reputation for high quality covering all production Link to strategy • Quality testing of products at all stages The Group’s products have to demonstrate • Financial reparation for product quality failures of production consistent high performance in challenging environments • Exhaustive testing of new products • Re-fresh and enhancement of Target risk appetite The Group can suffer both reputational and procedures for transfer of production financial loss should the product quality level between factories not meet required standards The transition to a more agile production network entails significantly more production transfers between factories with each transfer requiring specific attention on product quality 11. Inconsistent demonstration The merged company has placed a high • Inconsistent behaviours across • Phased roll out of new culture in a of RHIM culture, values and emphasis on trust, empowerment, delegation, the group multi-year, multi-initiative programme leadership, accountability, integrity and related behaviours pragmatism as core behaviours within the • Persistent behaviour in line with • Global network of culture champions legacy cultures • Dedicated leadership capability new corporate culture. • Lack of awareness of Corporate enhancement programme Link to strategy Governance expectations The embedding of the new company culture • Management, compliance and Internal is a significant change journey and represents • Understanding that some legacy Audit reviews a significant difference in the working style for behaviours and decisions to be • Tone from the Top leadership for many colleagues from both legacy entities. re-visited and re-assessed the culture Target risk appetite New initiatives are designed and deployed • Inherent difficulty of aligning c.13,650 people across all relying on the foundation of the new corporate continents and many countries culture and effective corporate governance. 59 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA RHI Magnesita stakeholder index RHI Magnesita’s vision is Shareholders We aim to consistently deliver shareholder value through to help shape today’s world our capital allocation policy, investment decisions and for tomorrow’s future, and through the delivery of robust financial performance. our influence touches all areas of modern life. RHI Magnesita aims to lead the refractory industry Customers in a sustainable fashion, for the benefit of its customers, communities, employees, suppliers In order to maintain our position as the global refractory and investors. Its purpose is to shape the world in a leader, we must continue to deliver a valuable service and sustainable way, contributing to socio-economic high-quality products to our customers. We act on development and supporting prosperity. As part customer feedback, and through the Innovation hub, are of this ambition, key stakeholders remained continuously updating our service and product offering central to the Board's discussions and decisionto meet our customers' needs. making over the course of 2019. As a Dutch incorporated entity, the Company applies Dutch law as its primary legal framework. Employees As a UK listed entity, it complies with the UK Our people are our most important resource, and at the Corporate Governance Code which directly heart of everything we do. From researchers in R&D, to our references section 172 of the UK Companies Act sales teams, to production staff, to our supply chain team 2006. The Company agrees with the importance – they all play an important part. placed on stakeholders in the UK Code and the wider corporate landscape, and as such has decided to take the opportunity this year to provide more detail on how the Board engages with our stakeholders, in alignment with Section Environment 172. Effective engagement with the Company's stakeholders is integral to the successful delivery We recognise the need for the Company to act as a of the 2025 Corporate Strategy, and for the good global citizen. It is in the Company’s interest and long-term success of RHI Magnesita. in our stakeholders’ interest to create a sustainable business model. In making decisions, the Board considers views from across all key stakeholder groups as outlined below: Employees Communities The Board’s two Employee Representative Directors provide an effective direct voice in the We are considerate of the communities that surround boardroom on a range of matters, particularly the Company footprint, and try to foster social value, those which impact the workforce. local employment, and reduce any negative impact on the environment from its operations. There have been many opportunities for engagement and discussions with the various sectors of the workforce throughout the year, and you can read more about the Board activities in this area on page 78. Such activities included visits Supply chain to Brumado and Contagem in Brazil, where Directors met local management and plant We rely on our suppliers to deliver services and materials, employees, toured a mine, visited an R&D centre and the availability of these goods impact how we operate and also Gerdau’s site on a customer visit. This as a company. Not only do we want to make sure that we allowed the Directors to experience first-hand can ensure delivery on demand, but we also want to make the culture of the operations and the local sure that we are part of a sustainable supply chain. opportunities and challenges. 60 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 During 2019, the Board also visited our capital expenditure on projects with short Communities administration office at the Contagem site which payback periods and good returns, in order to During 2019, the Board considered the impacts of helped to inform a later request to the Board for deliver a robust financial performance in 2019. its decision to construct a new Dolomite Resource improvements. The office was deemed to be Ultimately, the Board recognises that good Centre in Europe, in the Hochfilzen site in Tyrol, unsatisfactory compared to Company standards financial performance underpins the basis of on the surrounding community including and the Board approved the capital required for performance for a variety of different stakeholders customers, landowners, residents’ local the updated facility, to create a positive work and takes these decisions for the benefit of authorities and employees. Impacts considered environment, improve well-being and morale, all stakeholders. included economic benefits, disruption during and improve the ability to recruit. the construction of the centre and supply to Environment customers. Tyrolean Governor Günther Platter Shareholders The Corporate Sustainability Committee was highlighted how the population in Tyrol would David Schlaff and Stanislaus Prinz zu Saynestablished by the Board to address the benefit from the safeguarding of jobs. In addition Wittgeinstein both represent shareholders increasing focus on sustainability, including to creating a Dolomite Centre of Excellence, the through their position on the Board, and as such addressing key issues around the Company’s Board opted to transport the sintered dolomite they provide an investor perspective to the environmental impact, recognising the role sustainably with a railway, instead of using trucks. management team and challenge the Company the Company has to play in leading the way Herbert Cordt commented: “This step towards to deliver to the agreed objectives, to contribute in its industry. sustainability shows that we take responsibility to the long-term and sustainable success of for the communities in which we operate. We The Corporate Sustainability Committee, along the Company. consider ourselves part of society and therefore with the CEO and the Executive Management Additionally, the Investor Relations department in Team, are regularly updated by the Sustainability have to contribute our share. This not only applies London regularly engages with both current and Steering Committee which is constituted of to Hochfilzen but is also in line with our global prospective investors, as well as equity analysts personnel across the different areas in the corporate approach. through roadshows and conferences. The business which intersect with sustainability Customers perspectives of shareholders and market analysts including research & development, health & are well represented at Board meetings with safety, and corporate communications, amongst In 2019, the Board has also had the opportunity to reports from the Investor Relations Team and others. This cross-functional body of senior meet customers in its key market areas, including coverage from a variety of analysts. The Directors management is responsible for driving progress Gerdau in Brazil, and the Directors have directly often carefully consider the reaction of the against key objectives and targets to embed observed the interaction between management markets in their deliberations on various matters, sustainability throughout the business. In order and their customers. The Company’s Net particularly those relating to results. to do this, it regularly seeks feedback from key Promoter Score is also considered at Board stakeholders on matters of Environmental, meetings and is regarded as a good proxy for During 2019, the Board made the decision to the Company’s engagement with its customers. Social and Governance ( ESG ) matters. take a secondary listing on the Vienna stock This input brings customer priorities to the exchange (Wiener Börse). Additional benefits In the 2018 Annual Report, details were provided forefront of considerations and the Board utilises to shareholders included greater liquidity, and of sustainability targets to be achieved by 2025 it to challenge management accordingly to longer periods of trading. Furthermore, as a result and the Committee has a responsibility to oversee meet customers’ expectations. of the UK’s exit from the European Union, there progress against each of these on behalf of the appeared to be a risk that the Company and its Board. One of its first decisions was to increase the Supply chain shareholders, in certain circumstances, would CO2 reduction target from 10% to 15% to include The Board did not make any significant decisions lose the protections provided by the UK Takeover Scope 1, 2 and 3 (raw materials) CO2 emissions, about our suppliers or the supply chain this year, Code and any takeover of RHI Magnesita N.V. challenging management to find technological however, in 2020 it looks to implement a more would therefore be effectively unregulated. The and process-driven routes to reduction. The sustainable business, and ensure that suppliers secondary listing on the Vienna stock exchange, Corporate Sustainability Committee reports into of the Company act responsibly. They will be as a regulated market in European Economic the Board on its activities and ensures due focus is supported in this by the work of the Corporate Area, meant this unregulated scenario could given to matters of ESG, drawing on the members’ Sustainability Committee and it will also be in never arise. discussion within the Sustainability Committee. conjunction with the review of processes for the The influence of this increased focus can be seen Modern Slavery Act and the California In 2019, the Board resolved to approve the in the Board decision to transport sintered Transparency in Supply Chains Act. declaration of an interim dividend of €0.50 per dolomite via railway as outlined in the share, being a total aggregate payment of €25 paragraph below. million in January 2020. The long-term dividend policy considered in great detail the expectation of the investors and the impact on the value of the Company. Furthermore, a key focus for the Board, with reference to investors, is financial performance and with this in mind, the Board challenged management to reduce costs, whilst focusing 61 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability Governance The planet is facing a climate and ecological crisis. In 2019, greenhouse gas emissions reached an alltime high, with almost every country failing to meet their Paris commitments. Furthermore, the world’s population continues to grow and is projected to reach 10 billion by 2050. The continued decline in global poverty rates is The following chapters address our approach Material issues and targets welcome, although rising living standards place to sustainability, or ESG (environment, social, In 2019 we conducted a follow-up stakeholder the planet’s resources under greater pressure. governance). In this chapter, we describe our consultation to confirm the sustainability issues These interrelated economic, social and governance of sustainability. Next, we discuss that are material to our business. environmental challenges are addressed by the our approach to climate and environmental UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ), the challenges (Climate and Environment, page 65), The issues identified by internal and external global blueprint for people, planet and prosperity. then how we are addressing social impacts stakeholders to be most material are: Business is a vital partner in achieving these goals. (People and Communities, page 69). • climate and energy; RHI Magnesita plays a small but critical role in Sustainability strategy • health & safety; shaping a sustainable future. Refractories are Our sustainability strategy supports and is integral • diversity; instrumental in developing the infrastructure to RHI Magnesita’s overarching strategy. We must • recycling; and required by new and larger cities: new housing, ensure that the Company is on a sustainable offices, schools, hospitals and transport systems. • NOx and SOx emissions. growth path and able to succeed in a low-carbon As the global leader in refractories, we have a and resource-constrained economy. As RHI responsibility to lead the industry in sustainability. Magnesita expands geographically, we must also In 2019, we deepened our focus on sustainability, ensure that we are a valued employer, business climate action in particular. Driven by our Board partner and member of all communities in which and led by our Executive Management Team, we we operate. Sustainability needs to be at the heart engaged widely with stakeholders, investigated of our business; it must become simply part of risks and opportunities, and agreed an ambitious who we are and how we do business. strategy with targets to 2025. Targets by 2025 versus 2018 Progress in 2019 Eco-Vadis rating Silver CO2 emissions Reduce by 15% per tonne of product (Scope 1, Reduced by 5% 2, 3 (raw materials) Energy Reduce by 5% per tonne product Energy efficiency projects implemented; savings not yet seen due to softer production volumes NOx and SOx emissions Reduce by 30% by 2027 (vs 2018), starting Achieved in all pre-existing China sites with China by 2021 under implementation in Chizhou plants Recycling Increase use of secondary raw materials Secondary raw materials accounted for to 10% 4.7% in 2019 Diversity Increase women on our Board and in senior Board: 23% female leadership to 33% EMT & direct reports: 17% Safety Maintain LTIF at <0.5 (goal: zero accidents) Achieved LTIF of 0.28 in 2019 62 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 For each of these issues, we have set targets and report progress towards achieving them see Targets on page 62. In addition, we also work on other issues that, although less material, are still important to us and our stakeholders. These are: • water usage; • forests and biodiversity; • sustainable supply chain; • community investment; • human rights; and • anti-corruption. Engaging with stakeholders Customers we are engaged in partnerships with universities, Listening and learning from stakeholders is Working with customers, we develop solutions research institutions, start-ups, open innovation fundamental to a successful and sustainable that support their climate action plans. Examples platforms and industry associations to identify and business. include our innovative coatings technology to develop low-carbon technologies. In 2019, we improve customer energy efficiency, low-carbon joined the European Cement Research Academy In addition to our stakeholder consultation, (ECRA) and entered into new partnerships with bricks and recycling services. We also work with we continued to expand our engagement Imperial College London and the Federal customers in cross-industry partnerships, such as on sustainability in 2019. Universities of Minas Gerais and São Carlos the K1-MET project to develop syngas from waste gas streams rich in CO2. in Brazil. Read more about our stakeholder engagement on pages 65 and 66. Sustainability governance and Employees management Shareholders Engaging with employees is a critical part of We are actively engaged with the investment developing our new culture. During 2019, our Our sustainability strategy and activity is overseen community around our sustainability agenda, as leaders continued to hold townhall meetings by the Corporate Sustainability Committee. This demonstrated at our Capital Markets Day in 2019. across our business. They also worked with our Board Committee identifies key sustainability risks RHI Magnesita is rated Prime (C+) by ISS ESG network of over 60 culture champions who and opportunities, sets the strategy, establishes rankings and Silver by Eco-Vadis. engage our employees across our business. In key objectives and targets and reviews progress. 2020, culture champions will include diversity The Committee, which meets quarterly, is chaired as a key theme for activities. In addition, our by independent Non-Executive Director External initiatives and ratings inaugural women’s network is helping to shape Janet Ashdown. our gender diversity agenda. We also introduced The Corporate Sustainability Committee, CEO a sustainability category into our Global Awards and Executive Management Team are regularly to recognise the most outstanding sustainability updated by the Sustainability Steering Committee. DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION initiatives across our business. This cross-functional body of senior management is responsible for driving progress against key Suppliers objectives and targets and embedding We are extending sustainability programmes sustainability throughout the business. to include our supply chain. We have expanded our carbon emissions reduction target to include Integrated management system Scope 3 emissions for raw materials. RHI Our integrated management system covers Magnesita is also engaging suppliers on safety environment (ISO 14001), occupational health requirements and our Supplier Code of Conduct. and safety (moving to ISO 45001 from OHSAS 18001) and quality (ISO 9001). In 2020, we Communities will conduct a central audit as a basis for IMS As our business expands globally, we are matrix certification. extending our community programmes. By working with local communities and partners, To ensure that our environmental data is robust, we aim to support local needs and aspirations. in 2019 we commissioned an independent third-party assessment of our data collection In addition, we increasingly work in multilateral and developed an environmental roadmap partnerships with these stakeholders and others based on findings. to address sustainability challenges. For example, 63 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability Governance continued Standards and reporting Ethics and compliance Human rights Our approach is underpinned by the UN We must hold ourselves accountable to the We are committed to respecting internationally Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate highest standards of corporate behaviour. This recognised human rights, in line with the UN sustainability movement in support of the UN is fundamental to being a responsible business. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Sustainable Development Goals. As participants, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human we must integrate human rights, labour rights, Anti-bribery and corruption Rights. As participants in the UN Global Compact, environment and anti-corruption principles into Bribery and corruption have no place in our we must bring this commitment to life in our our business strategy and operations. We must business or any business. Our Code of Conduct, business, supply chain and beyond. also map how our core business and community which can be found on our website, makes clear Human rights provisions are explicitly included investment programmes can best support our zero-tolerance approach to corruption. We in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are the SDGs. expect our employees and business partners to developing a more rigorous approach to supplier fully comply with anti-bribery and corruption Other initiatives we participate in or support assessment, with digitalisation helping to laws wherever we operate. include: strengthen our compliance systems. Statements To keep step with our business growth, we are in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act Climate – In 2019, we made our first climate expanding our compliance organisation with 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon new compliance specialists in South America, Chains Act can be found on our website. Disclosure Project). Europe and India. We are also strengthening Diversity – We report our progress in increasing our processes and monitoring. During 2019, Whistleblowing hotline female leadership to the Hampton-Alexander we continued compliance training in South Potential concerns about our business or any Review. and North America, Europe and India. More suspected wrongdoing can be reported to an than 2,000 employees took part in face-to-face independently operated, confidential and Anti-corruption – We support Transparency training. In addition, Internal Audit conducted anonymous whistleblowing hotline. Contact International, the global anti-corruption audits of our approach to anti-bribery, corruption details are publicised throughout our business movement. and data protection, assessing our compliance and on our website. Any suspected code Community investment – We are members of organisation’s training, monitoring and reporting. violations are managed by a team comprising LBG (formerly London Benchmarking Group) and In 2020, we will continue to strengthen our compliance, HR and Internal Audit. The Board use this global standard for measuring corporate approach, with the launch of our digital routinely reviews this process and reports arising community investment. compliance portal and a new series of from its operation, ensuring that there are detailed compliance policies. arrangements in place for the appropriate Sharing our progress in an open and transparent independent investigation of these cases and way is key to engagement and progress. In this We also expect suppliers to uphold the values follow-up actions are completed. report, we focus on material issues which, in our Supplier Code of Conduct and in 2020 we together with the GRI Content Index on our will launch an annual certification process. Our In 2019, we received 79 reports most of which website, comprises our GRI report. Codes of Conduct can be found on our website. continued to be HR-related grievances. We were able to address many of these issues in culture This report was prepared in accordance with the workshops and Compliance training sessions. GRI Standards (Core option) and represents our A further breakdown of reports is included in the Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Audit Committee report on pages 93 to 95. Global Compact (self-assessed as Active). 2,000+ Employees received in-person Code of Conduct training 64 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Climate & Environment The severity and urgency of the climate crisis became increasingly clear in 2019. The global economy needs to rapidly reduce carbon emissions, halving them by 2030 and reaching net-zero by 2050. Climate governance and risk During 2019, we revised our emissions reduction During 2019, the Board and senior leadership target, almost doubling it by including Scope 3 of RHI Magnesita were focused on accelerating emissions from raw materials. Our new our Company’s climate action. The Company commitment is to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 completed an in-depth assessment of climate emissions (raw materials) by 15% by 2025 while risks our business faces, including physical risks improving energy efficiency by 5%. We are also (extreme weather events, disruption to operations investigating how RHI Magnesita could adopt a and supply chain) and transitional risks (current Science-Based Target for emissions reduction and emerging regulations, technology, that is aligned with the latest climate science. marketplace and reputation). In 2019, our CO2 emissions totalled 4,622,000 Since climate risk is now a major concern to tonnes (Scope 1, 2 and 3 – raw materials), investors, we undertook our first climate equivalent to 1.65 tonnes per tonne of production. submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon This marks a 5.0% reduction in emissions per Disclosure Project) in 2019, gaining a C rating. In tonne of production and a 14.0% decrease in addition, we are exploring how to implement the absolute emissions, although softer production recommendations of the Taskforce on Climatevolumes contributed to this. Softer production related Financial Disclosures ( TCFD ) (see table). volumes also impacted energy consumption, which dropped by 9.1% to 5.2 TWh in 2019. New energy efficiency projects were launched during the year but did not yet yield improvements, with energy efficiency down 0.3%. In future, these projects are expected to save up to 61 GWh per year. Implementing the TCFD Recommendations Governance • The Sustainability Steering Committee works with the Executive Management Team and CEO to assess climate risks and opportunities and develop and implement climate strategy. • The Board Sustainability Committee regularly reviews climate risks, strategy and performance. Risk Management • Key climate risks are disclosed in our submission to the CDP, which gained a C rating in 2019. • Risks include physical risks (extreme weather events, disruption to operations and supply chain) and transitional risks (current and emerging regulations, technology, marketplace and reputation). • Key opportunities include recycling and offering customers full-service solutions, as well as potential opportunities that could result from capturing and managing process emissions. • We continuously monitor and review our approach given the uncertainties and speed of change in the area of climate risk. Strategy • Provide innovative solutions to help customers reduce their carbon emissions and increase their operational efficiency. • Decrease the carbon footprint of our raw materials. • Increase the energy efficiency of our operations. • Reduce the carbon intensity of our energy sources. Metrics and Targets • Our target is to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (raw materials) per tonne by 15% by 2025. • We measure our carbon emissions using the GHG Protocol. 65 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Climate & Environment continued Our CO2 Emissions Absolute Emissions (tonnes of CO2) Relative Emissions (t CO2 per tonne of product) 2018 Change vs Change vs 2019 (base year)2 2018 2019 2018 2018 Scope 11 2,275,000 2,629,000 -354,000 0.81 0.85 -4.5% Of which geogenic emissions 1,194,000 1,413,000 -219,000 0.43 0.46 -6.7% Of which fuel-based emissions 1,051,000 1,165,000 -114,000 0.37 0.38 -0.4% Scope 2 190,000 207,000 -17,000 0.07 0.07 1.3% Scope 3 (raw materials) 2,157,000 2,536,000 -379,000 0.77 0.82 -6.1% Total 4,622,000 5,372,000 -750,000 1.65 1.74 -5.0% 1 Scope 1 emissions consist of geogenic emissions, fuel-based emissions and other emissions (e.g. emissions from traffic/machinery, heating of office buildings at production sites). 2 The value of Scope 1 CO2 emissions for 2018 has been revised upward since publication of the 2018 Annual Report due to the improved availability of more granular data and analysis. 5% Climate strategy • digital solutions such as our Automated Our climate strategy spans our value chain and Process Optimisation (APO) that can reduce includes the following components: energy-intensive stoppages and optimise production; and Total CO2 emissions reduction in 2019 • providing innovative solutions to reduce • helping customers digitise operational control customer emissions; (Scope 1, 2, and 3 raw materials) to increase productivity and energy savings. • decreasing the carbon footprint of our Reducing raw material emissions 15% raw materials; • increasing energy efficiency in our Geogenic emissions from raw materials operations; and represented 48% of our carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) in 2019. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is released • reducing the carbon intensity of our when the raw magnesite (MgCO3) is processed 2025 target reduction vs 2018 energy sources. into magnesium oxide (MgO), the basis for many (Scope 1, 2, and 3 raw materials) refractory products. Innovative customer solutions The steel and cement industries represent These process emissions represent another approximately 80% of our customers. They are major focus area of R&D investment, especially also major carbon emitters, accounting for up to increasing recycled content in our refractories 13% of global emissions. Helping them improve since this reduces the geogenic emissions energy efficiency in production with the associated with virgin materials. associated drop in emissions could potentially In 2019, we significantly increased the recycled achieve a significant reduction in our content in products with our new series of indirect emissions. low-carbon bricks and expanded our global To do so, we are developing innovative recycling capacity (see Recycling below). technologies and transforming our business Reaching our target of 10% recycled content will model. New full-service solutions that can mitigate approximately 300,000 tonnes of CO2 significantly improve customers’ energy efficiency emissions per year. in production and reduce associated carbon As we endeavour to reduce the carbon footprint of emissions include: our raw materials, we work with others to develop • recycling services that help customers breakthrough technologies. Such partnerships optimise production, increasing energy include the European Cement Research and resource efficiency; Academy ( ECRA ) and the K1-MET consortium which includes steel manufacturers. • working with customers to reduce consumption by extending the life In addition, we are setting up research of refractories; partnerships with universities and other partners, • coating technologies that improve refractory including accelerators, start-ups and open performance and energy efficiency in innovation platforms to identify and develop new customer production processes; technologies. In 2019, we set up a national CO2 research network of universities and businesses in Brazil and entered into a research partnership with Imperial College London. 66 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Reducing the carbon intensity of energy Recycling Energy use by source We are assessing our potential to reduce Scope 2 Our recycling strategy has two vital aims, emissions from electricity consumption. At reducing both our carbon emissions (see above) present, our electricity consumption averages and landfilled waste. Our target is to include 10% 278g CO2 per kwh. Secondary Raw Materials ( SRM ) in refractories by 2025 which would prevent approximately We aim to increase the proportion of renewables 150,000 tonnes of material from going to landfill. in our energy mix through both on-site generation We are on track to reach this target, having and purchasing. For example, our Leoben R&D increased recycled content in our products by centre in Austria implemented its first PV solar 1% in 2019. system in 2019. This already covers the site’s base electricity consumption and will be During 2019, we made solid progress in all three further expanded. key elements of our recycling strategy: We intend to source renewable energy for • establishing on-site recycling solutions for Natural gas 53% production too and are exploring the possibilities used refractories at customer sites; Coal, coke & petcoke 16% for each site. In Brazil, our Brumado production • setting up recycling facilities at our own Fuel oil 16% site is assessing a Power Purchasing Agreement production sites; and for wind power. All of our Austrian sites are already • developing recipes that include recycled Electricity 13% supplied by 100% certified renewable electricity. content in a wide array of products. Diesel/petrol 1% Nevertheless, as things stand, we cannot use Examples of our progress in 2019 include: Liquid gas 1% renewables as our primary source of energy, given the high temperatures and quantities required by • In North America, we launched our first our business. Our production sites therefore still on-site customer recycling solution. depend on carbon-intensive fossil fuels. • In South America, we expanded our recycling Switching to alternatives is a highly challenging capacity with a new semi-automated transition which we continue to actively explore. recycling operation in Coronel Fabriciano. Where feasible, we are moving from petroleum Meanwhile, further investments in Contagem coke and oil to natural gas, the cleanest fossil fuel, allowed us to boost recycled content in although location plays a part in availability. our products. In 2019, gas accounted for 53% of fuel used • In Europe, we opened our first dedicated by our business. recycling facility in Veitsch, Austria. Increasing energy efficiency • In India, our new production facility in Cuttack has on-site recycling operations. In our own operations, we are pioneering new production techniques to improve energy • In China, we increased use of recycled efficiency. Innovative technologies now allow us materials and started our own recycling to dry pre-cast shapes for 2.5 hours rather than activities to ensure a local source of the traditional five days. In addition, we can now recycled materials. achieve the same performance from refractory As we increase the amount we recycle, we bricks tempered at 200°C that was previously work to reduce waste. During 2019, the waste possible only by firing at temperatures exceeding generated by our business amounted to 107,000 1,500°C. Additional investments include the tonnes. Most of this waste (83%) was nonrecovery of waste heat by our Dalian site which in hazardous ceramic and mineral waste from 2019 reduced the site’s energy consumption by production sites and mines. We have therefore more than 5 GWh. established waste teams in priority plants to These initiatives are expected to save up to 61 identify how to maximise the reuse or recycling GWh per year, equivalent to more than 1% of potential of production waste. our energy consumption in 2019. We are also exploring how we could reduce emissions from transportation. For example, our Hochfilzen plant will start supplying finished products by rail which will avoid approximately 3,000 truck trips per year. 67 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Climate & Environment continued NOx and SOx emissions Water Target for recycled content by 2025 Our programme to reduce emissions of We aim to minimise our use of water and improve nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) is progressing well. We are targeting a 30% reduction and during the first phase in China, we our water efficiency, especially in areas which already experience scarcity. Although the refractory industry is not water-intensive in 10% achieved this for pre-existing plants in 2019, with comparison to other sectors, we recognise the new Chizhou plant to follow in 2020. Our next growing issue of water scarcity and its links to 90% focus is to achieve the same in our US business the climate crisis. by 2025, followed by Europe and South America In 2019, we assessed the locations of all by 2027. production sites for water scarcity using the WWF Water Risk Filter and other tools. Results indicated Water consumption in non-scarce areas Protecting biodiversity that 10 sites operate in regions of Mexico, Brazil, We recognise that biodiversity is essential to life India, China and France where water scarcity is, and acknowledge its alarming and rapid loss or might soon become, a risk. Next, we will assess across the world. Deforestation is of particular water consumption at these sites to identify concern since forests play a critical role in potential risks both to our operations and local mitigating climate change. We take a watersheds and develop mitigation plans. In India, regenerative approach to areas we mine, restoring for example, we have completed a feasibility study them to their original state through re-cultivation into rainwater harvesting. and reforestation. In 2019, activities included: During 2019, RHI Magnesita used 14.8 million • In Brazil, we grew 26,000 native saplings cubic metres of water, of which 1.5 million cubic in our Brumado tree nursery and planted metres was consumed in water-scarce areas. 6,000 on our land, donating more than 12,500 saplings to local communities. • In Turkey, our Eskişehir site’s annual treeWater consumption planting saw approximately 500 employees, contractors and members of the local community plant more than 2,000 trees on neighbouring land to our mine and production site in 2019. To date, we have planted 193,650 trees in Turkey. • In Germany, employees at our Niederdollendorf site planted 2,000 trees in nearby Siebengebirge natural park and provided a further 2,000 to the local conservation partner. We also promote biodiversity on our sites. In Water consumption in Germany, our Marktredwitz plant was recognised non-scarce areas 90% by the local Ministry of the Environment for commitment to species and insect protection in Water consumption 2019. Named a Blossoming Business (Blühender in water scarce areas 10% Betrieb), the plant has designed its outdoor space in ways that promote biodiversity, planting bee-friendly shrubs, hedges and meadows, avoiding chemical pesticides and peatcontaining substrates. 68 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 People & Communities As our business grows, we must bring a positive social impact wherever we operate, both as an employer and a neighbour. Within our business, we aim to help over 13,650 employees achieve their potential; beyond our own business, we aim to partner with our communities, helping them develop resilience and thrive. assesses employer culture, brand image, of our business and we are working hard to management, training and development, working ensure that the lessons learned from these environment, compensation and benefits. tragic incidents are implemented across our organisation. Safety One immediate result is a greater focus on Our employees have a fundamental right to a safe contractor safety. Contractors working at our workplace. We firmly believe that zero accidents sites will now be included in our LTIF data. To do is the only acceptable goal. RHI Magnesita’s so, we are defining safety requirements by service Safety First campaign, which was originated in provided and assigning accountability to site Building a strong culture is essential to our 2011, clearly defines safety as the responsibility managers. Conversely, a significant number of long-term sustainability and success. The of every employee. To emphasise this, our CEO our employees are contracted to work at customer foundations of our new corporate culture have begins each quarterly update to employees sites. Although they are already included in our now been laid, with a focus on its four key themes: with safety performance. LTIF reporting, our new safety integration project In 2019, our lost time injury frequency ( LTIF ) aims to ensure that customers share our • act customer-focused and innovatively; rate was 0.28, a 30% improvement compared understanding, training and reporting practices • have open decision making in a respectful to 2018. Yet despite this sustained overall for Health and Safety. environment; improvement, we were deeply saddened by the As we expand our work on safety, we place • operate cross-functionally, collaboratively two fatalities that occurred following accidents. an equal focus on total recordable injury and pragmatically; and In Brazil, an employee died from medical frequency ( TRIF ). • be performance-driven and accountable. complications following an occupational accident, while in Turkey a contractor died Since most accidents happen due to unsafe Since our merger in 2017, a global network in an accident while unloading raw materials. actions, a major focus is behaviour-based safety of culture champions has supported culture No loss of life should ever happen in the course and accident prevention. During 2019, we rolled workshops, communications campaigns, team-building activities and pulse surveys. More than 3,000 people have been trained Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIF) to help bring our new culture to life. 2.0 2.0 Employee feedback has been positive to date. Our latest survey showed that almost three-quarters (74%) of employees are excited about the 1.5 Company’s future and the same proportion of 1.5 employees understand the Company’s targets and goals. In addition, we are already living our new culture according to more than half of respondents TRIF 1.0 LTIF (58%). Work across organisational units is again raised as an area for improvement, however. 1.0 0.5 In addition to employee feedback, we were honoured to be named China’s Preferred Employer of the Year by recruiting platform zhaopin.com and Peking University. One of the country’s most 0.0 0.5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 credible and influential employer brand indices TRIF LTIF 69 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Our People & Communities continued LTIF improvement since 2018 30% out observation audits to identify at-risk Gender diversity A survey of more than 200 participants found that behaviours. We also conduct programmes and Our target is to achieve 33% female while most female employees felt equally treated, training for specific jobs, such as safety leadership representation on our Board and in our senior they occasionally encounter gender stereotypes for front-line leaders. leadership. Given our 2017 merger and and other obstacles to career development. Near miss and unsafe situations are another focus subsequent listing on the FTSE 250, we adopted Survey results also confirmed the issues that we and we set internal targets to mitigate unsafe the deadline of 2025, rather than 2020, as must address: the need for greater awareness of situations, prevent accidents and learn from recommended by the Hampton-Alexander diversity, more flexible working and the promotion of near-misses. We have begun to measure the Review since we also needed to embed a new parental leave for both men and women. In addition, severity rate of accidents and will set internal corporate culture. the results yielded valuable recommendations for targets for this, too. We are committed to building gender diversity how to do so. For example, we are encouraged to: and are working to accelerate progress. • showcase existing female leaders as Promoting diversity Regrettably, gender diversity in senior leadership role models; As a global company, we know that diversity lags behind our ambition, although there was and inclusion is critical to our success. Diverse • make technical jobs more attractive to women; a 5% improvement over 2018. While women businesses gain greater access to talent, learn accounted for 22% of our Executive Management • help women be more confident and assertive from a wider range of perspectives and have Team (EMT) in 2019, this figure falls to 17% in the workplace; proven to be more profitable. when direct reports are included. • support parental leave and help returning We want employees of every background to feel parents back into work; and To develop our pipeline of female leaders, we are welcome and valued. Our aim is to provide equal reaching deeper into the organisation to identify • where necessary, focus on local cultural opportunities to everyone, regardless of gender, future leaders and to address potential obstacles aspects of gender diversity. race, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, age to women’s career development. One immediate or any other difference. Discrimination of any result is that the Leadership Conference held in International representation kind will not be tolerated. January 2020 for our top 60 leaders will include In addition to gender diversity, we must ensure 10 future female leaders who are identified to that our leadership reflects the markets we serve. In 2019, we ramped up diversity efforts. Led by the have high potential. Personally invited by our Our business spans 40 countries, our workforce Executive Management team, we are embedding CEO, these high-achieving middle managers includes over 85 nationalities and we serve diversity into our business. A new global steering from around the world will gain exposure to customers in over 125 countries. Yet in 2019, committee, together with six regional steering our leadership at the event and mentoring our leadership only included nine nationalities. committees, is implementing diversity initiatives opportunities. Our first priority is therefore to ensure that each throughout our business. Since leaders are key geographic region is represented in senior particularly important in promoting diversity, Other new measures include a requirement for leadership. One example is our international we conducted training and set clear diversity at least one woman to be shortlisted among the rotation programme for high-performing expectations of them. We also launched a final three candidates for all global roles, from high-profile internal communications campaign apprentices to senior leadership. We are also to build awareness and understanding across our exploring anonymised recruiting processes to business. In 2020, our global network of culture reduce unconscious bias. Our new women’s champions will also focus on diversity, helping network is helping us understand the barriers to bring our commitment to life in day-toexperienced by women in our workplace. day operations. 70 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Proportion of Women1 In 2019 In 2018 2025 Target Board 23% 8% 33% EMT 22% 22% 33% EMT Direct Reports 16% 10% 33% EMT + EMT Direct Reports 17% 12% 33% Target of women in leadership by 2025 33% academy and online language courses. We aim Previously used in our plants, the robot will be to broaden the ways we offer training, both online programmed to move in laboratory exercises. and in person. • In Austria, our new schools programme KiTec (Kids Explore Technology) aims to stimulate Investing in communities children’s curiosity in STEM. Together with our As we expand our community programmes, partner, Wissensfabrik, we trained and Number of volunteers in 2019 we focus on key themes wherever we operate. In equipped 50 teachers from 15 schools in 2019 300+ addition, we aim to build global partnerships and and will expand the programme in 2020. programmes that deliver significant and lasting impact. To measure our community investment, Tree planting and environmental protection we use the LBG framework, the global standard. Given the climate and ecological crisis, we support tree-planting and reforestation projects. Education and youth development These natural climate solutions have the potential Our first international partnership is with Teach to mitigate climate change, support biodiversity employees from China, given the strategic for All, a global network that addresses the lack and benefit local communities. During 2019, we importance of the country to our business. of education, support and opportunity faced continued to provide and plant trees in a number by many children around the world. of countries (see Climate, page 68). In addition, Lastly, we aim to open up our workforce and we are assessing opportunities to develop our leadership to a greater range of ages. Our initial In 2019, we piloted a project with local partner support for reforestation programmes include a new apprenticeship Teach for Austria. Addressing educational scheme for 16 year olds and relationship-building inequity, the project trains graduates and young Volunteering with educational institutions. professionals to teach in urban low-income schools. In the first year, 250 children directly A growing number of our sites now offer benefited from educational support we funded. employees the chance to volunteer in our People & development In addition, our CEO and Chairman both taught community programmes. In 2019, more than We want to develop best-in-class capabilities for 300 employee volunteers participated in 18 a class during the Teach for Austria Week. our business while helping our employees fulfil community projects in South America, North their career potential. To do so, we provide Based on positive feedback, we are expanding this America and Europe. These programmes ranged development opportunities, while assigning partnership. In 2020, we will work with Teach for from educational projects to tree-planting accountability and rewarding performance. All to launch projects in Mexico and India, while in initiatives. In 2020, we will continue to roll out Austria, we will conduct hands-on workshops to volunteering opportunities across our business. The People Cycle, our new performance encourage girls’ interest in STEM subjects. management system, has now been rolled out. Covering all employees, the system includes We also support STEM education projects across regular planning and structured performance our business. reviews. Talent management and succession planning processes have also been implemented. • In China, we launched the Innovation Green competition in 2019 together with leading Our new global leadership learning framework universities in Liaoning Province. In its first year, #FitToLead was launched in 2019, empowering 130 teams of students designed innovative leaders to plan their own development. Our solutions to environmental issues. We aim to FitToLead Leadership Network event, which roll out the competition across China. focused on our newly defined Leadership • In Brazil, our Room for Inclusion programme Capabilities, saw 110 leaders learn about future provides digital education to schoolchildren business challenges and new ways of thinking. from economically deprived areas near our Another new initiative is our Global Talent Brumado plant. We supported the centre’s Programme. Starting in 2020, we will recruit 15 construction and fund teaching and high-potential trainees around the world, scaling other costs. up to 50 by 2025. • In the US, we donated a robot to the new career and technology centre in Conewago 1 As at the date of this report, does not include Employee Training ranges from a leadership empowerment Representative Directors Valley School District, Pennsylvania. programme for operations to our purchasing 71 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA 74 Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance 76 Corporate Governance statement 84 Board of Directors 88 Executive Management Team 90 Nomination Committee report 92 Corporate Sustainability Committee report 93 Audit Committee report 96 Remuneration Committee report 100 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 108 Annual Report on Remuneration 110 Compliance with the Dutch Civil Code 72 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Governance 73 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, As reported in the 2018 Accounts, Fersen 2019 has been another full and active year for Lambranho stepped down from the Board on us as we continue to develop our Corporate 21 January 2019. Subsequently GP Investments Governance standards to support value and sold their stake in the Company on 19 November benefit for our key stakeholders. In our 2019 2019. I would like to record the Board’s appreciation programme we took full account of the new for Fersen’s commitment and contribution to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the Company and its establishment. “UKCGC”) when assessing our governance Throughout the year we have held various practices in the course of the year and were meetings with shareholders, and we continue to pleased to note that our corporate DNA already engage with shareholders on matters of corporate accommodated a key principle of the UKCGC governance. Should you have any questions or through our Employee Representative Directors issues to raise, please contact our Investor who have been on our Board since 2017. Further Relations team at the contact details on page 226. detail on our engagement with stakeholders can be found on page 60 and 61. Updates to the I was proud to lead a refreshed Board in 2019. Terms of Reference for each Board Committee They have provided constructive challenge have been undertaken to formalise compliance to our Executive Management Team and with the UKCGC in the course of the year. Further enthusiastically engaged with a whole host of details on where we have complied or explained challenges, new and emerging in an increasingly in respect of each of the UKCGC and the Dutch complex world. Of course, 2020 will bring its own Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the “DCGC” challenges, some existing and some new, which and together “the Codes”) can be found on page we are already managing and responding to as 76. The reports from each Board Committee you can see in my Chairman's Statement earlier can be found on pages 90 to 120. on in this report, but I’m confident we have the right executive team and Board in place to meet At our Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in these. A more detailed overview of the matters June 2019, we were pleased to formally welcome discussed and debated by the Board at its Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus as our two meetings during the year is presented on new Non-Executive Directors following their pages 82 and 83. appointment by the general meeting, having had the benefit of their expertise as nominated Finally, all Directors will seek re-election at our Non-Executive Directors from December 2018. AGM in Amsterdam on 18 June 2020 and we look forward to providing an update on business Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus were appointed performance at that meeting. to the Corporate Sustainability Committee, Janet as the Chair, and the Committee has generated significant momentum in the course of 2019 as Herbert Cordt the Company’s focus on sustainability has grown. Chairman of the Board of Directors More details of this Committee’s duties can be found on page 92. Both Janet and Fiona bring new expertise, and a wealth of experience to the Board, and we look forward to their contribution going forward. With these non-executive appointments, I’m delighted to report our gender diversity on the Board has now increased to nearly 25% and half of our Board committees are chaired by women. I plan to report further progress on gender diversity when I report in a year’s time. We were also delighted to have appointed a new Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director during the AGM in June 2019, with Ian Botha joining us from Anglo American Platinum Ltd. on 1 April 2019. Ian’s excellent skills and experience are already delivering benefits to the Company and he has contributed a great deal of rigour and financial detail to our Board discussions. 74 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 I was proud to lead a refreshed Board in 2019. They have provided constructive challenge to our Executive Management Team and enthusiastically engaged a whole host of challenges, new and emerging in an increasing complex world. Herbert Cordt Chairman of the Board of Directors 75 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Statement Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Representative Directors) has been made on the they can be exercised, as required by section Governance Code ( DCGC ) and the UK basis of three-year terms subject to performance 3a sub b of the Decree, can be found on pages Corporate Governance Code ( UKCGC ) and annual re-election at the AGM which was 74 to 120; The Board has applied the principles of, complies consistent with the UKCGC at the time of • the information regarding the composition and with and intends to continue to comply with the appointments. The Board considers that the functioning of the Board and its Committees, requirements of, both the DCGC and the UKCGC three-year term is within the spirit of the UKCGC as required by section 3a sub c of the Decree, to the fullest extent possible, with a limited and does not propose to make changes to the can be found on pages 90 to 120; number of deviations set out below. existing Non-Executive appointments. • the diversity policy with regard to the In the 2018 report the Company confirmed composition of the Board and their Deviations from the UK Corporate compliance with all other provisions and Committees, can be found on page 91; and Governance Code in 2019 principles of the DCGC however, best practice • the information concerning the disclosure of The Company adopted relevant corporate provision 2.1.1 was not complied with in 2018 as the information required by the Decree on governance practices to comply with the UKCGC, the Board profile was not published on the Section 10 EU Takeover Directive, as required including publishing the Chief Executive Officer website until 2019 as a result of an oversight and by section 3b of the Decree, may be found (the “CEO”), Chairman, Senior Independent so the Company is pleased to confirm it is now on page 77, 80 and 81. Director (the “SID”) and Deputy Chairman roles on compliant. Additionally, in the course of 2020, the Company’s website and updates to the Terms the Company will improve its compliance with Listing Rules information of Reference for each Board Committee have best practice provision 2.7.2 and implement a been undertaken to ensure the required elements policy governing ownership of securities, other For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information were considered by each Committee. Whilst the than those issued by the Company, by the required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R is set out Company is compliant with the provisions, other Board and management. in the table below. than those stated below, it is anticipated that as the UKCGC is embedded, best practice will 1. Interest capitalised n/a emerge and thus the Company’s practices Corporate governance declaration will evolve and further embody the spirit of 2. Publication of unaudited financial the UKCGC. The DCGC requires companies to publish information n/a a statement concerning their approach to 3. Details of long-term incentive Pages 103, As disclosed in last year’s report, the Company corporate governance and compliance with schemes 106, 120 did not comply with Provision A.3.1 of the 2016 the DCGC. This is referred to in article 2a of UK Corporate Governance Code which referred 4. Waiver of emoluments by a Director n/a the decree on requirements for annual reports to the independence of the Chairman of the (Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag) of 23 December 5. Waiver of future emoluments by Board. This provision is in the UKCGC under 2004, as most recently amended on 1 January a Director n/a provision 9 and the Company did not comply. The 2018 (the “Decree”). 6. Non pre-emptive issues of equity Chairman is not considered to be independent for for cash n/a the purposes of the UKCGC because he served The information required to be included in this corporate governance statement as described 7. Item (6) in relation to major on the Board of RHI AG, prior to the merger, for subsidiary undertakings n/a more than nine years, and therefore could not in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree, forms part be judged independent under provision 10. This of the Annual Report, which is available on the 8. Parent participation in a placing by a Company’s website. The information required listed subsidiary n/a also means the Company is not compliant with provision 19. The Board believes that Herbert to be included in this corporate governance 9. Contracts of significance n/a Cordt continues to demonstrate integrity, statement as described in sections 3, 3a and 3b 10. Provision of services by a controlling Refer to objective judgement and independence of of the Decree can be found in the following shareholder Note 62 character and judgement, and that his experience chapters, sections and pages of the Annual Report and are deemed to be included 11. Shareholder waiver of dividends n/a as Chairman of RHI AG’s supervisory board is valuable to the Company, providing continuity and repeated in this statement: 12. Shareholder waiver of future and corporate memory, and therefore justifies dividends n/a • the information concerning compliance with his position as Chairman. the DCGC, as required by section 3 of the 13. Agreements with controlling Refer to shareholders Note 62 Decree, can be found on page 76; Deviations from the Dutch Corporate Governance Code in 2019 • the information concerning the Company’s main features of the internal risk management As disclosed last year’s report, the Company did and control systems relating to the financial not comply with the following provisions of the reporting process, as required by section 3a DCGC in 2019: sub a of the Decree, can be found on page 54 Best practice provision 2.2.2 of the DCGC and 55; recommends that, in case of a one-tier board, • the information regarding the functioning of a Non-Executive Director should be appointed the General Meeting and its main authorities for a period of four years. The appointment of the and the rights of the Company’s shareholders Non-Executive Directors (other than Employee and holders of certificates of shares and how 76 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Major shareholdings Such designation shall be as set out in the capital of the Company at the date of acquisition, At the date hereof, the Company is aware of the Company’s Articles of Association. The Company the Company undertook a share repurchase following persons holding directly or indirectly at shall notify each issuance of shares in the relevant programme to ensure a supply to satisfy awards least 3% of the issued and outstanding shares in calendar quarter to the Dutch Trade Register, made under its Long-Term Incentive Plan. the capital of the Company: stating the number of shares issued. The buy-back of 400,000 ordinary shares commenced on 12 August 2019 and concluded Transactions with majority shareholders on 23 September 2019. It was conducted on a Number of Shareholder shares % There have been no transactions between the non-discretionary basis with Barclays Bank plc MSP Stiftung1 14,333,340 29.21 Company and MSP Stiftung within the meaning who made the share purchases on the Company's of best practice provision 2.7.5 of the DCGC. behalf, independently of and uninfluenced by the E. Prinzessin zu SaynCompany. The purchases were made on market Wittgenstein Berleburg 2 2,088,461 4.22 Since there are no other legal or natural persons who hold at least 10% of the shares in the capital terms and at an average price of 4,229.39 pence K.A. Winterstein3 2,088,461 4.22 of the Company, no declaration in accordance per share. Dilution of the issued share capital W. Winterstein 4 1,590,000 3.21 with best practice provision 2.7.5 of the DCGC amounted to 0.8% and there was a minimal has to be published. impact on existing and major shareholders in the 1 Information obtained from the Issuer: Held directly by MSP Company. The Company is holding the shares in Stiftung and through a subsidiary. MSP Stiftung is a foundation under Liechtenstein law, whose founder is Mag. Martin Schlaff. Outline of anti-takeover measures treasury until they are required to satisfy awards 2 The interest is held through Chestnut No anti-takeover measures have been made under the terms of the Company's Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Chestnut ). Ms. Saynimplemented, however in 2019 the Company did Long-Term Incentive Plan. The remaining amount Wittgenstein made an agreement with Mr. Winterstein authorised under this resolution, at the date of which allows Chestnut to exercise the voting rights of take action to extend regulatory protections to its Silver Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Silver ) in the Issuer. shareholders which could have been lost. As a publication, is 4.2%. This will expire at the end Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Mr. Winterstein share a result of the UK’s exit from the European Union, of the next AGM or the date which falls fifteen family relationship. there appeared to be a risk that the Company and months from the 2019 AGM. 3 The interest is held through Silver. Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein made an agreement with Mr. Winterstein which allows its shareholders, in certain circumstances, would Chestnut to exercise the voting rights of Silver in the Issuer. lose the protections provided by the UK Takeover Board and Committee structure Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Mr. Winterstein share a family relationship. Code and any takeover of RHI Magnesita N.V. The Company has a one-tier board structure 4 Held in part directly and in part indirectly through FEWI would therefore be effectively unregulated. The with a Board consisting of both Executive Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH. Board took action accordingly, and on 29 March Directors and Non-Executive Directors There are no restrictions on voting and profit rights 2019 the Company acquired a secondary listing (collectively the “Directors”). As at the date and no holders of any securities with special on the Vienna Stock Exchange (Wiener Börse) of this Annual Report (the “Annual Report”), control rights. Depositary interests in respect of which, as a regulated market in European the provisions of Dutch law that are commonly shares have been issued by the Company with Economic Area, meant this unregulated referred to as the “large company regime” the Company’s cooperation. scenario could never arise. (structuurregime) do not apply to the Company. Shares may be issued pursuant to a resolution of The Board has established four Board Share buy back the General Meeting or of the Board, if and insofar Committees: the Audit & Compliance Committee In 2019, further to the authority given by the (the Audit Committee), the Remuneration as, the Board has been designated for that shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to Committee, the Corporate Sustainability purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting. purchase a maximum of 5% of the issued share Committee and the Nomination Committee to Corporate Governance structure RHI Magnesita Board Chief Executive Officer Corporate Remuneration Nomination Audit Committee Committee Committee Sustainability Executive Management Team Committee 77 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Statement continued ensure a strong governance framework for how that culture has contributed to decisioncomprising Compliance, HR and Internal Audit. decision-making and assessment of performance making within the business. The Board routinely reviews this process and the against the Company’s strategy. The terms of reports arising from its operation, ensuring there Culture has been inherent in the Board’s reference of these Committees can be found on are arrangements in place for the appropriate and discussions and questions, from consideration of our website and the reports of each Committee, independent investigation of these cases and that whistleblowing reports to the success of Health & including membership and attendance at follow-up actions are completed. The Audit Safety campaigns. This ongoing work has led the meetings in 2019, can be found on pages 90 Committee report contains more details on understanding of performance in teams such as to 120. pages 93 to 95. supply chain management, finance and sales, as well as on the ground in our plants and operations. Workforce engagement Brazil Board visit The Board ensures that one Board session per The Company is committed to responsible As referred to in the Chairman’s introduction annum is held at a location other than the Vienna management and its activities are based on to Corporate Governance, RHI Magnesita’s headquarters and in April 2019, the Board integrity, honesty, reliability and respectful corporate structure has, from the beginning, travelled to Brumado1 and Contagem in Brazil. contact with employees and business partners. included Employee Representative Directors. Here they met with local management and plant The following key cultural themes determine These Directors, Michael Schwarz and Franz employees, toured a mine, an R&D centre and the actions of the Company: Reiter, have been on the Board from 2017 and visited a client’s site. This allowed the Directors they play an active role at Board meetings, • act customer-focused and innovatively; to experience first-hand the culture of the representing views of the workforce and holding operations and the local opportunities and • have open decision-making in a respectful management to account with the combined challenges. It was also an example of living the environment; benefit of nearly 80 years of experience at the Company’s culture whereby the Directors were • operate cross-functionally, collaboratively front line of operations. The information and customer-focused and gained information which and pragmatically across the global discussions at Board meetings helps their support would enable them to put the customer at the organisation; of the workforce and provide a mutually beneficial centre of operations. Such visits to global sites • be performance-driven and accountable. link between colleagues and the Board. are vital to better understand the Group’s diverse The Code of Conduct, the whistleblowing In addition to the Employee Representative businesses and the environments in which they hotline, as well as additional policies and Directors, the Company conducts regular pulse operate. Meeting with local management teams procedures of the comprehensive Compliance surveys of employees, the results of which are assists the Board in assessing and monitoring the programme, are essential tools to embed the reported to the Board, to inform the Directors as to Group’s culture and its alignment with the Group’s corporate culture and values as well as the the culture of the Company and guide any action strategy and values. In the course of the year, fundamental legal and ethical rules the plan to improve engagement. Non-Executive Directors have also visited operations in Rotterdam and Hochfilzen, Company stands for. Across the business, around 71% of employees amongst others, as part of inductions and are represented by work councils, trade unions Through the Directors’ visits to plants, customer ongoing development. or other bodies and agreements. The business sites and the hub in Rotterdam, they have been able to observe and experience the culture of the engages with these bodies, in line with the core Culture conventions of the International Labour Company directly, as well as receiving reports to The integration work following from the 2017 the Board of Employee Engagement and hearing Organisation and the Board is appraised of key merger of the Company has been a focus for the directly from the Employee Representative developments and considerations relating to it. Board this year and running through this work has Directors. The Board of Directors has access to the In the course of 2020, the Board intends to been the thread of culture, recognising that it is RHI Magnesita mobile application which shares further develop its employee engagement a crucial element to the success of integration, up to date news about the activities of the Group programme to ensure coordinated representation delivery of synergies and a sustainable company. across the globe, detail on strategy and progress of the global workforce. The Board has considered the foundations against objectives with all employees. The ability to comment and respond to articles gives direct The Board site visits, referred to at page 78, enable of the new corporate culture which has been access to the employee voice. More detail can be the Board to interact in an informal setting with laid through a number of different initiatives. found in the Board stakeholder engagement employees, allowing for authentic and direct A global network of culture champions has report on page 60 and 61. conversations which help the Directors in their been constructed to support culture workshops, decision-making and their guidance of the communications campaigns, team-building activities and pulse surveys across the business Whistleblowing executive team. and more than 3,000 people have been Potential concerns about the business or any As part of improving engagement and engaged and trained so that culture of the suspected wrongdoing can be reported to an understanding of the Company’s Long-Term Company is embodied in practice and brought independently operated, confidential and Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”), James Leng, SID to life. The Board has considered the culture of anonymous whistleblowing hotline. Contact and Deputy Chairman, held a webinar with different teams, and discussed with management, details are publicised throughout the business participants to outline the benefits of the LTIP and are available on the website. Any suspected and how it aligns with shareholder objectives. code violations are managed by a team 1. Excluding the two Employee Representative Directors whose appointment to the Board is delegated by respective works councils. 78 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Colleagues from across the world were able to ask • broad board experience, including knowledge challenge from various perspectives can be questions and clarify their understanding of the LTIP. of corporate governance issues at main board provided, allowing for balanced healthy debate. level as appropriate for the Company with The Chairman takes care to ensure that each These are just some examples of direct reference to its size and international spread Director has opportunity to comment and be engagement between Board Directors and of activities; heard, whilst enabling an orderly flow at Board employees which live the values of the Company • understanding of corporate social meetings. The Chairman is assisted in this by the to operate collaboratively and pragmatically responsibility and sustainability matters; Company Secretary and CEO through the careful across the global organisation, sharing preparation of agendas and the timely provision information, and keeping it simple. • practical experience in, and relating to, of papers to the Board. financing and accounting and/or experience Corporate Governance at a glance in relation to International Financial Reporting Information and support for Directors Standards (“IFRS”), as well as in the areas of risk Board diversity management and internal controls; Upon joining the Board, any new Director is As noted in the Chairman’s letter, Fiona Paulus offered a comprehensive and tailored induction • understanding of the markets where the and Janet Ashdown were appointed to the programme across all aspects of the value chain, Company is active, in particular emerging Board by shareholders in June 2019, and their with visits to key sites and meetings with senior markets; appointments have broadened gender diversity managers and other colleagues. Any new on the Board to 23%. The valuable decision• science, technology and innovation expertise; members to Committees are provided with the making and input from the Board Committees is • experience and understanding of human opportunity for a full and detailed induction, directly influenced by this diversity, and 50% of resources and remuneration related matters; even if they are existing members of the Board. the Committees are now chaired by female and Relevant reference documents are also made independent Non-Executive Directors. available on the Board portal to new Board • personal qualities such as impartiality, and Committee members. The Board continues to pursue a policy of having integrity, tolerance of other points of view, at least 30% of the seats on the Board held by ability to challenge constructively and act In order to build and increase the Non-Executive men and at least 30% of the seats on the Board critically and independently. Directors’ appreciation and understanding of the held by women, in accordance with the Group’s people, businesses and markets, The Nomination Committee considers that all “balanced composition” requirement under particularly growth markets, senior managers of these aspects are present in a number of the Dutch law which applied in 2019. It is planned are regularly invited to make presentations Directors and well represented across the Board. that this will be achieved during 2021. The at Board meetings. It continues to assess these skills and consider Nomination Committee continues to explore what other areas of expertise could benefit the There is an established procedure for Directors paths to build gender diversity, and more can Board in future appointments. to take independent professional advice in the be read about its efforts in this area on pages furtherance of their duties, if they consider 90 and 91. Board composition this necessary. The Board is committed to encouraging diversity The Board is composed of 15 Directors which The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ to deliver long-term sustainable success for the comprises two Executive Directors, two Employee liability insurance which provides appropriate Company and will continue to pursue its Representative Directors and 11 Non-Executive cover for legal action brought against its Directors. programme in this regard. The Nomination Directors, eight of whom are deemed In line with Dutch best practice and corporate law, Committee seeks to ensure the right balance of independent as set out in the table on page 80 at each AGM there is a resolution to release the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, and thus ensuring a majority independent Board. Directors from liability for the exercise of their taking account of the business model, long-term The size of the Board means that input and respective duties during the financial year. strategy and the sectors and geographic locations in which the Group operates. In view of the Company’s strategy, objectives Board diversity and composition and activities, it is important that the Board has sufficient global manufacturing experience and outlook, financial literacy, and is structured so that Gender Independence Nationality the following experience and capabilities are 1 present in one or more of its Directors: 3 2 • knowledge and understanding of the business 5 6 and products of the Company and its 10 8 subsidiaries and the markets and geographies in which the Company and its subsidiaries 4 operate, in particular the trends and future developments of these markets and Female Male No Yes British geographies; Austrian • an international background and geopolitical German exposure; South African 79 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance statement continued At the date of this Annual Report, the Board is composed as follows: Date of Expiry/ Name Position Year of birth appointment reappointment date Herbert Cordt Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman1 1947 20 June 2017 2020 AGM Stefan Borgas Executive Director (CEO) 3 1964 20 June 2017 2020 AGM Ian Botha Executive Director (CFO)3 1971 6 June 2019 2020 AGM James Leng Independent Non-Executive Director 2, 3 1945 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director David A. Schlaff Non-independent Non-Executive Director4, 5 1978 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein Non-independent Non-Executive Director 4, 5 1965 6 October 2017 2020 AGM John Ramsay Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1957 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Celia Baxter Independent Non-Executive Director 2, 3 1958 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Janet Ashdown Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1959 6 June 2019 2020 AGM Andrew Hosty Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1965 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Independent Non-Executive Director6 1950 20 June 2017 2020 AGM Karl Sevelda Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1950 6 October 2017 2020 AGM Fiona Paulus Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1959 6 June 2019 2020 AGM Michael Schwarz Employee Representative Director3 1966 8 December 2017 8 December 2021 Franz Reiter Employee Representative Director3 1962 26 October 2017 26 October 2021 1 Herbert Cordt was a member of the supervisory board of RHI AG and thus not deemed to be 5 Non-Independent within the meaning of the DCGC. independent within the meaning of the UKCGC but independent within the meaning of 6 Mr. Ruttenstorfer is, as a result of having undertaken a management board role for RHI on a the DCGC due to a difference in independence requirements under the respective codes. temporary basis between June and November 2016, not considered to be independent within 2 Independent within the meaning of the UKCGC. the meaning of the DCGC. Notwithstanding this historic role, the Board considers 3 Independent within the meaning of the DCGC. Mr. Ruttenstorfer to be independent for the purposes of the UKCGC. 4 Non-Independent within the meaning of the UKCGC. Conflict of interests that, having considered the demands of the Overall Board role and leadership Dutch law provides that a Director may not external appointments of each Non-Executive Director and the time requirements from the Powers, responsibilities and functioning participate in the discussions and decisionCompany, all Non-Executive Directors are The Board is collectively responsible for and has making by the Board if such Director has a direct contributing effectively to the operation of the the power to conduct the general affairs of the or indirect personal interest conflicting with the Board. Whilst the Non-Executive Directors are Company. This role includes being collectively interests of the Company or the business re-elected each year at the AGM, their letters responsible for the long-term success of the connected with it. of appointment state a term of three years. Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, Pursuant to the Articles of Association and the standards, control and management. The Board rules adopted by the Board (the “Board Rules”), Company Secretary Rules, which are available on the website, set out the Board has adopted procedures under which Sally Caswell was appointed by the Board as those matters which are reserved for the Board to each Director is required to declare the nature and Company Secretary with effect from 1 January consider. The types of decisions reserved for the extent of any personal conflict of interest to the 2020. The Directors have access to the advice Board include, among other items, overall other Directors in accordance with Dutch law and services of the Company Secretary, whose responsibility for strategy and management, and the DCGC. responsibilities include ensuring that Board major acquisitions and investments, structure procedures are followed, assisting the Chairman and capital, financial reporting and controls, Time commitment in relation to corporate governance matters and, and corporate governance. The Executive On appointment, and each subsequent year, in conjunction with the General Counsel, Management Team was installed and its main Non-Executive Directors confirm that they have ensuring the compliance of the Company tasks and responsibilities are to assist the Board sufficient time to devote to the Company’s affairs. with legal and regulatory requirements. with its responsibilities concerning the strategy In addition, they are required to seek prior of the Company and to make strategy approval from the Chairman before taking on any recommendations to the Board, being additional external commitments, and the Board accountable for implementing the Board’s is advised of any changes. The Board is satisfied decisions, and being responsible for directing 80 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 and overseeing the operations of the Company. Each Board Committee has considered the Executive Directors The oversight and challenge by the Nonrequired matters from the respective terms of In accordance with Dutch law, an Executive Executive Directors of the management activity reference and, through the Board evaluation Director may not be allocated the tasks of: (i) ensures that the strategy of the Company process, has assessed its performance. The serving as Chairman; (ii) participating in the is delivered. composition of the Committees, the number of adoption of resolutions (including any meetings, attendance at those meetings and key deliberations in respect of such resolutions) Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board items discussed can be found in each Committee related to the remuneration of Executive may, if it elects to do so, assign duties and powers Report on pages 90 to 120. Directors; or (iii) nominating Directors to individual Directors and/or committees that are for appointment. composed of two or more Directors, with the Individual roles day-to-day management of the Company The role of an Executive Director is, amongst The Board has a formal Board Rules document entrusted to the Executive Directors. The other things, to bring commercial and internal which covers the matters reserved for its approval Non-Executive Directors have the task of perspectives to the boardroom. The Executive including approvals of major expenditure, providing strategic guidance to the management Directors, being the CEO and CFO, are investments and key policies. The roles of and scrutinising the performance of duties by responsible for the leadership and management Chairman, the CEO, SID and Deputy Chairman the Executive Directors, as well as the general of the Company according to the strategic have been formally recorded by the Board and course of affairs of the Company and the business direction set by the Board. these can be found on the Company website. connected with it. They should hold the Executive The composition of the Board has been structured Tasks that have not been specifically allocated Directors to account. In addition, both Executive such that no one individual can dominate the to a specific Director fall within the power of Directors and Non-Executive Directors must decision-making processes of the Board. the Board as a whole. The Directors share perform such duties as are assigned to them responsibility for all decisions and acts of the pursuant to the Articles of Association and the As reported in the 2018 report, Andrew Hosty Board and for the acts of each individual member Board Rules or a resolution of the Board. Each provides a Board level presence to the Technical of the Board regardless of the allocation of tasks. Director has a duty towards the Company to Advisory Committee (the “TAC”). As an observer properly perform the duties assigned to him or to that Committee he provides focused board Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Directors her. Furthermore, each Director has a duty to act level supervision of a management committee other than the Employee Representative Directors in the corporate interests of the Company and within the course of his role as a Non-Executive are appointed at the AGM by a majority of votes its business. Under Dutch law, corporate interest Director, leveraging his specific engineering cast, irrespective of the represented capital. The extends to the interests of all stakeholders of the and manufacturing experience. Other members Board makes nominations to the AGM for such Company, such as shareholders, creditors, comprise members of the Executive Management appointments. A resolution to appoint the Director employees and other stakeholders. Team, senior and global R&D and Technical other than in accordance with a nomination Marketing Specialists. The TAC met once in 2019 by the Board may be adopted at a general The Board as a whole is entitled to represent the and further details are outlined on page 33. meeting by an absolute majority of votes cast Company. Additionally, the CEO and the representing more than one-third of the Chairman, acting individually, and two Executive Non-Executive roles Company’s issued capital. Directors, acting jointly, are also authorised to The Employee Representative, non-independent represent the Company. In addition, pursuant to and independent Directors on the Board engage Non-Executive Directors (other than Employee the Articles of Association, the Board may appoint with the business of the Board from different Representative Directors) will be nominated officers who are authorised to represent the perspectives, enabling multifaceted scrutiny to be for a term of three years, subject to satisfactory Company within the limits of the specific powers applied to the Board’s decision-making ensuring performance and annual re-appointment at the delegated to them. The role of the Board is to lead that the perspective of the Company’s key AGM. Employee Representative Directors are the Company and develop its strategy in order to stakeholders is represented. All Directors exercise appointed for a term of not more than four years. deliver long-term and sustainable success, their independent judgement and act in the best The term of office for each Director (other than generating value for shareholders and key interests of the Company in their decision-making. Employee Representative Directors) will end stakeholders. The Board assesses the strategic on the day of the AGM in the year following risks it is willing to take in pursuit of this strategy Non-Independent Director roles appointment. Pursuant to the Articles of and measures the performance of management Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgeinstein, David Association, Directors may be re-appointed for against agreed objectives aligned with the Schlaff and Herbert Cordt are not considered an unlimited number of terms, but it is anticipated strategy. The Board ensures that appropriate independent under the UKCGC, having been that the Non-Executive Directors (other than controls and systems are in place to manage risk members of the supervisory board of RHI AG for Employee Representative Directors) may be and considers the Company culture and a number of years prior to the merger in 2017 with offered a second term of three years, at the expiry practices, reviewing alignment with the purpose, Magnesita. However, because of that experience, of which they will not ordinarily be considered values and strategy. they contribute strongly to the Board’s culture and for re-appointment. personality, adding valuable insight gained The Board has delegated responsibility for through experience of the markets in which the The shareholders have the power to suspend day-to-day management to the CEO and his Group operates and corporate memory. They can or remove a Director at any time, by means of a Executive Management Team in accordance with constructively challenge the Executive Directors resolution for suspension or removal as outlined in the Company’s Articles of Association. The Board and scrutinise the performance of management the Articles of Association. The shareholders are has delegated some responsibilities to in meeting their objectives in a different way to the authorised to resolve to amend the Articles of Committees of the Board and these independent Non-Executive Directors. Stanislaus Association, on the proposal of the Board. responsibilities are outlined in the Committee Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgeinstein additionally is a Terms of Reference available on the Company representative of shareholders and, with David website and summarised in their individual Schlaff, another shareholder representative, reports on pages 90 to 120. The Chairman of each can provide the investor perspective to the Committee provides a report to each Board on the management team and challenge them to matters discussed and resolved upon in the deliver to the agreed objectives to contribute respective Committee meetings. to the long-term and sustainable success of the Company. The detail of all the Directors’ independence and the detail of compliance with the criteria of each Code can be found on pages 80 and 76 respectively. 81 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Statement continued As per the UKCGC, excluding the Chairman, Board attendance Total Total meetings eligible At the end of each Board meeting, the Nonat least half of the Board is comprised of 2019 attended to attend Executive Directors meet without the Executive Non-Executive Directors determined to be Directors and management present to enable an Herbert Cordt 8 9 independent. The Board has considered the open and frank exchange of views and assessment independence of the Non-Executive Directors, Jim Leng 9 9 of performance. Additionally, the SID holds a including potential conflicts of interest, and the Celia Baxter 9 9 meeting with the other Non-Executive Directors to table on page 80 sets out those Directors assess the Chairman’s performance in the course considered independent. Each of these Directors Andrew Hosty 8 9 of the year. The Chairman and the other Nonhas also confirmed that there is no reason why John Ramsay 8 9 Executive Directors will regularly have informal, they should not continue to be considered individual, meetings with the Executive Directors Stanislaus 9 9 independent. Sayn-Wittgenstein and other senior managers in the business for the purpose of clarifying information in response The Chairman’s other significant commitments Wolfgang 9 9 to questions or to obtain further information on are set out in the table below: Ruttenstorfer points of interest and which contributes to the Karl Sevelda 9 9 development of both the Non-Executive Name of company Function David Schlaff 9 9 Director and the management member. CORDT & PARTNER Managing Partner Managementund Janet Ashdown 7 9 Board papers are circulated in advance of Finanzierungsconsulting Fiona Paulus 8 9 meetings, using a secure web-based portal, to GesmbH. allow Directors sufficient time to consider their Michael Schwarz 7 9 content prior to the meeting. The management Watermill Group Boston Advisory Board member Franz Reiter 7 9 team continues to take feedback from the Board Georgetown University, Advisory Board member via the evaluation process on how papers and School of Foreign Service, Stefan Borgas 9 9 MSFS Program presentations can be improved to assist the flow Ian Botha 6 6 of the meeting. An information room within the Quality Metalcraft / Advisory Board member Experi-Metal, Inc. web portal provides access to useful information, 1 In the year, two Board sub committees were held to approve matters specifically delegated by the Board in accordance including corporate governance reference Cooper & Turner Group Advisory Board member with article 17.5 of the Company’s Articles of Association. materials, analyst reports, and Company finance, These are not included in the table above. treasury and strategy information. 2 Fiona Paulus and Janet Ashdown attended meetings up to Board attendance and including 6 June 2019 as observers, being nominated In making decisions, the Board considers views Non-Executive Directors. Seven Board meetings were planned for the year from across its key stakeholder groups. As covered 3 Ian Botha was appointed as CFO on 1 April 2019 and attended (2018: 10), with two meetings held at short notice meetings between that time and 6 June 2019 as a member above, there have been many opportunities for on specific items. Where short notice was of the Executive Management Team. engagement and discussion with members of the provided, information was provided to all Directors 4 Two meetings were called on short notice which restricted workforce from across the globe and the Board’s attendance where Directors had existing commitments. in advance and comment was received from them own Employee Representative Directors provide 5 Herbert Cordt missed one meeting as a result of ill health and considered at the meeting in respect of the a direct voice in the Board room on a range of matters discussed. matters, but particularly those which impact the workforce. In 2019, these decisions have included The table below shows the number of scheduled Board leadership upgrades to plants and offices to improve the meetings attended and the maximum number working lives of the workforce. The voice of this of scheduled meetings which the directors Meetings and decision-making of the Board stakeholder group has also been considered in were eligible to attend. Only in exceptional The Board commits to meeting regularly the context of business performance and the circumstances would Directors not attend Board throughout the year with five formal two-day economic environment. The Board recognises and Committee meetings. Similarly, every effort sessions in Vienna, which allows time for Board the balance of these factors in acting in the best is made to attend ad hoc meetings either in committees to sit, and a further two formal interests of the Company, and if a decision is person or via the use of video or telephone sessions held in a location other than Vienna. One made, such as to place a plant on care and conferencing facilities if necessary. None of our is in advance of the AGM in the Netherlands and maintenance, which does not benefit that group Non-Executive Directors have raised concerns one is at a key operational site. In 2019, this was at of employees, efforts are made to mitigate the over the time commitment required of them Contagem, Minas Gerais, Brazil and in 2020 is impact on them and transparently communicate to fulfil their duties. planned to be at Dalian in China. Board meetings the decision. This aligns with the Company values can also be convened as deemed necessary by to be open in decision making and accountable On the evening before most scheduled board the Chairman or the SID. meetings the Board and management team meet for actions taken. together, and this time is usefully spent sharing views and considering issues impacting the Company, making the most of the two-day session. Time together also helps to develop relationships contributing to better discussion and decision-making around the board table. 82 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 The Board has had the opportunity to meet The review covered core areas of the Board and The Directors are responsible for keeping customers in its key market areas and Directors Committee performance, with particular focus on: adequate accounting records that are sufficient have directly observed the interaction between to show and explain the Company’s transactions • Board composition and diversity; management and their customers. The and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any Company’s Net Promoter Score is also considered • Board Committee effectiveness; time, the financial position of the Company and at Board meetings. This input brings customer • stakeholder oversight; the Group and enable them to ensure that the priorities to the forefront of considerations and Annual Report complies with applicable law and, • culture and organisational behaviours; the Board utilises it to challenge management as regards the consolidated financial statements, accordingly to meet customers’ expectations. • Board dynamics, structure and support; Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also • quality of discussion and relationships responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The perspectives of shareholders and market between Directors and management; Company and the Group and hence for taking analysts is represented at Board meetings with • strategic oversight and discussion; reasonable steps for the prevention and detection reports from the Investor Relations Team and of fraud and other irregularities. coverage from a variety of analysts regularly • focus on risk and oversight of risk management provided to the Board, in addition of course, and internal controls; With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c to the representation of shareholders from two • effectiveness of management and succession of the Dutch Act on Supervision, each of the non-independent Non-Executive Directors. planning; and Directors, whose names and functions are listed These perspectives are considered by the in the Governance section, confirm that, to the • oversight of talent management and Board, in a variety of discussions and decisions, best of their knowledge: development. including those on capital expenditure and • the Company’s Financial Statements and share capital management. A review of the Chairman's performance was the consolidated Financial Statements, which also completed as part of this process which Areas of focus have been prepared in accordance with IFRS supported the SID in leading an assessment of as adopted by the European Union and the In 2019, the Board focused on strategic, financial, the Chairman’s performance with the other relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code, operational, business, risk, human resources Non-Executive Directors. give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and governance issues. More specifically, The Board has considered the 2019 review, which financial position and profit or loss of they considered: matters of health & safety, evidenced considerable progress from 2018, the Group; performance of particular plants and action plans and has drawn up an action plan to be progressed • the Annual Report gives a true and fair view to address any issues, opportunities for business throughout 2020. This will be reported on in the on the situation on the balance sheet date, development, acquisitions, financial health of the 2020 Annual Report & Accounts. the development and performance of the Group as a whole, customer feedback, employee feedback, input from local authorities, risks to business and the position of the Company and Statement of Directors' responsibilities the Group companies of which the financial execution of initiatives, the development of recycling initiatives and low carbon products, The Directors are responsible for preparing the information is included in the Annual Report amongst many more items. Action logs Company’s Annual Report. The Company’s and includes a description of the principal risks ensured a continuous overview of progress Annual Report comprises the Strategic Report, and uncertainties that the Company faces; and development. the Governance Report, the Consolidated • having taken all matters considered by the Financial Statements, and some other Board and brought to the attention of the Board evaluation information. The Directors are responsible for Board during the financial year into account, preparing the Annual Report in accordance with the Directors consider that the Annual Report, As advised in the 2018 Annual Report and applicable law and regulations. The Directors are taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Accounts, Lintstock are engaged on a three-year required by law to prepare the Annual Report for understandable. The Directors believe that programme to assist the Board in its evaluation each financial year. The Directors have prepared the disclosures set out in the Annual Report of its performance. The Company has no other the Annual Report in accordance with IFRS as provide the information necessary for relationship with Lintstock. Prior to commencing adopted by the European Union and the relevant shareholders to assess the Company’s this second stage of the three year programme, provisions of the Dutch Civil Code. The Directors position, performance, business model the Board considered the good progress made must not approve the Annual Report unless they and strategy. against actions from the previous year under the are satisfied that it gives a true and fair view of the headings of Board Composition, Stakeholder state of affairs of the Group and the Company and After conducting a review of management Engagement, Board Dynamics, Board Materials, of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. analysis, the Directors have reasonable Board Support & Training, Management & Focus In preparing the Annual Report, the Directors expectation that the Group has adequate of Meetings, Board Committees, Strategic are required to: resources to continue in operational existence Oversight, Risk Management and Internal for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Control and Board Remuneration. a) select suitable accounting policies and then Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the apply them consistently; going-concern basis in preparing the Annual In this second year of review, Lintstock undertook a full Board evaluation process with a detailed b) make judgements and accounting estimates Report. Directors are also required to provide questionnaire issued to all of the Board and the that are reasonable and prudent; a broader assessment of viability over a longer Executive Management Team, which then period which can be found on page 55 (the informed individual confidential face-to-face c) state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by “Viability Statement”) of the integrated report interviews with each member of the Board. In the European Union and the relevant and accounts. The Financial Statements on order to promote an open and frank exchange of provisions of the Dutch Civil Code have been pages 121 to 223 were approved and signed views, appropriate arrangements were made to followed, subject to any material departures by the Board on 31 March 2020. ensure the anonymity of the respondents. disclosed and explained in the Annual Report; and d) prepare the Annual Report on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. 83 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 84 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Board members by gender Male 77% Board Committee member Female 23% N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee N Chair of Committee S Corporate Sustainability Committee Chairman CEO Chief Financial Officer Non-Independent Non‑Executive Director 1. Herbert Cordt N 2. Stefan Borgas 3. Ian Botha 4. David A. Schlaff Chairman and Non-Independent CEO Chief Financial Officer Non-Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: April 2019 Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: German Nationality: South African / British Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: Austrian Nationality: Austrian Stefan was CEO at RHI AG from Ian has enjoyed a highly successful Herbert was Chairman of the Supervisory December 2016 until October 2017. Prior career with FTSE listed Anglo American David was a member of the Supervisory Board of RHI AG from 2010 until 2017, to that, he was president and CEO at Israel plc in the related mining and metals Board at RHI AG from 2010 until 2017. as well as Vice-Chairman from 2007 to Chemicals Ltd and between 2004 and industry for over 20 years. Whilst there, Currently Chief Investment Officer and 2010. He is Managing Partner at Cordt & 2012, he was CEO at Lonza Group. In his he held a variety of international joint Managing Director at M-Tel, he Partner GmbH, his international boutique early career, he worked at BASF Group, executive roles including as Group has key management and supervisory corporate finance consultancy, which where he held various management Financial Controller and divisional Chief experience in international financial advises clients on corporate finance positions. Stefan was elected as President Financial Officer, and most recently and manufacturing institutions. He has matters, and for a time was a member of the World Refractories Association for as Finance Director of listed Anglo undertaken roles at LH Financial Services of the cabinet of the Austrian Federal a two-year term in January 2018. American Platinum. Ian has significant Corporation and Forstmann-Leff Finance Minister. In the course of his experience in finance and accounting, Associates Inc, and he has held advisory Stefan has a business administration career he has held a variety of senior investor relations, strategy, M&A and and supervisory board positions at degree from the University Saarbrücken executive and managing director governance, as well as excellent business Latrobe Specialty Steel Company and an MBA from the University of St. positions in telecommunications and acumen and a track record in financial and A/S Ventspils Nafta. Gallen-HSG. financial institutions in European firms, and performance improvements. David holds a Bachelor’s degree providing a wide range of business External appointments: Non-Executive Ian holds a Bachelor’s degree in in Business Administration from the acumen and international experience. Director of SCR-Sibelco and owner of SB Commerce from the University of Cape Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel. Industry LLC. Herbert obtained a Doctorate in Law from Town and is a chartered accountant. External appointments: M-Tel Holding University of Vienna, graduated from External appointments: none. GmbH (Chief Investment Officer and the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna and Joint Managing Director). received a Master’s of Science in Foreign Service from Georgetown University Washington D.C. 5. Stanislaus Prinz zu External appointments: Watermill Group Sayn-Wittgenstein-Berleburg Boston (Advisor), Cooper & Turner Group Non-Independent Non-Executive (Advisory Board Member), Quality Director Metalcraft / Experi-Metal, Inc. (Advisory Board Member), CORDT & Appointment date: October 2017 PARTNER Management und Nationality: German Finanzierungsconsulting GesmbH Stanislaus was a member of the (Managing Partner), Georgetown Supervisory Board of RHI AG between University, School of Foreign Service, 2001 and 2017. He has been a member MSFS Program (Advisory Board Member). of Supervisory Boards for several ‘Stadtwerke’ (municipality owned utilities) and Didier Werke AG as well as undertaking senior executive roles, including CEO and Chief Financial Officer, in the energy industry, and numerous management roles within the EON group. He has also been a Director in the Investment Banking Division, at Deutsche Bank AG. He has deployed industrial knowledge combined with financial detail throughout his career. Stanislaus holds a Sloan Fellows Master’s in Business Administration from MIT Sloan School of Management and studied Business Administration and Economics at Université de Fribourg. He is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA). External appointments: Supervisory Board member at Endurance Capital AG and Cognostics AG. CEO of STUV Steinbach & Vollmann Holding GmbH. 85 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Board of Directors continued Deputy Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors 6. James Leng N R 7. Celia Baxter R N 8. Janet Ashdown S 9. John Ramsay A Deputy Chairman, SID and Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: June 2019 Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Celia was Director of Group Human Janet has had a distinguished career John has held senior financial executive James has been the Chairman of Corus Resources for Bunzl plc for 13 years. Prior working for BP plc for over 30 years, roles across the world, including serving Group plc, HSBC Bank plc and Nomura to that she served as Head of Human holding a number of international as Chief Financial Officer of Syngenta European Holdings plc over the course Resources of Enterprise Oil plc, having executive positions throughout the value AG, as well as being their Interim CEO for of his wide-ranging career in finance and been Director of Group Human chain. Until the end of 2012, Janet was a period. John started with Syngenta AG manufacturing. Other directorships have Resources at Tate & Lyle plc. She started CEO of Harvest Energy Ltd and throughout as Group Financial Controller in 2000 included AON plc, Alstom SA, Pilkington her professional career at the Ford Motor her career has provided leadership and prior to that was Finance Head of Asia plc, Hanson plc, IMI plc, TNK-BP and lead Company where she held several through change. Janet also has a wide Pacific for Zeneca Agrochemicals. Earlier Non-Executive Director at the UK’s management positions and went on to range of board and committee experience in his career he was a Financial Controller Ministry of Justice. In an executive provide consulting services in Human as a Non-Executive Director, including the of ICI Malaysia and regional controller for capacity, James was CEO of two publicly Resources at KPMG. She now holds a UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, Latin America. He started his career listed companies: Laporte plc, and Low & number of non-executive positions which a public body where she chairs the Safety working in audit and tax at KPMG and his Bonar plc. His early career was spent at deploy her detailed understanding of and Sustainability Committee. Her knowledge in accounting and finance John Waddington plc, where he was international businesses, human experience in the energy sector has provides valuable practical experience. Managing Director of a number of their resources, remuneration, sustainability provided her with significant skills in John is a Chartered Accountant and also subsidiaries. James brings with him and related matters. general management, particularly in holds an Honours Degree in Accounting. extensive experience in listed environmental & sustainability matters. Celia holds a PhD and BSc in Botany from environments and of corporate External appointments: Koninklijke DSM the University of Reading. Janet holds a BSc in Energy Engineering governance matters. He also has N.V. (Supervisory Board Member), G4S from Swansea University. demonstrated knowledge and External appointments: Bekaert SA plc (Non-Executive Director, Chair of experience of all matters of general (Non-Executive Director), HR Tech LLP External appointments: Non-Executive Audit), Croda plc (Chair of Audit and management, including manufacturing (Partner), and Senior plc (Senior Director and Chair of Safety & Non-Executive Director). and supply chains. Independent Director, Chair of Sustainability at Nuclear Decommissioning Remuneration) and DS Smith plc Authority UK, Non-Executive Director and External appointments: Guyll-Leng (Non-Executive Director and Chair Chair of Remuneration at Victrex plc, Charitable Trust, (Chairman), Frogmore of Remuneration). Senior Independent Director and Chair Property (Advisory Board Director), AEA of Remuneration Committee at Investors (Advisory Board Director) Marshalls plc. 86 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Board committee member N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit and Compliance N Chair of Committee S Corporate Sustainability Committee Independent Non-Executive Directors Employee Representative Directors 10. Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer A 12. Andrew Hosty S 13. Fiona Paulus A S 14. Franz Reiter Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Employee Representative Director Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: June 2019 Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: Austrian Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Austrian Wolfgang was a member of the Andrew is an international business Fiona has over 37 years’ global Franz has been with the Group since 1977 Supervisory Board of RHI AG from 2012 to leader with over 15 years of non-executive investment banking experience, having and is Chairman of the Group Works 2017, where he acted as the Interim CEO board experience and 30 years of held senior management roles with a Council at Veitsch-Radex GmbH. for six months, following the sicknessexecutive and management experience. number of leading international External appointments: none related absence of the CEO. He started his Throughout his career he has held a investment banks, such as Credit Suisse, professional career in oil and gas at OMV, number of senior executive roles primarily Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank where he became CEO and then in specialist materials manufacturing, and Citigroup. During her career, Fiona 15. Michael Schwarz Chairman of the Management Board. He including Chief Executive of the Sir Henry has led and managed a variety of global Employee Representative Director has held numerous supervisory board Royce Institute for Advanced Materials banking businesses, from start-ups to roles, including as Chairman, in industries and Chief Operating Officer at Morgan businesses with US$ 4 billion in total Appointment date: December 2017 such as telecommunications, real estate, Advanced Materials plc. At the latter revenues. Additionally, Fiona has advised Nationality: German healthcare and insurance. Wolfgang also company he held a number of senior companies in over 70 countries in the served as Secretary of State in the Austrian positions, including CEO of Morgan global energy & resources sectors on Michael has been with the Group since Federal Ministry of Finance. His varied Ceramics. He was previously a various strategic initiatives, including 1983 and is a member of the workers career brings a wide range of strategic Non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc M&A, equity and debt financings, council at Didier Werke AG. and business management experience. and has been President of the British and risk management. External appointments: none Ceramics Confederation. Andrew Wolfgang graduated from the Vienna Fiona has a BA in Economics from provides technological and scientific University of Economics and Business. University of Durham. expertise combined with practical and External appointments: Supervisory commercial insights. He also has a External appointments: Interpipe Group Board member at: Flughafen Wien detailed understanding of Health (Non-Executive Director), Redcliffe Aktiengesellschaft, NIS j.s.c. Novi Sad & Safety best practice from his Advice (Managing Director). (to June 2019), Erne Fittings GmbH and executive career. Management Board member at CollPlant Andrew is a Fellow of the Royal Academy Holdings, Ltd (to December 2019). of Engineering. He has a PhD in Engineering and a BSc in materials science. 11. Karl Sevelda R Independent Non-Executive Director External appointments: Senior Independent Director at James Cropper Appointment date: October 2017 plc and Non-Executive Director at: Rights Nationality: Austrian and Issues Investment Trust plc, Consort Karl progressed to CEO of Raiffeisen Bank Medical plc (to February 2020), mOm International AG after being Deputy CEO Incubators Ltd. and undertaking management roles in the Raiffeisen Bank group where he was responsible for corporate customers and corporate, trade and export finance worldwide. Prior to this, he held several senior management positions in CreditanstaltBankverein where he focused on corporate and export finance. Additionally, he has held the position of Secretary to the Federal Minister for Trade and Industry of Austria. Karl holds a Master’s and Doctorate Degree from Vienna University of Economics and Business. External appointments: Supervisory Board member at: Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Österreich SIGNA Development Selection AG, SIGNA Prime Selection AG, Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG Crematories & Funerals AG, and Management Board member at Custos Privatstiftung 87 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Executive Management Team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 88 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 1. Stefan Borgas 3. Gustavo Franco 5. Simone Oremovic 8. Ticiana Kobel CEO Chief Sales Officer Executive Vice President People General Counsel and Culture Management 2. Ian Botha Gustavo was appointed Chief Sales Ticiana has extensive legal experience in Chief Financial Officer Officer in January 2019, prior to which he Simone joined RHI Magnesita in an a wide range of global businesses, such was Senior VP of Process Industries and executive capacity in November 2017, as SR Technics Group and Bühler Group, For full biographies, see Minerals. He joined Magnesita in 2001 as and her role covers Human Resources, leading legal departments in page 85 a Technical Marketing Engineer, after Culture and Corporate Communications. manufacturing, aviation, technology, finishing his Bachelor’s degree in Simone has 20 years of experience in service sector and engineering industries. Mechanical Engineering at the Federal Human Resources. She started her In these roles, she was in charge of crucial Center for Technological Education of career at General Electric where her projects pertaining to varied matters, Minas Gerais and since then has main focus was on leadership and such as spin-offs, sales and acquisitions, developed his career in the refractory talent management, as well as Human and corporate governance issues, industry. Over the course of six years, Resources process. She is a certified Six and assisted with the design and he progressed through various sales Sigma Master Black Belt. She has held implementation of Compliance managerial roles in South and North leading Human Resources roles in functions, mergers and acquisitions, and America and was part of the Executive Telekom Austria Group, IBM Austria, and partnerships. Ticiana has a law degree Committee of Magnesita Refratários from Baxter AG. Simone has a degree from the with an emphasis in corporate law from 2015 to 2017. In 2018 he completed the European Business School (Paris) and of Federal University of Minas Gerais and Senior Executive Programme with the Economic University of Vienna. an LLM in International Economic Law the London Business School. and European Law at the University of Geneva. 6. Luis Rodolfo Bittencourt 4. Thomas Jakowiak Chief Technology Officer Executive Vice President: 9. Luiz Rossato Integration and Project Management Luis worked for Magnesita for 31 years Executive Vice President and has held several positions in his Corporate Development After studying applied geosciences at the career in the refractory and mining University of Leoben, Thomas started his industry including Mining/ Geology Luiz joined Magnesita Refratários in 2008 professional career as a sales engineer Manager, Technical Purchasing Manager, as General Counsel, and in 2012 became with R&A Rost GmbH. In the year 2000, Plant Manager, and R&D VP. He is Vice President of Legal, M&A and he joined the RHI Group and was soon currently President of Magnesita Institutional Relations, and member of the put in charge of the sales management Refratários in Brazil and the Brazilian Executive Committee. He has worked in for the business unit in the Asia-Pacific Refractory Producers Association. renowned international law firms in Brazil, region. Since 2005, he has been the He holds a Bachelor's degree in mining including Mattos Filho and Quiroga Head of the Cement/Lime segment and engineering from the Federal University Advogados, where he specialized in was appointed to the Management Board of Minas Gerais, a Master’s degree in M&A, Capital Market and Corporate of RHI AG as Chief Sales Officer of the Metallurgical Engineering from the Law transactions. He graduated in law Industrial Division at the beginning of University of Utah, and a PhD degree at Mackenzie Presbyterian University in the year 2016. on Ceramic Engineering from the Brazil and in 2012 he received the University of Missouri. “General Counsel of the Year – Latin America” award by the International Law Office and the Association of Corporate 7. Gerd Schubert Counsel. In 2013, he attended the Chief Operations Officer Advanced Management Program at Wharton University in the United States. After completing his doctorate in mineral engineering at RWTH Aachen, Gerd started his career at Degussa AG, where he held several positions including: manager of a Brazilian plant, Technical Director and Plant Group Manager. Following the acquisition by Ferro Corporation, he managed the production and technology divisions as Global Operations and Restructuring Director. In early 2014, he took over the function of Chief Operating Officer at the Pfleiderer Group and was appointed to the Management Board of RHI AG as Chief Operating Officer /Chief Technical Officer in January 2017. 89 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Nomination Committee report Committee purpose and responsibilities Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings in 2019: Principal duties The purpose of the Committee is to support the Member Attended Board in ensuring that the composition of the Herbert Cordt 4/4 Board, and its committees, remains appropriate for the leadership needs of the Company in the Celia Baxter 4/4 context of an evolving external environment. James Leng 4/4 Despite its long industrial heritage, in many ways RHI Magnesita is still a young company having Activities during the year only been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 27 October 2017. The Committee is focused In 2019 the Committee considered a number in ensuring that the Board has the competencies of matters, including Board Committee and depth of skills at the Board table to meet the composition, the time commitment required demands of a developing global business. At from Non-Executive Directors ( NEDs ), the Board the heart of the Committee’s work is an ongoing profile, including the required skills of key Board assessment of the Board’s collective skills, roles, and succession planning, together with knowledge, competencies and experience, whilst Board diversity and independence. In addition, paying particular attention to independence the Committee led the process of reviewing and diversity. The Committee is now focusing on progress against the Board actions identified in succession plans for Directors and other senior 2018 as part of the Board review and also led the executives, whilst paying due regard to the process for the 2019 evaluation programme. benefits of diversity in both these teams. Committee composition Whilst all Board succession planning, processes In the year under review, the Nomination and preparations are led by the Nomination Committee, in consultation with the respective Committee, these are very important Board Chairmen of the Audit & Corporate Sustainability topics, and as such appointments are agreed Committees, considered their membership in with the Board as a whole. view of the new Directors appointed in 2019. The UKCGC enables the Committee to ensure Considering the skills and experience of each its activity was focused in the appropriate areas Director, Fiona Paulus was appointed to the and its Terms of Reference were appropriately Corporate Sustainability Committee upon her updated. Its programme during the year is formal appointment in June and joined the summarised in the Activities section below. Audit Committee in September. Andrew Hosty, with his substantive industrial and technical Committee composition, skills and experience, continued as a member of the experience Corporate Sustainability Committee and to sit on the TAC as an observer, stepping down from The Nomination Committee was appointed by the the Audit Committee. Board and comprises three members, a majority of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors. Time commitment from NEDs The Nomination Committee comprises Herbert Cordt (Chairman), James Leng and Celia Baxter. An important part of the UKCGC is that the NonThe composition of the Nomination Committee is Executive Directors dedicate sufficient time to compliant with the UKCGC and the DCGC, and meet their Board responsibilities. The Committee a summary of their skills and experience can be considered, as it does annually, the review of time found on page 85 to 87. required from the Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their duties satisfactorily, which it was happy to Dependent on the specific nature of the issue confirm that they did. being considered by the Committee, when requested, other members of the Board and Executive Management Team attend meetings of the Committee and provide input. 90 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Board profile and role profiles The Committee continued to play a key role In compliance with the DCGC, the Nomination in formulating the diversity agenda within Committee considered and recommended for the Boardroom and the wider company. In publication on the Company’s website, the 2019 addition to increasing female representation Board profile. This covers the required skills, on the Board and the Executive Management experience, composition and expertise of the Team, RHI Magnesita, with operations in 39 Board Directors with reference to the needs of the countries, is enriched by a variety of talent with Company, ensuring that these were represented international experience and varied expertise. on the Board. The Committee was pleased The Committee, and the Board, will continue to to conclude that these needs were indeed support this approach to people development, represented in the Board as a whole. ensuring that talent, regardless of gender and background, enjoys career progression within Additionally, the Committee reviewed the roles RHI Magnesita. We are convinced that this will of the CEO, Chairman of the Board and the Senior play a key role in supporting our business strategy Independent Director and Deputy Chairman. over the long term for the benefit of the Group These were approved by the Board and are now and its shareholders. More details on the Group’s published on the Company’s website. Diversity and Inclusion work and the gender balance of those in the senior management Succession planning and their direct reports can be found on Over the course of the year, the Committee pages 70 to 71. initiated a comprehensive succession planning programme, specifically in relation to all senior Board Evaluation management to meet the Company’s needs as In 2018 the Nomination Committee led the design it develops internationally with its product and and introduction of a three-year independent customer service capabilities. Board review programme. The outputs of this first review were diligently considered by the Board Diversity Board and several changes were introduced. As highlighted above, the Committee supports These changes included improvements to the the Board in pursuing its diversity agenda. information flow to Directors, assisting in their Whilst the Board currently enjoys a rich mix ability to debate and challenge the executive. of nationalities, gender, skills, experience and The Directors’ interaction with the management expertise and notwithstanding the considerable team was also further developed. progress that has been made, the Board The Committee also led the preparation for the recognises that it has further to go, specifically in 2019 review, the second year in this programme. having one third of female Directors. It is planned Again, externally facilitated, the review for the that this will be achieved during 2021. This Directors also included the wider Executive recognizes that the Board is still a young one, in Management team. This year’s review was terms of appointments, and to avoid disruption complemented with individual and confidential, to the successful operation of the Board which personal interviews with each Director. The Board has been developed over the past two years, an received a presentation of the review, debated evolutionary approach would be beneficial. the findings, and agreed a programme for the All new Board appointments are, and will year ahead with a view to further improving continue be, made on merit and underpinned its effectiveness. More detail can be found on by the specific skills and experience which page 83 as to the matters considered and the candidates can bring to the overall Board response to actions. composition. As outlined in the Chairman’s introduction to the Corporate Governance section, the appointment of Janet Ashdown and Herbert Cordt Fiona Paulus in 2019 exemplified this approach. Chair of Nomination Committee In addition to increasing female representation on the Board to 23%, half of the Board Committees are now chaired by women. In addition, the gender representation on our Executive Management Team and their direct reports has grown to 17%, an increase of 5% in the year. 91 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Sustainability Committee report Meeting attendance during 2019 extremely sad to report that we experienced two fatalities during the year. In Brazil, an employee Member Attended died following medical complications after an occupational accident, while in Turkey, an Janet Ashdown (Chair) 3/3 accident while unloading raw materials led to the Fiona Paulus 3/3 death of a contractor. Loss of life is unacceptable Andrew Hosty 3/3 in the course of our business. We have thoroughly investigated both cases and taken corrective action to minimise similar risks in future. In 2019, the new Corporate Sustainability Committee met formally three times following the A third area of Committee focus during 2019 AGM, where two of its members were appointed has been to improve gender diversity in the by shareholders. Company. We have committed to achieve 33% female representation on our Board and among The Committee will meet regularly each year to senior leadership. With three women Directors, help steer the Company in a rapidly changing the Board is close to achieving our target, but business environment. the number of women in senior leadership has not yet kept pace. This may be partly explained Activities during the year by our recent merger and the challenges of As chair of the new Corporate Sustainability building a new corporate culture, as well as the Committee, I’m delighted to report on progress male-dominated nature of our industry. Yet this during the year. makes us even more determined to effect change. Set up in early 2019, the Committee’s first Significant work is underway to listen to our new priority is to steer the Company on its path to women’s network and to modify ways in which decarbonisation. The climate crisis is the defining we recruit, retain and promote women. challenge of our time and its severity and urgency Climate action, Health and Safety and gender became ever more apparent in 2019. Our goal diversity were deemed our most significant issues is to ensure that RHI Magnesita can transition following a process of stakeholder engagement and succeed in a low-carbon economy. To do and materiality analysis. We also address a so, we must assess and respond to climate risks range of environmental and social issues, from and opportunities as they evolve. In addition, we air emissions to human rights and community must continue to challenge our level of ambition. investment. In addition, we are working to embed In 2019, for example, we effectively doubled our sustainability into our business, ensuring we have target, from 10% (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) per the right governance structures and processes, tonne of production to a target of 15% which also metrics, strategies and targets in place. includes Scope 3 emissions from raw materials, a leader in the refractories industry. During the first year of the Corporate Sustainability Committee, we have built strong Since emissions in our value chain, especially foundations and made significant progress among steel and cement industries, can be on most fronts. I would like to thank my fellow greater than our direct emissions, we are evolving Directors, the Sustainability Steering Committee our business model to offer full-service solutions. and Executive Management Team for their hard Through low-carbon products, recycling work, as well as the many stakeholders who have and other services, we can help customers provided valuable feedback and support. As we to significantly reduce their energy use and continue our journey, we aim to remain a trusted associated emissions. We are partnering with and valued partner whether as an employer, customers, universities and others to develop supplier or member of the communities in the technologies needed to decarbonise heavy which we operate. industries. Lastly, we aim to communicate our progress transparently and are assessing how we can report against the Taskforce on ClimateJanet Ashdown Related Financial Disclosures ( TCFD ). We Chair of the Corporate Sustainability Committee were pleased to receive a C for our first climate submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Health and Safety is another key focus area for the Committee and 2019 saw our best LTIF performance. Nevertheless, we cannot afford even the slightest complacency. I am 92 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Audit Committee report We are pleased to present the Audit Committee • recommending the appointment of an report for the year-ended 31 December 2019. The external auditor by the General Meeting; and Committee continues to ensure the integrity and • maintaining regular contact with and transparency of corporate reporting, that external supervising the external auditor. audit remains independent and it evaluates the robustness of internal controls and risk Composition and Governance management processes. The Committee is governed by terms of The Audit Committee advises the Board in reference reviewed annually by the Committee relation to the financial reporting process, risk for recommendation to the Board for approval. management and its other responsibilities and It executes its duties and responsibilities in line prepares resolutions of the Board in relation with these terms of reference for the Group’s thereto. The main responsibilities of the Audit accounting, financial reporting practices and Committee focus on activities of the Board finance function, external audit, Internal Audit with respect to: and internal control, integrated reporting, risk management and IT (information and • supervising and monitoring the effect of technology) governance. internal risk management and control systems, including supervision of the The Audit Committee comprises three members, enforcement of the relevant legislation and all of whom are considered independent regulations, and supervision of the effects of Non-Executive Directors. Appointments to the the Code of Conduct; Committee are made by the Board. The Board has satisfied itself that the Committee’s membership • advising the Board on the Group’s overall risk includes Directors with recent and relevant appetite and tolerance; financial experience. • overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future The members of the Committee that served risk strategy; during the year 2019 were: • supervising the recording, management Member and submission of financial information by the Group (including choices of accounting John Ramsay Chairman policies, application and assessment of the Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Member effects of new rules, information regarding the handling of estimated items in the Andrew Hosty Member (until 24 September) Financial Statements); Fiona Paulus Member • reviewing the content of the Annual Report (since 24 September) and Accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Meetings attendance and understandable; The Committee meets as required, but not less • supervising the compliance with than four times a year. The Chairman, the Chief recommendations and observations of the Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, internal auditor and the external auditor; the Head of Financial Reporting, the Head • supervising the functioning of the Internal of Assurance and the General Counsel also Audit department, and in particular, participate in Audit Committee meetings, and review and approve the annual Internal the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit work plan and taking note of the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee has findings and considerations of the Internal had regular private discussions with the external Audit department; auditor, the Head of Assurance and the Chief • supervising the policy of the Group on Financial Officer during the year. tax planning; • supervising the financing of the Group; • reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s Compliance function; • supervising the relationship with the external auditor, including in particular, assessing its independence, effectiveness, remuneration and non-audit related work for the Group; 93 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Audit Committee report continued During 2019, the Committee met six times and • review of significant accounting matters as First time adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had three calls. The Committee has also met explained in the notes to the consolidated twice since the end of the financial year and prior Financial Statements; and The Committee reviewed management’s impact to the signing of this Annual Report. The external assessment of the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases • the Audit Committee considered the which became effective in 2019 and resulted auditors had unrestricted access and attended conclusions of the external auditor over the all Committee meetings and calls. in initial recognition of lease liabilities and the key audit matters that contributed to their audit right-of-use assets amounting to €62 million. opinion, specifically impairments, taxation and The Committee considered the disclosures in the Attended IFRS 16 first time adoption. notes to the Financial Statements prepared by John Ramsay 9/9 management to explain the transition impact and Significant issues considered by the Wolfgang 8/9 concluded that these were appropriate. Audit Committee in relation to the Ruttenstorfer Group’s Financial Statements Alternative performance measures Andrew Hosty 8/8 Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EPS (until 24 September) Going concern RHI Magnesita uses a number of alternative Fiona Paulus 1/1 The ability of the Group to continue as a going performance measures (“APMs”), which reflect (since 24 September) concern depends upon continued access to the way in which Management assesses the sufficient financing facilities. Judgement is underlying performance of the business. The Fair, balanced and understandable required in the estimation of future cash flows Group’s APM policy defines criteria for calculation A key requirement of our Financial Statements is and compliance with debt covenants in future of Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EPS. The for the report to be fair, balanced, understandable years. The Committee assessed the forecast Committee reviewed each of the adjustments and provides the information necessary for levels of net debt, headroom on existing made in Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EPS and shareholders to assess the Group’s position, borrowing facilities and compliance with debt concluded that the calculation is made in line performance, business model and strategy. The covenants. This analysis covered the period with the APM definition. Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that to 31 December 2021 and considered a range the 2019 Annual Report meets this requirement, of downside sensitivities, including the impact Significant issues considered by as appropriate weight has been given to both of lower production volumes and higher costs. the Audit Committee positive and negative developments in the year. The Committee concluded it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis. Audit Committee evaluation In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee An internal evaluation of the performance of the has taken into consideration the preparation Production Optimisation Plan Audit Committee has been undertaken. This process for the Annual Report and Accounts, The Group is enhancing its Production review concluded that the Audit Committee has including: Optimisation Plan in order to increase been operating effectively based on the subject • detailed timetable and instructions are competitiveness and reduce its cost base. The matters covered, the nature of the Committee provided to all contributors; Committee reviewed the judgements involved meetings, thoroughness of approach and the in the determination of the amounts and timing business understanding, skills and experience • revisions to regulatory reporting requirements of impairments and restructuring provisions. of the Committee members. are provided to contributors and monitored on Following discussion, the Committee concluded an ongoing basis; that these were appropriate. The disclosures on Capital structure, financing and FX strategy • early-warning meetings are conducted impairments and other restructuring expenses can The Committee reviewed the revised treasury between finance managers and the auditor in be found in Note 39 to the Financial Statements. policy and assessed the effectiveness of advance of the year-end reporting process; financial risk management. During the year • external advisers provide advice to Use of supply chain finance programmes the Group improved its financing structure by management and the Audit Committee on The Committee reviewed the accounting restructuring inter-company debt, extending best practice with regard to creation of the practice for supply chain finance programmes the debt maturity profile, refinancing legacy Annual Report; in place and appropriateness of disclosures in high cost debt, increasing the level of liquidity • Audit Committee meetings were held in the Annual Report. The Group decided to limit and increasing the EUR debt profile in order February and March 2020 to review and the overall supply chain finance programmes to to reduce interest and currency exposure. approve the draft 2019 Annual Report and €320 million. The disclosures related to factoring Depending on its leverage the Group will keep Accounts in advance of the final sign-off by and forfeiting can be found in Notes 19 and 32 to between 40% and 100% of its interest rates the Board; the Financial Statements. floating. The Committee endorsed the proposed currency and liquidity strategies. 94 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Tax strategy Whistleblowing programme recommendations set out in the Financial The Committee reviewed the tax strategy and The whistleblowing programme, which is Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) Guidance on Audit received updates on tax compliance, significant monitored by the Audit Committee, is designed Committees (2016) and the requirements of the tax matters and ongoing tax projects. The to enable employees, customers, suppliers, FRC’s Revised Ethical Standard (2016). Committee considered management’s risk managers or other stakeholders to raise A key factor that may impair an auditor’s assessment related to the Brazilian tax litigation. concerns on a confidential basis where conduct independence is a lack of control over non-audit Following discussion, the Committee endorsed is deemed to be contrary to our values. During services provided by the external auditor. The the current tax strategy and will continue to 2019, 79 reports were received via the global external auditor’s independence is deemed to monitor the progress of the tax projects. whistleblowing programme, covering a broad be impaired if the auditor provides a service that: spectrum of concerns, including: Reviewing the results of Internal Audit work • creates conflicts of interest between the and the 2019 plan • People and culture external audit firm and the Group; The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of • Fraud and security • results in the external audit firm functioning the resources of the Internal Audit department • Health and Safety in the role of management; and concluded that the Internal Audit function • Conflicts of interest • results in a fee which is material relative to the is effective and has adequate resources. Based audit fee; on the received reports on the results of Internal The majority of reports were received on an anonymous basis. All of the cases received in • places the external audit firm in the position Audit work, the Committee satisfied itself that 2019 were investigated and all the proven cases of auditing its own work; or the 2019 plan was on track and discussed areas where control improvement opportunities resulted in some form of management action. • places the external audit firm in the position were identified further, and the Committee of being an advocate for the Group. reviewed the progress in completion of agreed External audit RHI Magnesita addresses this issue through three management actions. The Committee reviewed The Group’s external independent auditor, primary measures, namely: the proposed 2020 Internal Audit plan, assessing PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. whether the plan addressed the key areas of (PwC), were first appointed as the Group auditor • disclosure of the extent and nature of nonrisk for the business units and the Group. The at the Annual General Meeting held on 4 October audit services; Committee approved the plan, having discussed 2017 shortly before the listing of the newly formed • the prohibition of selected services; and the scope of work and its relationship to the RHI Magnesita NV. This was the first tender the • prior approval by the Audit Committee of nonGroup’s risks. Company had undertaken. PwC was appointed audit services where the cost of the individual at the AGM held on 6 June 2019 for the financial Code of Conduct engagements being more than €15,000, and year 2020. The Committee approved the audit cumulatively more than €60,000 per annum. The Committee reviewed progress of the plan together with the audit fee in November implementation of the Code of Conduct that was 2019 having given due consideration to the audit The definition of prohibited non-audit services rolled out across the Group starting in 2017. The approach, materiality level and audit risks. The corresponds with the European Commission’s Committee received updates on governance of Committee received updates during the year recommendations on the auditor’s independence the Code, ethical risk assessments performed, on the audit process, including how the auditor and with the Ethical Standards issued by the Audit and training provided. The Committee assessed had challenged the Group’s assumptions on the Practices Board in the UK. Non-audit work is only the work being conducted to mitigate the risk of issues noted in this report. In March 2020, the undertaken where there is commercial sense in bribery and corruption and, specifically, work to Committee reviewed the output of the external using the auditor without jeopardising auditor assess risk from use of agents, approving plans audit work that contributed to the auditor’s independence; for example, where the service is to strengthen risk mitigation in this area. opinion, and its overall effectiveness. related to the assurance provided by the auditor or benefits from the knowledge the auditor has Risk Management External auditor's independence of the business. Non-audit fees represented are The external independent auditor reports to disclosed in Note 60 of the Financial Statements. Risk management is the responsibility of the the Committee on the actions taken to comply Board and is integral to the achievement of our The Group confirms compliance during the with professional and regulatory requirements, objectives. The Board establishes the system year with the provisions of the Competition and as well as best practice designed to ensure its of risk management, setting risk appetite and Markets Authority Order on mandatory tendering independence. The Committee recommended maintaining the system of internal control to for the appointment of the external auditor and that PwC and Esther van der Vleuten should manage risk within the Group. The Group’s Audit Committee responsibilities. continue as the external independent auditor and system of risk management and internal control designated auditor for the financial year 2020. John Ramsay is monitored by the Audit Committee under delegation from the Board. Details of the Group’s Independent Non-Executive Director In 2019, the Group revised its non-audit services risk management approach, risk appetite and policy which further strengthens auditor’s principal risks are outlined in the Risk, viability independence. The new policy is consistent and internal control section of the Annual Report. with the applicable EU Directive, Dutch and UK legislation and guidance, including 95 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Remuneration Committee report Dear Shareholders In 2019, the bonus structures and targets for I am pleased to present the Report of the management throughout the Company have Remuneration Committee for the financial year been revised to reflect those of the executive ended 31 December 2019, providing a summary and senior management. This provides a clear of the Committee’s work during the year, as well line of sight of company objectives, supports the as the context for the decisions made. building of the new organisational culture, further foster teamworking, and incentivises appropriate RHI Magnesita, being incorporated and registered behaviours and the success of our workforce. in the Netherlands, making it subject to Dutch corporate law, and having its primary listing Our LTIP rewards the creation of shareholder on the London Stock Exchange, is required value and profitability. Total shareholder return to comply with both UK and Dutch reporting ( TSR ), EPS and economic profit measures were requirements and their respective Corporate implemented as LTIP KPIs in 2019 to incentivise Governance Codes. Our Remuneration Report is the creation of long-term value. As referred to therefore presented on this basis and, recognising later, the performance shares awarded are held transparency of reporting, includes certain for three years before vesting with a further twoadditional voluntary disclosures. year holding period for the EMT. We were pleased that at the 2019 Annual RHI Magnesita’s performance during 2019 General Meeting (“AGM”) the resolution As laid out in the Chairman’s Statement and the relating to the Annual Statement and Report Chief Executive Officer’s Review, despite difficult on Remuneration was once again approved end markets in 2019, the Group has recorded by more than 99% of our voting shareholders. resilient margins, solid balance sheet position The Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which was and strong cash flow generation. Furthermore, approved at the 2018 AGM, is intended to operate management completed the planned and until 2021 and, as previously disclosed, has successful final phase of the integration of RHI applied since 1 January 2018. and Magnesita, delivering €90 million of planned We will be bringing a revised Directors’ synergies. It has been within this context that the Remuneration Policy for consideration at the Committee has considered the Annual Bonus 2021 AGM. During 2020, we will be considering scheme, the 2019 outturn and the 2020 targets, whether our policy continues to suit the as well as reviewing current LTIP performance, strategy of the Company, takes into account in addition to other decisions made in the course key stakeholders and assists in retaining and of the year. Further details of these activities are rewarding talent appropriately. As part of this outlined below. process we will, in the year ahead, be consulting Incentive outcomes for the year shareholders on any key changes proposed. As set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration, Remuneration is closely aligned with our our remuneration outcomes for the year were strategy and culture as follows: Our Remuneration Policy continues to be Annual Bonus Plan closely aligned to, and supportive of, our strategy and culture. The objective of combining two Awards for the year for the CEO and CFO at companies in 2017 to form RHI Magnesita was 38.9% of maximum reflect the performance to capture the strengths of each entity, leading of the Company during the year. The operating to an enlarged portfolio of products and services, EBIT decreased by 4.4%. Executives made greater proximity to customers through a broader good progress against the strategic deliverables geographical footprint, technology leadership, that are essential for the future efficiency of the as well as more effective raw material integration. Company and the synergy targets were met. Our remuneration policy and practices are in The Company generated €285 million of free line with these objectives, with bonus plans cash flow. Further details of our performance that incentivise growth, cash flow generation against 2019 bonus targets can be seen on and the achievement of synergy targets and pages 112 and 113, including the way that the cash strategic projects. flow targets were adjusted on a neutral basis to reflect the change in strategy on working capital management. The payout against the strategic deliverables is measured against preset mainly quantified targets such as dates, volumes or monetary values. 96 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 As a part of the changes made to meet the Remuneration related to the change of the Context of Director pay within requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) the Company Code, for 2019 and future years, the Committee Ian Botha joined the Company in April 2019. decided to replace the specific underpin that CEO Pay ratio His remuneration package is in line with the related only to the strategic targets with an In 2018 and 2019 in line with Dutch regulations Company’s new Remuneration Policy. The overarching discretion to adjust, if appropriate, and market practice we disclosed the pay ratio of CFO’s remuneration package was benchmarked the formulaic outturn for all of the bonus the CEO to the average salary of all employees in against the UK market. Ian Botha was recruited measures. Accordingly, the Committee reviewed the Group. Similarly, on page 107 this year’s ratio from Anglo American and held a variety of the formulaic calculation of the bonus in the of 34:1 is calculated on the same basis (2018: 49:1). long-term incentives that lapsed when he left context of the overall performance of the The current CEO pay ratio is lower than other Anglo American. In line with the Company’s Company and the executives over the relevant similar manufacturing companies with relatively remuneration policy, the Committee offered period. The bonus payout is materially lower than high levels of blue collar workers. The Committee share-based remuneration to mirror part of the last year’s, and the Committee is satisfied that it however is aware that as currently no long-term forfeited long-term incentives of his previous is at the appropriate level given the targets that incentives have vested, if the 2018 LTIP vests in employer, taking account of the potential vesting. were set and the performance achieved. 2021 the CEO pay ratio will increase more towards The CFO received three share grants during the median of similar manufacturing companies. the year: conditional shares to buy-out deferred Performance Share Plan More detail on the calculation of the ratio is share awards, performance shares to buy-out There were no long-term incentives subsisting included on page 107. forfeited performance share awards and an at the time of Admission. The first performance annual performance share award. Full details shares under the new long-term incentive plan UK gender pay gap of the new CFO’s remuneration package can were awarded in 2018 and are not due to vest, be found on pages 99 and 111. Although there is no requirement to report subject to performance, until 2021. on gender pay in the UK, the Committee has The past CFO, Octavio Lopes, left the business reviewed the proportion of women throughout Key Committee activities during 2019 on 31 December 2018. As previously reported, the organisation and their relative positions within In addition to the responsibilities of the no payments were made for loss of office. the organisation structure. The Committee is Committee (which are described in the Terms of aware that around 11.6% of the global workforce is Governance developments female and female representation in supervisory Reference available on the Company’s website), the Committee spent time on the following As referred to above, RHI Magnesita is required and managerial roles is an even lower proportion. matters during the year: to comply with both UK and Dutch reporting Both of these issues are being addressed. The requirements, including the UK and Dutch Board and leadership team recognise that Further development of the Corporate Governance Codes. The 2018 inclusion and diversity in all forms are essential Remuneration Report UK Corporate Governance Code came into ingredients in creating diversity of thought, 2018 represented the first full year of effect for RHI Magnesita on 1 January 2019. experience and skills within the Company and remuneration reporting for the Company, with the Dutch reporting requirements have also been it has been a topic of consideration at Board and 2017 report only covering the period from the date updated to implement the EU Shareholder Executive management meetings (you can read of Admission (27 October 2017 to 31 December Rights Directive. Our Remuneration Policy and more on the Company’s approach to diversity 2017). The 2019 Remuneration Report is the first remuneration practices already broadly comply on pages 70 to 71). where year-on-year comparators exist for a full with both governance updates. With the current Policy due to be renewed at our 2021 AGM the Employee engagement 12 month period. Our Remuneration Reporting is complex due to the need to comply with both Committee intends to undertake a review of Two employee representatives, normally based Dutch and UK regulations. We have endeavoured the Remuneration Policy in 2020. in Germany and Austria, sit on the Company’s to improve reporting this year to increase Board and take part in discussions regarding transparency and improve clarity. executive remuneration when the Remuneration Committee reports back to the Board and makes recommendations for Board approval. A variety of other engagement activities take place across the Company including employee surveys, CEO calls, regular townhall meetings and an active CEO Channel, as part of the My RHI Magnesita App, where employees can ask questions on any issues including executive pay. Further details on workforce engagement can be found on pages 79 and 105. 97 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Remuneration Committee report continued Alignment of pension contribution The bonus metrics and weightings were reviewed The Chairman’s fee was considered by the Our incumbent Executive Directors’ pension for 2020. Given the strong progress on the Committee and in line with the Remuneration allowance (and that for any new appointments) achievement of synergies, the Committee policy, against both the Non-Executive market is aligned to that of the workforce in their country decided to remove the synergy metric for the and the workforce increase. As the Chairman’s of appointment. 2020 annual bonus. The Committee is very fee had not been reviewed since 2017, the conscious of the uncertainty that COVID-19 is Committee agreed an uplift in line with the Implementation of the Remuneration creating and at the date of this report the bonus workforce increases in Austria over the last Policy for 2020 metrics had not been finalised. These metrics will two years. In future it is the intention to review reflect both the strategic needs of the business the Chairman’s fee on an annual basis. The In the early part of 2020, the Board had concerns and the Policy, which requires a minimum of Non-Executive fees were not considered by regarding the retention of its Executive Directors. 70% to be weighted to financial metrics. The the Committee as no individual should be The Board think that it is crucial to maintain performance metrics and targets for the annual involved in their own remuneration, however continuity of leadership over the next critical bonus will be disclosed retrospectively in the the Chairman took a similar approach when period of the Group’s development. We reached 2020 Remuneration Report provided they are reviewing the Non-Executive fees. Further out to our key shareholders to gain support for not considered to be commercially sensitive at details of the increases awarded can be found a re-alignment of our reference markets for that time. The 2019 annual bonus targets are in the Directors’ remuneration table. the Executive Directors’ pay, using Germany as retrospectively disclosed on page 113. the more relevant market than the UK, being Just prior to signing of this report the Executive the key region where we compete for talent. In 2020, the Committee does not plan to change Directors decided, from 1 April, to waive the The resultant salary increases are within our the quantum of the CEO and CFO's long-term 20% salary they were awarded in 2020 for at policy, being within the mid-market range, but incentive performance share awards with a face least three months. During this time members nonetheless we felt it would be more transparent value of 200% and 150% of salary, respectively. of the Executive Management Team will waive to consult with leading shareholders to explain The awards are not made until April 2020 based 10% of their salary, the Chairman and the Nonour approach. The consultation provided very on the share price at that time. Executives will Executive Directors will waive 10% of their fees useful engagement and I remain grateful for receive the award in 2025 (subject to a three-year and employees globally will likely see a reduction shareholders’ time and input. vesting period and two-year holding period), if in their earnings. The Committee is very grateful performance targets are met. The performance for the responsible action being taken by the The base salary of the CEO was increased by targets that will determine vesting of the share Executive Directors and members of the Executive 20% and the CFO’s base salary was increased awards, will be based half on adjusted earnings Management Team, as well as all of our employees by 20% with effect from 1 January 2020. Both of per share ( EPS ) targets, and half on Total who are taking actions at this difficult time. these executives are employed in Austria and this Shareholder Return ( TSR ). For 2020 the compares with an average of 3.6% for the majority Conclusion Committee decided that Economic Profit was of Austrian based employees. As detailed in our not a suitable measure as the setting of targets for We believe that the Directors’ Remuneration engagement with shareholders and referred to the three year period would be too difficult in the Policy and its implementation for 2020, as well above, the Executive Director increases arose current business environment. The Committee as the remuneration outcomes for 2019 remain from the amendment of the reference market. has the ability to scale back the level of vesting strongly aligned to the Company’s business if it considers the outcome to be reasonably strategy, the complex structure of the business unacceptable or if it is not reflective of the and long-term shareholder interests. underlying performance of the Company. At the 2020 AGM an advisory shareholder resolution to approve this Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be presented to shareholders and we look forward to your continued support. Celia Baxter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 98 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 At a glance: Operation of remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 December 2019 Policy element S Borgas (CEO) I Botha (CFO) Base salary from 1 January 2019 €855,000 €375,0001 % increase from prior year 3.5% 0% Retirement allowance Allowance of 15% of base salary Allowance of 15% of base salary Annual bonus Up to 150% of base salary Up to 150% of base salary Annual bonus metrics 75% of the annual bonus determined by Group financial targets and 25% by strategic targets as follows: 35% Operating EBIT measured on a constant currency basis; 30% Free Cash Flow; 10% Synergy targets and 25% strategic targets focusing on key strategic priorities of the business which are critical to the future profitability of the Group. The Committee used its discretion to review the underlying performance of the Company and determine whether there should be any adjustment to the formulaic outcome. Amount paid for threshold performance 0% 0% Amount paid for target performance 75% of salary (50% of max. annual bonus) Actual bonus result for 2019 performance €498,354 (38.9% of maximum) €218,576 (38.9% of maximum) Payment of bonus in shares 50% of annual bonus in excess of target after tax is used by the executive to acquire shares that are held for a minimum of three years Performance Share Award 200% of base salary 150% of base salary Performance Share Award metrics 33.3% of the award: relative TSR ranking 33.3% of the award: Economic Profit Growth 33.3% of the award: Adjusted EPS Payment for threshold performance 25% Performance period & post vesting holding 3 years and 2 years respectively period Malus and clawback Malus applies to the period prior to vesting for Performance Share Awards and payment of the annual bonus Clawback applies to cash bonus and Performance Share Awards for a period of three years following the date of vesting and three years following any cash payment Dividends on vested awards Participants are eligible for dividend equivalents on Performance Shares awarded Shareholding requirement 200% of base salary to be met within five years Shareholding as % of salary at 2019 year-end 75% 75%2 1 Part year, the CFO joined the Company on 1 April 2019, his full-year annual salary is €500,000. 2 Calculated assuming a tax rate of 50%. 99 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy This Directors’ Other than in the event of exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not intend to Certain aspects of our current policy are only applicable to our past CFO, Octavio Remuneration Policy was revert to shareholders with a new Remuneration Lopes, reflecting the historic structure of his approved by over 99% Policy before the end of the three-year period at the 2021 AGM. remuneration and legacy contract. However, Octavio Lopes left the Company on 31 December of voting shareholders at Policy overview 2018 and these aspects of the Policy are therefore no longer applicable and will be removed when the June 2018 AGM. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility the Policy is brought to shareholders for approval for determining the remuneration for the in 2021 and are noted below for ease of reference. Chairman and Executive Directors. The new CFO’s remuneration is in line with the ongoing new Remuneration Policy. The aim of the Company’s remuneration strategy is to provide a level of fixed pay that, together with The remuneration policy for Executive incentives, will attract, retain and motivate highand Non-Executive Directors calibre, high-performing executives, aligning For ease of reference we have included on them to the long-term performance of the pages 101 to 103 the remuneration policy for the Company and its long-term share performance Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. while rewarding them for creating and delivering We have emboldened sections of the Policy that shareholder value. related to the legacy arrangements for our past The remuneration policy has been structured in CFO who left the Company on 31 December 2018 line with market practice for UK-listed companies, and which are not applicable going forward. while taking into account the legacy issues and Dutch law. Dutch governance requires some additional information on the remuneration which is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 110. 100 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Please note, in the policy we have highlighted parts that were only legacy items for our past CFO, which are not applicable going forward. Policy table for Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance related framework and recovery Base salary Salaries are paid monthly and reviewed annually. There is no prescribed Salaries will be reviewed by the Committee annually To assist in the recruitment and The Company’s policy is to set salaries at mid-market maximum annual base salary or taking into account the various factors noted in the retention of appropriate talent. levels taking into account salaries at companies of a salary increase. “How it operates” section of the policy. To provide a fair fixed level of similar size by market capitalisation, revenue and any In respect of salary increases pay commensurate for the role other factors considered relevant by the Committee the Committee is guided by the ensuring no over reliance on such as international business mix and complexity. general increase for the broader variable pay. Decisions on salary are influenced by: employee population and region where the executive is • The performance and experience of the individual based. • The performance of the Group • The individual’s role and responsibilities and any change in those responsibilities • Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group • Rates of inflation and market-wide increases across international locations • The geographic location of the executive Retirement allowance Directors may participate in a defined contribution For the CEO and new Directors None. To provide competitive plan, and/or receive cash in lieu of all or some of 15% of salary. retirement benefits for such benefit. For our past CFO 30% of salary recruitment and retention Only base salary is pensionable. valid for 2018 only. NB: The purposes. Exceptionally, for Executive Directors outside the UK new CFO will receive 15% of the pension will be structured as required by local salary, as detailed above. regulation and in line with industry norms. Exceptionally, for Executive Our past CFO received a cash payment in lieu of Directors outside of the UK an pension of 30% of salary. This is a legacy issue amount as required by local where the pension entitlement was set on regulation and in line with recruitment. This was valid for 2018 only. industry norms. Other benefits Benefits provided currently include: private health There is no maximum level None. To provide a competitive benefit insurance, life insurance, car/car allowance and of benefits provided to an package for recruitment and fuel allowance. Executive Director. retention purposes as well as to Our past CFO was entitled to reasonable relocation support the personal health and expenses on termination of his contract (by either well-being of the executive. party). This is a legacy issue where the benefit was in place prior to Admission. Additional benefits and tax payable as a result of reimbursement of reasonable business expenses may be provided from time to time if the Committee decides payment of such benefits and tax is appropriate and in line with market practice. 101 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Policy table for Executive Directors continued Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance related framework and recovery Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on the Group’s Up to 150% of base salary Details of the performance targets set for the year under To provide focus on the performance as set and assessed by the Committee maximum potential opportunity. review and performance against them will normally short-term performance of on an annual basis. Target potential opportunity is be provided each year in the Annual Report on the Company and to provide a The annual bonus is paid in cash and the Executive 50% of maximum opportunity. Remuneration. If for reasons of commercial sensitivity, reward for achieving short-term Directors (except for our past CFO in respect of his the targets cannot be disclosed then they will be For 2018 the past CFO’s target disclosed in the following year. personal, strategic and financial 2018 annual bonus) are required to acquire shares in potential opportunity was Company performance. the Company with 50% of the amount paid in excess 100% of salary which is 83.3% Performance normally measured over a one-year period. To provide a mechanism for of target (after tax) which will be held for a minimum of maximum (on the basis Targets will be based on the Group’s annual financial alignment with longerterm period of three years. that his maximum potential and non-financial performance for the particular performance and shareholder opportunity was 120% of performance year. At least 70% of the bonus will be alignment. salary), and threshold subject to financial performance metrics. The requirement for Executive potential opportunity The Committee may scale back the bonus that is payable Directors to acquire shares with was 66.6% of maximum if it considers the outcome to be reasonably unacceptable their bonus aligns them to the (being 80% of salary). or if it is not representative of the underlying performance “development of the market price of the Company and/or there have been regulatory, of the shares” in the Company as environmental or Health and Safety issues that the provided in the Dutch Corporate Committee considers are of such severity that a scale Governance Code. back of the bonus is appropriate. For the financial targets, not more than 25% of the maximum potential bonus opportunity will be payable for achieving threshold performance rising on a graduated scale to 100% for maximum performance. Threshold performance being the level of performance required for the bonus to start paying. In relation to strategic targets the structure of the target will vary based on the nature of the target set and it will not always be practicable to set targets using a graduated scale. Vesting may therefore take place in full if specific criteria are met in full. Payments under the annual bonus plan may be subject to clawback/malus for a period of three years from payment in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, an error in calculating the level of grant or level of vesting or payment, a failure of risk management including the liquidation of the Group, if the participant has been guilty of fraud or gross misconduct or the Company has been brought into disrepute. The clawback/malus provisions as set out above do not limit Article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code. 102 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Policy table for Executive Directors continued Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance related framework and recovery Performance Share (PS) PS awards may take the form of nil-cost options or 200% of salary (face value of Awards vest based on three-year (or longer) performance awards granted under the conditional awards. award) annually (normal limit). measured against a range of challenging targets set RHI Magnesita Long-Term Awards are normally made annually. Where the face value is the and assessed by the Remuneration Committee. Incentive Plan market value of the shares The Committee will determine the specific metrics and Awards normally vest after three years subject to subject to an award at the targets that will apply to each award prior to the date of To incentivise and reward performance and continued service. Where Executive execution of the longer-term time it is awarded. award subject to the vesting of at least 25% of an award Directors cease employment or are under notice prior to being determined by Total Shareholder Return. business strategy. the three-year vesting date different rules may apply. In exceptional circumstances To provide alignment to on recruitment 250% of salary The targets for each award will be set out in the Annual Shares resulting from the exercise of an option or (face value of award). Report on Remuneration. shareholders and the vesting of a conditional award cannot be sold until five longer-term performance of the years have elapsed from the date of award, other than In relation to financial targets not more than 25% of the Company and to recognise and to pay tax. total award will vest for threshold performance rising on reward value creation over the a graduated scale to 100% for maximum performance. longer term. To the extent an award vests, the Committee may Threshold performance being the level of performance permit dividend equivalents to be paid either in the required for the PS award to start to vest. In relation to The “development of the market form of cash or shares representing the dividends that price of the shares” in the strategic targets the structure of the target will vary based would have been paid on those shares during the on the nature of the target set and it will not always be Company is, as required by the vesting period (and where the award is a nil-cost Dutch Corporate Governance practicable to set targets using a graduated scale and option to the fifth anniversary of award). Dividend so vesting may take place in full if specific criteria are Code, taken into account by equivalents are payments in cash or shares equal to providing a long-term incentive met in full. the value of the dividends that would have been paid using shares as the delivery during the period referred to above, on the number The Committee may scale back the level of vesting if it mechanism. In addition, part of of shares that vest. considers the outcome to be reasonably unacceptable the award is determined by Total or if it is not reflective of the underlying performance Shareholder Return which is a of the Company and/or there have been regulatory, measure of share price environmental or Health and Safety issues that the performance. Committee considers are of such severity that a scale back of the PS award is appropriate. PS may be subject to clawback/malus for three years from the date of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, an error in calculating the level of grant or level of vesting or payment, a failure of risk management including the liquidation of the Group, if the participant has been guilty of fraud or gross misconduct or the Company has been brought into disrepute. The clawback/malus provisions as set out above do not limit Article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code. Share ownership Requirement for the Executive Directors is to normally The level of requirement will be None. To increase alignment between retain all of the shares acquired from annual bonus disclosed in the Annual Report management and shareholders payments following expiry of the three-year holding on Remuneration. and the longer-term period and normally 50% of vested Performance performance of the Company. Shares (net of tax) following the two-year holding period until the shareholding requirement is achieved. The Committee normally expects this requirement to be met within five years of appointment or approval of this Policy, if later. The table below sets out the remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman). Policy table for Non-Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance related framework and recovery Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic There is no prescribed None. (including the Chairman and fee. Supplemental fees may be paid for additional maximum annual fee or fee Deputy Chairman) responsibilities and activities, including for a increase. To provide fees reflecting time Committee Chairman and member of the main Board The Board is guided by the commitments and Committees and the Senior Independent Director. general increase in the responsibilities of each role to Cash fee normally paid quarterly. The Chairman’s fee Non-Executive market but may enable recruitment of the right is inclusive of all of his responsibilities. decide to award a lower or calibre of Non-Executive Reasonable expenses incurred by the NonExecutive higher fee increase to Directors who can further the Directors in carrying out their duties may be recognise, for example, an interests of the Group through reimbursed by the Company including any personal increase in the scale, scope or their experience, stewardship tax payable by the Non-Executive Directors as a result responsibility of the role and/or and contribution to strategic of reimbursement of those expenses. The Company take account of relevant market development of the Group. may also pay an allowance in lieu of expenses if it movements. deems this is appropriate. Fees are reviewed periodically. 103 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Performance criteria and discretions Executive Directors’ service contracts At the discretion of the Committee, in certain and payments for loss of office circumstances, for example, to incentivise shortSelection of criteria term retention and completion of key business Service contracts and letters of appointment The Committee assesses annually at the deliverables, and where poor performance is are available for inspection at the Company’s beginning of the relevant performance period not relevant to the cessation, a pro-rata bonus registered office. which performance measures, or combination may become payable at the normal payment and weighting of performance measures, are Service contracts and loss of office date for the period of employment with financial most appropriate for both annual bonus and performance targets based on full-year It is the Company’s policy that notice periods for any performance share awarded to reflect performance. Where the Committee decides Executive Directors will not exceed 12 months and the Company’s strategic initiatives for the to make a payment, the rationale will be fully the service contracts for the Executive Directors performance period. The Committee has the disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. are terminable by either the Company or the discretion to change the performance measures Executive Director on 12 months’ notice. The default treatment for share based awards is for awards granted in future years based upon the strategic plans of the Company. The Committee that any unvested award will lapse on termination The Committee’s policy in relation to termination sets what it considers are demanding targets of employment or, in certain circumstances on of service contracts is to deal with each case on for variable pay in the context of the Company’s the executive giving notice. However, under the its merits having regard to the circumstances of trading environment and strategic objectives and rules of the long-term incentive plan under which the individual, the termination of employment, considering the Company’s internal financial PS awards will be made, in certain prescribed any legal advice received and what is in the best planning, and market forecasts. Any noncircumstances, such as death, injury, ill-health, interests of the Company and its shareholders. financial goals will be well defined. retirement with the Company’s agreement, An Executive Director’s service contract may redundancy, leaving the Group because the be terminated early (other than for cause) by Discretions retained by the Committee employer company or business leaves the payment in lieu of salary in equal monthly Group or where the Committee determines The Committee operates the Group’s variable instalments over the notice period. The Company otherwise, awards are eligible to vest subject to pay plans according to their respective rules. In may include pension contributions and benefits the performance conditions being met over the administering these plans, the Committee may within the payment in lieu of notice if this is normal performance period (or a shorter period apply certain operational discretions. deemed appropriate or is specifically provided where the participant has died) and with the for in the service contract. Unless a contract These include the following: award being reduced (unless the Committee specifically provides otherwise, all payments considers, in exceptional circumstances, a • determining the extent of vesting based on the would discontinue or reduce to the extent that different treatment is appropriate) by an amount to assessment of performance; alternative employment is obtained. There are no reflect the proportion of the performance period enhanced provisions on a change of control and • determining the status of leavers and, where not actually served. there are no specific severance arrangements. relevant, the extent of vesting; An Executive Director’s service contract may be Approach to recruitment and promotions • determining the extent of vesting of PS awards terminated without notice for certain events such The recruitment package for a new Director under share based plans in the event of a as gross misconduct in which case no payments would be set in accordance with the terms of the change of control; or compensation beyond sums accrued to the Company’s approved remuneration policy. • making appropriate adjustments required date of termination will be paid. On recruitment, salary may be set below the in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, The Company may also pay outplacement normal market rate, with phased increases as corporate restructuring events, variation of costs, legal costs and other reasonable relevant the Director demonstrates performance within capital and special dividends); and costs associated with termination and may the Company. • adjusting existing targets if events occur that settle any claim or potential claim relating to the termination. Annual bonus opportunity will reflect the period cause the Committee to determine that the of service for the year. targets set are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so the relevant Treatment of variable pay awards on The normal annual PS award limit is 200% of award can achieve its original intended termination1 salary face value in a financial year (face value purpose, provided that the new targets are not Annual bonuses and PS awards are nonbeing the market value of the shares subject materially less difficult to satisfy. contractual and are dealt with in accordance to an award at the time it is awarded). A higher with the rules of the relevant plans except that limit of 250% of salary (face value) is included The Committee also retains discretion to make if Ocatvio Lopes' contract is terminated by the in the recruitment policy for use in exceptional non-significant changes to the Policy without Company before payment is made of his 2017 circumstances for the Company to be able reverting to shareholders (for example, for bonus then he shall remain entitled to that bonus to attract and secure the right candidate if regulatory, tax, legislative or administrative to be paid on the same date of payment as for the required. A PS award may be made shortly after purposes). other executives of the Company. an appointment if the usual annual award date has passed. 1. The policy wording is consistent with previous years, elements relating to Octavio Lopes no longer apply. 104 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 On an internal appointment, any variable pay Legacy arrangements Remuneration market data was considered as part element awarded in respect of their prior role will In approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, of the Committee’s formulation of policy in terms normally be allowed to continue according to authority is given to the Company to honour any of considering remuneration data for companies its terms. commitments entered into with Directors, which of a comparable size and complexity to the were fully disclosed in the Admission document. Company. This was only one of many factors The policy enables the Committee to include Details of any such payments will be set out in the considered by the Committee. those benefits it deems appropriate for an Executive Director. On recruitment, this Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise. The Committee has taken note of the views of the may include benefits such as relocation, Executive Directors with regard to the amount and housing or schooling expenses. In arriving at How the views of shareholders and structure of their remuneration and the provisions a benefits package the Committee’s prevailing employees are taken into account of 3.1.2 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code consideration will be to pay only what is As the Board members have a wide range of (matters that should be taken into consideration considered necessary and appropriate taking experience and backgrounds, including being when formulating the remuneration policy) have into account the importance of securing the works council representatives and shareholders, been brought to their attention. right candidate for the job and acting in the best there is ample opportunity for feedback on the interests of the Company’s shareholders and policy and its implementation on an ongoing basis. How the Executive Directors’ limiting certain benefits to a specified period Remuneration Policy relates to the wider The Committee formally consults directly with Group where possible. employees on executive pay via the Employee Representatives appointed to the Board. Other The policy described above applies specifically On recruitment, the Company may compensate engagement activities include: employee to the Company’s Executive and Nonfor incentive pay (or benefit arrangements) surveys, CEO calls, regular townhall meetings Executive Directors. The Committee is aware foregone from a previous employer. Replacement and an active CEO Channel, as part of the My of and provides feedback on the wider Group share awards would be made under the RHI Magnesita App, where employees can ask remuneration structures. The Company’s policy Company’s long-term incentive plan and any questions on any issues including executive is for the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy subsequently adopted share plans using the pay. The Committee receives periodic updates and structure to be cascaded as far as practicable separate specific limit for these purposes of from the CEO and Human Resources Director to the senior management team and for the 250% of salary (face value) or as necessary and function of the Group which includes employee overriding principles to be taken into account for as permitted under the Listing Rules. The new feedback received on remuneration practices the Group-wide policy. awards would take account of the structure of awards being forfeited (cash or shares), quantum across the Group. So far, no substantive questions Base salaries for the whole Group are operated foregone, the extent to which performance have been raised on executive remuneration. under broadly the same policy as for the Executive conditions apply, the likelihood of meeting any The Committee takes due account of the overall Directors and are reviewed annually. The table on existing performance conditions and the time approach to remuneration and the remuneration page 118 discloses the annual average percentage left to vesting. structures for employees in the Group when change of each Director's remuneration, setting pay for the Executive Directors. compared to that of all the employees in Austria. Policy for Executive Directors on external appointments There are representatives of two of the Company’s The key difference between the Executive major shareholders on the Board and thus regular Directors’ policy and the wider Group’s policy is Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors consultation on all elements of remuneration that the Executive Directors’ packages (and the may accept external non-executive positions and is ongoing. As advised in the Chair of the senior management team to a lesser extent) are retain the fees payable for such appointments. Committee’s letter a consultation with over 70% weighted more to variable pay. From 2019 on, of shareholders was undertaken in early 2020. the bonus structure and targets are the same Non-Executive Directors The Committee appreciated the clear exchange for Executive Directors and for all eligible whiteLetters of appointment and policy of views and the opportunity to engage with collar employees. All our employees take part in on recruitment shareholders about the context of the changes annual discretionary bonus schemes, as shown All Non-Executive Directors have letters of made to our Executive Director salaries. This in the table on the next page. Our approach is appointment for a fixed period of three years, feedback, best practice in the market, and any to incentivise our employees to focus on and subject to reappointment each year at the AGM. feedback also received from time to time, as well contribute to the Company’s goals. No additional compensation is payable on as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally will be considered as part Performance Share awards are awarded to termination, with fees being payable to the date of the Company’s annual review of remuneration those employees identified as having the greatest of termination. The appointments are terminable policy and implementation of that policy. potential to influence Group-level performance. by either party on three months’ written notice. Given the cost of operating such a plan, the On appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, In addition to this we also engage with our Committee considers this is the right approach the fee arrangement will be set in accordance shareholders through our website. It contains and in the best interests of the Company and with the approved remuneration policy in force a wide range of information on our Company its shareholders. at that time. Directors’ Remuneration Policy. and has a section dedicated to investors, which includes certain remuneration information, such A comparison of the remuneration structure as our LTIP plan rules, our investor calendar, between the wider workforce and the Board financial results, presentations, press releases, is illustrated in the table on page 106. with news relating to RHIM financial and operational performance and contact details. 105 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Competitive pay and cascade of incentives Maximum proportion Maximum bonus Maximum proportion of of bonus deferred Maximum LTIP Number of as percentage bonus payable in cash in shares award based on Organisational level employees of salary (% of maximum award) (% of maximum award) annual salary Executive Directors 2 150% 75% 1 25% 1 150-200% Executive Management Team 7 80-140% 85%2 15%2 80-150% Senior Leaders c25 40% 100% 0% 20-50% Functional Directors c100 30% 100% 0% 0% Senior Managers c120 25% 100% 0% 0% Managers c400 20% 100% 0% 0% Specialists c1,300 10% 100% 0% 0% Professionals c1,900 5% 100% 0% 0% Other bonused employees c9,800 various3 100% 0% 0% 1 Half of annual bonus in excess of target, after tax, is used by the executive to acquire shares that must be held for a minimum of three years. 2 EMT members are required to acquire shares in the Company with 30% of the amount above target (after tax) which must be held for a minimum of three years. 3 Various local bonus programmes are in place for the operational, administrative and blue-collar employees of the company. Summary of remuneration structure for employees below the Board Element Policy features for the wider workforce Comparison with Executive Director remuneration Salary Salary is the basis for a competitive total reward package for all employees, and we conduct an We review the salaries of our Executive Directors and executive team annually. The primary purpose annual salary review for all employees. As we of the review is to stay aligned with relevant market Read more on determine salaries in this review, we take account comparators and stay competitive, as well as to ensure page 101 of comparable pay rates from market references, any increases are kept on the same percentage skills, knowledge and experience of each individual, level set for our wider workforce in Europe and North individual performance, and the overall budget America, except in exceptional circumstances. we set for each country. In setting the budget each year, we forecast inflation, unions and collective agreements and business context related to such things as growth plans, workforce turnover and affordability. Pensions and benefits We offer market-aligned benefits packages reflecting normal practice in each of the countries We have differences in the Executive Directors’ benefits to reflect market practice and role where we operate. differentiation. Read more on Our incumbent Executive Directors’ pension page 101 allowance (and that for new appointments) is aligned to that of the workforce in their country of appointment. Annual bonus and longOur white collar global workforce participate in an annual cash bonus plan. The plan is based on four Annual bonus for Executive Directors is directly related to the same performance measures term incentive plan company KPI’s. This structure places equal emphasis on the importance of an employee’s personal and outcomes as the wider workforce. contribution to the success of RHI Magnesita. We Long-term incentives are provided to our senior Read more on operate different bonus plans for those employees executives and senior roles who have influence pages 102 to 103 of our business where remuneration models in the on the overall performance of the Company. market are markedly different, such as sales and production areas. 106 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Pay ratios RHI Magnesita is positioned below the median Assumptions The Dutch Corporate Governance Code CEO pay ratio of other basic materials and Minimum: Fixed pay only (base salary, pension recommended that from the financial year 2018, industrial companies of a similar size listed on the and benefits, excluding relocation benefits). and the UK Directors’ Reporting Regulations FTSE. The Committee, however, is aware that as currently no long-term incentives have vested, Target: Fixed pay plus 50% of 2020 maximum required that from 2019, that the Committee if the 2018 LTIP vests in 2021 the CEO pay ratio annual bonus opportunity for the CEO and CFO report pay ratios including changes from the prior will likely increase. with 50% vesting of the 2020 PS award. year as part of its determination of executive pay and wider executive remuneration decisions. Pay ratios will be a key component to be taken Maximum: Fixed pay plus maximum annual Last year RHI Magnesita reported the pay ratio into account when reviewing the Remuneration bonus opportunity and 100% vesting of 2020 PS of the CEO to the average total pay of all the Policy in 2020. award with an assumed share price appreciation employees using a methodology which was in of 50% for the Performance Share award during line with Dutch market practice. The ratio was Pay ratio 2019 2018 the performance period. calculated using the CEO’s Single Total Figure CEO 34:1 49:1 1 of remuneration shown on page 111 and the total As required under the Dutch Corporate Code, employee remuneration figure (for the entire scenario analyses have been carried out as 1 The disclosure last year was incorrectly made using the value part of the formulation of the policy and to RHI Magnesita Group) shown in the accounts of LTIP award granted in the year. The disclosed 2018 figure of on page 118. The total employee remuneration 52:1 has been re-stated as above. establish that the policy results in appropriate figure is for all employees in all Group companies The CEO pay ratio has decreased from 2019 as and fair levels of remuneration including that the and includes countries with significantly lower the CEO’s bonus payment is lower and employee level and ratio of fixed to variable pay does not levels of pay than Europe and the United States. salary increases were higher year-on-year. encourage inappropriate risk-taking or overRHI Magnesita only has around 100 employees reliance on variable pay while ensuring there is in the UK and falls below the required threshold Remuneration scenarios for sufficient alignment to investors, the long-term for UK pay ratio reporting requirements. As Executive Directors performance of the Company and development UK employees represent less than 1% of RHI of the market value of the shares of the Company. The Executive Director remuneration Magnesita’s employees, the Committee considers policy provides that a significant proportion that the above approach is appropriate in the of remuneration is determined by Group circumstances and therefore the ratio has been performance. The graph below illustrates how calculated on the same basis this year. the total pay opportunities vary under three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum. We have also shown an assumed share price appreciation of 50% for the Performance Share award during the performance period under the maximum payment scenario. CEO CFO €000 €000 Maximum 20% 27% 35% 18% 5,805,723 Maximum 24% 30% 31% 15% 2,948,823 Target 40% 26% 34% 2,984,223 Target 44% 28% 28% 1,598,823 Minimum 100% 1,188,723 Minimum 100% 698,823 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Share price appreciation 50% 107 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration The following section The Committee together with the Board has also determined to provide certain additional Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2019: provides details of how the voluntary disclosures recognising the importance Member Attended Company’s Directors were of transparency of reporting. This Annual Report is compiled on this basis. Celia Baxter 4/4 paid during the financial Committee membership and operation Karl Sevelda 4/4 year to 31 December 2019. Celia Baxter is the Chairman of the Committee James Leng 4/4 and James Leng and Karl Sevelda are members of the Committee. They are all Independent As a Dutch incorporated Non-Executive Directors within the meaning Advisers Korn Ferry ( KF ), signatories to the UK and registered and UK of the UK and Dutch Corporate Governance Codes. The Company secretary is the secretary Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of listed company RHI to the Committee. Conduct ( Code of Conduct ), were appointed by the Committee in 2017 having submitted Magnesita is required Other individuals, such as the Chief Executive a proposal which demonstrated their skills Officer, the Human Resources Director and to comply with both external professional advisers may be invited and experience in executive remuneration. KF provides advice to the Committee on UK and Dutch reporting to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate and necessary. No individual matters relating to executive remuneration. requirements including the is present when their own remuneration The Committee was satisfied that the advice provided by KF was objective and independent UK and Dutch Corporate is discussed. having noted their commitment to the Code of Governance Codes. The Committee meets at least three times a year and at such other times as the Chairman Conduct. KF’s fees for advice to the Committee in respect of the 2019 financial year were £33,698. of the Committee shall require or as the Board KF’s fees were charged on the basis of the time may direct. The Committee has formal terms spent advising the Committee. of reference which are annually refreshed and can be viewed on the Company’s website. The terms of reference were reviewed in 2018 to take account of the new Corporate Governance Code. 108 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Principal activities and matters addressed during 2019 Agenda items Specific considerations February FY2018 EMT Bonus outturn Executive pay and Governance Review of Draft Remuneration Report Overview on Total Rewards LTIP new joiners and leavers overview March Review and approve FY2018 annual bonus outturn for the Executive Directors LTIP: Review of 2019 grants KPIs, participants and quantum Approval of 2018 Remuneration Report Process for deferred bonus share buying CEO/CFO and EMT September Review of Committee’s activities Setting of LTIP grant date for future grants Executive Remuneration Benchmarking Total rewards overview Review of annual work plan November Annual review of remuneration for Executive Management Team, senior Selection of a LTIP administration platforms executive team and Chairman's fee Follow up consideration of changes to UK Governance Code Progress of remuneration report Review of formal post-employment shareholding requirements and developments Review of Committee Terms of Reference in the market Overview of group work force population compensation compared Report of CEO & EMT’s net post-tax figure to purchase shares in the amount to Executive directors' compensation of in 2019 Pension contributions reviewed across the workforce, to inform the comparison of Austrian pension contributions to the executive directors’ pension contributions Statement of voting at AGM At last year’s AGM, held on 9 June 2019, votes on the Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration were cast as follows: Voting For Against Total Number Annual Report on Remuneration of votes 38,161,284 10,472 38,171,756 % 99.97% 0.03% 100% The total voting rights of the Company on the day on which shareholders had to be on the register in order to be eligible to vote was 49,477,705. A “Vote withheld” is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation % of shares voted “For” or “Against” a resolution 109 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Compliance with the Dutch Civil Code On 5 November 2019, • By providing a fair and appropriate level of fixed remuneration that does not result in overThe long-term incentive is based only on financial measures, the criteria for these measures are a law implementing the reliance on variable pay and undue risk taking, shown below: revised Shareholders' thereby encouraging the executives to focus on sustained long-term value creation. • TSR – The combination of movements in share price and dividends earned on shares Rights Directive was • By providing a balance of shortand longreflecting the total returns earned by holding adopted by the Upper term incentives to ensure there is focus on short term objectives that will over time build the Company’s shares. House of the Dutch to create long-term value creation as well as • Adjusted EPS reflecting the income statement in a clear way and taking the equity structure long-term goals. Parliament with effect • By requiring executives to acquire and retain into account, the Board believes adjusted EPS to be one of the indicators which demonstrate from 1 December 2019. shares in the Company. value being created for its shareholders. This act has implications • By offering long-term incentives where the reward is delivered in shares which aligns • Economic Profit Growth – we measure the value creation, under consideration of all for the Remuneration executives to shareholder interests and value economic resources employed with the Policy and the Annual as well as the performance of the Company over the longer term. business, taking into account the costs of making and selling a product/service. Report on Remuneration. • By requiring performance measures in our The criteria listed above directly link to the long-term incentive to be measured over the RHI Magnesita was merged into one company Company’s strategy, long-term interests and longer term and for shares to be held post on 27 October 2017. Therefore, we are only able sustainability. Performance targets are set at vesting for a further two-year period. to show figures for the full financial years of 2018 a level to maintain good financial health. This • By incorporating metrics focused on enables the Company to perform well, deliver and 2019, but we will continue to add each long-term shareholder value, such as total year-on-year figures to reach compliance with shareholder returns and invest sustainably to shareholder return. achieve strategic deliverables. Section 2:135b(3) of the Dutch Civil Code. Remuneration Policy The proportion of fixed and variable The assessment of the fulfilment of performance RHI Magnesita’s shareholder approved policy is remuneration criteria is set out on page 112 for the annual bonus. broadly aligned with the new Dutch regulations. To support the policy’s objectives to deliver longNo performance share awards vested during As such, the Committee has decided to retain the term sustainable success of the Company, the the year. current policy and update as required as part of remuneration package of our Executive Directors includes a mix of fixed and variable remuneration. Policy review process and considerations the policy review in advance of the 2021 AGM. In the section below we have set out additional The proportion for 2020 is approximately 40% The Remuneration Policy will be reviewed policy wordings and explanations as required for fixed pay and 60% variable remuneration on in 2020 ahead of approval at the 2021 AGM. by Dutch law. a target basis. Variable pay is split between the The review will follow the process set out below: cash bonus and long-term incentive in the form • The Committee will consider market and Mission, values and long-term of performance shares. Further details are outline governance developments (including the value creation in the scenario chart on page 111. UK Corporate Governance Code and Dutch The policy was formed in 2018 and was aligned regulations) as well as wider pay context, such with the four cultural values outlined below: Performance criteria as pay ratios. The short term financial and non-financial criteria • Act customer-focused and innovatively • The Committee will consult with shareholders of our variable remuneration are as following: • Open decision-making in a respectful and employees ahead of the AGM. environment Financial criteria • The Committee will carefully consider • Operate cross-functionally, collaboratively • EBIT is a reflection of our Company’s operating feedback received from shareholders and pragmatically profits, operating performance and business and employees. • Performance-driven efficiency supporting the value of RHIM for the • All changes, adoption or revisions to the shareholders. existing policy will be brought to the 2021 The mission of the company is “Taking innovation • Free cash flow supports RHIM expanding its AGM for shareholders voting. to 1200°C and beyond” which requires a highoperations or investments in additional assets/ performing senior management and the policy The Committee gains significant benefit and acquisitions and paid out of dividends to our strong experience in the form of Celia Baxter, the is designed to motivate them to perform to a high shareholders. standard and reach the stretching goals set. Chairman of the Committee, with over 30 years of Human Resources experience and 20 years of In addition, the remuneration arrangements for Non-financial criteria Board and remuneration committee experience. the Executive Directors contribute to long-term • Strategic Deliverables supporting both EBIT This is in addition to a variety of perspectives value creation: and Free cash flow with initiatives and strategic from the Committee members which enables a projects like enhancing the current business balanced and informed approach to remuneration model or company’s footprint. policy-making. 110 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Single total figure table (audited) The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2019 financial year for each Executive and Non‑Executive Director of the Company, together with comparative figures for 2018. Salary Taxable benefits3 Bonus4 Pension Total remuneration Total fixed Total variable remuneration remuneration Director1,2 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2019 Executive Directors Stefan Borgas €855,000 €826,000 €8,823 €8,823 €498,354 €1,090,876 €128,250 €147,650 €1,490,427 €2,073,350 €992,073 €498,354 Ian Botha5 €375,000 – €56,755 – €218,576 – €56,268 – €706,617 – €488,041 €218,576 Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt £220,000 £220,000 – – – – – – £220,000 £220,000 £220,000 – Celia Baxter £87,500 £82,500 – – – – – – £87,500 £82,500 £87,500 – Fersen Lambranho 6 £3,740 £65,000 – – – – – – £3,740 £65,000 £3,740 – Andrew Hosty £80,465 £77,500 – – – – – – £80,465 £77,500 £80,465 – James Leng £102,500 £102,500 – – – – – – £102,500 £102,500 £102,500 – Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn‑Wittgenstein £65,000 £65,000 – – – – – – £65,000 £65,000 £65,000 – John Ramsay £82,500 £77,500 – – – – – – £82,500 £77,500 £82,500 – Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer £72,500 £72,500 – – – – – – £72,500 £72,500 £72,500 – David A. Schlaff £65,000 £65,000 – – – – – – £65,000 £65,000 £65,000 – Karl Sevelda £72,500 £72,500 – – – – – – £72,500 £72,500 £72,500 – Janet Ashdown7 £82,500 £6,250 – – – – – – £82,500 £6,250 £82,500 – Fiona Paulus 7 £72,034 £5,833 – – – – – – £72,034 £5,833 £72,034 – Franz Reiter1 – – – – – – – – – – – – Michael Schwarz 1 – – – – – – – – – – – – 1 Employee Directors attending Board meetings do not receive remuneration for that role, they are remunerated as employees of the Group. 2 All amounts are disclosed in the currencies in which the relevant elements of pay are set. Actual payment may be made in the currency where the recipient resides using the exchange rate at the time of payment. 3 Benefits in 2019 comprise for Stefan Borgas a car benefit of €8,814 and €9 for insurance for the year and for Ian Botha a car benefit of €7,629, benefits in kind for insurance €184, tax advice of €420 and relocation costs of €48,522 for the year. 4 The Committee adjusted the way the bonus plan operates for the year as described on page 97. 5 Ian Botha joined the Company on 1 April 2019 and therefore his annual salary was prorated accordingly, from an annual salary of €500,000. 6 Fersen Lambranho stepped down from his Board duties January 21, 2019 therefore his fee was prorated accordingly. 7 Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus joined the Board on 1 December 2018 and therefore the 2018 fee was prorated accordingly. No loans, advances or guarantees have been provided to any Director. No Long-term incentives vested during the year and so there was no impact of share price appreciation. Ratio between fixed and variable pay S. Borgas 67% 33% I. Botha 69% 31% Fixed Variable 111 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2019 Annual bonus performance against targets (audited) The annual bonus for the Executive Directors – Stefan Borgas (CEO) and Ian Botha (CFO) – was determined following assessment of achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets as set out below: 2019 CFO CEO CEO CFO cash bonus CEO Payment cash bonus CFO Payment based on (% of total (% of salary) based on (% of total (% of salary) €375,000 Threshold Target Maximum4 Actual for each Maximum €855,000 for each Maximum part year (0% vests) (50% vests) (100% vests) performance element) total pay out5 salary6 element) total payout5 salary6 Measure and weighting Operating EBIT1 €440.1 €481.0 €521.9 €381.8 (35%) million million million million 0% 0% €0 0% 0% €0 Free Cash Flow FCF2 €247.9 €273.0 €298.1 €285.1 (30%) million million million million 74.0% 33.3% €284,726 74.0% 33.3% €124,880 Net Synergy Tracking 3 €35.0 €38.0 €45.0 €42.0 (10%) million million million million 78.6% 11.8% €100,768 78.6% 11.8% €44,196 Strategic Objectives (25%) 50% 100% 150% 82.5% 35.2% 13.2% €112,860 35.2% 13.2% €49,500 Total 38.9% 58.3% €498,354 38.9% 58.3% €218,576 2018 CEO CEO Payment CFO7 CFO7 Payment (% of total (% of salary) (% of total (% of salary) for each maximum for each maximum element) total pay out Payout element) total pay out Payout7 Measure and weighting Operating EBIT1 (35%) 93.6% 49.2% €406,060 97.9% 41.1% €226,101 Free Cash Flow FCF 2 (25%) 100.0% 37.5% €309,750 100% 30.0% €65,000 Net Synergy Tracking3 (15%) 100.0% 22.5% €185,850 100% 18.0% €99,000 Strategic Objectives (25%) 61.1% 22.9% €189,216 98.2% 29.3% €61,297 Total 88.0% 132.1% €1,090,876 98.7% 118.4% €651,398 1 At constant currency and w/o restructuring expenses. 2 Operating cash flow at constant currency. EBTIDA w/o restructuring expenses + CapEx + change in working capital + cash tax. 3 Synergies are (financial) benefits achieved through the merger of the two companies. 4 The maximum CEO annual bonus in 2019 was 150% of salary and the maximum for the CFO was 150% of salary earned in the year. 5 Bonus achievement % of maximum opportunity (150%). 6 The CEO and CFO are required to purchase shares in the Company to the value of 50% of any bonus paid net of tax, for performance above Target and to hold the shares for a minimum period of three years. 7 Relates to the previous CFO. The original basis on which the cash targets were set reflected the strategy at the start of the year including a variety of financial policies and practices which the incoming CFO reviewed and amended in line with best practice and the strategy for working capital management changed mid-year following a review by the Board. Consequently, the bonus targets for Free Cash Flow were aligned with the revised strategy on a basis that the targets were no easier or harder to achieve. The Committee assessed the formulaic outcome of the whole bonus calculation in the context of the overall performance of the Company. It noted the reasons for the underperformance of the EBIT targets and the partial meeting of the Free Cash Flow, Net Synergy and Strategic targets. The Committee concluded that the overall outcome of 38.9% of maximum was appropriate and that it was not right to either increase or decrease the formulaic outcome. 112 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Strategic deliverables 2019 Actual (score out Strategic measures* and weighting Performance of 150%) Performance measured in incremental sales revenue from Solutions business in 2019, training of Sales Convert business model (5%) staff in 2019 and expansion of solutions offering 65% Restructure European Business (5%) Performance measured in volume, production and timetable 88% Performance measured in reduced inventory intensity in 2019, EBITA earnings contribution in 2019 and Restructure Supply Chain Management (5%) introduction and embedding of ‘on-time’ supply chain performance metrics 65% Performance measured in sales revenue from sale of recycled material in 2019, internal use of recycled Focus on Recycling Business (5%) material in 2019 and introduction of recycling plant in Europe 78% Performance measured on sustainable SG&A reduction initiatives identified and enabled, SG&A cost SG&A Reduction Strategy (5%) savings delivered in 2019 and implementation of Global Business Services 133% Total (25% of bonus opportunity) 85% * The details of CEO’s/CFO ´s Threshold/Target/Maximum are market sensitive and details of the specific targets are not therefore disclosed as the Board believes they would provide information to competitors. They will remain market sensitive because they are an integral part of our on-going business operations. The Committee has provided as much information as it is able given the nature of the objectives so that investors can be comfortable that the Committee has used a thorough approach in setting the objectives and targets and measuring the outcome. Given the significant strategic advances made during the year, the Committee is comfortable with the bonus payments made for achievement of strategic deliverables in light of financial performance in the wider macro-economic environment. No bonuses were awarded to Non-Executive Directors other than the employee representatives in relation to their employment activities. Share awards where vesting is based on performance periods ending during the financial year ending 31 December 2019 (audited) There were no share awards where vesting is determined based on performance period during the financial year ending 31 December 2019. Share awards awarded during the financial year ending 31 December 2019 (audited) During the year, our CEO received an annual grant of 200% of salary as part of the performance share plan. The CFO received three grants of shares during the year. A grant of 150% of salary in performance shares which represents the annual grant. In addition, the CFO also received conditional shares to buy-out deferred bonus awards with a face value of c.150% of salary and c.150% of salary of performance shares to buy-out performance share awards forfeited. Details of the annual Performance Share award and the performance targets that will determine the extent to which the award vests are set out below. Percentage vesting at End of Percentage of Share price Face value threshold Number performance Director Scheme Basis of award Date of award salary award used 1 €000 performance of shares period Stefan Borgas Performance Shares Annual award 19 Aug 19 200% €44.534 1,710 25% 38,397 31 Dec 2021 Ian Botha Performance Shares Annual award 19 Aug 19 150% €44.534 750 25% 16,840 31 Dec 2021 1 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the award being granted being £41.06 converted to € (using average FX rate over the same five day period of €1.0846 to £1 = €44,534). The 2018 Performance Share awards are subject to relative TSR, adjusted EPS and EBIT targets. For the 2019 Performance Share awards the Committee replaced the EBIT metric with Economic Profit Growth. Economic Profit Growth was a key performance indicator (KPI) of the Magnesita business prior to the Combination (of RHI and Magnesita) and has been introduced as a KPI for the combined businesses from 2019 onwards in order to manage and measure the long-term value of the Company. The Committee also changed the measurement of TSR from the percentage growth against the FTSE 350 Index to reviewing its performance against a relevant group of FTSE 350 companies. This change of measurement is seen to be no less challenging than the previous measure. The performance conditions and targets for the 2019 awards shown above are as follows (awards vest on straight line basis between threshold and maximum): 113 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance targets for 2018 Performance Share awards Threshold Maximum Performance measure Weighting (25% vests) (100% vests) Performance period Relative TSR 33.3% Matching Index Index +(25)%2 Adjusted EPS 33.3% €5.20 per share €6.50 per share 2018 to 20203 (+ 2 year holding period post EBIT1 33.3% €390 million €440 million vesting) 1 The above EBIT target range was incorrectly stated as €380 M to €435 M in the 2018 report and has been corrected in this table. 2 Being at least 25% in absolute terms higher than the Index (e.g. if Index TSR is 23% over three years then the vesting range is TSR of 23% to 48%) 3 For EPS and EBIT performance conditions the period of three financial years commencing with 2018. For the TSR Performance Condition the period of three financial years and one calendar month commencing with the financial year 2018. Performance targets for 2019 Performance Share awards Threshold Maximum Performance measure Weighting (25% vests) (100% vests) Performance period Relative TSR1 33.3% 50th percentile 75th percentile2 Adjusted EPS 33.3% €7.80 per share €9.00 per share 2019 to 2021 (+ 2 year holding period post Economic profit growth 33.3% €600 M €670 M vesting) 1 Measured against the FTSE 350, excluding sectors with limited direct relevance to RHI Magnesita. 2 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Awards to compensate for remuneration forfeited on joining RHI Magnesita Ian Botha was appointed as CFO from 1 April 2019. In buying out incentive pay that was forfeited on his joining RHI Magnesita, the Committee compensated the CFO with awards that vest over longer time periods, which are subject to performance conditions based on the longer-term performance of RHIM and take into account the expected value of the awards forfeited. The basis and terms of the buy-out awards were fully disclosed in the 2018 Remuneration Report. The Committee granted the following awards: Face value Director Form of award Date of award Share price used €000 Number of shares Vesting conditions Ian Botha Conditional 26 November 2019 €45.202 750 16,592 Vesting 3 years after grant shares to (no corporate performance buy-out deferred conditions attached, but vesting bonus awards dependent on continued employment for 3 years from the award date) Ian Botha Performance 19 August 2019 €44.534 750 16,841 Vesting 3 years after grant shares to subject to meeting 2019 buy-out corporate performance performance conditions for 2019 PS awards shares awards shown above. Two-year post forfeited vesting holding period applies 114 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Directors' interests in RHI Magnesita’s Long-term incentive plan The table below details outstanding share awards including the normal annual PS awards granted to the CEO and CFO during 2019. Total share Share awards Share awards Share awards value at Share price held at Awarded Vested lapsed held at award used 1 January during during the during 31 December (face value) Vesting Scheme Award Date € 2019 the year year the year 2019 € date Performance Stefan Borgas shares 7 June 2018 57.773 28,594 – – – 28,594 1,652,0001 7 June 2021 19 August 19 August 2019 44.534 – 38,397 – – 38,397 1,709,9722 2022 Performance 19 August 19 August Ian Botha shares 2019 44.534 – 16,840 – – 16,840 750,0002 2022 19 August 19 August 2019 44.534 – 16,841 – – 16,841 750,0002 2022 Conditional 26 November 26 November Award 2019 45.202 – 16,592 – – 16,592 750,0003 2022 1 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the PS award being granted being £50.62 converted to € (using average FX rate over the same five days period of €1.14 to £1 = €57.773). 2 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the PS award being granted being £41.06 converted to € (using average FX rate over the same five days period of €1.0846 to £1 = €44.534). 3 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the PS award being granted being £38.73 converted to € (using average FX rate over the same five days period of € 1.167 to £1 = €45.202). 115 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) Under the share ownership requirements set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Executive Directors are normally required to build and maintain over five years a shareholding equivalent to at least 200% of salary. At the 2019 year-end, the Executive Directors each held shares in the Company as detailed below. Shares are valued using the Company’s closing middle market share price on 31 December 2019 of £38.48. The table below shows how each Director complies with the shareholder guidelines at 31 December 2019: Unvested and subject to Unvested and Shares held a service subject to Current Shares held at by connected Shares held at requirement performance Shareholding shareholding Requirement 31 December 2019 persons 31 December 2018 only conditions requirement % salary met? Executive Directors Stefan Borgas 13,600 675 10,4251 – 66,991 200% salary 75%2 No Ian Botha – – – 16,592 33,681 200% salary 75%3 No Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt – – – – – – – – Celia Baxter 1,002 – 1,002 – – – – – Andrew Hosty 379 – 379 – – – – – James Leng – – – – – – – – Fersen Lambranho4 – – – – – – – – Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein5 – – – – – – – – Franz Reiter – – – – – – – – Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer – – – – – – – – David A. Schlaff6 – – – – – – – – John Ramsay 2,130 – 2,130 – – – – – Michael Schwarz – – – – – – – – Janet Ashdown – – – – – – – – Fiona Paulus – – – – – – – – Karl Sevelda – – – – – – – – 1 In the 2018 disclosure, 675 shares held by persons connected to Stefan Borgas were omitted, although they were announced to the market at the time of purchase. The 2018 figure in the above table has been restated. 2 Referring to unvested and subject to service requirement assuming tax rate of 50% 3 Percentage includes share holdings by connected persons 4 Interests held from Alumina Holding controlled by persons including Fersen Lambranho were sold in November 2019. 5 2,088,461 interests are held through Chestnut Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Chestnut“). Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein made an agreement with Mr. Winterstein which allows Chestnut to exercise the voting rights of Silver Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Silver“) in the Issuer. Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Mr. Winterstein share a family relationship. 2,088,461 held through Silver. Ms. SaynWittgenstein made an agreement with Mr. Winterstein which allows Chestnut to exercise the voting rights of Silver in the Issuer. Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Mr. Winterstein share a family relationship. 1,590,000 held in part directly and in part indirectly through FEWI Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH. 6 14,333,340 held directly by MSP Stiftung and through a subsidiary. MSP Stiftung is a foundation under Liechtenstein law, whose founder is Mag. Martin Schlaff. The number of shares reported in the 2018 Annual Report stated as 11,347,058 was incorrect. There were no changes in the Directors’ shareholdings and share interests between the end of the year and 31 March, 2020. 116 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Review of past performance and CEO remuneration table (unaudited) Share price performance The closing middle market price of the shares at 31 December 2019 was £38.48 (2018: £39.60). During 2019, the shares traded in the range of £34.20 to £50.00. RHI Magnesita total shareholder return The graph below compares the Total Shareholder Return of the Company with the FTSE 350 Index over the 26-month period from Admission to 31 December 2019. This is considered an appropriate comparator for RHI Magnesita and aligns with the use of the FTSE 350 in the TSR performance measure for the Performance Share awards. 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 27/10/17 31/12/17 31/12/18 31/12/19 RHI Magnesita FTSE 350 Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) Remuneration of the CEO 2017 2018 2019 Single figure of total remuneration1 €476,981 €2,073,350 €1,490,427 Annual bonus pay-out as % of maximum2 83.16% 88.04% 38.9% Long-term incentive vesting rates as % of maximum 3 N/A N/A N/A 1 The 2017 Single figure of Total Remuneration relates to the period 27 October 2017 to 31 December 2017. 2 The 2017 Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum relates to bonus targets set prior to the merger of the two companies that now form RHI Magnesita. 3 A long-term incentive plan was introduced when the Company was formed in October 2017. The first awards are not due to vest until 2021 based on a performance period ending 31 December 2020 (and shortly thereafter for the TSR element). Annual percentage change in remuneration of the CEO (unaudited) The table below illustrates the percentage change in annual salary, benefits and bonus between 2018 and 2019 for the CEO and the average for all Company Austrian employees. The CEO is an Austrian-based employee so the Committee feels that a comparator based on all Austrian employees is appropriate for the purposes of this analysis. Salary change Benefits change Annual bonus change (2018 to 2019) (2018 to 2019) (2018 to 2019) CEO 3.5%1 -12.4% -54.3% Average of employees 6.1% 5.1% 5.8% 1 The basic salary of Stefan Borgas increased from € 826,000 to € 855,000 (3.5%) based on performance and aligned to salary increase of the workforce. 117 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors and employee remuneration over time (unaudited) Directors’ total remuneration (on a full-time equivalent basis) Year 2019 2018 Change % Executive Directors Stefan Borgas1 €1,490,427 €2,073,350 -28.1% Ian Botha2 €706,617 – N/A9 Octavio Lopes (CFO until September 2018) – £1,936,838 N/A9 Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt £220,000 £220,000 – Celia Baxter £87,5006 £82,500 6.1% Andrew Hosty £80,4657 £77,500 3.8% Fersen Lambranho £3,740 £65,000 N/A9 James Leng £102,500 £102,500 – Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein £65,000 £65,000 – John Ramsay £82,500 6 £77,500 6.4% Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer £72,500 £72,500 – David A. Schlaff £65,000 £65,000 – Karl Sevelda £72,500 £72,500 – Janet Ashdown3 £82,5006 £6,250 N/A9 Fiona Paulus3 £72,0348 £5,833 N/A9 Franz Reiter4 – – – Michael Schwarz 4 – – – Company performance Adjusted EPS 5.57 5.31 4.8% Operating EBIT in € million 381.8 399.6 -4.4% Free Cash Flow in € million 285.1 370.5 -23.0% Average remuneration (on a full-time equivalent basis) Employees of the Company5 €102,338 €96,398 6.1% 1 The basic salary of Stefan Borgas increased from €826,000 to €855,000 (3.5%) based on performance and aligned to salary increase of the workforce. 2 Ian Botha appointed from 1 April 2019 and therefore in 2019 received a prorated salary of €375,000. The full-year annual salary is €500,000. 3 Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus joined the Board on 1 December 2018 and therefore the 2018 fee was prorated accordingly. 4 Employee Directors attending Board meetings do not receive remuneration for that role, they are remunerated as employees of the Group. 5 The group of RHIM employees covers the parent company, namely all employees within the Austrian subsidiaries. 6 The workload of the Committee Chairs was assessed, and fees raised to acknowledge the workload required. 7 An increase in fees due to the establishment of the Corporate Sustainability Committee, whereby Andrew Hosty is a member. 8 From 24 September 2019 on Fiona Paulus has been appointed to Audit Committee as a member and therefore received an additional fee of £2,178 prorated for 2019. 9 Where the incumbent did not serve the full year, the calculation has not been made as it is unrepresentative. Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited) The following table sets out the change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year ended 31 December 2018 compared with the financial year ended 31 December 2019. 2019 2018 Percentage €million €million change Total gross employee pay 629.7 594.2 5.9% Dividends1 24.5 74.3 -67% 1 Dividend is not time apportioned. 118 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Payments to past Directors (audited) There were no payments to past Directors in the period 1 January to 31 December 2019. Payments for loss of office (audited) No payments were made to any Director in respect of loss of office in the period 1 January to 31 December 2019. 2020 remuneration (unaudited) Set out below is how the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be implemented during 2020. Salaries and fees for 2020 Directors' remuneration (on a full-time equivalent basis) Percentage 2020 2019 change Executives Stefan Borgas €1,026,000 €855,000 20% Ian Botha1 €600,000 €500,000 20% Non-executives Chairman (inclusive of all Committee fees) £235,0002 £220,000 6.8% Non-Executive Directors £69,4002 £65,000 6.8% Deputy Chair / Senior Independent Director £26,700 £25,000 6.8% Chair of Audit Committee & Remuneration Committee £18,700 £17,500 6.9% Membership of the Audit and Compliance and Remuneration Committees £8,000 £7,500 6.7% Chairs of Nomination Committee (unless held by the Chairman) and Corporate Sustainability Committee £18,700 £17,500 6.9% Membership of the Nomination and Corporate Sustainability Committee £5,300 £5,000 6.0% 1 Ian Botha appointed from 1 April 2019, and therefore in 2019 was receiving a prorated salary of €375,245 from the full-year annual salary of €500,000. 2 Assuming that suggested increases are approved by shareholders. The base fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors was not increased in 2018 and therefore the above increase is in line with the average employee base pay increase in 2018 and 2019. The Company does not contribute to defined benefit pension schemes on behalf of Executive directors or non-executive directors. Just prior to the signing of this report the Executive Directors decided from 1 April to waive the 20% salary they were awarded for at least three months. During this time members of the Executive Management Team will waive 10% of their salary, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will waive 10% of their fees and many employees globally will likely see a reduction in their earnings. Executive Directors external appointments Stefan Borgas was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of SCR-Sibelco NV on 17 April 2019. For this period he retained fees of €35,000. Annual bonus for 2020 The maximum potential annual bonus opportunity for FY20 remains at 150% of salary for both the CEO and CFO. The Committee has not yet finalised how the bonus will operate for the year. However, at least 70% of the annual bonus will be determined by financial measures and the balance by strategic objectives. Following the strong progress achieved in delivering on synergies since our business combination “Synergies” as a measure will be removed from the annual bonus. The specific targets relating to the 2020 bonus will be provided on a retrospective basis in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. All other elements of the annual bonus structure remain unchanged and are in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The CEO and the CFO are required to use 50% of any bonus earned in excess of target (net of tax) to acquire shares in the Company that will be held for a minimum of three years. 119 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2020 LTIP awards Our CEO will be granted a Performance Share award over shares with a value at grant of 200% and our CFO 150% of salary. The performance measures have been updated to reflect the desire of the Committee to focus management on delivering material increases in the share price (plus dividends) and aggregate EPS over the three year performance period. The Committee felt that in these uncertain times the narrower focus on the absolute (rather than relative) total shareholder return and on total EPS over the three years provides a significantly simpler incentive, better aligned with shareholders’ interests. The Committee may scale back the level of vesting if it considers the outcome to be reasonably unacceptable or if it is not reflective of the underlying financial performance of the Company. The Committee determined that a review at the time of vesting of the 2020 awards was preferable to a scale back at grant as the drop in the share price since the 2019 grants were made was predominantly reflective of the COVID-19 market correction. The measures and targets for the 2020 awards are set out below. Intermediate Threshold Maximum Performance Performance measure (75% of vesting) Weighting (25% vesting) (100% vesting) period TSR1 50% 50% 30% 70% 2020 to 2023 (+2 year holding period post Adjusted EPS (cumulative for the three-year performance period) €8.00 50% €6.50 €9.50 vesting) 1 Measured from, date of grant to 3rd anniversary with a two month average before each date. 2 Awards vest on a straight line basis between threshold intermediate and maximum. Terminology for Performance Share awards The RHI Magnesita long-term incentive plan (the Plan ) was approved by shareholders at the AGM 2018. After approval Performance Share awards may be granted under the Plan. The grant of an award is when participants are told they will receive shares provided performance targets are met. Participants DO NOT RECEIVE shares at the time an award is granted. Performance targets are set at the time the award is granted and measured over a performance period of three financial years. At the end of the performance period the performance targets are tested against performance. An award will vest if the performance targets are met. If the performance targets are only met in part then only part of the award will vest. When the award vests the participant RECEIVES shares in the Company. If therefore a participant is granted an award over 100 shares but the performance targets are only met in part and only 50% of the award vests, the participant will receive 50 shares. Once an award vests the Executive Directors must retain the vested shares for a further two years (subject to the sale of sufficient shares to meet any tax payable on vesting). This Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 31 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by order of the Board. Celia Baxter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 120 R H I M A G N E S I TA A n n ua l R ep o r t 2 01 9 Financial statements 122 Consolidated Statement of 204 Company Financial Statements Financial Position of RHI Magnesita N.V. 123 Consolidated Statement of Profit 206 Notes or Loss 124 Consolidated Statement of Other Information Comprehensive Income 215 Independent auditor’s report 125 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 225 Alternative performance 126 Consolidated Statement of Changes measures (“APMs”) in Equity 226 Shareholder information 128 Notes 121 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of 31.12.2019 in € million Notes 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill (11) 117.5 117.4 Other intangible assets (12) 319.0 334.4 Property, plant and equipment (13) 1,106.8 1,094.8 Investments in joint ventures and associates (14) 19.5 21.8 Other non-current financial assets (15) 15.4 18.0 Other non-current assets (16) 39.5 34.3 Deferred tax assets (17) 181.9 171.1 1,799.6 1,791.8 Current assets Inventories (18) 602.7 717.8 Trade and other current receivables (19) 432.7 481.2 Income tax receivables (20) 17.3 18.4 Other current financial assets (21) 0.1 38.6 Cash and cash equivalents (22) 467.2 491.2 1,520.0 1,747.2 3,319.6 3,539.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital (23) 49.5 48.3 Group reserves (24) 774.4 752.2 Equity attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 823.9 800.5 Non-controlling interests (25) 20.8 84.8 844.7 885.3 Non-current liabilities Borrowings (26) 983.5 844.8 Other non-current financial liabilities (27) 105.1 49.5 Deferred tax liabilities (17) 54.0 78.4 Provisions for pensions (28) 328.1 304.3 Other personnel provisions (29) 75.8 78.5 Other non-current provisions (30) 98.5 109.2 Other non-current liabilities (31) 7.3 10.3 1,652.3 1,475.0 Current liabilities Borrowings (26) 71.5 321.6 Other current financial liabilities (27) 31.9 15.0 Trade payables and other current liabilities (32) 614.0 756.9 Income tax liabilities (33) 35.4 32.2 Current provisions (34) 69.8 53.0 822.6 1,178.7 3,319.6 3,539.0 122 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019 in € million Notes 2019 2018 Revenue (35) 2,922.3 3,081.4 Cost of sales (36) (2,205.1) (2,344.5) Gross profit 717.2 736.9 Selling and marketing expenses (37) (126.2) (128.9) General and administrative expenses (38) (209.2) (208.4) Restructuring and write-down expenses (39) (112.1) (22.3) Other income (40) 34.9 43.9 Other expenses (41) (31.3) (22.6) EBIT 273.3 398.6 Interest income (42) 9.1 9.7 Interest expenses on borrowings (28.4) (48.5) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (43) (17.2) (81.3) Other net financial expenses (44) (38.7) (42.6) Net finance costs (75.2) (162.7) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (14) 1.5 10.1 Profit before income tax 199.6 246.0 Income tax (45) (50.8) (58.9) Profit after income tax 148.8 187.1 attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 139.0 158.1 attributable to non-controlling interests (25) 9.8 29.0 in € Earnings per share basic (52) 2.82 3.52 Earnings per share diluted 2.81 3.52 123 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019 in € million Notes 2019 2018 Profit after income tax 148.8 187.1 Currency translation differences Unrealised results from currency translation (7) (7.6) (20.3) Deferred taxes thereon (45) 3.9 0.9 Current taxes thereon 2.4 0.0 Unrealised results from net investment hedge (56) (2.9) 0.0 Deferred taxes thereon (56) 0.5 0.0 Current taxes thereon (56) 0.2 0.0 Reclassification to profit or loss (41) 3.7 0.0 Cash flow hedges Unrealised fair value changes (55) (7.4) (6.8) Deferred taxes thereon (45) 1.9 1.8 Reclassification to profit or loss (55) (0.7) 0.0 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (14) 0.0 0.1 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, if necessary (6.0) (24.3) Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (28) (37.1) (11.5) Deferred taxes thereon (45) 9.1 3.0 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (14) (0.1) 0.0 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (28.1) (8.5) Other comprehensive income after income tax (34.1) (32.8) Total comprehensive income 114.7 154.3 attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 103.4 137.9 attributable to non-controlling interests (25) 11.3 16.4 124 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019 in € million Notes 2019 2018 Cash generated from operations 470.4 462.2 Income tax paid less refunds (67.8) (67.9) Net cash inflow from operating activities (48) 402.6 394.3 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (156.1) (122.6) Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired (0.5) 0.0 Investments in securities (0.4) (121.2) Cash inflows from sale of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 2.5 0.0 Cash inflows from the sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 2.9 Cash inflows from the sale of securities and shares 40.9 118.4 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 13.4 11.0 Investment subsidies received 0.2 2.1 Interest received (50) 8.3 8.2 Investments in/ cash inflows from non-current receivables 0.0 0.4 Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (90.3) (100.8) Share issue costs 0.0 (6.2) Capital contribution to associates 0.0 (1.4) Acquisition of treasury shares (18.8) 0.0 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (44.6) (80.1) Proceeds from sale of non-controlling interests 0.0 9.2 Dividend payments to shareholders of the Group (74.2) (33.6) Dividend payments to non-controlling interests (1.3) (1.1) Proceeds from borrowings and loans 432.0 734.9 Repayments of borrowings and loans (550.4) (801.9) Changes in current borrowings (2.8) 26.4 Interest payments (50) (49.8) (71.1) Repayment of lease obligations (14.3) 0.0 Interest payments from lease obligations (1.2) 0.0 Cash flows from derivatives (14.4) (20.1) Net cash (outflow) from financing activities (49) (339.8) (245.0) Total cash flow (27.5) 48.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents (27.5) 48.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 491.2 442.4 Foreign exchange impact 3.5 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end (22) 467.2 491.2 125 126 Consolidated Statement of F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Changes in Equity from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019 Group reserves Accumulated other comprehensive income Equity attributable to shareholders Additional of RHI NonShare Treasury paid-in Mandatory Retained Cash flow Defined Currency Magnesita controlling in € million capital shares capital reserve earnings hedges benefit plans translation N.V. interests Total equity Notes (23) (24) (24) (24) (24) (24) (24) (25) 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 288.7 351.0 (5.0) (114.2) (73.8) 800.5 84.8 885.3 Profit after income tax 139.0 139.0 9.8 148.8 R H I M AG N E S I TA Currency translation differences (1.4) (1.4) 1.6 0.2 Market valuation of cash flow hedges (6.1) (6.1) (0.1) (6.2) Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (28.0) (28.0) (28.0) Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Other comprehensive income after income tax (6.1) (28.1) (1.4) (35.6) 1.5 (34.1) Total comprehensive income 139.0 (6.1) (28.1) (1.4) 103.4 11.3 114.7 Dividends (98.8) (98.8) (1.3) (100.1) Issue of ordinary shares related to the integrated tender offer of Magnesita 1.2 55.8 57.0 57.0 Shares repurchased (18.8) (18.8) (18.8) Disposal of benefit plans 1.2 (1.2) Acquisition in non-controlling interests without change of control (16.9) 0.1 (2.1) (4.6) (23.5) (74.0) (97.5) Share-based expenses 4.1 4.1 4.1 Transactions with shareholders 1.2 (18.8) 55.8 (110.4) 0.1 (3.3) (4.6) (80.0) (75.3) (155.3) 31.12.2019 49.5 (18.8) 361.3 288.7 379.6 (11.0) (145.6) (79.8) 823.9 20.8 844.7 Group reserves Accumulated other comprehensive income Equity attributable to Additional Defined shareholders of NonShare paid-in Mandatory Retained Cash flow benefit Currency RHI Magnesita controlling in € million capital capital reserve earnings hedges plans translation N.V. interests Total equity Notes (23) (24) (24) (24) (24) (24) (24) (25) 31.12.2017 44.8 165.7 288.7 281.9 0.1 (107.7) (54.7) 618.8 226.9 845.7 Effects of initial application of IFRS 15 (net of tax) (6.0) (6.0) (0.6) (6.6) Effects of initial application of IFRS 9 (net of tax) 1.8 1.8 1.8 01.01.2018 44.8 165.7 288.7 277.7 0.1 (107.7) (54.7) 614.6 226.3 840.9 Profit after income tax 158.1 158.1 29.0 187.1 R H I M AG N E S I TA Currency translation differences (8.5) (8.5) (10.9) (19.4) Market valuation of cash flow hedges (5.2) (5.2) 0.2 (5.0) Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (6.6) (6.6) (1.9) (8.5) Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other comprehensive income after income tax (5.2) (6.6) (8.4) (20.2) (12.6) (32.8) Total comprehensive income 158.1 (5.2) (6.6) (8.4) 137.9 16.4 154.3 Dividends (33.6) (33.6) (1.2) (34.8) Issue of ordinary shares related to the mandatory tender offer of Magnesita 3.5 139.8 143.3 143.3 Sale of non-controlling interests without loss of control 7.2 0.2 7.4 1.7 9.1 Acquisition in non-controlling interests without change of control (59.4) 0.1 0.1 (10.9) (70.1) (158.4) (228.5) Share-based expenses 1.0 1.0 1.0 Transactions with shareholders 3.5 139.8 (84.8) 0.1 0.1 (10.7) 48.0 (157.9) (109.9) 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 288.7 351.0 (5.0) (114.2) (73.8) 800.5 84.8 885.3 127 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS 1. General RHI Magnesita N.V. (the “Company”), a public company with limited liability under Dutch law is registered with the Dutch Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce under the number 68991665 and has its corporate seat in Arnhem, Netherlands. The administrative seat and registered office is located at Kranichberggasse 6, 1120 Vienna, Austria. The Company and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (the “Group”) is a global industrial group whose core activities comprise of the development and production, sale, installation and maintenance of high-grade refractory products and systems used in industrial high-temperature processes exceeding 1,200°C. The Group supplies customers in the steel, cement, lime, glass and non-ferrous metals industries. In addition, the Group’s products are used in the environment (waste incineration), energy (refractory construction) and chemicals (petrochemicals) sectors. The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and are included in the FTSE 250 Index. RHI Magnesita N.V. was incorporated on 20 June 2017 and became the ultimate parent of the RHI Magnesita Group as of 26 October 2017, after completing the corporate restructuring of RHI AG. Until then, RHI AG was the ultimate parent of the Group. This restructuring represented a common control transaction that had no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements, except for the reclassification of individual equity components. The financial year of RHI Magnesita N.V. and the Group corresponds to the calendar year. If the financial years of subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements do not end on 31 December due to local legal requirements, a special set of financial statements are prepared for the purpose of consolidation. The reporting date of the Indian subsidiaries is 31 March. The Consolidated Financial Statements for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 were drawn up in accordance with all International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) mandatory at the time of preparation as adopted by the European Union (EU). The presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position distinguishes between current and non-current assets and liabilities. Assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are due within one year or within a longer normal business cycle or if the company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. Inventories as well as trade receivables and trade payables are generally presented as current items. Deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as assets and provisions for pensions and termination benefits are generally presented as non-current items. The Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is drawn up in accordance with the cost of sales method. With the exception of specific items such as derivative financial instruments and plan assets for defined benefit obligations, the Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis unless otherwise stated. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. Information on the outbreak of the coronavirus COVID-19 is disclosed under Note (64). The impact of COVID-19 on the Group is assessed below: The Group benefits from a strong financial position, with low leverage and significant liquidity. As at 31 December 2019 the group has liquid resources of €467.2 million comprising cash and cash equivalents as well as since January 2020 a committed and unutilised credit facility amounting to €600.0 million. Furthermore, repayments of borrowings to financial institutions in 2020 are scheduled with €15.4 million only. Therefore, it is very likely that liquidity security is given for a period of at least 12 months after the date of approval of RHI Magnesita N.V.’s financial statements. As part of assessing the ability to continue as a going concern, RHI Magnesita also considered the impact of COVID-19 and a related potential global economic downturn on its business. Economic activities in the Steel and Industrial Segments are closely linked to the developments of the global markets. During this assessment management conducted various scenario analyses with sufficient depth and duration, considering different levels of revenue reduction and working capital implications. The sensitivities applied were informed by internal and external data sources, including a review of the Group’s most recent production levels and short-term order book, customer feedback and review of regional macroeconomic forecasts. Using this data, management created Scenario A, Scenario B and Scenario C which modelled the effect of incremental reductions to revenue at regional and aggregated levels on the Group’s results for a three-year period. The scenarios also accounted for the working capital implications of reduced sales activity and the mitigating actions available to management. 128 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In each scenario, sufficient liquidity and headroom on the Group’s covenants were demonstrated. Based on the most recent available external information we have no information that Scenario C is likely to occur. In the event of such further deterioration of market conditions as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, and implementation of the mitigating actions identified by the Board, the Group will remain compliant with its financing covenant and will have sufficient liquidity to meet obligations when they fall due for a period of at least 12 months after 31 March 2020. In order to secure production capabilities and the health and safety of our employees, RHI Magnesita established Corona Task Forces on a global and regional basis, plants are operating with very strict restrictions, such as pre-work temperature checks. Moreover, all corporate offices are currently closed with employees working from home. RHI Magnesita is currently evaluating further potential actions to mitigate risk such as the use of short working hours, governmental subsidies and the tax benefits which are offered from the different national governments due to the COVID-19 crisis. As a result, and even though globally everyone is confronted with a high level of uncertainty, it is not expected that the coronavirus COVID-19 will have a material negative impact on the ability of the Group to operate as going concern. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in agreement with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, as adopted by the EU, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that influence the amount and presentation of assets and liabilities recognised as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the reporting date and the recognition of income and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates reflect the best knowledge of the management based on experience from comparable transactions, the actual values recognised at a later date may differ from these estimates. All amounts in the Notes and tables are shown in € million, unless indicated otherwise. For computational reasons, rounding differences may occur. The Annual Report was authorised for issue on 31 March 2020 and is subject to adoption at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 18 June 2020. 2. Initial application of new financial reporting standards In 2019, the Group has applied for the first time a number of new standards and interpretations as well as amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2019. Publication Effects on RHI Magnesita Consolidated Standard Title (EU endorsement)1) Financial Statements New standards and interpretations 13.01.2016 Detailed description after the IFRS 16 Leases (31.10.2017) tabular overview 07.06.2017 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (23.10.2018) No material effects Amendments of standards 12.12.2017 Various Annual Improvements to IFRS 2015-2017 Cycle (14.03.2019) No material effects 07.02.2018 IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (13.03.2019) No effect 12.10.2017 IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures (08.02.2019) No effect 12.10.2017 IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (22.03.2018) No effect IFRS 7, IFRS 9, 26.09.2019 IAS 39 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (15.01.2020) No material effects 1) According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 23.01.2020. IFRS 16 “Leases” The accounting standard IFRS 16 “Leases”, issued in January 2016 supersedes the previous IAS 17 “Leases” as well as the related interpretations and is applicable to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. 129 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Whereas accounting according to IFRS 16 remains mainly comparable to the IAS 17 regulations for lessors, accounting according to IFRS 16 leads to major changes for lessees as it requires lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for all leases in the scope of IFRS 16. Applying this single lessee accounting model results in an increase in total assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as well as in a replacement of the straight-line expenses for operating leases with a depreciation charge for right-ofuse assets and interest expenses for lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Moreover, there is a shift from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, except for short-term leases and low value leases. RHI Magnesita implemented IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach for transition. According to this method the lease liability is measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at using the incremental borrowing rate at initial application. The recognised amount of the right-of-use asset equals the lease liability. Cumulative adjustments were recognised as at adoption and comparative information was not restated. When adopting IFRS 16 RHI Magnesita makes use of the following transition exemptions:  Continuing to apply the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 and not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease according to IFRS 16.  Relying on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately before the date of adoption as an alternative to performing impairment review. RHI Magnesita makes use of the following ongoing IFRS 16 practical expedients:  Lease payments for leases whose contractual term is 12 months or less or whose remaining term at adoption is 12 months or less will continue to be recognised as an expense.  Lease payments for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value will continue to be recognised as an expense.  Applying a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics. From 1 January 2019, leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments:  Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable  Variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate  Amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees  The exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and  Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be determined, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with similar terms and conditions. The incremental borrowing rate is based on the German federal bond and the US Government Treasury Yield Curve. Based on these two governmental curves, a spread is determined in relation to the bond rating of RHI Magnesita. This spread is then added with an inflation differential and a country risk premium for each country. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to these lease liabilities was 2.44%. 130 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:  The amount of the initial measurement of lease liability  Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received  Any initial direct costs, and  Restoration and removal costs. A lease modification is a change in the scope of a lease or the consideration for a lease, that was not part of the original terms and conditions of the lease. If the modification decreases the scope of the lease, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability has to be reduced accordingly. If the modification increases the scope of the lease (consideration is not at a stand-alone price), the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability has to be increased accordingly. RHI Magnesita’s leases are mainly arrangements regarding land and buildings, technical equipment and machinery as well as other equipment, furniture and fixtures. The average lease term is eleven years for land and buildings, five years for technical equipment and four years for other equipment, furniture and fixtures. Impacts resulting from extension and termination options, as well as residual value guarantees are immaterial. The following table shows the reconciliation of the minimum lease payments reported as at 31 December 2018 to the lease liability recognised on 1 January 2019: Commitments arising from rental agreements and leases as at 31.12.2018 Commitment for less than one year 16.3 Commitment for longer than one year and up to five years 27.7 Commitment for longer than five years 29.7 Total commitments arising from rental agreements and leases 73.7 Commitments arising from short-term leases and leases of low-value assets (4.1) Total commitments for the determination of the lease liability 69.6 Effect of discounting at the incremental borrowing rate (7.6) Lease liability as at 01.01.2019 62.0 The following table gives an overview of the positions affected by IFRS 16: in € million 31.12.2019 01.01.2019 Right-of-use assets included in property, plant and equipment Right-of-use assets – land and buildings 24.0 40.0 Right-of-use assets – technical equipment and machinery 23.0 17.0 Right-of-use assets – other equipment, furniture and fixtures 4.2 5.0 Total right-of-use assets 51.2 62.0 thereof Segment Steel 28.2 34.0 thereof Segment Industrial 23.0 28.0 Lease liabilities included in other non-current and other current financial liabilities Current lease liabilities 13.8 16.0 Non-current lease liabilities 48.1 46.0 Total lease liabilities 61.9 62.0 131 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued in € million 2019 Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets land and buildings 5.1 Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets technical equipment and machinery 7.0 Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets other equipment furniture and fixtures 2.4 Total depreciation charge of right-of-use assets 14.5 Interest expense 1.2 Expenses related to short-term and low-value leases as well as variable lease payments 9.2 The total cash outflow for leases in 2019 24.7 Impact on Earnings per share in € (basic) 0.00 Impact on Earnings per share in € (diluted) 0.00 Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment and vehicles and all leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straightline basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets comprise IT equipment, office furniture and other small items. IFRS 7, IFRS 9, IAS 39 “Interest Rate Benchmark Reform” RHI Magnesita has elected to early adopt the amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (IBOR) issued in September 2019. In accordance with the transition provisions, the amendments have been adopted retrospectively to hedging relationships that existed at the start of the reporting period and to the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve at that date. The amendments provide temporary relief from applying specific hedge accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by the IBOR reform. The reliefs stipulated in the IBOR reform should not cause hedge accounting to terminate in general. However, any hedge ineffectiveness continues to be recorded in the income statement. Furthermore, the amendments set out triggers for when the reliefs will end, which include the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform no longer being present. The timing and precise nature of the IBOR reform are currently uncertain. RHI Magnesita’s risk exposure that is directly affected by the IBOR reform concerns its USD 200 million floating-rate debt with a remaining term until 2023. RHI Magnesita has hedged this debt with an interest rate swap, and it has designated the swap in a cash flow hedge of the variability in cash flows of the debt, due to changes in USD LIBOR that is the current benchmark interest rate. Further information is provided under note (55). Currently the structure of the USD LIBOR is unclear after 2021. This represents a possible source of ineffectiveness because this might affect at a different time and have a different impact on the hedged item (the floating-rate debt) and the hedging instrument (the interest rate swap used to hedge the debt). Management considers that the most likely scenario is that the hedged debt will move to the same alternative benchmark rate as the swap. Therefore, no material effect on the Group is expected. According to recent developments on the market, the EURIBOR is expected to remain active as the benchmark rate in the Euro area and consequently the risk of discontinuation before 2023 is relatively small, thus the interest rate swap of EUR 305.6 million and its corresponding underlying hedged item, a floating-rate debt, both maturing in 2023, would most likely be unaffected. Even in the unlikely scenario of precocious discontinuation of the EURIBOR, Management considers that the hedged debt would move to the same alternative benchmark rate as the swap. RHI Magnesita is closely monitoring the developments of the IBOR reform and is in close communication with the banks to minimise any mismatches going forward. 132 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3. New financial reporting standards not yet applied The IASB issued further standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, whose application is, however, not yet mandatory as at 31 December 2019. They were not applied early on a voluntary basis. They are not expected to have a significant impact on the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements. Expected effects on RHI Magnesita Mandatory Consolidated Publication application for RHI Financial Standard Title (EU endorsement)1) Magnesita Statements New standards No EU IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 30.01.2014 endorsement Not relevant IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 18.05.2017 01.01.2021 Not relevant Amendments of standards No material IAS 1, IAS 8 Definition of Material 31.10.2018 01.01.2020 effects IFRS 3 Business Combinations 22.10.2018 01.01.2020 No effect Amendments to References to the Conceptual Various Framework in IFRS Standards 29.03.2018 01.01.2020 No effect 1) According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 23.01.2020. The following financial reporting standard was issued by the IASB, but had not yet been adopted by the EU at the time of the preparation of the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements: Expected effects on RHI Magnesita Mandatory Consolidated application for Financial Standard Title Publication1) RHI Magnesita Statements New standards and interpretations Amendments of standards No material IAS 1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1/23/2020 1/1/2022 effects 1) According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 23.01.2020. 4. Integrated Tender Offer As a result of the merger between RHI and Magnesita, the Group was required in accordance with the share purchase agreement (SPA) and Brazilian laws and regulations – to make a mandatory public offer in Brazil which had to be addressed to all remaining Magnesita shareholders and had to be made on the same terms and conditions as those made available to the Sellers under the SPA, including as to purchase price and form of consideration. The Group decided to combine the mandatory offer with a so-called “delisting tender offer” in an Integrated Tender Offer (ITO) and filed with the Brazilian Securities Commission the respective request. The launch of the ITO was communicated to the minority shareholders on 10 November 2018. Magnesita shareholders received the option of selling each Magnesita share in exchange of: (i) R$18.46, adjusted by SELIC (the Brazilian benchmark interest rate) from 26 October 2017 until the date of the settlement of the auction of the Integrated Tender Offer, plus 0.1998 RHI Magnesita shares or (ii) A cash-only alternative consideration. 133 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The consideration of the cash-only alternative offer was the highest between: (i) R$31.09, adjusted by SELIC from 26 October 2017 until the date of the settlement of the auction of the Integrated Tender Offer, and (ii) R$35.56, not adjusted by SELIC. In the course of the finalisation of the ITO in 2019, the Group acquired the remaining outstanding Magnesita shares during the first four months of 2019 and has issued a total of 1,140,658 new ordinary shares. As at 10 April 2019, RHI Magnesita’s issued share capital consisted of 49,477,705 shares with voting rights. The fair value of the consideration as at 31 December 2019 is €97.5 million and includes a cash part in the amount of €40.5 million. These shares were delivered in four different instances to minority shareholders and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange's main market in the first four months 2019. The closing price per share on each of the trading days was used for the determination of the fair value of the issued ordinary shares totalling up to €57.0 million. The carrying amount of Magnesita’s net assets in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements as of 10 April 2019 was €499.7 million. Consequently, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired amounts to €74.0 million. This transaction results in a decrease in equity attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V totalling to €23.5 million. 5. Other changes in comparative information Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss In 2019 RHI Magnesita initiated its Production Optimisation Plan and entered into the final phase of integration which led to a recognition of €112.1 million of restructuring expenses and asset write-downs. In line with the materiality principle this effect has been disclosed separately on the face of the Statement of Profit or Loss, the comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Cash flows generated from operating activities have been repositioned within the Notes section and are now shown in Notes to Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in order to improve peer comparability. Segment reporting Our internal management reporting is organised according to the activity of the customer. For the foundry customers this is the Steel segment as the majority of these customers are processing iron. Therefore, the responsibility of the foundry business has been moved from the Segment Industrial to Segment Steel in 2019. The information for the previous year was adjusted accordingly, impacting revenue by €8.7 million, Gross Profit by €4.0 million and segment assets by €3.6 million. 6. Methods of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are companies over which RHI Magnesita N.V. exercises control. Control exists when the company has the power to decide on the relevant activities, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 134 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The main operating companies of the RHI Magnesita Group and their core business activities are as follows: Country of Name and registered office of the company core activity Core business activity Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Germany Germany Production Magnesit Anonim Sirketi, Turkey Turkey Mining, production, sales Magnesita Mineração S.A., Brazil Brazil Mining Magnesita Refractories Company, USA USA Mining, production, sales Magnesita Refractories GmbH, Germany Germany Production Magnesita Refratários S.A., Brazil International Production, sales RHI Magnesita Trading B.V., Netherlands International Procurement, sales, supply chain Orient Refractories Limited, India India Production, sales RHI Canada Inc., Canada Canada Production, sales, provision of services RHI Magnesita GmbH, Austria International Sales, R&D, financing RHI GLAS GmbH, Germany International Sales RHI Refractories (Dalian) Co., Ltd., PR China PR China Production RHI US Ltd., USA USA Production, sales, provision of services RHI-Refmex, S.A. de C.V., Mexico Latin America Sales Veitsch-Radex GmbH & Co OG, Austria Austria Mining, production The acquisition method is used to account for all business combinations. The purchase price for shares is offset against the proportional share of net assets based on the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition or when control is obtained. Intangible assets which were previously not recognised in the separate Financial Statements of the company acquired are also measured at fair value. Intangible assets identified when a company is acquired, including for example technology, mining rights and customer relations, are only measured separately at the time of acquisition if they are identifiable and are in the control of the company and a future economic benefit is expected. For acquisitions where less than 100% of shares in companies are acquired, IFRS 3 allows an accounting policy choice whereby either goodwill proportionate to the share held or goodwill including the share accounted for by non-controlling interests can be recognised. This accounting policy choice can be exercised for each acquisition. For the acquisition of Magnesita, non-controlling interests have been measured at their proportionate share of Magnesita’s identifiable net assets. If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date. Any gains and losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. After completing the purchase price allocation, the determined goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit and tested for impairment. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3, negative goodwill is immediately recognised to profit or loss in other income after renewed measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Net assets of subsidiaries not attributable to RHI Magnesita N.V. are shown separately under equity as non-controlling interests. The basis for non-controlling interests is the equity after adjustment to the accounting and measurement principles of the RHI Magnesita Group and proportional consolidation entries. Transaction costs which are directly related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. Contingent consideration included in the purchase price is recorded at fair value at initial consolidation. When additional shares are acquired in entities already included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as subsidiaries, the difference between the purchase price and the proportional carrying amount in the subsidiary’s net assets is offset against shareholders’ equity. Gains and losses from the sale of shares are recorded in equity unless they lead to a loss of control. All intragroup results are fully eliminated. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated on temporary differences arising from the consolidation. Subsidiaries are deconsolidated on the day control ends. 135 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Joint ventures and associates Shares in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method. A joint venture is a joint arrangement between the RHI Magnesita Group and one or several other partners whereby the parties that have joint control over the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. An associate is an entity over which the RHI Magnesita Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the investee’s financial and operating policy decisions without control or joint control. There is the rebuttable presumption that if a company holds directly or indirectly 20% of the shares of the investee or has other abilities (e.g. through seats in the supervisory board) to influence the company’s financial and operating policy decisions it has significant influence. At the date of acquisition, a positive difference between the acquisition costs and the share in the fair values of identified assets and liabilities of the joint ventures and associates is determined and recognised as goodwill. Goodwill is shown as part of investments in joint ventures and associates in the Statement of Financial Position. The acquisition cost of investments accounted for using the equity method is adjusted each year to reflect the change in the equity of the individual joint venture or associate that is attributable to the RHI Magnesita Group. Unrealised intragroup results from transactions are offset against the carrying amount of the investment on a pro-rata basis during consolidation, if material. RHI Magnesita examines at every reporting date whether there exist any objective indications of an impairment of the shares in joint ventures and associates. If such indications exist, the required impairment is determined as the difference between the recoverable amount and the carrying amount of the joint ventures and associates and recognised in profit and loss in the item share of profit of joint ventures and associates. When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity. If the equity-accounted investment subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share of profits only after those profits equal or exceed its share of losses not recognised. The Financial Statements of the companies accounted for using the equity method are prepared in accordance with uniform accounting and measurement methods throughout the Group. 7. Foreign currency translation Functional currency and presentation currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Euro, which represents the functional and presentation currency of RHI Magnesita N.V. The items included in the Financial Statements of each Group company are based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates (functional currency). Foreign currency transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions in the individual Financial Statements of Group companies are translated into the functional currency based on the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction. Gains and losses arising from the settlement of such transactions and the measurement of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the closing rate are recognised in profit or loss under net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives. Unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which form part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income in equity. When a non-derivative financial instrument is designated as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge in a foreign operation, the effective portion of the foreign exchange gains and losses is recognised in the currency translation difference reserve within equity. Non-monetary items in foreign currency are carried at historical rates. If foreign companies are deconsolidated, the currency translation differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as part of the gain or loss from the sale of shares in subsidiaries. In addition, when monetary items cease to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation or when in case of a net investment hedge the foreign operation is disposed, the currency translation differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 136 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Group companies The Annual Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries that have a functional currency differing from the Group presentation currency are translated into Euros as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the reporting date of the Group, while monthly income and expenses and consequently the profit or loss for the year as presented in the Statement of Profit or Loss are translated at the respective closing rates of the previous month. Differences resulting from this translation process and differences resulting from the translation of amounts carried forward from the prior year are recorded under other comprehensive income without recognition to profit or loss. Monthly cash flows are translated at the respective closing rates of the previous month. Goodwill and adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities related to the purchase price allocations of a subsidiary outside the European currency area are recognised as assets and liabilities of the respective subsidiary and translated at the closing rate. RHI Magnesita has evaluated the effect of applying IAS 29 “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies” in Argentina with the conclusion that the effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements is considered immaterial to the Group. The Euro exchange rates of currencies important for the RHI Magnesita Group are shown in the following table: Closing rate Average rate1) Currencies 1€= 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 2019 2018 Argentine Peso ARS 67.09 43.10 52.94 32.58 Brazilian Real BRL 4.51 4.44 4.41 4.29 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.46 1.56 1.49 1.53 Chilean Peso CLP 842.57 793.69 792.03 753.18 Chinese Renminbi Yuan CNY 7.81 7.87 7.73 7.81 Indian Rupee INR 79.90 79.88 78.84 80.45 Mexican Peso MXN 21.19 22.49 21.74 22.70 Norwegian Krone NOK 9.88 9.94 9.86 9.62 Pound Sterling GBP 0.85 0.90 0.88 0.89 Swiss Franc CHF 1.09 1.13 1.11 1.15 South African Rand ZAR 15.78 16.46 16.24 15.45 US Dollar USD 1.12 1.14 1.12 1.18 1) Arithmetic mean of the monthly closing rates. 8. Principles of accounting and measurement Goodwill Goodwill is recognised as an asset in accordance with IFRS 3. It is tested for impairment at least once each year, or when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the asset could be impaired. In accordance with IFRS 3, negative goodwill is recognised through profit or loss immediately after a new assessment of the identified assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Other intangible assets Mining rights were recognised in the course of the purchase price allocation for Magnesita and are amortised based on the depletion of the related mines. Depletion is calculated based on the volume mined in the period in proportion to the total estimated volume. Customer relations were recognised in the course of purchase price allocations of acquired subsidiaries and are amortised on a straightline basis over the expected period of useful life. Research costs are expensed in the year incurred and included under general and administrative expenses. Development costs are only capitalised if the allocable costs of the intangible asset can be measured reliably during its development period. Moreover, capitalisation requires that the product or process development can be clearly defined, is feasible in technical, economic and capacity terms and is intended for own use or sale. In addition, future cash inflows which cover not only normal costs but also 137 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued the related development costs must be expected. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, however, with a maximum useful life of ten years, and recognised in cost of sales. The development costs for internally generated software are expensed as incurred if their primary purpose is to maintain the functionality of existing software. Expenses that can be directly and conclusively allocated to individual programmes and represent a significant extension or improvement over the original condition of the software are capitalised as production costs and added to the original purchase price of the software. These direct costs include the personnel expenses for the development team as well as a proportional share of overheads. Software is predominantly amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of four years. Purchased intangible assets are measured at acquisition cost, which also includes acquisition-related costs, less accumulated amortisation and impairments. Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected period of useful life. The following table shows the most important useful lives: Customer relationships 6 to 15 years Patents 7 to 18 years Brand rights 20 years Land use rights 30 to 65 years Software 4 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at acquisition or production cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairments. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, calculated pro rata from the month the asset is available for use. IFRS 16 “Leases”, supersedes the previous IAS 17 “Leases” as well as the related interpretations and is applicable to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. For the amounts relating to leases recognised in the Statement of Financial Position and in the Statement of Profit or Loss see the overview of the positions affected by IFRS 16 under Note (2). Production costs of internally generated assets comprise direct costs as well as a proportionate share of capitalisable overheads and borrowing costs. If financing can be specifically allocated to an investment, borrowing costs are capitalised as production costs. If no direct connection can be made, the average rate on borrowed capital of the Group is used as the capitalisation rate due to the central funding of the Group. Expected demolition and disposal costs at the end of an asset’s useful life are capitalised as part of acquisition cost and recorded as a provision. The criteria for this treatment are a legal or constructive obligation towards a third party and the ability to prepare a reliable estimate. 138 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Real estate, land and plant under construction are not depreciated. Depreciation of other material property, plant and equipment is based on the following useful lives in the RHI Magnesita Group: Factory and office buildings 15 to 50 years Land improvement 8 to 30 years Crusher machines and mixing facilities 8 to 20 years Presses 10 to 12 years Tunnel, rotary and shaft kilns 50 years Other calcining and drying kilns 20 to 30 years Cars, other plant, furniture and fixtures 3 to 35 years RHI Magnesita’s leases include mainly arrangements regarding land and buildings, technical equipment and machinery as well as other equipment, furniture and fixtures. The average lease term is eleven years for land and buildings, five years for technical equipment and four years for other equipment, furniture and fixtures. Impacts resulting from extension and termination options, as well as residual value guarantees are immaterial. The residual values and economic useful lives are reviewed regularly and adjusted if necessary. When components of plant or equipment have to be replaced at regular intervals, the relevant replacement costs are capitalised as incurred if the criteria per IAS 16 have been met. The carrying amount of the replaced components is derecognised. Regular maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Gains or losses from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which result as the difference between the net realisable value and the carrying amount, are recognised as income or expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment, including Right-of-use assets, and intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment if there is any indication that the value of these items may be impaired. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are tested for impairment at least annually. An asset is considered to be impaired if its recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use (present value of future cash flows). If the carrying amount is higher than the recoverable amount, an impairment loss equivalent to the resulting difference is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If the reason for an impairment loss recognised in the past for property, plant and equipment and for other intangible assets ceases to exist, a reversal of impairment on the amortised acquisition and production costs is recognised to profit or loss. In the case of impairments related to cash-generating units (CGU) which contain goodwill, existing goodwill is initially reduced. If the required impairment exceeds the carrying amount of goodwill, the difference is apportioned proportionately to the remaining noncurrent tangible and intangible assets of the CGU. Reversals of impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not permitted and are therefore not considered. The effects of impairment tests at the CGU level are shown separately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If there is an indication for an impairment of a specific asset, only this specific asset will be tested for impairment. The recoverable amount is determined through fair value. If the fair value is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded in EBIT or, in the case of restructuring, in restructuring costs. Cash-generating units (CGU) In the Group individual assets do not generate cash inflows independent of one another; therefore, no recoverable amount can be presented for individual assets. As a result, the assets are combined in CGUs, which largely generate independent cash inflows. These units are combined in strategic business units and reflect the market presence and market appearance and are as such responsible for cash inflows. CGU's are determined based on group of assets that can generate cash inflows independent of other assets. The organisational structures of the Group reflect these units. In addition to the joint management and control of the business activities in each unit, the sales know-how, the knowledge of RHI Magnesita’s long-standing customer relationships or knowledge of the customer’s production facilities and processes further support these units. Product knowledge is manifested in the application-oriented knowledge of chemical, physical and thermal properties of RHI Magnesita products. The services offered extend over the life cycle of RHI Magnesita 139 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued products at the customer’s plant, from the appropriate installation and support of optimal operations, to environmentally sound disposal with the customer or the sustainable reuse in the Group’s production process. These factors determine cash inflow to a significant extent and consequently form the basis for the CGU structures. The CGUs of the strategic business unit Steel are Linings and Flow Control. These two units are determined according to the production stages in the process of steel production. In the Industrial Division, each industry line of business (glass, cement/lime, non-ferrous metals and environment, energy, chemicals) forms a separate CGU. All raw material producing facilities with the exception of Norway are combined in one CGU. The plant in Porsgrunn, Norway, is not included in the raw materials unit, but treated as a separate CGU because a management team was installed specifically for the coordination and implementation of the optimisation measures due to the dimension and the special situation at the Porsgrunn plant. This organisation goes beyond plant management and includes sub-tasks of the administration processes. As in the previous year, the impairment test is based on the value in use; the recoverable amount is determined using the discounted cash flow method and incorporates the terminal value. The detailed planning of the first five years is congruent with the strategic business and financial planning. Based on the detailed planning period, it is geared to a steady-state business development, which balances out possible economic or other non-sustainable fluctuations in the detailed planning period and forms the basis for the calculation of the terminal value. As in the previous year, the terminal value is based on a growth rate derived from the difference of the current and the possible degree of utilisation of the assets. The net cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that is calculated taking into account the weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies (peer group); the corresponding parameters are derived from capital market information. In addition, countryspecific risk premiums are considered in the weighted average cost of capital. The discount rate ranges between 5.4% and 8.9% in the year 2019. In the previous year, the discount rates ranged between 10.1% and 13.0%. Main reason for higher discount rates in 2018 was that the equity beta for the peer group increased as the peer group companies outperformed the market index during the period under consideration. In addition, in 2018 one member of the peer group did not pass the statistical test (t-test) and consequently was excluded from the calculation. The adoption of IFRS 16 has no material impact on the discount rate. Composition of estimated future cash flows The estimates of future cash flows include forecasts of the cash flows from continued use. If assets are disposed at the end of their useful life, the related cash flows are also included in the forecasts. A simplified statement of cash flows serves to determine the cash flows on the basis of strategic business and financial planning. The forecasts include cash flows from future maintenance investments. Expansion investments are only taken into account when there has been a significant cash outflow or significant payment obligations have been entered into due to services received and it is sufficiently certain that the investment measure will be completed. All other expansion investments are not considered; this applies in particular to expansion investments that have been decided on but not begun. Working capital is included in the carrying amount of the CGU; therefore, the recoverable amount only takes into account changes in working capital. Basis for Planning Basis for the impairment test was the 2020 Budget and Long-Term Plan 2021 to 2025, which was approved by the Board, and developed with the growth rates used in the forward-looking business plan. To forecast the CGUs’ cash flows, management predicts the growth rate using external sources for the development of the customer’s industries and expert assumptions. This includes forecasts about the regional growth of the steel production and the output of the non-steel clients. In combination with the development of the specific refractory consumption, which considers technological improvements, the growth rates for the individual CGUs are determined. 2019 2018 Discount rate Perpetual annuity Goodwill Discount rate Perpetual annuity Goodwill before Tax growth rate in € million before Tax growth rate in € million Steel Division Linings 7.9% 0.9% 88.6 11.3% 0.9% 88.4 Steel Division Flow Control 7.7% 0.9% 27.2 11.3% 0.9% 27.3 The remaining goodwill of €1.7 million (31.12.2018: €1.7 million) is spread among the remaining CGU's, all of them having sufficient headroom. 140 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Result of impairment test Based on the impairment test conducted at 31 December 2019, the recoverability of the assets was demonstrated in all CGUs, except for the CGU Norway. The property, plant and equipment of CGU Norway has been fully impaired as a result of impairment testing in previous years. This was caused by production costs exceeding the price of comparable raw materials on the market. Given the high raw material prices in 2018 and the lack of Fused Magnesia in the market, management decided to increase the production of Fused Magnesite at the plant. Fused Magnesia is a key raw material used for refractory bricks sold to Linings customers. At the adoption date of IFRS 16, the financial projections supported the recognition of the right-of-use assets according to IFRS 16, but future profitability was insufficient to reverse previously recognised impairments. In the fourth quarter of 2019 the Fused magnesia prices declined and the availability on the market allows RHI Magnesita to buy the material from external sources at lower cost. Considering the current low prices for Fused Magnesia from China, the cash flow generated by the facility in Norway is negative. The cash flow is calculated based on the external sales of products manufactured in Porsgrunn and the value of internal supply of Fused Magnesia. This value is calculated comparing the manufacturing costs versus potential costs of sourcing comparable material from external sources. As a result, RHI Magnesita has to write-down the non-current assets of CGU Norway totalling € 13,9 million (thereof real estate, land and buildings € 0.9 million, technical equipment, machinery € 1.4 million, other plant, furniture and fixtures € 0.3 million, plant under construction € 0.8 million, right-of-use asset land and buildings € 10.4 million, right-of-use asset technical equipment and machinery € 0.1 million) as of December 2019 in accordance with IAS 36. As in the previous year, no reversals of impairments were made in the financial year 2019. Other financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are classified as at amortised cost, if the contractual cash flows of the financial asset include solely payments of principal and interest and they are held in order to collect the contractual cash flows. If the contractual cash flows of financial assets include solely payments of principal and interest, but they are held in order to both collect the contractual cash flows and sell the financial asset, then the financial assets are classified as at fair value through other comprehensive income. If the contractual cash flows of financial assets do not solely include payments of principal and interest, then these financial assets are classified as at fair value through profit or loss. The Group initially recognises securities on the trading date when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. All other financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised on the date when they are originated. Financial instruments, except for trade receivables, are initially recognised at fair value. Financial assets are derecognised if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards or if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards and has not retained control. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the contractual obligations are settled, withdrawn or have expired. The item other financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position of RHI Magnesita includes shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries and other investments, securities, financial receivables and positive fair values of derivative financial instruments. The item other financial liabilities includes negative fair values of derivative financial instruments as well as liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests. Shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries (RHI Magnesita exercises control but the subsidiary is not-fully consolidated due to materiality reasons), investments in other companies as well as securities are classified as at fair value through profit or loss in the RHI Magnesita Group. For materiality reasons if such financial assets are of minor significance cost serves as an approximation of fair value. Directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Securities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value and changes therein, including any interest income, are recognised in profit or loss. Financial receivables are measured at amortised cost applying the effective interest method. Any doubt concerning the collectability of the receivables is reflected in the use of the lower present value of the expected future cash flows according to the impairment model described below. Foreign currency receivables are translated at the closing rate. Derivative financial instruments, which are not part of an effective hedging relationship in accordance with IFRS 9 or do not meet the hedge accounting requirements, must be classified as at fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value through profit or loss. In the RHI Magnesita Group, this measurement category includes derivatives related to purchase obligations, forward exchange contracts, embedded derivatives in open orders that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps. 141 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Derivative financial instruments relating to purchase obligations are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 and concern a long-term power supply contract which provides for the purchase of fixed amounts of electricity at fixed prices. The measurement is made taking into account quoted electricity prices in the futures market. Based on the fixed amounts of electricity, the cash flows for the entire term of the contract are initially determined as the difference between forward rates and contractually fixed prices and discounted at the reporting date using a cost of borrowing rate corresponding to the term. The measurement effects resulting from this electricity derivative are shown as gain or loss from derivatives from supply contracts in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The measurement of forward exchange contracts and embedded derivatives in open orders denominated in a currency other than the functional currency is made on a case-by-case basis at the respective forward rate on the reporting date. These forward rates are based on spot rates, and also include forward premiums and discounts. Unrealised valuation gains or losses and results from the realisation are recognised to the Statement of Profit or Loss under net expense of foreign exchange effects and related derivatives. The underlying transactions for the derivatives are carried at amortised cost. For derivative financial instruments, which are incorporated in an effective hedging relationship in accordance with IFRS 9, the provisions regarding hedge accounting are applied. RHI Magnesita has concluded derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flow risk of financial liabilities carrying variable interest. Hedging transactions are shown as part of cash flow hedge accounting. The interest rate swaps as hedging instruments are measured at fair value, which corresponds to the amount which RHI Magnesita would receive or has to pay on the reporting date when the financial instrument is terminated. The fair value is calculated using the interest rates and yield curves relevant on the reporting date. The effective part of the fair value changes is initially recorded in other comprehensive income as an unrealised gain or loss. Only at the time of the realisation of the underlying transaction, the contribution of the hedging instrument is shown in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Ineffective parts of the fair value changes of cash flow hedges are recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If the underlying transaction is no longer expected to take place, the accumulated amount previously recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and presented in the currency translation difference reserve within equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative amount of any such gains or losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income is reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss. The Group uses a loan to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries. Capital shares of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries with a fixed term are recognised under other financial liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in accordance with IAS 32. The liabilities are measured at amortised cost. The share of profit attributable to non-controlling interests is recognised under other net financial expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Dividend payments to non-controlling interests reduce liabilities. Furthermore, the RHI Magnesita Group has entered into purchase obligations with non-controlling shareholders of a subsidiary. Based on these agreements, the shareholders receive the right to tender their shares at any time on previously defined conditions. In this case, IAS 32 provides for carrying a liability in the amount of the probable future exercise price. The difference between the estimated liability and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest was recognised to equity at the time of initial recognition without affecting profit or loss. Subsequently, the liability to puttable non-controlling interests is measured at amortised cost and changes are recorded in net finance costs. Impairment of financial assets Impairment of financial instruments is based on expected credit losses (ECL). Expected credit losses are defined as the difference between all contractual cash flows the entity is entitled to according to the contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive. The measurement of expected credit losses is generally a function of the probability of default, loss given default and the exposure at default. RHI Magnesita recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that are measured at amortised cost, trade receivables and contract assets. The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables and contract assets by applying the simplified approach. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are generally estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience for customer groups located in different geographic regions. Forward-looking information is incorporated in the determination of the applicable loss rates for trade receivables. For the Group, the general economic development of the countries in which it sells its goods and services is the relevant for the determination if adjustment of the historical loss rates is necessary. 142 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL. Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. RHI Magnesita makes use of the practical expedient that if a financial instrument has an ‘investment grade’ rating that it is assumed to be of low credit risk and no significant increase in the credit risk took place and the expected credit loss is calculated using the 12-month ECL. Among other factors the Group considers a significant increase in credit risk to have taken place when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The Group considers the following as constituting an event of default, hence leading to a credit-impaired financial asset:  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;  a breach of contract;  the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower concessions that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;  it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;  the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties. In addition to these factors, RHI Magnesita applies the presumption in regard to trade receivables, that a default event has occurred when such receivables are 180 days past due unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information for anything different. 180 days past due are used as an objective evidence of default as this is presumed to reflect the Group’s customer industry. For those financial instruments where objective evidence of default is present an individual assessment on expected credit losses takes place. Generally, financial instruments are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are recognised on temporary differences between the tax base and the IFRS carrying amount of assets and liabilities, taxloss carryforwards and consolidation entries. Deferred tax assets are recognised on temporary differences to the extent it is probable that sufficient deferred tax liabilities exist or that sufficient taxable income before the reversal of temporary differences is available for the settlement of deductible temporary differences. Deferred taxes are recognised on temporary differences relating to shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the parent company is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse. No temporary differences are recognised for financial instruments which were issued by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests and which are classified as a financial liability in accordance with IFRS. The calculation of deferred taxes is based on the tax rate expected in the individual countries at the time the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled and generally reflects the enacted or substantively enacted tax rate on the reporting date. As in the previous year, deferred taxes of the Austrian group companies are determined at the corporation tax rate of 25.0%. Deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Brazilian group companies are measured mainly at 34.0%. Tax rates from 12.5% to 34% (31.12.2018: 12.5% to 34.9%) were applied to the other companies. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is an enforceable right to offset current tax receivables against current tax liabilities, and if the deferred taxes relate to income taxes due from/to the same tax authorities. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value as of the reporting date. The determination of acquisition cost of purchased inventories is based on the average cost. Finished goods and work in process are valued at fixed and variable production cost. The 143 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business minus any estimated cost to complete and to sell the goods. Impairments due to reduced usability are reflected in the calculation of the net realisable value. Trade and other current receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional, unless they contain significant financing components when they are recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost minus any valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are calculated in accordance with the simplified approach of the impairment model for financial instruments (see impairment of financial assets above). In case of factoring arrangements trade receivables are derecognised if RHI Magnesita transfers substantially all the risks and rewards or does not retain control. Receivables denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the closing rate. Emission certificates Emission certificates acquired for a consideration are carried at cost and recognised to profit and loss in cost of sales when used up, written down to fair value or sold. In the case of a shortfall, a provision is recognised equivalent to the fair value of the lacking emission certificates. Emission certificates allocated free of charge are not accounted for. Proceeds from the sale of these rights are recognised as revenue. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, cheques received and cash at banks with an original term of a maximum of three months. Moreover, shares in money market funds, which are only exposed to insignificant value fluctuations due to their high credit rating and investments in extremely short-term money market instruments and can be converted to defined cash amounts within a few days at any time, are also recorded under cash equivalents under IAS 7. Cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate. Disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups which can be sold in their present state and whose sale is highly probable are classified as held for sale. Assets and liabilities which are intended to be sold together in a single transaction represent a disposal group held for sale and are shown separately from other assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position. Non-current assets and disposal groups which are classified as held for sale are carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying amount. Impairments are initially allocated to existing goodwill and then to the non-current assets on a pro-rata basis, based on the carrying amount of each individual asset of the disposal group. Impairments beyond that are allocated to current assets pursuant to the liquidity principle and recognised through profit or loss in the item other expenses. Non-current assets are not depreciated as long as they are classified as held for sale. Borrowings and other financial liabilities Financial liabilities include liabilities to financial institutions and other lenders and are measured at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs at initial recognition. In subsequent measurements these liabilities are measured at amortised cost applying the effective interest method. Financial liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the closing rate. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged (by payment or legal release), cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is subsequently recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, including any costs or fees. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group incurs a legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet this obligation, and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. 144 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Non-current provisions are measured at their discounted settlement value as of the reporting date if the discounting effect is material. If maturities cannot be estimated, they are shown under current provisions. Provisions for pensions With respect to post-employment benefits, a differentiation is made between defined contribution and defined benefit plans. Defined contribution plans limit the company’s obligation to the agreed amount of contributions to earmarked pension plans. The related expenses are shown in the functional areas and thus in EBIT. Defined benefit plans require the company to provide the agreed amount of benefits to active and former employees and their dependents, with a differentiation made between pension systems financed through provisions and pension systems financed by external funds. For pension plans financed through external funds, the pension obligation according to the projected unit credit method is netted out against the fair value of the plan assets. If the plan assets are not sufficient to cover the obligation, the net obligation is recognised under provisions for pensions. However, if the plan assets exceed the obligations, the asset recognised is limited to reductions of future contribution payments to the plan and is shown under other non-current assets. The present value of defined benefit obligations for current pensions, future pension benefits and similar obligations and the related expenses are calculated separately for each plan annually by independent qualified actuaries in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19. The present value of future benefits is based on the length of service, expected wage/salary developments and pension adjustments. The expense to be recognised in a period includes current and past service costs, settlement gains and losses, interest expenses from the interest accrued on obligations, interest income from plan assets and administration costs paid from plan assets. The net interest expense is shown separately in net finance costs. All other expenses related to defined benefit plans are allocated to the costs of the relevant functional areas. Actuarial assumptions required to calculate these obligations, include the discount rate, increases in wages/salaries and pensions, retirement starting age and probability of employee turnover and actual claims. The calculation is based on local demographic parameters. Interest rates used are the rates on high-quality corporate bonds issued with comparable maturities and currencies are applied to determine the present value of pension obligations. In countries where there is not a sufficiently liquid market for high-quality corporate bonds, the returns on government bonds are used as a basis. The rates of increase for wages/salaries were based on an average of past years, which is also considered to be realistic for the future. The fluctuation probabilities were estimated specific to age or seniority. The retirement age used for the calculation is based on the respective statutory provisions of the country concerned. The calculation is based on the earliest possible retirement age according to the current statutory provisions of the respective country, among other things depending on gender and date of birth. Remeasurement gains and losses are recorded net of deferred taxes under other comprehensive income in the period incurred. Other personnel provisions Other personnel provisions include provisions for termination benefits, service anniversary bonuses, payments to semi-retirees, sharebased payments and lump-sum settlements. Provisions for termination benefits are primarily related to obligations to employees whose employment is subject to Austrian law. Employees who joined an Austrian company before 31 December 2002 receive a one-off lump-sum termination benefit as defined by Austrian labour legislation if the employer terminates the employment relationship or when the employee retires. The termination payment depends on the relevant salary at the time of the termination as well as the number of years of service and ranges between two and 12 monthly salaries. These obligations are measured in accordance with IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method applying an accumulation period of 25 years. Remeasurement gains and losses are recorded directly to other comprehensive income after considering tax effects and shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. For employees who joined an Austrian company after 31 December 2002, employers are required to make regular contributions equal to 1.53% of the monthly wage/salary to a statutory termination benefit scheme. The company has no further obligations. Claims by employ145 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued ees to termination benefits are filed with the statutory termination benefit scheme, while the regular contributions are treated like defined contribution pension plans and included under personnel expenses of the functional areas. Service anniversary bonuses are one-time special payments that are dependent on the employee’s wage/salary and length of service. The employer is required by collective bargaining agreements or company agreements to make these payments after an employee has reached a certain number of uninterrupted years of service with the same company. Obligations are mainly related to service anniversary bonuses in Austrian and German group companies. Under IAS 19 service anniversary bonuses are treated as other long-term employee benefits. Provisions for service anniversary bonuses are calculated based on the projected unit credit method. Remeasurement gains or losses are recorded in the personnel costs of the functional areas in the period incurred. Local labour laws and other similar regulations require individual group companies to create provisions for semi-retirement obligations. The obligations are partially covered by qualified plan assets and are reported on a net basis in the Statement of Financial Position. In 2018, the Remuneration Committee of RHI Magnesita approved a new Remuneration Policy for the members of senior management of the Group. Based on this new long-term incentive programme, share-options are granted. Each reporting date the provisional amount per due date is recognised in equity. Obligations for lump-sum settlements are based on company agreements in individual companies. Other provisions Provisions for warranties are created for individual contracts at the time of the sale of the goods concerned or after the service has been provided. The amounts of the provisions are based on the expected or actual warranty claims. Provisions for restructuring are created providing a detailed formal restructuring plan has been developed and announced prior to the reporting date or whose implementation was commenced prior to the reporting date. The Group recognises provisions for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages. RHI Magnesita’s facilities and its refractory, exploration and mining operations are subject to environmental and governmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws govern, among other things, reclamation or restoration of the environment in mined areas and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Provisions for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages include the estimated demolition and disposal costs of plants and buildings as well as environmental restoration costs arising from mining activities, based on the present value of estimated cash flows of the expected costs. The estimated future costs of deactivation of assets are reviewed annually and adjusted, if appropriate. A provision for an onerous or unfavourable contract is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The non-current provisions are measured at the present value of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract which exceed the economic benefits expected to arise from that contract. Provisions for labour and civil contingencies are recognised for all risks referring to legal proceedings that represent probable loss. Assessment of the likelihood of loss includes analysis of available evidence, including the opinion of internal and external legal advisors of the RHI Magnesita Group. Trade payables and other current liabilities These liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequently measured at amortised cost.Liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate. Government grants Government grants to promote investments are recognised as deferred income and released through profit or loss over the useful life of the relevant asset distributed on a straight-line basis. Grants that were granted as compensation for expenses or losses are recognised to profit or loss in the periods in which the subsidised expenses are incurred. In the RHI Magnesita Group, they mainly include grants for research and employee development. Grants for research are recorded as income in general and administrative expenses. 146 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Revenue and expenses Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The transaction price is the expected consideration to be received, to the extent that it is highly probable that there will not be a significant reversal of revenue in future periods. If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods or services to the customer. The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The average credit term is 60 days upon transfer of goods or service. The Group is using the practical expedient in IFRS 15 and does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of the promised good or service to the customer and payment will be one year or less. At contract inception, the Group identifies the goods or services promised in the contract and assesses which of the promised goods or services shall be identified as separate performance obligations. Promised goods or services give rise to separate performance obligations if they are capable of being distinct. Revenue is recognised as control is transferred, either over time or at a point of time. Control is defined as the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from an asset. Regarding delivery contracts of refractory products the goods promised are distinct and control of the goods is passed to the customer typically when physical possession has been transferred to the customer. The transport service does not give rise to a separate performance obligation to which a part of revenue would have to be allocated, as this service is performed before control of the products is transferred to the customer. In consignment arrangements, RHI Magnesita Group ships products to a customer but retains control of the goods until a predetermined event occurs. Revenue is not recognised on delivery of the products to the customer if the delivered products are held on consignment, but generally when the withdrawal of the products from the consignment stock occurs. Most of the products within consignment arrangements have a high stock turn rate. The Group provides services (e.g. supervision, installation) that are either sold separately or bundled together with the sale of products to a customer. Contracts for bundled sales of products and installation services are comprised of two performance obligations as the promises to transfer products and provide services are capable of being distinct and separately identifiable. Accordingly, the transaction price allocated is based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the product and services. Revenue from services is recognised over time, using an input method to measure progress towards complete satisfaction of the service, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group. Contracts for bundled sales of refractory products and non-refractory products (e.g. machines) provided to the customer free of charge comprise two performance obligations that are separately identifiable. Consequently, the Group allocates the transaction price based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of these performance obligations and allocates revenue to the non-refractory product which is delivered free of charge. For contracts in the Steel segment with variable payment arrangements (transaction price depends on the customer’s production performance) management has determined that the promise to transfer each of the products and services to the customer is not separately identifiable from all the other promises in the context of such contracts. Therefore, only one single performance obligation exists the performance of a management refractory service. Further information is provided under Note (10). With regards to these contracts, revenue is recognised over time on the basis using the output-oriented method (e.g. quantity of steel produced in the customer aggregate serviced). Expected penalty fees from guaranteed durabilities when using refractory products are considered as a variable consideration in the form of a contract or a refund liability. Based on the expected value method, the amount of the variable consideration is estimated. The estimation of the variable consideration is not subject to a constraint as the Group has significant experience with promising durabilities. Once the uncertainty related to guaranteed durabilities ceases to exist, a significant reversal of revenue is highly unlikely. All other warranties guarantee that the transferred products correspond to the contractually agreed specifications and are classified as assurance type warranties. Consequently, no separate distinct performance obligation to the customer exists. If transfer of goods or services to a customer is performed before the customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset, excluding any amounts presented as a receivable is recognised. A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer. If a customer pays consideration before the entity transfers a good or service to the customer, the entity shall present the contract as a contract liability when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). A contract liability is an entity’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. 147 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Contract costs are the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and must be recognised as an asset if the company expects to recover those costs. As a practical expedient, RHI Magnesita expenses such costs when incurred, if the amortisation period would be 12 months or less. In general, the term of customer contracts in accordance with IFRS 15 is no longer than one year. Therefore, the Group decided, as a practical expedient, not to disclose the remaining performance obligations for contracts with original expected duration of less than one year. Expenses are recognised to the Statement of Profit or Loss when a service is consumed, or the costs are incurred. Interest income and expenses are recognised in accordance with the effective interest method. Dividends from investments that are not accounted for using the equity method are recognised to profit and loss at the time the legal claim arises. Income taxes are recognised according to the local regulations applicable to each company. Current and deferred income taxes are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss unless they are related to items which were recorded directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. In such a case, income taxes are also recorded in equity or other comprehensive income. RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria, acts as the head of a corporate tax group. A tax compensation agreement was concluded in 2017 between the head of the group and eight Austrian group members. According to the group and tax compensation agreement, the members of the group have to pay a positive tax compensation of 20% of the taxable profit to the head of the group if the result is positive, as long as tax loss carry forwards exist with the head of the group; subsequently 25% of the taxable profit have to be paid. In case of a tax loss of the group member, the head of the group has to pay a negative tax compensation to the member of the group, with a rate of 12.5% being applied insofar as the loss can be utilised within the group. In case the losses of a group member were compensated (negative tax allocation payment) and this group member generates taxable income within the next three years (after compensation), the positive tax allocation amounts to 12.5%. In case of a loss in the tax group, an unused tax loss of a group member is retained and offset against future taxable profits of the group member. When the contract is terminated, a compensation payment is agreed for unused tax losses of a group member, which were allocated to the head of the group. In Germany, Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, acts as the head of a tax group for corporate and trade tax purposes. The seven tax group members are obliged to transfer their profit or loss to Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft based on a profit or loss transfer agreement. Additionally, Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, acts as the head of a tax group for VAT purposes with ten German tax group members. Furthermore, Rearden G Holdings Eins GmbH, Hagen, acts as the head of a two-level structure tax group with four group members for corporate, trade tax and VAT purposes. 9. Segment reporting The RHI Magnesita Group comprises the operating segments Steel and Industrial. The segmentation of the business activities reflects the internal control and reporting structures and is regularly reported to the Chief Executive Officer. The Steel segment specialises in supporting customers in the steel-producing and steel-processing industry. The Industrial segment serves customers in the glass, cement/lime, non-ferrous metals and environment, energy, chemicals industries. The main activities of the two segments consist of market development, global sales of high-grade refractory bricks, mixes and special products as well as providing services at the customers’ sites. The globally located manufacturing sites, which extract and process raw materials, are combined in one organisational unit. The allocation of manufacturing cost of the production plants to the Steel and Industrial Divisions is based on the supply flow. Statements of Profit or Loss up to gross profit are available for each segment. The gross profit serves the management of the RHI Magnesita Group for internal performance management. Selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, restructuring and write-down expenses, other income and expenses, profit of joint ventures, net finance costs and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated. Segment assets include trade receivables and inventories, which are available to the operating segments and are reported to the management for control and measurement, as well as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, which are allocated to the segments based on the capacity of the assets provided to the segments. All other assets are not allocated. The recognition of segment assets is determined on the basis of the accounting and measurement methods applied to the IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements. 148 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Data on revenue by country are disclosed by the sites of the customers. Data on non-current assets (goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment) are disclosed on the basis of the respective locations of the companies of the RHI Magnesita Group. 10. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty The RHI Magnesita Group used forward-looking assumptions and estimates, especially with respect to business combinations, noncurrent assets, valuation adjustments to inventories and receivables, provisions and income taxes to a certain extent in the application of accounting and measurement methods. The estimates are based on comparable values in the past, plan data and other findings regarding transactions to be accounted. The actual values may ultimately deviate from the assumptions and estimates made. The resulting changes in value of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses are accounted for in the reporting period in which the change is made and in the affected future reporting periods. Critical accounting judgments Revenue recognition For customer contracts in the Steel segment with variable payment arrangements where the transaction price depends on the customer’s production performance, (e.g. quantity of steel produced) management has determined that the commitment to transfer each of the products and services to the customer is not separately identifiable from the other commitments in the context of such contracts. The customer expects complete refractory management for the agreed product areas in the steel plant in order to enable steel production. Thus, only one performance obligation, performance of a management refractory service, exists. Trade payables subject to supply chain finance arrangements RHI Magnesita participates in supply chain finance arrangements whereby raw material suppliers may elect to receive a discounted early payment of their invoice from a bank rather than being paid in line with the agreed contractual payment terms. The Group settles the amount owed to the bank. The invoice due date as well as the value of the original liability remains unaltered. RHI Magnesita assesses that these arrangements do not modify the terms of the original trade payable, and therefore financial liabilities subject to supply chain finance arrangements continue to be classified as trade payables. There are no other critical accounting judgments made in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Business combinations (initial consolidation) Estimates relating to the calculation of fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are required within the context of business combinations. If intangible assets are identified, estimates are necessary for the determination of fair values by means of discounted cash flows, including the duration, amount of future cash flows, and discount rate. When determining the fair value of land, buildings and technical plant, above all the estimate of comparability of the reference objects with the objects subject to valuation is discretionary. When making estimates in the context of purchase price allocations on major acquisitions, RHI Magnesita consults with independent experts who accompany the execution of the discretionary decisions and record it in appraisal documents. Impairment of intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment Intangible assets with a finite useful life and property, plant and equipment must be tested for impairment when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amounts of these assets amounted to €1,424.0 million at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €1,427.4 million). In accordance with IAS 36, such impairment losses are determined through comparisons with the discounted future cash flows expected from the related assets of the cash-generating units (CGUs). As part of the annual planning process, the impairment test is conducted for the CGUs defined in the RHI Magnesita Group, thus considering all changes resulting from updates of strategic planning. Sensitivity analyses are also performed as part of the impairment test. In their calculation one of the main parameters is changed as follows: increase in the discount rate by 10%, reduction in the form of the contribution margin by 10% and reduction of the growth rate in terminal value by 50%. In all CGUs, these simulations do not result in impairments. Likewise, in all CGUs a reduction of the discount rate by 10%, an increase in profitability in the form of the contribution margin by 10% and an increase in the growth rate in terminal value by 50% do not result in reversals of impairments. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful life The effect of an adverse change by plus 10% in the estimated interest rates as of 31 December 2019 or by minus 10% in the contribution margin would not result in an impairment of goodwill recognised (carrying amount 31.12.2019: 117.5 million, 31.12.2018: €117.4 million) nor in an impairment charge to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives (carrying amount at 31.12.2019 and 31.12.2018: €1.8 million). 149 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Management uses its experience to estimate the remaining useful life of an asset. The actual useful life of an asset may be impacted by an unexpected event that may result in an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset. Provisions for pensions and termination benefits The present value of pension and termination benefit obligations depends on several factors, which are based on actuarial assumptions such as interest rates, future salary and pension increases as well as life expectancy. Due to the long-term nature of these obligations, these assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. The following sensitivity analysis shows the change in present value of the pension and termination benefit obligations if one key parameter changes, while the other influences are maintained constant. In reality, it is rather unlikely that these influences do not correlate. The present value of the pension obligations for the sensitivities shown was calculated using the same method as for the actual present value of the pension obligations (projected unit credit method). 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Change of assumption in percentage points Termination Termination in € million or years Pension plans benefits Pension plans benefits Present value of the obligations 557.9 52.0 506.6 55.5 Interest rate +0.25 (17.1) (1.4) (14.0) (1.5) (0.25) 17.4 1.4 15.0 1.5 Salary increase +0.25 1.1 1.4 0.9 1.5 (0.25) (1.2) (1.3) (1.7) (1.4) Pension increase +0.25 11.6 10.3 (0.25) (11.4) (10.1) Life expectancy +1 year 21.0 17.2 (1) year (20.7) (17.3) These changes would have no immediate effect on the result of the period as remeasurement gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income without impact on profit or loss. The assumptions regarding the interest rate are reviewed semi-annually; all other assumptions are reviewed at the end of the year. Other provisions The recognition and measurement of other provisions totalling €168.3 million (31.12.2018: €162.2 million) were based on the best possible estimates using the information available at the reporting date. The estimates take into account the underlying legal relationships and are performed by internal experts or, when appropriate, also by external experts. Despite the best possible assumptions and estimates, cash outflows expected at the reporting day may deviate from actual cash outflows. As soon as additional information is available, the estimates made are reviewed and provisions are also adjusted. The majority of the provisions refers to an unfavourable contract which was recognised in the course of the acquisition of Magnesita and is mainly based on an estimate of forgone profit margins compared to market conditions. Income taxes The calculation of income taxes of RHI Magnesita N.V. and its subsidiaries is based on the tax laws applicable in the individual countries. Due to their complexity, the tax items presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements may be subject to different interpretations by local finance authorities. When determining the amount of the capitalisable deferred tax assets, an estimate is required of future taxable income. Should the future taxable profit deviate by 10% from the assumption made on the reporting date within the planning period defined for the accounting and measurement of deferred taxes, the net position of deferred tax assets amounting to €127.9 million (31.12.2018: €92.7 million) would have to be increased by €1.7 million (31.12.2018: €0.6 million) or reduced by €2.0 million (31.12.2018: €0.6 million). 150 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 11. Goodwill Goodwill developed as follows: in € million 2019 2018 Cost at beginning of the year 119.3 122.1 Currency translation 0.1 (2.8) Cost at year-end 119.4 119.3 Accumulated impairment at beginning of the year (1.9) (1.9) Accumulated impairment at year-end (1.9) (1.9) Carrying amount at year-end 117.5 117.4 12. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets changed as follows in the financial year 2019: Internally Customer generated Other intangible in € million Mining rights relationship intangible assets assets Total Cost at 31.12.2018 169.4 108.7 50.5 129.2 457.8 Currency translation (0.3) 0.6 0.1 0.6 1.0 Additions 0.0 0.0 3.4 6.3 9.7 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 (1.6) (4.4) (6.0) Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.4 2.4 Cost at 31.12.2019 169.1 109.3 52.4 134.1 464.9 Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2018 4.7 17.8 34.1 66.8 123.4 Currency translation 0.0 (0.1) 0.1 0.4 0.4 Amortisation charges 3.3 7.5 4.5 11.1 26.4 Impairment charges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 (1.6) (3.3) (4.9) Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2019 8.0 25.2 37.1 75.6 145.9 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2019 161.1 84.1 15.3 58.5 319.0 151 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Other intangible assets changed as follows in the previous year: Internally Customer generated Other intangible in € million Mining rights relationship intangible assets assets Total Cost at 31.12.2017 179.2 100.0 47.6 143.1 469.9 Currency translation (9.8) (2.1) 0.0 (2.6) (14.5) Additions 0.0 0.0 2.9 1.2 4.1 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.5) (2.5) Reclassifications 0.0 10.8 0.0 (10.0) 0.8 Cost at 31.12.2018 169.4 108.7 50.5 129.2 457.8 Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2017 0.8 1.1 30.2 64.8 96.9 Currency translation 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.8) (0.8) Amortisation charges 3.9 6.5 3.9 14.3 28.6 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (1.3) (1.3) Reclassifications 0.0 10.2 0.0 (10.2) 0.0 Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2018 4.7 17.8 34.1 66.8 123.4 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2018 164.7 90.9 16.4 62.4 334.4 Internally generated intangible assets comprise capitalised software and product development costs. The customer relations of Magnesita have a carrying amount of €83.6 million (31.12.2018: €90.0 million) and a remaining useful life of 9 to 13 years. Other intangible assets include in particular acquired patents, trademark rights, software, and land use rights. The land use rights have a carrying amount of €23.0 million (31.12.2018: €23.4 million) and a remaining useful life of 18 to 58 years. There are no restrictions on the sale of intangible assets. 152 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment developed as follows in the year 2019 and in the previous year: Real Prepayments estate, Technical Other plant, made and land and Raw material equipment, furniture and plant under Right-of-use in € million buildings deposits machinery fixtures construction assets Total Cost at 31.12.2018 618.4 37.5 1,166.9 311.5 132.4 0.0 2,266.7 Initial recognition IFRS 16 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 62.0 62.0 Currency translation 0.4 (0.2) 1.7 0.9 (0.5) 0.5 2.8 Additions 3.4 (1.0) 11.6 7.4 132.2 17.7 171.3 Reassessment / Modification of leases (IFRS 16) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (3.9) (3.9) Retirements and disposals (1.5) (0.5) (21.2) (12.8) (0.8) (0.2) (37.0) Reclassifications 20.6 0.8 51.4 14.6 (89.8) 0.0 (2.4) Cost at 31.12.2019 641.3 36.6 1,210.4 321.6 173.5 76.1 2,459.5 Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2018 261.8 22.5 657.2 230.3 0.1 0.0 1,171.9 Currency translation 0.5 (0.2) 1.5 0.9 0.0 0.1 2.8 Depreciation charges 13.4 1.6 99.0 17.7 0.0 14.5 146.2 Impairment charges 8.9 0.0 38.7 1.1 5.9 10.5 65.1 Retirements and disposals (1.3) (0.3) (19.3) (12.2) 0.0 (0.2) (33.3) Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2019 283.3 23.6 777.1 237.8 6.0 24.9 1,352.7 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2019 358.0 13.0 433.3 83.8 167.5 51.2 1,106.8 Real Prepayments estate, Technical Other plant, made and land and Raw material equipment, furniture and plant under in € million buildings deposits machinery fixtures construction Total Cost at 31.12.2017 630.1 33.8 1,155.6 298.2 99.4 2,217.1 Currency translation (14.8) (0.7) (22.8) (3.0) (3.8) (45.1) Additions 2.9 0.3 9.1 11.2 99.4 122.9 Retirements and disposals (8.3) 0.0 (12.4) (6.7) 0.0 (27.4) Reclassifications 8.5 4.1 37.4 11.8 (62.6) (0.8) Cost at 31.12.2018 618.4 37.5 1,166.9 311.5 132.4 2,266.7 Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2017 256.8 21.3 575.8 220.7 0.8 1,075.4 Currency translation (1.1) (0.1) (1.5) (1.1) 0.0 (3.8) Depreciation charges 12.8 1.3 93.9 16.8 0.0 124.8 Retirements and disposals (6.9) 0.0 (11.3) (6.3) 0.0 (24.5) Reclassifications 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.2 (0.7) 0.0 Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2018 261.8 22.5 657.2 230.3 0.1 1,171.9 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2018 356.6 15.0 509.7 81.2 132.3 1,094.8 153 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The item prepayments made and plant under construction includes plant under construction with a carrying amount of €163.5 million (31.12.2018: €129.9 million), with the sinterplant and the brickplant in Chizhou, China, representing the largest investment project under construction in 2019 as well as the modification of the smelter at the site in Radenthein, Austria, representing the largest investment project under construction in 2018. Information on impairment is provided under Note (8). There are no restrictions on the sale of property, plant and equipment. 14. Investments in joint ventures and associates The following investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method in the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Investments in joint ventures 19.5 19.6 Investments in associates 0.0 2.2 Carrying amount at year-end 19.5 21.8 Joint ventures The RHI Magnesita Group holds a share of 50% (2018: 50%) in MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG (“MAGNIFIN”), a private company based in St. Jakob, Austria. The company’s core business activity is the production and sale of halogen-free flame retardants for plastics. The investment in MAGNIFIN is treated as a financial investment. MAGNIFIN is set up as an independent vehicle. RHI Magnesita has a residual interest in the net assets of the company and accordingly classified its share as a joint venture. There are no listed market prices available. The following table summarises the income and expenses of MAGNIFIN: in € million 2019 2018 Revenue 39.4 38.8 Profit before income tax 20.0 17.9 Depreciation 1.5 1.5 Interest expense 0.1 0.2 Other comprehensive (loss)/income (0.3) 0.0 Total comprehensive income 19.7 17.9 Income taxes on the share of profit of MAGNIFIN amounting to €2.5 million (2018: €2.4 million) are recognised by the head of the tax group, RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria, due to the legal form of the joint venture and transferred to Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria, in accordance with the provisions of the tax compensation agreement. 154 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The net assets of MAGNIFIN are shown in the table below: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Non-current assets 8.3 8.9 Current assets (without cash and cash equivalents) 14.7 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents 13.4 16.5 Non-current liabilities and provisions (3.9) (4.0) Current provisions (1.2) (1.3) Trade payables and other current liabilities (3.2) (2.9) Net assets 28.1 28.4 The movement in the carrying amount of the share in MAGNIFIN in the RHI Magnesita’s Consolidated Financial Statements is shown below: in € million 2019 2018 Proportional share of net assets at beginning of year 14.3 15.7 Share of profit 10.5 9.4 Share of other comprehensive income (remeasurement losses) (0.1) 0.0 Dividends received (10.5) (10.8) Other changes in value (0.1) 0.0 Proportional share of net assets at year-end 14.1 14.3 Goodwill 4.9 4.9 Carrying amount of investment at year-end 19.0 19.2 In the course of the acquisition of Magnesita in 2017 the Group acquired interests in an immaterial joint venture with a carrying amount of €0.5 million as of 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €0.4 million). The Group’s share of the profit after income tax, other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in 2019 amounts to less than €0.1 million (2018: €0.3 million). Associates As part of the acquisition of Magnesita in 2017 the Group acquired two immaterial associated companies with a carrying amount of €0.0 million as of 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €2.2 million). The Group’s share of the profit after income tax and total comprehensive income for 2019 amounts to €0.7 million. In 2018 the Group’s share of the profit after income tax amounted to €0.3 million, total comprehensive income including other comprehensive income of €0.1 million amounted to €0.4 million. In 2019 the Group has decided to restructure its Sinterdolime sourcing options in Europe and increase its vertical integration. As a result, it will exit from the equity accounted investment in Sinterco in 2021. In the course of the Magnesita purchase price allocation the fair value of the investment was determined as zero due to its economic performance. It is RHI Magnesita's best estimate that no additional cash contributions will be needed to cover the closing cost based on the current operations and determined exit plan. However, the current shareholders’ loan to Sinterco is fully written off, which results in a €9.6 million impairment in 2019, shown in result of joint ventures and associates. The other immaterial associated company Krosaki Magnesita Refractories is in liquidation as of 31 December 2019. 155 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 15. Other non-current financial assets Other non-current financial assets consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Interests in subsidiaries not consolidated 0.7 0.7 Marketable securities and shares 13.8 15.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.6 Other non-current financial receivables 0.9 1.7 Other non-current financial assets 15.4 18.0 Accumulated impairments on investments, securities and shares amounted to €3.5 million (31.12.2018: €4.3 million). 16. Other non-current assets Other non-current assets include the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Tax receivables 27.4 20.7 Prepaid stripping costs 6.9 6.8 Judicial deposits 4.5 3.7 Plan assets from overfunded pension plans 0.2 2.1 Prepaid expenses 0.5 1.0 Other non-current assets 39.5 34.3 Prepaid expenses for stripping costs arising from mining raw materials in a surface mine are included in non-current assets due to the planned use of the mine. Tax receivables relate to input tax credits, which are expected to be utilised in the medium term. 17. Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are related to the following significant balance sheet items and loss carryforwards: 31.12.2019 2019 31.12.2018 2018 Deferred tax Deferred tax in € million Deferred tax assets liabilities (Expense)/Income Deferred tax assets liabilities (Expense)/Income Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 26.5 136.4 30.2 20.1 159.7 25.1 Inventories 27.8 3.5 (6.0) 33.3 5.6 9.8 Trade receivables, other assets 21.0 11.7 8.5 7.7 7.1 24.8 Pensions and other personnel provisions 78.7 0.0 (1.9) 69.6 (0.2) (2.3) Other provisions 25.2 5.5 (4.8) 26.1 1.6 0.1 Trade payables, other liabilities 24.2 5.2 3.0 18.0 4.4 (10.6) Tax loss carried forward 86.8 0.0 (7.1) 96.1 (29.9) Offsetting (108.3) (108.3) ‐ (99.8) (99.8) Deferred taxes 181.9 54.0 21.9 171.1 78.4 17.0 156 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 As of 31 December 2019, subsidiaries which generated tax losses in the past year or the previous year recognised net deferred tax assets on temporary differences and on tax loss carryforwards of €61.5 million (31.12.2018: €47.8 million). Deferred tax assets have been recognised because the companies concerned are expected to generate taxable income in the future. Tax loss carryforwards totalled €494.5 million in the RHI Magnesita Group as of 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €467.7 million). A significant part of the tax loss carryforwards originated in Brazil and Austria where their deduction can be carried forward indefinitely. Furthermore, there are substantial tax loss carryforwards in China expiring within the next five years. The annual compensation of tax loss carryforwards in Austria is limited to 75% and in Brazil to 30% of the respective taxable profits. Deferred taxes on tax losses of €212.7 million (31.12.2018: €155.1 million) were not recognised. Of these losses, €0,1 million will expire in 2020, €0,4 million in 2022, €25,4 million in 2023, €7.8 million in 2024, €1.0 million in 2027 and €1.8 million in 2028 (31.12.2018: €5.8 million in 2021),while the remainder will be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, no deferred tax assets were recognised for temporary differences totalling €1.4 million (31.12.2018: €5.1 million) as it is not sufficiently probable that they can be used. The deductible temporary differences can be carried forward indefinitely. Taxable temporary differences of €965.0 million (31.12.2018: €1,085.7 million) and deductible temporary differences of €545.0 million (31.12.2018: €501.1 million) were not recognised on shares in subsidiaries because the corresponding distributions of profit or the sale of the investments are controlled by the Group and are not expected in the foreseeable future. The maturity structure of deferred taxes is shown in the table below: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 in € million Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Deferred tax assets 140.6 41.3 181.9 78.0 93.1 171.1 Deferred tax liabilities (9) (45.0) (54.0) 2.9 (81.3) (78.4) 18. Inventories Inventories as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Raw materials and supplies 134.5 176.8 Work in progress 123.9 140.8 Finished products and goods 334.0 391.9 Prepayments made 10.3 8.3 Inventories 602.7 717.8 Inventories include €2.8 million (31.12.2018: €2.3 million) carried at net realisable value. Net impairment losses amount to €8.0 million (2018: €-2.6 million). There are no restrictions on the disposal of inventories. 157 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 19. Trade and other current receivables Trade and other current receivables as presented in the Statement of Financial Position are classified as follows: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Trade receivables 317.5 349.9 Contract assets 1.9 1.9 Other taxes receivable 84.9 87.6 Receivables from joint ventures and associates 2.1 11.3 Prepaid expenses 2.3 3.0 Receivables from disposal of investments 0.0 2.6 Receivables from property transactions 2.7 2.2 Emission rights 1.7 1.7 Receivables from employees 3.4 1.7 Receivables from non-consolidated subsidiaries 0.2 0.3 Other current receivables 16.0 19.0 Trade and other current receivables 432.7 481.2 thereof financial assets 324.2 367.2 thereof non-financial assets 108.5 114.0 RHI Magnesita entered into factoring agreements and sold trade receivables to financial institutions. The balance sold totalled € 223.0 million as of 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: € 229.9 million). The trade receivables have been derecognised as substantially all risks and rewards as well as control have been transferred. Payments received from customers in the period between the last sale of receivables and the reporting date are recognised in current borrowings. Other taxes receivable include VAT credits and receivables from energy tax refunds, research, education and apprentice subsidies. In 2018 trade receivables with a total nominal value of €34.0 million were assigned as security against financial liabilities. These financial liabilities have been fully repaid in 2019. 20. Income tax receivables Income tax receivables amounting to €17.3 million (31.12.2018: €18.4 million) are mainly related to tax prepayments and deductible withholding taxes. 21. Other current financial assets This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following components: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Derivatives in open orders 0.1 1.0 Marketable securities 0.0 36.3 Forward exchange contracts 0.0 1.1 Other current financial receivables 0.0 0.2 Other current financial assets 0.1 38.6 Accumulated impairments on other current financial receivables amounted to €0.6 million (31.12.2018: €1.1 million). 158 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 22. Cash and cash equivalents This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following components: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Cash at banks 391.2 426.7 Money market funds 74.7 61.9 Cheques 1.2 2.5 Cash on hand 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 467.2 491.2 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash totalling €23.3 million at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €42.5 million). Restricted cash is mainly related to cash and cash equivalents at subsidiaries (mainly in Brazil, India and China) to which the company only has limited access due to foreign exchange and capital transfer controls. €13.0 million (31.12.2018: €23.8 million) are accounted for by subsidiaries with non-controlling interests. 23. Share capital In exchange for the cancellation of the RHI AG shares as a result of the merger in the year 2017, in which RHI AG merged with and into RHI Magnesita N.V., the shareholders of RHI AG received one newly issued ordinary share of RHI Magnesita N.V. for each RHI AG share. As part of the purchase price for the acquisition of control of Magnesita, RHI Magnesita N.V. issued 5,000,000 new ordinary shares to the sellers of Magnesita shares as at 26 October 2017. Following the merger and the acquisition of control and also at year-end 2017, RHI Magnesita N.V.’s issued and fully paid-in share capital consisted of 44,819,039 ordinary shares at €1.0 each share. In the course of the first close of the Integrated Tender Offer (ITO) in 2018 and the acquisition of additional 35.2% of shares in Magnesita, RHI Magnesita N.V. issued 3,518,008 new ordinary shares. Hence, share capital consisted of 48,337,047 ordinary shares at €1.0 each share as of 31 December 2018. In the course of the finalisation of the ITO in 2019, the Group acquired the remaining outstanding Magnesita shares during the first four months of 2019 and has issued a total of 1,140,658 new ordinary shares. As at 10 April 2019, RHI Magnesita’s issued share capital consisted of 49,477,705 shares with voting rights. Additional explanation is provided under Note (4). The authorised share capital of RHI Magnesita N.V. amounts to €100,000,000 divided into 100,000,000 ordinary shares, of which 49,077,705 ordinary shares are issued and outstanding, taking into consideration the treasury shares amounting to 400,000. All outstanding RHI Magnesita shares grant the same rights. The shareholders are entitled to dividends and have one voting right per share at the Annual General Meeting. There are no RHI Magnesita shares with special control rights. 24. Group reserves Treasury shares During August and September 2019 RHI Magnesita N.V. purchased a total of 400,000 of its ordinary shares of one euro nominal value each pursuant to its £20 million share repurchase programme to satisfy awards made under employee performance share plans. Following the purchase of these shares the company holds 400,000 shares in treasury equalling €18.8 million. Additional paid-in capital At 31 December 2019 as well as at 31 December 2018, additional paid-in capital comprised premiums on the issue of shares less issue costs by RHI Magnesita N.V. Mandatory reserve The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. No distributions, allocations or additions may be made and no losses of the company may be allocated to the mandatory reserve. Retained earnings Retained earnings includes the result of the financial year and results that were earned by consolidated companies during prior periods, but not distributed. 159 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Accumulated other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges includes gains and losses from the effective part of cash flow hedges less tax effects. The accumulated gain or loss from the hedge allocated to reserves is only reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss if the hedged transaction also influences the result or is terminated. Defined benefit plans include the gains and losses from the remeasurement of defined benefit pension and termination benefit plans taking into account tax effects. No reclassification of these amounts to the Statement of Profit or Loss will be made in future periods. Currency translation includes the accumulated currency translation differences from translating the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries, unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which are part of a net investment in a foreign operation, net of related income taxes, as well as the effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses when a non-financial instrument is designated as the hedging instrument in net investment hedge in a foreign operation. 25. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests in Magnesita After completion of the Integrated Tender Offer (ITO) as at 10 April 2019 the Group holds 100% of the Magnesita shares. Detailed information of this transaction and the consequences of the change of the ownership interest in Magnesita that do not result in a change of control are provided under Note (4). Magnesita is a global group dedicated to the production and sale of an extensive line of refractory materials and industrial minerals and distinguishes itself through its vertically integrated operations. The carrying amount of the non-controlling interests at time of completion of the ITO as at 10 April 2019 is based on the net assets of Magnesita and is determined as follows: in € million 10.04.2019 31.12.2018 Non-current assets 976.3 969.7 Current assets 1,556.6 561.0 Non-current liabilities (356.0) (400.6) Current liabilities (1,671.0) (676.0) Net assets before intragroup eliminations 505.9 454.1 Intragroup eliminations (6.2) (3.9) Net assets 499.7 450.2 Percentage of non-controlling interests 14.8% 14.8% Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 74.0 66.7 The aggregate Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Comprehensive Income are shown below: in € million 1-3/2019 2018 Revenue 286.5 1,067.5 Operating expenses, net finance costs and income tax (241.4) (1,011.4) Profit after income tax before intragroup eliminations 45.1 56.1 Intragroup eliminations 0.7 (3.4) Profit after income tax 45.8 52.7 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of Magnesita 5.8 26.3 in € million 1-3/2019 2018 Profit after income tax 45.8 52.7 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 4.7 (24.4) Total comprehensive income 50.5 28.3 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of Magnesita 7.3 14.2 160 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The following table shows the summarised Statement of Cash Flows: in € million 1-3/2019 2018 Net cash flow from operating activities (8.0) 164.9 Net cash flow from investing activities (13.2) (10.2) Net cash flow from financing activities (15.2) (258.5) Total cash flow (36.4) (103.8) Non-controlling interests in Orient Refractories Ltd. Non-controlling interests hold a share of 33.5% (31.12.2018: 33.5%) in the listed company Orient Refractories Ltd. (in the following “ORL”), based in New Delhi, India. ORL is allocated to the Steel segment. Based on the net assets of the company, the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests is determined as follows: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Non-current assets 30.4 24.3 Current assets 52.1 56.0 Non-current liabilities (3.7) (6.3) Current liabilities (17.8) (19.6) Net assets before intragroup eliminations 61.0 54.4 Intragroup eliminations (0.2) (0.4) Net assets 60.8 54.0 Percentage of non-controlling interests 33.5% 33.5% Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 20.4 18.1 The aggregate Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Comprehensive Income are shown below: in € million 2019 2018 Revenue 90.8 91.0 Operating expenses, net finance costs and income tax (79.1) (81.6) Profit after income tax before intragroup eliminations 11.7 9.4 Intragroup eliminations 0.2 (0.2) Profit after income tax 11.9 9.2 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of ORL 4.0 2.7 in € million 2019 2018 Profit after income tax 11.9 9.2 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 0.0 (2.3) Total comprehensive income 11.9 6.9 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of ORL 4.0 2.2 161 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The following table shows the summarised Statement of Cash Flows of ORL: in € million 2019 2018 Net cash flow from operating activities 11.9 9.5 Net cash flow from investing activities (9.1) (1.8) Net cash flow from financing activities (3.9) (3.6) Total cash flow (1.1) 4.1 Net cash flow from financing activities includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests amounting to €1.3 million (2018: €1.1 million). In addition, non-controlling interests hold a share of 33.5% in one immaterial subsidiary acquired in 2019. The carrying amount of the non-controlling interests amounts to €0.4 million as of 31 December 2019. Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests The development of accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests is shown in the following table: Defined benefit Currency in € million Cash flow hedges plans translation Accumulated other comprehensive income 31.12.2018 0.2 (2.1) (7.9) Unrealised results from currency translation 0.0 0.0 1.6 Reclassification to profit or loss (0.1) 0.0 0.0 Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control (0.1) 2.1 4.5 Accumulated other comprehensive income 31.12.2019 0.0 0.0 (1.8) 26. Borrowings Borrowings include all interest-bearing liabilities due to financial institutions and other lenders. Borrowings have the following contractual remaining terms: Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2019 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Syndicated Term Loan 584.0 15.3 568.7 0.0 Bonded loans ( Schuldscheindarlehen ) 400.0 0.0 100.0 300.0 Other credit lines and other loans 55.0 50.8 4.2 0.0 Accrued interest 4.1 4.1 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities to financial institutions 1,043.1 70.2 672.9 300.0 Other financial liabilities 15.6 2.3 13.1 0.2 Capitalised transaction costs (3.7) (1.0) (2.7) 0.0 Borrowings 1,055.0 71.5 683.3 300.2 162 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2018 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Syndicated Term Loan 479.9 0.0 479.9 0.0 Bonded loans ( Schuldscheindarlehen ) 216.0 0.0 152.0 64.0 Export credits and investment financing 171.9 34.4 137.5 0.0 Other credit lines and other loans 278.9 278.9 0.0 0.0 Accrued interest 6.9 6.9 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities to financial institutions 1,153.6 320.2 769.4 64.0 Other financial liabilities 16.6 2.3 13.7 0.6 Capitalised transaction costs (3.8) (0.9) (2.9) 0.0 Borrowings 1,166.4 321.6 780.2 64.6 RHI Magnesita further improved its financial structure by signing a new €100.0 million 5-year term loan guaranteed by the Austrian export credit agency (OeKB) in June 2019. The interest rate is floating and is based on EURIBOR plus a margin between 0.4% and 1.3%, according to Group Leverage. RHI Magnesita borrows currently at the lowest margin of 0.4%. The final maturity of the loan is February 2024. Cash inflows from the new term loan in the amount of €100.0 million are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in proceeds from borrowings and loans. In July and October 2019 RHI Magnesita took out a Schuldscheindarlehen (“SSD”) bonded loan in one tranche of €280.0 million and another of €20.0 million respectively. Cash inflows from the new term loan in the amount of €300.0 million are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in proceeds borrowings and loans. With the proceeds from the new and lower interest bearing SSD bonded loans, the Group repaid €116.0 million of the extinguished legacy SSD bonded loans. Cash outflows from the redemption of the bonded loan in the amount of €116.0 million are included in repayments of borrowings and loans. The utilised sum of USD 210.0 million at December 2018 from the USD 400.0 million RCF was fully repaid during the year of 2019 and at 31 December 2019 the RCF remained fully unutilised. In the US, a legacy long-term loan of USD 37.5 million was early settled in January 2019. Likewise, in Brazil, remaining legacy loan of BRL 265.3 million was early settled in August 2019. Both cash outflows from the redemption of these loans are included in repayments of borrowings and loans. As at 31.12.2018 €34.0 million of the liabilities to financial institutions were secured by receivables, which were fully repaid in 2019. Net debt excluding lease liabilities/adjusted EBITDA is the main financial covenant of the loan agreements. Calculation of this covenant and net debt/adjusted EBITDA is shown under Note (57). Compliance with the covenants is measured on a semi-annual basis. Covenant ratio is limited at 3.5. Breach of covenants leads to an anticipated maturity of loans. During 2019 and 2018, the Group met all covenant requirements. For liabilities of €1,008.1 million (31.12.2018: €1,052.6 million), lenders have a termination option in the case of a change of control. In the event that certain reasons for termination exist, the lenders may declare the loan due with immediate effect and demand immediate repayment of the principal including interest, as well as the payment of other amounts payable that may have been incurred. Considering interest swaps, 59% (31.12.2018: 55%) of the liabilities to financial institutions carry fixed interest and 41% (31.12.2018: 45%) carry variable interest. 163 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The following table shows fixed interest terms and conditions, taking into account interest rate swaps, without liabilities from deferred interest: Interest 31.12.2019 Interest 31.12.2018 terms CurCarrying amount terms fixed CurCarrying amount fixed until Effective annual interest rate rency in € million until Effective annual interest rate rency in € million 2020 EURIBOR + margin EUR 389.9 2019 EURIBOR + margin EUR 132.0 LIBOR + margin USD 15.9 LIBOR + margin USD 221.7 Interbank Deposit Certificate Interbank Deposit Certificate (CDI) + margin CNY 14.0 (CDI) + margin BRL 113.9 Various variable rate Var. 0.2 Variable interest rate + margin EUR 34.0 3.77% EUR 3.0 Various variable rate Var. 16.5 2020 1.28% USD 32.8 2.30% EUR 12.4 2022 1.74% EUR 62.0 2022 1.74% EUR 62.0 4.60% EUR 3.0 4.60% EUR 3.0 2023 0.28% EUR 305.5 2023 1.56% EUR 196.2 3.09% USD 178.5 1.12% EUR 109.4 3.94% USD 174.8 2024 3.10% EUR 35.0 2024 3.10% EUR 35.0 2026 1.10% EUR 27.0 2024 1.52% EUR 8.0 1,039.0 1,146.7 In some cases, the terms to maturity of the contracts are substantially longer than the period during which interest terms are fixed. 27. Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include the negative fair value of derivative financial instruments as well as lease liabilities and fixed-term and puttable non-controlling interests in Group companies. This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following items: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 in € million Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Derivatives from supply contracts 5.9 18.0 23.9 0.9 20.0 20.9 Interest rate swaps 0.0 14.8 14.8 0.0 7.3 7.3 Derivatives in open orders 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial liabilities 6.5 32.8 39.3 0.9 27.3 28.2 Lease liabilities 13.8 48.1 61.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fixed-term or puttable noncontrolling interests 11.6 24.2 35.8 14.1 22.2 36.3 Other financial liabilities 31.9 105.1 137.0 15.0 49.5 64.5 Additional explanation on derivative financial instruments is provided under Note (55). 164 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 28. Provisions for pensions The net liability from pension obligations in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is as follows: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Present value of pension obligations 557.9 506.6 Fair value of plan assets (248.0) (223.9) Funded status 309.9 282.7 Asset ceiling 18.0 19.5 Net liability from pension obligations 327.9 302.2 thereof assets from overfunded pension plans 0.2 2.1 thereof pensions 328.1 304.3 The present value of pension obligations by beneficiary groups is as follows: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Active beneficiaries 115.3 101.4 Vested terminated beneficiaries 74.6 68.7 Retirees 368.0 336.5 Present value of pension obligations 557.9 506.6 The calculation of pension obligations is based on the following actuarial assumptions: in % 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Interest rate 2.3% 3.3% Future salary increase 2.6% 2.7% Future pension increase 2.1% 2.2% These are average values which were weighted with the present value of the respective pension obligation. The calculation of the actuarial interest rate for the European currency area is based on a yield curve for returns of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in EUR with an average rating of AA, which is derived from pooled index values. The calculation of the actuarial interest rate for the USD and GBP currency area is based on a yield curve for returns of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in USD and GBP with an average rating of AA, which is derived from pooled index values. Where there are very long-term maturities, the yield curve follows the performance of bonds without credit default risk. The interest rate is calculated annually at 31 December, taking into account the expected future cash flows which were determined based on the current personal and commitment data. The calculation in Austria was based on the AVÖ 2018-P demographic calculation principles for salaried employees from the Actuarial Association of Austria. In Germany, the Heubeck 2018 G actuarial tables were used as a basis. In the other countries, country-specific mortality tables were applied. The main pension regulations are described below: The Austrian group companies account for €122.0 million (31.12.2018: €125.8 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €23.2 million (31.12.2018: €26.4 million) of the plan assets. The agreed benefits include pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. Commitments in the form of company or individual agreements depend on the length of service and the salary at the time of retirement. For the majority of commitments the amount of the company pension subsidy is limited to 75% of the final remuneration including a pension pursuant to the General Social Insurance Act (ASVG). RHI Magnesita has concluded pension reinsurance policies for part of the commitments. The pension claims of the beneficiaries are limited to the coverage capital required for these commitments. Pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are partially indexed. For employees joining the company after 1 January 1984, no defined benefits were granted. Rather, a defined contribution pension model is in place. In addition, there are commitments based on the deferred compensation principle, which are fully covered by pension reinsurance policies, and commitments for preretirement benefits for employees in mining operations. 165 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The pension plans of the German group companies account for €160.4 million (31.12.2018: €155.1 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €0.7 million (31.12.2018: €0.7 million) of plan assets. The benefits included in company agreements comprise pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. The amount of the pension depends on the length of service for the majority of the commitments and is calculated as a percentage of the average monthly wage/salary of the last 12 months prior to retirement. In some cases, commitments to fixed benefits per year of service have been made. The pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are adjusted in accordance with the development of the consumer price index for Germany. The pension plans are closed for new entrants, except one contribution-based plan. There is no defined contribution model on a voluntary basis. Individual commitments have been made, with major part of them being retired beneficiaries. The pension plan of the US group company Magnesita Refractories Company, York, USA, accounts for €87.5 million (31.12.2018: €74.2 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €67.8 million (31.12.2018: €61.8 million) of the plan assets. The pension plan is a non-contributory defined benefit plan covering a portion of the employees of the company. The plan is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Effective 21 June 1999, the company offered the participants the opportunity to elect to participate in a single enhanced defined contribution plan. Participants who make this election are no longer eligible for future accruals under this plan. All benefits accrued as of the date of transfer will be retained. Employees hired after 21 June 1999 and employees that did not meet the plan's eligibility requirements as of 21 June 1999 are not eligible for this plan. The pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are adjusted annually based on the US consumer price index. The company's contributions for the year ended 31 December 2019 met, or exceeded, the minimum funding requirements of ERISA. The pension plan of the UK group company Magnesita Refractories Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom, accounts for €63.5 million (31.12.2018: €53.0 million) of the present value of pension obligations and holds €81.5 million (31.12.2018: €69.6 million) of assets, although only €63.5 million (31.12.2018: €53.0 million) of the plan assets are reflected on the balance sheet due to the application of IFRIC 14 (asset ceiling). The company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension plan for qualifying UK employees. The plan is administered by a separate board of trustees which is legally separate from the company. The trustees are composed of representatives of both the employer and employees, plus an independent professional trustee. The trustees are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the benefits. Under the plan, employees are entitled to annual pensions on retirement at age 65 of one-sixtieth of final pensionable salary for each year of service. Pensionable salary is defined as basic salary less the Lower Earnings Limit. Benefits are also payable on death and following other events such as withdrawing from active service. No other post-retirement benefits are provided to these employees. The pension liabilities of the Brazilian group company Magnesita Refratários S.A. account for €72.5 million (31.12.2018: €62.6 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €39.9 million (31.12.2018: €34.6 million) of the plan assets. The pension plan qualifies as an optional benefit plan. Employees are entitled to contribute to the plan, with the company contributing 1.5 times this value. The agreed benefits include pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. Commitments in the form of company or individual agreements depend on the length of service and salary at the time of retirement. For the majority of commitments, the amount of the company pension obligation is limited to 75% of the final remuneration. At retirement the employee may choose to receive up to 25% of his/her amount at once or receive it on a pro-rata base with different options of monthly quotes. The following table shows the development of net liability from pension obligations: in € million 2019 2018 Net liability from pension obligations at beginning of year 302.2 306.8 Currency translation 0.3 (1.9) Pension cost 12.2 11.6 Remeasurement losses 36.9 12.2 Benefits paid (18.2) (17.3) Employers' contributions to external funds (4.9) (9.0) Reclassifications (0.4) (0.2) Net liability from pension obligations at year-end 328.1 302.2 166 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The present value of pension obligations developed as follows: in € million 2019 2018 Present value of pension obligations at beginning of year 506.6 517.1 Currency translation 5.2 (3.0) Current service cost 3.7 3.9 Past service cost 0.0 (0.5) Interest cost 16.5 15.2 Remeasurement losses/(gains) from changes in demographic assumptions (1.4) 7.8 from changes in financial assumptions 60.1 (5.8) due to experience adjustments 0.4 2.7 Benefits paid (33.1) (31.1) Employee contributions to external funds 0.5 0.5 Reclassifications (0.6) (0.2) Present value of pension obligations at year-end 557.9 506.6 The movement in plan assets is shown in the table below: in € million 2019 2018 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 223.9 228.6 Currency translation 5.8 (1.2) Interest income 9.1 7.7 Administrative costs (paid from plan assets) (0.5) (0.3) Income/(expense) on plan assets less interest income 19.5 (6.6) Benefits paid (14.9) (13.8) Employers' contributions to external funds 4.9 9.0 Employee contributions to external funds 0.5 0.5 Transfer (0.3) 0.0 Fair value of plan assets at year-end 248.0 223.9 The changes in the asset ceiling are shown below: in € million 2019 2018 Asset ceiling at beginning of year 19.5 18.3 Currency translation 1.0 (0.1) Interest expense 0.6 0.4 (Gains)/losses from changes in asset ceiling less interest expense (3.1) 0.9 Asset ceiling at year-end 18.0 19.5 At 31 December 2019 the weighted average duration of pension obligations amounts to 12 years (31.12.2018: 12 years). 167 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The following amounts were recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: in € million 2019 2018 Current service cost 3.7 3.9 Negative past service cost 0.0 (0.5) Gains on settlement (0.1) 0.0 Interest cost 16.7 15.2 Interest income (9.2) (7.7) Interest expense from asset ceiling 0.6 0.4 Administrative costs (paid from plan assets) 0.5 0.3 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 12.2 11.6 The remeasurement results recognised in other comprehensive income are shown in the table below: in € million 2019 2018 Accumulated remeasurement losses at beginning of year 131.4 119.3 Remeasurement losses on present value of pension obligations 59.2 4.6 (Income)/expense on plan assets less interest income (19.5) 6.6 (Gains)/losses from changes in asset ceiling less interest expense (3.1) 0.9 Accumulated remeasurement losses at year-end 168.0 131.4 The present value of plan assets is distributed to the following classes of investments: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 in € million Active market No active market Total Active market No active market Total Insurances 0.0 40.2 40.2 0.0 39.1 39.1 Equity instruments 4.1 31.0 35.1 4.7 18.5 23.2 Debt instruments 17.7 44.2 61.9 14.3 49.2 63.5 Cash and cash equivalents 38.1 4.0 42.1 32.3 4.1 36.4 Other assets 65.8 2.9 68.7 57.9 3.8 61.7 Fair value of plan assets 125.7 122.3 248.0 109.2 114.7 223.9 The present value of the insurances to cover the Austrian pension plans corresponds to the coverage capital. Insurance companies predominantly invest in debt instruments and to a low extent in equity instruments and properties. Plan assets do not include own financial instruments of the Group or assets utilised by the RHI Magnesita Group. RHI Magnesita works with professional fund managers for the investment of plan assets. They act on the basis of specific investment guidelines adopted by the pension fund committee of the respective pension plans. The committees consist of management staff of the finance department and other qualified executives. They meet regularly in order to approve the target portfolio with the support of independent actuarial experts and to review the risks and the performance of the investments. In addition, they approve the selection or the extension of contracts of external fund managers. The largest part of the other assets is invested in pension reinsurance, which creates a low counterparty risk towards insurance companies. In addition, the Group is exposed to interest risks and longevity risks resulting from defined benefit commitments. The Group generally endows the pension funds with the amount necessary to meet the legal minimum allocation requirements of the country in which the fund is based. Moreover, the Group makes additional allocations at its discretion from time to time. In the financial year 2020, RHI Magnesita expects employer contributions to external plan assets to amount to €3.7 million and direct payments to enti168 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 tled beneficiaries to €21.1 million. In the previous year, employer contributions of €4.8 million and direct pension payments of €17.1 million had been expected for the financial year 2019. 29. Other personnel provisions Other personnel provisions consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Termination benefits 52.0 55.5 Service anniversary bonuses 21.0 19.4 Legacy share-based payment program 0.0 1.6 Semi-retirements 2.8 1.9 Lump-sum settlements 0.0 0.1 Other personnel provisions 75.8 78.5 Provisions for termination benefits Provisions for termination benefits were based on the following weighted average measurement assumptions: in % 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Interest rate 1.3% 2.1% Future salary increase 3.4% 3.9% The interest rate for the measurement of termination benefit obligations in the Euro area was determined taking into account the company specific duration of the portfolio. Provisions for termination benefits developed as follows in the financial year and the previous year: in € million 2019 2018 Provisions for termination benefits at beginning of year 55.5 58.1 Currency translation 0.1 0.0 Current service cost 1.5 1.6 Past service cost (0.7) 0.0 Interest cost 1.1 0.9 Remeasurement losses/(gains) from changes in demographic assumptions 0.0 1.1 from changes in financial assumptions 2.1 (2.3) due to experience adjustments (1.8) 0.5 Benefits paid (5.8) (4.4) Provisions for termination benefits at year-end 52.0 55.5 Payments for termination benefits are expected to amount to €5.8 million in the year 2020. In the previous year, the payments for termination benefits expected for the year 2019 amounted to €3.5 million. The following remeasurement gains and losses were recognised in other comprehensive income: in € million 2019 2018 Accumulated remeasurement losses at beginning of year 27.2 27.9 Remeasurement losses/(gains) 0.3 (0.7) Accumulated remeasurement losses at year-end 27.5 27.2 169 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued At 31 December 2019 the weighted average duration of termination benefit obligations amounts to 11 years (31.12.2018: 11 years). Provisions for service anniversary bonuses The measurement of provisions for service anniversary bonuses is based on an average weighted interest rate of 0.8% (31.12.2018: 1.7%) and takes into account salary increases of 3.4% (31.12.2018: 3.7%). Provisions for semi-retirement The funded status of provisions for obligations to employees with semi-retirement contracts is shown in the table below: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Present value of semi-retirement obligations 6.3 5.1 Fair value of plan assets (3.5) (3.2) Provisions for semi-retirement obligations 2.8 1.9 External plan assets are ring-fenced from all creditors and exclusively serve to meet semi-retirement obligations. 30. Other non-current provisions The development of non-current provisions is shown in the table below: Demolition/disposal Onerous/ costs, unfavourable Labour and civil environmental in € million contracts contingencies damages Other Total 31.12.2018 83.8 8.3 12.5 4.6 109.2 Currency translation (0.8) (0.2) 0.0 0.1 (0.9) Reversals 0.0 0.0 (2.4) 0.0 (2.4) Additions 0.4 2.1 0.0 0.0 2.5 Additions interest 8.4 0.0 0.6 0.0 9.0 Reclassifications (14.3) 0.0 0.0 (4.6) (18.9) 31.12.2019 77.5 10.2 10.7 0.1 98.5 In November 2017, RHI Magnesita sold a plant located in Oberhausen, Germany, in order to satisfy the conditions imposed by the European Commission in connection with their approval of the Acquisition of Control of Magnesita. As RHI Magnesita is obligated to provide raw materials at cost, the Group has recognised a provision for unfavourable contracts as part of the purchase price allocation to reflect the foregone profit margin. The non-current portion of this contract obligation amounts to €71.2 million as of 31.12.2019 (31.12.2018: €80.0 million). Furthermore, provisions for contract obligations amounting to €6.3 million (31.12.2018: €3.2 million) are due to contracts for logistics services and the procurement of raw materials. The provision for labour and civil contingencies primarily comprises labour litigation provisions against RHI Magnesita totalling 337 cases amounting to €8.0 million (31.12.2018: €7.1 million). The provision for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages primarily includes provisions for the estimated costs of mining site restoration of several mines in Brazil amounting to €3.9 million (31.12.2018: €5.9 million) and various sites in the United States amounting to €6.3 million (31.12.2018: €6.1 million). Provisions related to tax litigation procedures in Peru and Colombia included in the amount of €4.6 million in other provisions as of 31 December 2018 were reclassified to income tax liabilities as of 31 December 2019. 170 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31. Other non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Deferred income for subsidies received 5.8 6.2 Liabilities to employees 1.4 2.5 Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries 0.0 0.6 Miscellaneous non-current liabilities 0.1 1.0 Other non-current liabilities 7.3 10.3 thereof financial liabilities 0.0 0.6 thereof non-financial liabilities 7.3 9.7 32. Trade payables and other current liabilities Trade payables and other current liabilities included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Trade payables 354.1 502.5 Contract liabilities 45.5 64.8 Liabilities to employees 87.5 99.6 Taxes other than income tax 49.7 30.0 Dividend liabilities 25.0 0.5 Payables from property transactions 17.0 9.2 Payables from commissions 8.2 13.0 Customers with credit balances 6.6 7.3 Liabilities to joint ventures and associates 0.7 5.4 Liabilities to non-consolidated subsidiaries 0.7 1.0 Other current liabilities 19.0 23.6 Trade payables and other current liabilities 614.0 756.9 thereof financial liabilities 412.3 539.3 thereof non-financial liabilities 201.7 217.6 Trade payables include an amount of €67.4 million (31.12.2018: €85.5 million) for raw material purchases subject to supply chain finance arrangements. Contract liabilities mainly consist of prepayments received on orders. Prepayments received on orders as of 31 December 2018 were recognised as revenue in the current reporting period. The item liabilities to employees primarily consists of obligations for wages and salaries, payroll taxes and employee-related duties, performance bonuses, unused vacation and flexitime credits. Other current liabilities include €1.3 million (31.12.2018: €1.6 million) investment reimbursement obligation to the former subsidiary Dolomite Franchi S.p.A., and other accrued expenses. 33. Income tax liabilities Income tax liabilities amounting to €35.4 million (31.12.2018: €32.2 million) primarily include income taxes for the current year and previous years which have not yet been definitively audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. Taking into account a multitude of factors, including the interpretation, comments and case law regarding the respective tax laws as well as past experiences, adequate liabilities have been recognised. 171 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 34. Current provisions The development of current provisions is shown in the table below: Demolition/ disposal costs, Onerous/ Restructuring environmental unfavourable Guarantees in € million costs damages Warranties contracts provided Other Total 31.12.2018 10.1 7.4 2.7 21.1 3.0 8.7 53.0 Currency translation 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 Utilised (6.1) (1.3) (1.0) (20.0) 0.0 (5.3) (33.7) Reversals (0.6) (1.1) (1.9) (5.8) (3.1) (0.5) (13.0) Additions 28.3 0.4 9.5 9.0 0.1 1.2 48.5 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 13.4 0.0 1.4 14.8 31.12.2019 31.8 5.4 9.3 17.8 0.0 5.5 69.8 Provisions for restructuring costs amount to €31.8 million as of 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €10.1 million) and primarily consist of benefit obligations to employees due to termination of employment resulting from corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita. Out of the €31.8 million, €12.1 million relates to the plant closure in Hagen, Germany, and €4.0 million to the partial shut-down of the plant in Trieben, Austria. The item demolition and disposal costs, environmental damages includes an amount of €2.5million (31.12.2018: €2.5 million) which refers to the former site in Aken, Germany. It is assumed that this provision will be used up within the next 12 months. Provisions for warranties include provisions for claims arising from warranties and other similar obligations from the sale of refractory products. Provisions for contract obligations include the current portion of the Oberhausen contract obligation amounting to €10.4 million (31.12.2018: €11.5 million). The amortisation of this provision led to an income of €15.5 million in 2019 (31.12.2018: €10.0 million). Furthermore, provisions for other unfavourable contracts amounting to €3.5 million (31.12.2018: €6.7 million) and provisions for unfavourable contracts related to contracts for logistics services and the procurement of raw materials totalling €3.9 million (31.12.2018: €2.9 million) are included. Provisions for guarantees provided included obligations from sureties and guarantees to banks and insurance companies as of 31 December 2018. As of 31 December 2019, these provisions are disclosed as contingent liabilities, as the outflow of resources is not estimated to be probable. The item other provisions includes a provision for the share-based remuneration programme of the members of the former Management Board of RHI AG of €1.9 million (31.12.2018: €1.4 million). In addition, provisions for legal proceedings amounting to €0.7 million (31.12.2018: €3.2 million) are included in the item other provisions. It is currently uncertain when precisely the cash outflow is due. Furthermore, several provisions, which are individually immaterial and cannot be allocated to one of the above-mentioned categories, are included in other provisions. A large part of these costs is expected to be paid within 12 months. 172 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 35. Revenue Revenue is essentially generated by product deliveries and by performing management refractory services. The distribution of revenue by product group, division and country is given in the explanations to segment reporting under Note (51). 36. Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises the production cost of goods sold as well as the purchase price of merchandise sold. In addition to direct material and production costs, it also includes overheads including depreciation charges on production equipment, amortisation charges of intangible assets as well as impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses of inventories. Moreover, cost of sales also includes the costs of services provided by the Group or services received. 37. Selling and marketing expenses This item includes personnel expenses for the sales staff as well as depreciation charges and other operating expenses related to the market and sales processes. 38. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel expenses for the administrative functions, legal and other consulting costs, expenses for research and non-capitalisable development costs. Research and development expenses totalled €35.0 million (2018: €32.6 million), of which development costs amounting to €9.0 million (2018: €8.3 million) were capitalised. Income from research grants amounted to €4.4 million (2018: €3.8 million) in 2019. Amortisation and impairment of development costs amounting to €4.4 million (2018: €3.8 million) are recognised under cost of sales. 39. Restructuring and write-down expenses In 2019 the Group initiated a plant rationalisation programme which led to €46.7 million of restructuring expenses and €65.4 million of asset write-downs of which €54.6 million are allocated to Segment Steel and €10.8 million are allocated to Segment Industrial. This item includes costs for the plant closure in Hagen, Germany, amounting to €55.3 million (thereof termination of employment of €12.4 million and write-down of €42.9 million), the partial shut-down of the plant in Trieben, Austria, amounting to €13.7 million (thereof termination of employment of €5.1 million and write-down of €8.6 million) and other costs for termination of employment totalling €18.9 million. In 2018, restructuring costs primarily related to costs for termination of employment incurred in connection with the corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita amounting to €5.4 million. In addition, restructuring costs include expenses for unused logistics services and procurement of raw materials in the Porsgrunn plant, Norway, amounting to €6.1 million (2018: €3.9 million). Write-down expenses amounting to €13.9 million result from the impairment testing of CGU Norway according to IAS 36, of which €9.3 million are allocated to Segment Steel and €4.6 million are allocated to Segment Industrial. Further information is provided under Note (8). 40. Other income The individual components of other income are: in € million 2019 2018 Amortisation of Oberhausen provision 15.5 10.0 Income from the reversal of provisions 4.6 0.0 Income from the disposal of non-current assets 1.9 2.2 Result from derivatives from supply contracts 0.0 19.6 Income from restructuring 0.0 5.4 Miscellaneous income 12.9 6.7 Other income 34.9 43.9 In 2018, income from restructuring amounting to €5.4 million resulted from the reversal of acquisition-related provisions for redundancy programmes. 173 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 41. Other expenses Other expenses include: in € million 2019 2018 Expenses for strategic projects (9.0) (13.5) Losses from the disposal of non-current assets (4.3) (3.0) Result from deconsolidation recycling currency translation differences (3.7) 0.0 Result from derivatives from supply contracts (3.0) 0.0 Miscellaneous expenses (11.3) (6.1) Other expenses (31.3) (22.6) Expenses for strategic projects amounting to €9.0 million mainly include legal and consulting fees related to optimisation of supply chain, M&A and integration costs. In 2018, expenses for strategic projects amounted to €13.5 million and mainly included legal and consulting fees for the acquisition and integration of Magnesita as well as the related corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita. 42. Interest income This item includes interest on cash at banks and similar income amounting to €8.7 million (2018: €8.8 million), interest income on financial receivables amounting to €0.2 million (2018: €0.2 million) and interest income on securities and shares amounting to €0.2 million (2018: €0.7 million). In 2018 €0.4 million were accounted for by impaired securities. 43. Foreign exchange effects and related derivatives The net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives consists of the following items: in € million 2019 2018 Foreign exchange gains 83.3 98.6 Gains from related derivative financial instruments 14.6 4.5 Foreign exchange losses (83.4) (160.2) Losses from related derivative financial instruments (31.7) (24.2) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (17.2) (81.3) Compared to the previous year the Group improved its financial structure. The absence of the Magnesita legacy debt combined with reduced volatility of Euro and Brazilian Real against the US Dollar resulted in lower net expense on foreign exchange effects. Realised losses from derivative financial instruments result from the dissolution of derivatives as of July 2019. These derivatives were fully restructured in 2019 and no effect is expected in the future out of this item. In 2018 the net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives resulted mainly from the devaluation of the Euro, Argentine Peso and Brazilian Real against the US Dollar, affecting both intercompany and third-party loans, accounts payable and accounts receivable. 174 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 44. Other net financial expenses Other net financial expenses consist of the following items: in € million 2019 2018 Interest income on plan assets 8.6 7.3 Interest expense on provisions for pensions (16.7) (15.2) Interest expense on provisions for termination benefits (1.2) (0.9) Interest expense on other personnel provisions (0.3) (0.3) Net interest expense personnel provisions (9.6) (9.1) Unwinding of discount of provisions and payables (12.9) (15.6) Interest expense on non-controlling interests (3.9) (5.3) Interest expense on lease liabilities (1.2) 0.0 Gains from the disposal of securities and shares 0.9 0.7 Reversal of impairment losses on securities 0.8 0.0 Impairment losses on securities 0.0 (1.4) Expenses from the valuation of put options (0.5) (1.0) Other interest and similar expenses (12.3) (10.9) Other net financial expenses (38.7) (42.6) 45. Income tax Income tax consists of the following items: in € million 2019 2018 Current tax expense (72.7) (75.9) Deferred tax (expense)/income relating to temporary differences 29.8 46.7 tax loss carryforwards (7.9) (29.7) 21.9 17.0 Income tax (50.8) (58.9) The current tax expense of the year 2019 includes tax expenses for previous periods of €8.4 million (2018: €7.1 million) and income from income tax relating to prior periods of €1.7 million (2018: €0.5 million). Income tax expenses for prior periods mainly include exit value expenses out of an ongoing transfer of functions between related parties amounting to €1.8 million as well as tax audit expenses in APAC and Italy amounting to € 1.2 million. In 2018 €3.8 million were related to an ongoing tax audit respectively tax loss forfeit in Germany. In addition to the income taxes recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, tax income totalling €18.0 million (2018: €5.7 million), which is attributable to other comprehensive income, was also recognised in other comprehensive income. 175 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The reasons for the difference between the income tax expense, which would result from the application of the Austrian corporate tax rate of 25% on the profit before income tax, and the income tax reported are shown below: in € million 2019 2018 Profit before income tax 199.6 246.0 Income tax expense calculated at 25% (2018: 25%) 49.9 61.5 Different foreign tax rates (4.4) 1.8 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, non-creditable taxes 17.2 10.1 Non-taxable income and tax benefits (22.5) (32.3) Tax losses and temporary differences of the financial year not recognised 9.9 9.5 Utilisation of previously unrecognised loss carryforwards and temporary differences (2.5) (0.2) Recognition of previously unrecognised loss carryforwards and temporary differences (13.3) (0.7) Change in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 0.6 1.2 Deferred tax expense due to tax rate changes (0.6) (1.8) Deferred income tax relating to prior periods 8.5 2.4 Current income tax relating to prior periods 7.6 6.7 Other 0.5 0.7 Recognised tax expense 50.8 58.9 Effective tax rate (in %) 25.5% 23.9% In 2019 expenses not deductible for tax purposes include voluntary leave payment, Chinese capacity compensation and a write down of a receivable which is not deductible for tax purposes in the total amount of €4.4 million. Non-taxable income includes benefits concerning the SUDENE tax regime amounting to €9.1 million. This tax regime is calculated on profits from activities covered by the incentive tax treatment for priority projects for the development of the SUDENE region in Brazil. Due to improved projections of taxable income deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards previously not recognised in the amount of €7.4 million in the Netherlands and €5.9 million in China were capitalised. Deferred tax assets relating to the tax losses of the current financial year of €3.8 million have not been recognised in the Netherlands and €2.3 million have not been recognised in Brazil. Tax expense due to tax rate changes relates mainly to an Indian company, where the tax rate changed from 34,94% to 27,83%, leading to an additional expense of €1,5 million and to an American company where the tax rate changed from 23,66% to 24,2%, leading to an additional income of €0,7 million. In 2018, deferred tax expense due to tax rates changes was primarily attributable to the reduction of the corporate income tax rate in Norway from 24% to 23% of 0.9 million and an increase in corporate income tax rate in Turkey from 20% to 22% of €0.4 million. Nontaxable income and tax benefits include the SUDENE tax regime amounting to €20.4 million. 176 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 46. Expense categories The presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is based on the function of expenses. The following tables show a classification by expense category for 2019 and the previous year: General and Restructuring and Selling and administrative Other income/ write-down in € million Cost of sales marketing expenses expenses expenses income/expenses Total 2019 Changes in inventories, own work capitalised 60.7 0.0 (4.8) 0.0 0.0 55.9 Cost of materials 1,269.6 (0.7) 2.4 0.0 1.7 1,273.0 Personnel costs 412.2 76.9 115.2 0.0 25.3 629.6 Depreciation and amortisation charges 154.1 2.7 15.9 0.0 0.0 172.7 Write-down expenses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 65.4 65.4 Other income (23.2) (2.0) (4.3) (1.8) 0.0 (31.3) Other expenses 331.7 49.3 84.8 (1.8) 19.7 483.7 Total 2,205.1 126.2 209.2 (3.6) 112.1 2,649.0 Cost of materials includes expenses for raw materials and supplies and purchased goods of €1,049.6 million (2018: €1,321.3 million) as well as expenses for services received, especially energy, amounting to €223.5 million (2018: €232.5 million). General and Restructuring and Selling and administrative Other income/ write-down in € million Cost of sales marketing expenses expenses expenses income/expenses Total 20181) Changes in inventories, own work capitalised (79.2) 0.0 (2.8) 0.0 0.0 (82.0) Cost of materials 1,550.8 0.6 2.4 0.0 0.0 1,553.8 Personnel costs 409.6 72.8 106.2 0.0 5.6 594.2 Depreciation and amortisation charges 133.5 7.9 12.0 0.0 0.0 153.4 Other income (27.5) (0.2) (4.2) (9.9) 0.0 (41.8) Other expenses 357.3 47.8 94.8 (11.4) 16.7 505.2 Total 2,344.5 128.9 208.4 (21.3) 22.3 2,682.8 1) To ensure comparability prior-year figures have been adjusted. Amortisation charges of intangible assets are largely recognised in cost of sales. Other expenses mainly include freight costs, commissions, travel costs as well as consulting and other outside services. 177 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 47. Personnel costs Personnel costs consist of the following components: in € million 2019 2018 Wages and salaries 489.6 474.0 Pensions Defined benefit plans 4.1 3.7 Defined contribution plans 5.9 5.2 Termination benefits Defined benefit plans 0.8 1.6 Defined contribution plans 1.4 1.5 Other expenses 15.9 2.9 Social security costs 79.3 73.7 Fringe benefits 32.7 31.6 Personnel expenses (without interest expenses) 629.7 594.2 Personnel costs do not include amounts resulting from the interest accrued on personnel provisions. They amount to €9.6 million (2018: €9.1 million) and are recorded in other net financial expenses. 178 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The Statement of Cash Flows shows how cash and cash equivalents of the Group change through cash inflows and cash outflows during the reporting year. In accordance with IAS 7, cash flows from operating activities, from investing activities and from financing activities are distinguished. Cash flows from investing and financing activities are determined on the basis of cash payment, while cash flow from operating activities is derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements using the indirect method. The respective monthly changes in items of the Statement of Financial Position of companies that report in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate of the previous month and adjusted for effects arising from changes in the group of consolidated companies or in other businesses. Therefore, the Statement of Cash Flows cannot be derived directly from changes in items of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. As in the Statement of Financial Position, cash and cash equivalents are translated at the closing rate. The effects of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents are shown separately. 48. Net cash flow from operating activities in € million 2019 2018 Profit after income tax 148.8 187.1 Adjustments for income tax 50.8 58.9 depreciation 146.2 124.8 amortisation 26.4 28.6 write-down of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 65.5 0.0 income from the reversal of investment subsidies (0.6) (0.5) write-ups/ impairment losses on securities 8.7 0.3 losses from the disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.8 1.4 gains from the disposal of securities and shares (0.9) (0.7) losses from the disposal of subsidiaries 3.7 0.0 net interest expense and derivatives 49.6 92.5 share of profit of joint ventures and associates (11.1) (10.1) other non-cash changes 26.0 18.1 Changes in working capital inventories 110.9 (56.7) trade receivables 30.3 21.9 contract assets 0.0 (1.9) trade payables (145.0) 48.8 contract liabilities (19.0) 36.5 Changes in other assets and liabilities other receivables and assets (4.9) (29.5) provisions (8.0) (59.4) other liabilities (9.8) 2.1 Cash generated from operations 470.4 462.2 Other non-cash expenses and income include mainly the net interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans amounting to €9.6 million (2018: €9.1 million), net remeasurement losses of monetary foreign currency positions and derivative financial instruments of €19.8 million (2018: €14.5 million). 179 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 49. Net cash flow from financing activities The reconciliation of movements of financial liabilities and assets to cash flows arising from financing activities for the current and the prior year is shown in the tables below: Cash changes Non-cash changes Changes in Initial Interest expense Additions and foreign recognition and other modifications of in € million 31.12.2018 exchange rates IFRS 16 changes leases (IFRS 16) 31.12.2019 Liabilities to financial institutions 1,153.6 (161.8) 7.3 0.0 44.0 0.0 1,043.1 Lease liabilities 0.0 (15.5) 0.4 62.0 1.2 13.8 61.9 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 36.3 (5.3) 0.3 0.0 4.5 0.0 35.8 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 12.8 (2.1) 0.1 0.0 1.1 0.0 11.9 Trade payables 1.8 (1.8) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Changes of financial liabilities and assets arising from financing activities 1,204.5 (186.5) 8.1 62.0 50.8 13.8 1,152.7 Cash changes Non-cash changes Changes in foreign Interest expense in € million 31.12.2017 exchange rates and other changes Reclassification 31.12.2018 Liabilities to financial institutions 953.0 164.8 (12.0) 60.3 (12.5) 1,153.6 Perpetual bond 215.3 (215.0) 1.3 (1.6) 0.0 0.0 Senior notes 55.6 (54.6) 0.6 (1.6) 0.0 0.0 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 32.0 (1.8) (0.4) 6.5 0.0 36.3 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 1.7 (0.5) (0.3) (0.6) 12.5 12.8 Prepaid transaction costs related to financial liabilities (2.5) 0.0 0.0 2.5 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 0.0 (4.5) 0.0 6.3 0.0 1.8 Changes of financial liabilities and assets arising from financing activities 1,255.1 (111.6) (10.8) 71.8 0.0 1,204.5 180 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The reconciliation of the cash impact of net financing in 2019 and 2018 is shown in the tables below: Reconciliation to cash net finance cost other cash and financing cash non-cash Cash impact of net in € million Profit or loss movements movements financing costs Interest income 9.1 0.0 0.8 8.3 Interest expenses on borrowings (28.4) (5.7) (4.2) (29.9) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (17.2) 0.0 (2.8) (14.4) Other net financial expenses (38.7) (5.8) (24.6) (19.9) Net finance costs (75.2) (55.9) Reconciliation to cash net finance cost other cash and financing cash non-cash Cash impact of net in € million Profit or loss movements movements financing costs Interest income 9.7 0.0 1.5 8.2 Interest expenses on borrowings (48.5) (12.8) (6.9) (54.4) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (81.3) 0.0 (61.2) (20.1) Other net financial expenses (42.6) (5.2) (31.1) (16.7) Net finance costs (162.7) (83.0) Non-cash movements in other net financial expenses are mainly related to net interest expenses on personnel provisions as well as to expenses from the discount on provisions. 50. Total interest paid and interest received Total interest paid amounts to €50.5 million in the reporting period (2018: €72.4 million), of which €0.4 million (2018: €0.3 million) is included in cash flow from operating activities, €0.3 million (2018: €1.0 million) in cash flow from investing activities and €49.8 million (2018: €71.1 million) in cash flow from financing activities. Total interest received amounts to €8.3 million for the financial year 2019 (2018: €8.5 million), of which €0.0 million (2018: €0.2 million) are included in cash flow from operating activities and €8.3 million (2018: €8.3 million) in cash flow from investing activities. 181 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued OTHER DISCLOSURES 51. Segment reporting Segment reporting by operating company division The following tables show the financial information for the operating segments for the year 2019 and the previous year: in € million Steel Industrial Group 2019 Revenue 2,018.0 904.3 2,922.3 Gross profit 466.8 250.4 717.2 EBIT 273.3 Net finance costs (75.2) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 1.5 Profit before income tax 199.6 Depreciation and amortisation charges (109.1) (63.5) (172.6) Segment assets 31.12.2019 1,545.9 919.5 2,465.4 Investments in joint ventures and associates 31.12.2019 19.5 Reconciliation to total assets 834.7 3,319.6 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (according to noncurrent assets statement) 103.2 77.8 181.0 in € million Steel Industrial Group 20181) Revenue 2,213.0 868.4 3,081.4 Gross profit 526.4 210.5 736.9 EBIT 398.6 Net finance costs (162.7) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 10.1 Profit before income tax 246.0 Depreciation and amortisation charges (97.5) (55.9) (153.4) Segment assets 31.12.2018 1,669.9 944.4 2,614.3 Investments in joint ventures and associates 31.12.2018 21.8 Reconciliation to total assets 902.9 3,539.0 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (according to noncurrent assets statement) 67.7 59.3 127.0 1) Adjusted to reflect the changes in presentation. No single customer contributed 10% or more to consolidated revenue in 2019. Companies which are known to be part of a group are treated as one customer. In 2018, revenue amounting to €317.5 million was realised with one customer, which was included in the Steel segment. 182 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 When allocating revenue to product groups, a distinction is made between shaped products (e.g. hydraulically pressed bricks, fused cast bricks, isostatically pressed products), unshaped products (e.g. repair mixes, construction mixes and castables), refractory management services as well as other revenue. Other mainly includes revenue from the sale of non-group refractory products. In the reporting year, revenue is classified by product group as follows: in € million Steel Industrial Group 2019 Shaped products 963.0 613.7 1,576.7 Unshaped products 323.4 187.6 511.0 Management refractory services 628.8 0.0 628.8 Other 102.8 103.0 205.8 Revenue 2,018.0 904.3 2,922.3 In 2018, revenue was classified by product group as follows: in € million Steel Industrial Group 20181) Shaped products 1,114.9 575.9 1,690.8 Unshaped products 340.9 192.1 533.0 Management refractory services 616.0 0.0 616.0 Other 141.2 100.4 241.6 Revenue 2,213.0 868.4 3,081.4 1) Adjusted to reflect the changes in presentation. Revenue from shaped and unshaped products is transferred to the customers at a point in time, whereas revenue from management refractory services is transferred over time. Other revenue amounting to €96.9 million (2018: €100.9 million) is transferred over time and an amount of €108.9 million (2018: €140.7 million) is transferred at a point of time. Segment reporting by country Revenue in 2019 and in the previous year is classified by customer sites as follows: in € million Steel Industrial Group Netherlands 11.4 5.0 16.4 All other countries USA 359.7 55.4 415.1 Brazil 273.3 58.8 332.1 India 206.3 45.5 251.8 PR China 47.6 136.1 183.7 Germany 96.8 74.1 170.9 Mexico 108.1 47.4 155.5 Italy 88.5 26.3 114.8 Canada 47.9 55.2 103.1 Russia 68.8 9.6 78.4 Other countries, each below €52.7 million 709.6 390.9 1,100.5 Revenue 2,018.0 904.3 2,922.3 183 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued in € million Steel Industrial Group Netherlands 13.9 11.9 25.8 All other countries USA 353.7 54.2 407.9 Brazil 277.1 56.1 333.2 India 202.3 43.0 245.3 Germany 116.6 66.8 183.4 PR China 44.0 121.7 165.7 Mexico 127.8 33.2 161.0 Italy 104.6 27.0 131.6 Canada 46.4 45.8 92.2 Russia 73.7 13.2 86.9 Other countries, each below €62.9 million 852.9 395.5 1,248.4 Revenue 2,213.0 868.4 3,081.4 The carrying amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are classified as follows by the respective sites of the Group companies: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Brazil 514.0 520.7 USA 233.2 233.1 Austria 228.8 220.6 Germany 154.0 198.6 PR China 181.9 160.1 India 64.7 58.0 Mexico 38.9 34.5 France 27.9 31.8 Turkey 29.4 30.6 Other countries, each below €22.1 million (31.12.2018: €18.6 million) 70.5 58.6 Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1,543.3 1,546.6 52. Earnings per share In accordance with IAS 33, earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. 2019 2018 Profit after income tax attributable to the owners of the parent (in € million) 139.0 158.1 Weighted average number of shares for basic EPS 49,220,010 44,963,615 Effects of dilution from share options 273,969 94,105 Weighted average number of shares for dilutive EPS 49,493,979 45,057,720 Earnings per share basic (in €) 2.82 3.52 Earnings per share diluted (in €) 2.81 3.52 The weighted average number of shares for basic and dilutive EPS considers the weighted average effect of the newly issued ordinary shares as well the effect of changes in treasury shares during the reporting period. As of 31 December 2019, there are 273,969 diluting options. 184 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53. Dividend payments and proposed dividend The Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2019 approved the pay-out of a dividend of €1.50 per share for 2018. Consequently, a dividend totalling €74.2 million was paid out to the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. at the beginning of July 2019. On 23 July 2019 the Board of Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. approved the 2019 interim dividend of €0.50 per share amounting to € 24.5 million. The 2019 interim dividend was paid on 9 January 2020. For 2019, the Board of Directors has recommended not to pay a final dividend for 2019, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, on 5 June 2020 to shareholders on the register at 2020. This decision will be reviewed later in the year once the outlook becomes clearer. Dividend payments to the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. have no income tax consequences for RHI Magnesita N.V. 185 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued 54. Additional disclosures on financial instruments The following tables show the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and level and the allocation to the measurement category in accordance with IFRS 13. In addition, carrying amounts are shown aggregated according to measurement category. 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Measurement category Carrying Carrying in € million IFRS 91) Level amount Fair value amount Fair value Other non-current financial assets Interests in subsidiaries not consolidated FVPL 3 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Marketable securities FVPL 1 13.3 13.3 14.5 14.5 Shares FVPL 3 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Interest derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 2 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Other non-current financial receivables AC 0.9 1.7 Trade and other current receivables AC 324.2 367.2 Other current financial assets Marketable securities FVPL 1 0.0 0.0 35.2 35.2 Shares FVPL 1 0.0 0.0 1.1 1.1 Derivatives FVPL 2 0.1 0.1 2.1 2.1 Other current financial receivables AC 0.0 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents AC 467.2 491.2 Financial assets 806.9 915.0 Non-current and current borrowings Liabilities to financial institutions AC 2 1,043.1 1,056.6 1,153.6 1,165.6 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs AC 2 11.9 12.8 Non-current and current other financial liabilities Lease liabilities AC 2 61.9 Derivatives FVPL 2 24.5 24.5 20.9 20.9 Interest derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 2 14.8 14.8 7.3 7.3 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests AC 2 35.8 36.3 Other non-current liabilities Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries FVPL 3 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Trade payables and other current liabilities AC 412.3 539.3 Financial liabilities 1,604.3 1,770.8 Aggregated according to measurement category Financial assets measured at FVPL 14.6 54.1 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 792.3 860.3 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 1,565.0 1,742.0 Financial liabilities measured at FVPL 24.5 21.5 1) FVPL: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. AC: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. In the RHI Magnesita Group marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, shares, and interests in subsidiaries not consolidated are measured at fair value. Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between market participants in an arm's length transaction on the day of measurement. When the fair value is determined it is assumed that the transaction in which the asset is sold or the liability is transferred takes place either in the main market for the asset or liability, or in the most favourable market if there is 186 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 no main market. RHI Magnesita considers the characteristics of the asset or liability to be measured which a market participant would consider in pricing. It is assumed that market participants act in their best economic interest. RHI Magnesita takes into account the availability of observable market prices in an active market and uses the following hierarchy to determine fair value: Level 1: Prices quoted in active markets for identical financial instruments. Level 2: Measurement techniques in which all important data used are based on observable market data. Level 3: Measurement techniques in which at least one significant parameter is based on non-observable market data. The fair value of securities, shares, and interests in subsidiaries not consolidated is based on price quotations at the reporting date (Level 1), where such quotations exist. In other cases a valuation model (Level 3) would be used for such instruments with the exception that such instruments are immaterial to the group, in which case amortised cost serves as an approximation of fair value. The fair value of interest derivatives in a hedging relationship (interest rate swaps) is determined by calculating the present value of future cash flows based on current yield curves taking into account the corresponding terms (Level 2). The fair value of other derivative contracts corresponds to the market value of the forward exchange contracts and the embedded derivatives in open orders denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, as well as the market value of a long-term power supply contract, which was classified as a derivative financial instrument since 2015. These derivatives are measured using quoted forward rates that are currently observable (Level 2). The fair value of the contingent consideration liability amounting to €0.0 million (31.12.2018: €0.6 million) recognised in 2017 due to the acquisition of Agellis is determined by discounting the estimated earn-out with the transaction’s internal rate of return (Level 3). RHI Magnesita takes into account reclassifications in the measurement hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the changes occur. Apart from the initial application of IFRS 9, there were no shifts between the different measurement levels in the two reporting periods. Liabilities to financial institutions, other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs, lease liabilities and liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests are carried at amortised cost in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The fair values of the liabilities to financial institutions are only shown in the notes and calculated at the present value of the discounted future cash flows using yield curves that are currently observable (Level 2). The financial receivables approximately correspond to the fair value as due to the amount of the existing receivables no material deviation between the fair value and the carrying amount is assumed and the credit default risk is accounted for by forming valuation allowances. The remaining terms of trade and other current receivables and liabilities as well as cash and cash equivalents are predominantly short. Therefore, the carrying amounts of these items approximate fair value at the reporting date. At the two reporting dates, no contractual netting agreement of financial assets and liabilities were in place. 187 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Net results by measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9 The effect of financial instruments on the income and expenses recognised in 2019 and 2018 is shown in the following table, classified according to the measurement categories defined in IFRS 9: in € million 2019 2018 Net (loss)/gain from financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (17.7) 1.4 Net loss from financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss designated on initial recognition 0.5 (1.2) Net gain/(loss) from financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (39.7) (123.5) The net gain from financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss includes income from securities and shares, income from the disposal of securities and shares, impairment losses and income from reversals of impairment losses, unrealised results from the measurement of a long-term commodity futures contract, changes in the market value and realised results of forward exchange contracts and embedded derivatives in open orders in a currency other than the functional currency of RHI Magnesita, interest derivatives which do not meet the requirements of hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 and interest income from securities. The net gain or loss from financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated on initial recognition includes income related to the settlement and measurement of securities and personnel obligations. The net loss from financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost includes interest income and expenses, changes in valuation allowances and losses on derecognition, foreign exchange gains and losses as well as expenses related to the measurement of put options. The net loss is mainly related to financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. Net finance costs include interest income amounting to €9.1 million (2018: €9.5 million) and interest expenses of €49.9 million (2018: €69.5 million), which result from financial assets and liabilities which are not carried at fair value through profit or loss. 55. Derivative financial instruments Commodity forward The RHI Magnesita Group signed a commodity forward contract for electricity for the fusion plant in Porsgrunn, Norway, in November 2011 which has been accounted for as a financial instrument in accordance with IFRS 9 since 31 December 2015 because the “own-use exemption” (exemption for own use in accordance with IFRS 9 no longer applies. The measurement of the entire term of the contract until the end of the year 2023 at market price level leads to a financial liability of €23.9 million at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €20.9 million). The corresponding present value of the cash flows for the agreed electricity supply totals €59.5 million at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €71.3 million); the present value of the cash flow at market price amounts to €35.6 million (31.12.2018: €50.4 million). Interest rate swaps RHI Magnesita has concluded interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flow risk associated to financial liabilities carrying variable interest rates. Variable interest cash flows of financial liabilities were designated as hedged items. The cash flow changes of the hedged items, which result from the changes of the variable interest rates, are balanced out by the cash flow changes of the interest rate swaps. These hedging measures pursue the objective to transform variable-interest financial liabilities into fixed interest financial liabilities, thus hedging the cash flow from the financial liabilities. Ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship may arise due to credit risk, although this risk is assessed to be very low. In the year 2018, RHI Magnesita concluded an interest rate swap with a nominal volume of €305.6 million maturing in 2023. The interest and compensation payments are due on a quarterly basis. Fixed interest rate amounts to roughly 0.28%, the variable interest rate is based on the EURIBOR. Furthermore, one other interest rate swap has been concluded in 2018, with a nominal volume of USD 200.0 million and a term until 2023. The interest and compensation payments are also due on a quarterly basis. Fixed interest rate amounts to roughly 3.1%, the variable interest rate is based on the USD LIBOR. A hedging relationship with a nominal volume of USD 50.0 million (31.12.2018: USD 50.0 million) with an original maturity until 2020 was early settled in 2019. An income of €0.7 million recognised in other comprehensive income was reclassified to profit or loss and recognised within other net financial expenses. 188 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In 2018, two interest rate swaps measured at fair value through profit or loss with an original maturity until 2019 and with a nominal value of €12.2 million were subject to early settlement in the reporting period. Total expense in 2018 of this transaction amounted to €0.3 million and was recognised within other net financial expenses. The fair values of the interest rate swaps totalled €-14.8 million at the reporting date (31.12.2018: €-6.7 million) and are shown in other non-current financial liabilities (31.12.2018: €7.3 million) in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At 31.12.2018 a fair value of € 0.6 million was shown in other non-current financial assets. For the reporting period 2019, €-7.4 million (2018: €6.8 million) have been recognised in other comprehensive income and an income amounting to €0.7 million (2018:€0.0) has been reclassified from other comprehensive to profit or loss and recognised within other net financial expenses. No ineffectiveness has been recognised in profit and loss. Forward exchange contracts As of 31 December 2019, there were no open forward exchange contracts. The nominal value and fair value of forward exchange contracts as of 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: 31.12.2018 Nominal value Fair value in € Purchase Sale in million million EUR USD USD 182.0 1.1 USD INR EUR 890.0 0.0 Forward exchange contracts 1.1 56. Financial risk management Financial risks are incorporated in RHI Magnesita’s corporate risk management and are centrally controlled by Corporate Treasury. None of the following risks have a significant influence on the going concern of the RHI Magnesita Group. Credit risks The maximum credit risk from recognised financial assets amounts to €806.9 million (31.12.2018: €915.0 million) and is primarily related to investments with banks and receivables due from customers. The credit risk with banks related to investments (especially cash and cash equivalents) is reduced as business transactions are only carried out with prime financial institutions with a good credit rating. Individual counterpart exposures limits are assigned to each financial institution based on a matrix composed of the credit rating (S&P or Moody’s) and balance sheet assets. Receivables from customers are hedged as far as possible through credit insurance and collateral arranged through banks (guarantees, letters of credit) in order to mitigate credit and default risk. Credit and default risks are monitored continuously, and provisions are formed for risks that have occurred and are identifiable. In the following, the credit risk from trade receivables is shown classified by customer industry, by foreign currency and by term. This credit risk, which is hedged by existing credit insurance, letters of credit and bank guarantees, is shown by customer segment in the following table: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Segment Steel 206.8 250.3 Segment Industrial 110.7 99.6 Trade receivables 317.5 349.9 Credit insurance and bank guarantees (140.8) (139.8) Net credit exposure 176.7 210.1 189 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The following table shows the carrying amounts of receivables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the Group companies. The carrying amounts of the receivables in the functional currency of the respective Group company are included under other functional currencies: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 US Dollar 75.9 75.4 Euro 10.1 11.6 Pound Sterling 5.2 5.8 Other currencies 3.5 7.0 Other functional currencies 222.8 250.1 Trade receivables 317.5 349.9 The movement in the valuation allowance in respect of trade and other receivables and contract assets during the year and the previous year was as follows.: 2019 2018 Individually Collectively Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed assessed in € million credit impaired not credit impaired credit impaired not credit impaired Accumulated valuation allowance at beginning of year 29.6 1.2 28.7 3.3 Currency translation 0.3 (1.1) Addition 5.9 5.0 Use (1.0) (3.0) Reversal (2.5) 0.0 Net remeasurement of loss allowance 0.1 (2.1) Accumulated valuation allowance at year-end 32.3 1.3 29.6 1.2 For trade receivables and contract assets, for which no objective evidence of impairment exists, lifetime expected credit losses have been calculated using a provision matrix as shown below: in € million Trade receivables days past due between 31 and between 61 and between 91 and 31.12.2019 Not past due less than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days more than 180 days Total Expected credit 0.04 loss rate in % 0.65% 0.08 1.50% 0.33 10.33% 0.90 19.71% 1.43 26.35% 3.02 46.81% Gross carrying amount 260.8 20.8 8.0 1.9 1.4 2.8 295.7 Life time expected credit loss 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 1.3 190 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 in € million Trade receivables days past due between 31 and between 61 and between 91 and 31.12.2018 Not past due less than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days more than 180 days Total Expected credit 0.05 loss rate in % 0.45% 0.11 1.08% 0.50 7.04% 1.39 13.33% 2.27 17.63% 5.86 33.81% Gross carrying amount 294.0 34.0 7.6 3.2 2.8 4.0 345.6 Life time expected credit loss 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 1.2 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that financial obligations cannot be met when due. The Group’s financial policy is based on long-term financial planning and is centrally controlled and monitored continuously at RHI Magnesita. The liquidity requirements resulting from budget and medium-term planning are secured by concluding appropriate financing agreements. As of 31 December 2019, the RHI Magnesita Group has a committed credit facility of USD 400.0 million, which is fully unutilised (31.12.2018: USD 190.0 million were unutilised). The USD 400.0 million committed RCF is a syndicated facility with multiple international banks and matures in 2023. The companies of the RHI Magnesita Group are integrated into a clearing process managed by Corporate Treasury and provided with financing limits in order to minimise the need of borrowings for the Group as a whole. Non-derivative financial instruments An analysis of the terms of non-derivative financial liabilities based on undiscounted cash flows including the related interest payments shows the following expected cash outflows: Remaining term Carrying amount Cash in € million 31.12.2019 outflows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions fixed interest 135.0 147.4 2.7 108.5 36.2 variable interest 908.1 949.6 76.2 601.7 271.7 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 11.9 13.4 2.0 11.2 0.2 Lease liabilities 61.9 79.5 16.2 37.7 25.6 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 35.8 187.8 11.6 13.2 163.0 Trade payables and other current liabilities 412.3 412.3 412.3 0.0 0.0 Non-derivative financial liabilities 1,565.0 1,790.0 521.0 772.3 496.7 191 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Remaining term Carrying amount Cash in € million 31.12.2018 outflows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions fixed interest 116.1 127.3 2.7 88.5 36.1 variable interest 1,037.5 1,100.9 338.6 732.9 29.4 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 12.8 15.2 2.2 12.3 0.7 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 36.3 211.8 14.2 18.4 179.2 Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0 Trade payables and other current liabilities 539.3 539.3 539.3 0.0 0.0 Non-derivative financial liabilities 1,742.6 1,995.1 897.0 852.7 245.4 Derivative financial instruments The remaining terms of derivative financial instruments based on expected undiscounted cash flow as of 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: Remaining term Carrying amount in € million 31.12.2019 Cash flows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Receivables from derivatives with net settlement Derivatives in open orders 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 Liabilities from derivatives with net settlement Derivatives from supply contracts 23.9 24.6 6.0 18.6 0.0 Interest rate swaps 14.8 15.1 5.0 10.1 0.0 Derivatives in open orders 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.0 0.0 Remaining term Carrying amount in € million 31.12.2018 Cash flows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Receivables from derivatives with net settlement Interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.0 Derivatives in open orders 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 Forward exchange contracts 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.0 0.0 Liabilities from derivatives with net settlement Derivatives from supply contracts 20.9 22.2 1.0 21.2 0.0 Interest rate swaps 7.3 8.1 2.4 5.7 0.0 Foreign currency risks Foreign currency risks arise where business transactions (operating activities, investments, financing) are conducted in a currency other than the functional currency of a company. They are monitored at the Group level and analysed with respect to hedging options. Usually the net position of the Group in the respective currency serves as the basis for decisions regarding the use of hedging instruments. 192 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Foreign currency risks are created through financial instruments which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency (in the following: foreign currency) and are monetary in nature. Important primary monetary financial instruments include trade receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents as well as financial liabilities as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Equity instruments are not of a monetary nature, and therefore not linked to a foreign currency risk in accordance with IFRS 7. The majority of foreign currency financial instruments in the RHI Magnesita Group result from operating activities, above all from intragroup financing transactions, unless the foreign exchange effects recognised to profit or loss on monetary items, which represent part of a net investment in a foreign operation in accordance with IAS 21, are eliminated or hedged through forward exchange contracts. Significant provisions denominated in foreign currencies are also included in the analysis of risk. The following table shows the foreign currency positions in the major currencies as of 31 December 2019: in € million USD EUR ZAR CHF Other Total Financial assets 813.8 57.0 12.8 0.8 69.0 953.4 Financial liabilities, provisions (646.9) (165.7) 0.0 (11.2) (34.9) (858.7) Net foreign currency position 166.9 (108.7) 12.8 (10.4) 34.1 94.7 The foreign currency positions as of 31 December 2018 are structured as follows: in € million USD EUR ZAR CHF Other Total Financial assets 651.5 104.1 15.8 1.4 77.7 850.5 Financial liabilities, provisions (938.6) (241.7) 0.0 (11.0) (63.0) (1,254.3) Net foreign currency position (287.1) (137.6) 15.8 (9.6) 14.7 (403.8) The disclosures required by IFRS 7 for foreign exchange risks include a sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of hypothetical changes in the relevant risk variables on profit or loss and equity. In general, all non-functional currencies in which Group companies enter into financial instruments are considered to be relevant risk variables. The effects on a particular reporting period are determined by applying the hypothetical changes in these risk variables to the financial instruments held by the Group as of the reporting date. It is assumed that the positions on the reporting date are representative for the entire year. The sensitivity analysis does not include the foreign exchange differences that result from translating the net asset positions of the foreign group companies into the Group currency, the Euro. A 10% appreciation or devaluation of the relevant functional currency against the following major currencies as of 31 December 2019 would have had the following effect on profit or loss and equity (both excluding income tax): Appreciation of 10% Devaluation of 10% in € million Gain/(loss) Equity Gain/(loss) Equity US Dollar (15.2) (4.7) 18.6 5.7 Euro 9.9 15.5 (12.1) (18.9) South African Rand (1.2) (1.2) 1.4 1.4 Swiss Franc 0.9 0.9 (1.2) (1.2) Other currencies (3.0) (3.0) 3.8 3.9 193 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued The hypothetical effect on profit or loss at 31 December 2018 can be summarised as follows: Appreciation of 10% Devaluation of 10% in € million Gain/(loss) Equity Gain/(loss) Equity US Dollar 27.0 27.0 (33.0) (33.0) Euro 12.4 12.4 (15.1) (15.1) South African Rand (1.4) (1.4) 1.7 1.7 Swiss Franc 0.9 0.9 (1.1) (1.1) Other currencies (1.4) (1.4) 1.6 1.6 Net investment hedge Non-current borrowings as of 31 December 2019 include USD 200.0 million which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in two subsidiaries in the USA as of 1 July 2019. This borrowing is used to hedge the Group´s exposure to the USD foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the translation of this borrowing are reclassified to Other Comprehensive Income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries. There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as the net investment creates a translation risk that will match the foreign exchange risk on the USD borrowing. The Group has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 as the underlying risk of the hedging instrument is identical to the hedged risk component. Hedge ineffectiveness could arise when the amount of the investment in the foreign subsidiary becomes lower than the amount of the fixed rate borrowing. For the reporting period, there was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from net investments hedges. The impact of the hedging instrument for the period 2019 is shown as follows: Change in fair value used for in € million Carrying amount Statement of Financial Position measuring ineffectiveness Nominal amount 178.5 Non-current borrowings (2.9) USD 200.0 million The change in the carrying amount of the non-current borrowing as a result of the foreign currency movements since 1 July 2019 is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income within the currency translation differences. The impact of the hedged item for the period 2019 is shown as follows: Change in fair value used for in € million measuring ineffectiveness Nominal amount 2.9 2.2 The hedging gain or loss recognised in the currency translation differences is also including the corresponding tax effect. The hedging gain or loss recognised before tax is equal to the change in the fair value used for measuring effectiveness. Interest rate risks The interest rate risk in the RHI Magnesita Group is primarily related to financial instruments carrying variable interest rates, which may lead to fluctuations in results and cash flows. At 31 December 2019, interest rate hedges amounting to a nominal value of €305.6 million (31.12.2018: €305.6 million) and a nominal value of USD 200.0 million (31.12.2018: USD 250.0 million) existed; a variable interest rate was converted into a fixed interest rate through an interest rate swap. The exposure to interest rate risks is presented through sensitivity analyses in accordance with IFRS 7. These analyses show the effects of changes in market interest rates on interest payments, interest income and interest expense and on equity. The RHI Magnesita Group measures fixed interest financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost, and did not use the fair value option a hypothetical change in the market interest rates for these financial instruments at the reporting date would have had no effect on profit and loss or equity. 194 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Changes in market interest rates on financial instruments designated as hedges as a part of cash flow hedges to protect against interest rate-related payment fluctuations have an effect on equity and are therefore included in the equity-related sensitivity analysis. If the market interest rate as of 31 December 2019 had been 25 basis points higher or lower, equity would have been €3.1 million (31.12.2018: €3.8 million) higher or lower taking into account tax effects. Changes in market interest rates have an effect on the interest result of primary variable interest financial instruments whose interest payments are not designated as hedged items as a part of cash flow hedge relationships against interest rate risks, and are therefore included in the calculation of the result-related sensitivities. If the market interest rate as of 31 December 2019 had been 25 basis points higher or lower, the interest result would have been €0.1 million (31.12.2018: €0.1 million) lower or higher. Other market price risk RHI Magnesita holds certificates in an investment fund amounting to €13.3 million (31.12.2018: €12.0 million) to cover the legally required protection of personnel provisions of Austrian group companies. The market value of these certificates is influenced by fluctuations of the worldwide volatile stock and bond markets. In 2015, an energy supply contract with a term until the year 2023 was classified as a derivative financial instrument and the fair value of the financial liability amounts to €23.9 million at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €20.9 million). If the quoted forward prices at 31 December 2019 had been 20% higher or lower, EBIT would have been €7.1 million (31.12.2018: €10.1 million) higher or lower. In contrast, if the borrowing costs relevant for discounting had been 25 basis points higher or lower at the reporting date, EBIT would have been €0.1million (31.12.2018: €0.2 million) higher or lower. 57. Capital management The objectives of the capital management strategy of the RHI Magnesita Group are to continue as a going concern and to provide a capital base to finance growth and investments, to service debt, and to increase shareholders value, including the payment of dividends to shareholders. The RHI Magnesita Group manages its capital structure through careful monitoring and assessment of the overall economic framework conditions, credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risks and the requirements and risks related to operations and strategic projects. The capital structure key figures at the reporting date are shown below: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Net debt (in € million) 649.7 638.9 Net gearing ratio (in %) 76.9% 72.2% Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.17x 1.16x Net debt, which reflects borrowings and lease liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, is managed by Corporate Treasury. The main task of the Corporate Treasury department is to execute the capital management strategy as well as to secure liquidity to support business operations on a sustainable basis, to use banking and financial services efficiently and to limit financial risks while at the same time optimising earnings and costs. The net gearing ratio is the ratio of net debt to total equity. 195 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Net debt excluding lease liabilities/adjusted EBITDA is the main financial covenant of loan agreements. The key performance indicator for net debt in the RHI Magnesita Group is the group leverage, which reflects the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA, including lease liabilities. It is calculated as follows: in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 EBIT 273.3 398.6 Amortisation 26.4 28.6 Restructuring and write-down expenses 112.1 22.3 Other operating income and expenses (3.6) (21.3) Adjusted EBITA 408.2 428.2 Depreciation 146.2 124.8 Adjusted EBITDA 554.4 553.0 Total debt 1,055.0 1,166.4 Lease liabilities 61.9 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 467.2 491.2 Marketable securities 0.0 36.3 Net debt 649.7 638.9 Net debt excluding IFRS 16 lease liabilities 587.8 638.9 Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.17x 1.16x Net debt to adjusted EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 lease liabilities 1.06x 1.16x In both 2019 and 2018, all externally imposed capital requirements were met. The Group has sufficient liquidity headroom within its committed debt facilities. RHI Magnesita N.V. is subject to minimum capital requirements according to its articles of association. The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. 58. Contingent liabilities At 31 December 2019, warranties, performance guarantees and other guarantees amount to €44.0 million (31.12.2018: €43.0 million). Contingent liabilities have a remaining term between two months and three years, depending on the type of liability. Based on experiences of the past, the probability that contingent liabilities are used is considered to be low. In addition, contingent liabilities from sureties of €0.3 million (31.12.2018: €0.3 million) were recorded, of which €0.3 million (31.12.2018: €0.3 million) are related to contingent liabilities to creditors from joint ventures. Individual administrative proceedings and lawsuits which result from ordinary activities are pending as of 31 December 2019 or can potentially be exercised against RHI Magnesita in the future. The related risks were analysed with a view to their probability of occurrence. The Group is a party in several tax proceedings in Brazil which involve an estimated amount of €233.5 million (31.12.2018: €169.0 million). No provision was set up to cover the potential disbursements related to such proceedings as, according to IFRS, management classified the risks of loss (based on the evaluation of legal advisors) as possible but not probable. The proceedings are as follows. In 2011, the Brazilian Tax Authorities issued an assessment regarding Corporate Income Taxes on the amortization of goodwill related to the years 2008 and 2009. The tax authorities disallowed the deductibility of the amortisation of tax goodwill arising from operations with subsidiaries. In 2016, the company was notified of the decision issued by the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (“CARF”), which cancelled more than 90% of the tax assessment. However, the CARF’s ruling is still subject to appeals filed by both the company and the General Counsel to the National Treasury (“PGFN”). The final ruling for this proceeding is expected within one to two years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €81.7 million, including interest and penalties (31.12.2018: €81.4 million). 196 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In 2016, the Brazilian Tax Authorities considered the arguments partially accepted by the CARF in the proceeding started in 2011 to challenge goodwill deductions for the years 2011 and 2012. In December 2016, the company filed a defense against the tax assessment, which was partially granted by the tax authorities. The parties can appeal to the CARF as soon as the formal notice about the first-tier decision occurs. The final decision is expected within three to four years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €38.1 million, including interest and penalties (31.12.2018: €37.5 million). In 2019, the Brazilian Tax Authorities extended the goodwill challenge also for the years 2013 to 2018. The company will file a defense against the tax assessment notice. A preliminary first-tier decision by the tax authorities (the Federal Revenue Judgment Office in the city of Belo Horizonte) is expected within one to two years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €53.3 million, including interest and penalties. In 2013, the Brazilian Tax Authorities raised an assessment notice for allegedly failing to pay social security contributions in the period from January to December 2009. The company has appealed the assessment. Legal opinions demonstrate that the company has solid supporting documentation capable of reversing the assessment. The final decision is expected within one to two years. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €4.2 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €4.8 million). Furthermore, the Brazilian Tax Authorities issued a tax assessment against a former Brazilian holding company. The assessment relates to the offset of federal taxes’ credits and debits performed by the company up to and including 2008, which have not been approved by the Tax Authorities. Legal opinions demonstrate that the company’s arguments are solidly based on supporting documentation. The final decision is expected within four to five years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €12.8 million, including interest and penalties (31.12.2018: €10.7 million). The Brazilian Tax Authorities also issued a tax assessment regarding the Financial Compensation for Exploration of Mineral Resources (“CFEM”). Based on the opinion of its legal advisors, the company appealed against the assessment and the chances of loss in this proceeding were considered “possible” due to the applicable case-law of the Brazilian courts. Additionally, changes in the CFEM legislation mirror the company’s interpretation and, therefore, demonstrate its accurateness. The final decision is expected within four to five years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €14.0 million, including interest and penalties (31.12.2018: €12.9 million). In addition to the above, the Brazilian Tax Authorities issued a tax assessment for an allegedly incurred use of Income Tax credits relating to the year 2015. Legal opinions demonstrate that the company’s arguments are solidly based on substantial supporting documentation. The final decision is expected within four to five years. As of 31 December 2019, the potential risk amounts to €3.5 million, including interest and penalties. Finally, in 2018 the State Tax Authorities issued a tax assessment in respect of the Tax on the Circulation of Goods and Services (“ICMS”) for an alleged lack of compliance of ancillary obligation and lack of tax collection concerning the period stemming from years 2013 to 2017. The potential loss amounted to €4.1 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2018. In 2019, the State Taxpayers Council granted a 73% reduction of the original assessment amount through immediate payment. In view of this decision, in November 2019, the company opted to pay €1.2 million to settle the claim. The calculation of income taxes of RHI Magnesita N.V. and its subsidiaries is based on the tax laws applicable in the individual countries. Due to their complexity, the tax items presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements may be subject to different interpretations by local finance authorities. In this context it should be noted that a tax provision is generally recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds. Since RHI Magnesita is continually adapting its global presence to improve customer service and maintain its competitive advantage, the group leads open discussions with tax authorities, mostly about the transfer of functions between related parties and their exit value. In this regard, disputes may arise, where the group’s management understanding differs from the positions of the local authorities. In such cases, when an appeal is available, the group’s management judgments are based on a likely outcome approach based on in-house tax experts, professional firms, and previous experiences when assessing the risks. Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil, is also involved in other minor lawsuits totalling €25.9 million (31.12.2018: €17.6 million) which relate to a number of assessments concerning various taxes and related obligations. Furthermore, Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil, is party to a public civil action for damages caused by overloaded trucks in contravention with the Brazilian traffic legislation. In 2017, a decision was rendered in favour of Magnesita in the trial court considering the requests submitted by the Federal Public Attorney's Office to be completely devoid of legal merit. The decision taken by the trial court was subject to appeal by the Public Ministry of Minas Gerais. The final decision is expected in 10 years. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €13.3 million as at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €12.1 million). 197 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued Other minor proceedings and lawsuits in which subsidiaries are involved have no significant negative influence on the financial position and performance of the RHI Magnesita Group. 59. Other financial commitments Capital commitments amount to €5.0 million as at 31 December 2019 (31.12.2018: €5.4 million) and are exclusively due to third parties. They are shown at nominal value. In addition, the RHI Magnesita Group has purchase commitments related to the supply with raw materials, especially for electricity, natural gas, strategic raw materials as well as for the transport of raw materials within the Group. This results in other financial commitments of the nominal value of €175.5 million at the reporting date (31.12.2018: €96.2 million). The increase in other financial commitments compared to the previous year mainly results from energy purchase contracts concluded in 2019. The remaining terms of the contracts amount to up to seven years. Purchases from these arrangements are recognised in accordance with the usual course of business. Purchase contracts are regularly reviewed for imminent losses, which may occur, for example, when requirements fall below the agreed minimum purchase volume or when contractually agreed prices deviate from the current market price level. In 2019 obligations from rental and leasing contracts are not part of other financial commitments due to the initial application of IFRS 16. Further information is provided under Note (2). 60. Expenses for the Group auditor The expensed fees for the activities of the Group auditor PwC that are included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss are shown in the following table: in € million 2019 2018 Audit of the Financial Statements 2.9 2.7 thereof invoiced by PwC Accountants N.V. 1.0 0.2 thereof invoiced by PwC network firms 1.9 2.5 Other audit related services 0.0 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.9 Other non-audit services 0.2 0.0 Total fees 3.4 3.7 The expensed fees for the audited financial statements in 2019 include the half year review procedures that were not applicable in 2018. In 2019, other audit related services, tax compliance services and other non-audit services amounting to €0.5 million (2018: €1.0 million) were performed and invoiced by PwC network firms outside of the Netherlands. 61. Annual average number of employees The average number of employees of the RHI Magnesita Group based on full time equivalents amounts to: 2019 2018 Salaried employees 4,860 5,947 Waged workers 9,515 8,171 Number of employees on annual average 14,375 14,118 84 full time equivalents of salaried employees work in the Netherlands. In 2018 16 full time equivalents of salaried employees worked in the Netherlands. 62. Transactions with related parties Related companies include subsidiaries that are not fully consolidated, joint ventures, associates and MSP Foundation, Liechtenstein, as a shareholder of RHI Magnesita N.V. since it exercises significant influence based on its share of more than 25% in RHI Magnesita N.V. In accordance with IAS 24.9v, the personnel welfare foundation of Stopinc AG, Hünenberg, Switzerland, also has to be considered a related company. 198 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Related persons are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group (key management personnel) and their close family members. Since 26 October 2017, key management personnel comprises of members of the Board of Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. and the Executive Management Team. Before that, members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of RHI AG formed the key management personnel. Related companies In 2019 and 2018, the Group conducted the following transaction with its related companies: Non-consolidated Joint ventures Associates subsidiaries in € million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue from the sale of goods and services 3.3 3.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.3 Purchase of raw materials 1.6 3.2 15.7 20.3 0.1 0.1 Interest income 0.0 0.1 0.8 0.8 0.0 0.0 Asset purchase 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 Trade and other receivables 1.3 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 Loans granted 0.0 0.0 0.8 10.4 0.0 0.1 Trade liabilities 0.0 0.3 0.7 5.1 0.7 0.9 Dividends received 10.5 10.8 2.9 0.2 0.0 0.0 In 2019 and 2018, the Group charged electricity and stock management costs to the joint venture MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG, St. Jakob, Austria, and purchased raw materials. In 2019 and 2018, the associate Sinterco S.A., Nameche, Belgium, sold sintered doloma to the RHI Magnesita Group. Furthermore, the Group has a financing receivable of €0.8 million (31.12.2018: €10.4 million) from a loan agreement with Sinterco. The balances at the end of 2019 are unsecured and will be paid in cash. Before the acquisition of Magnesita the Group had no associates. To secure a pension claim of a former employee of MAGNIFIN, RHI Magnesita has assumed a surety amounting to €0.3 million (31.12.2018: €0.3 million). A resulting cash outflow is not expected. No guarantees were received. In 2019 and 2018, no transactions were carried out between the RHI Magnesita Group and MSP Foundation, with the exception of the dividend paid. A service relationship with respect to the company pension scheme of the employees of Stopinc AG exists between the personnel welfare foundation of Stopinc AG and the fully consolidated subsidiary Stopinc AG. Stopinc AG makes contribution payments to the plan assets of the foundation to cover pension obligations. The pension plan is recognised as a defined benefit plan and is included in Note (28). At 31 December 2019, no current account receivables existed (31.12.2018: €0.0 million). In the past reporting period, employer contributions amounting to €0.6 million (2018: €0.0 million) were made to the personnel welfare foundation. The overfunding of the pension plan is recognised as a non-current asset of €0.2 million (31.12.2018: €2.1 million). Related persons Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is subject to disclosure in accordance with IAS 24, comprises the remuneration of the active Board of Directors and the Executive Management Team (EMT) in 2019 and 2018 as well as the former Management Board and Supervisory Board of RHI AG until October 2017. For the financial year 2019, expenses for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and EMT members, active in 2019, recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss total €9.8 million (2018: €10.1 million including also remuneration of the former Management Board). The expenses, not including non-wage labour costs, amount to €9.2 million (2018: €9.1 million), of which €6.7 million (2018: €8.4 million) were related to current benefits (fixed, variable and other earnings), €0.0 million (2018: €0.0 million) to benefits related to the termination of employment and €2.5 million (2018: €0.7 million) to share-based remuneration. At 31 December 2019, liabilities for performance-linked variable earnings and share-based payments for active members of the former Management Board of €2.6 million 199 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued (2018: €5.6 million) are recognised as liabilities. There are no obligations arising from post-employment benefits and legally required termination benefits. In addition to the variable remuneration, the members of the former Management Board of RHI AG active in 2017 were also entitled to share-based payments. The programme was terminated after RHI AG merged with and into RHI Magnesita N.V. and the provisioned amount will be paid until 2020. In the financial year 2019, a payment of €1.0 million was made in this regard (2018: €1.4 million). For Non-Executive Directors, remuneration totalling €1.2 million (2018: €1.0 million including remuneration for the former Supervisory Board) was recognised through profit or loss in the year 2019. The compensation paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the members of the former Supervisory Board only consists of short-term employee benefits. Employee representatives acting as Non-Executive Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. who are employed by the Group, do not receive compensation for their activity as Non-Executive Directors. For their activity as employees in the Company and the activity of their close relatives employed with RHI Magnesita, expenses of €0.2 million (2018: €0.8 million) are recognised. No advance payments or loans were granted to key management personnel. The RHI Magnesita Group did not enter into contingent liabilities on behalf of the key management personnel. Directors Dealings reports are published on the websites of RHI Magnesita N.V. and of the London Stock Exchange. The members of the Board of Directors are covered by Directors &Officers insurance at RHI Magnesita. Detailed and individual information on the remuneration of the Board of Directors is presented in the Annual Report on Remuneration,in the Remuneration Committee report and the Remuneration Policy on pages 96 to 120 of the Annual Report of the RHI Magnesita Group. Earnings of former members of the former Management Board amounted to €2.7 million (2018: €2.6 million), of which €0.2 million (2018: €0.6 million) are related to share-based remuneration. RHI Magnesita and a close relative of a Non-Executive Director concluded a non-remunerated consultancy agreement to advise the Group on the economic and political framework in countries in which it does not yet have strong business links. In the ordinary course of business, RHI Magnesita had the following transactions with various organisations with which certain members of the Board of Directors are associated. All transactions with related part are conducted on an arm’s-length basis and in accordance with normal business terms. Karl Sevelda holds position as a supervisory board member at Siemens AG Austria. Siemens AG Austria is both a supplier and customer of the Group with only immaterial transaction volumes. The related party was not involved in the decision making of any of these transactions. Furthermore, Fiona Paulus is an independent non-executive board member of Interpipe Group. RHI Magnesita supplied the Interpipe Group with refractory materials amounting to about € 3.0 million in 2019. However, the materiality of these sales is not significant for the Group. Equity-settled share option plan (LTIP) The company implemented a share option plan for the members of senior management of the Group starting with 2018 which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 June 2018. The Group operates in two different share option plans, one applicable for the financial year 2019 and one for the financial year 2018. Each share option converts into one ordinary share of the Company on exercise. No amounts are paid or payable by the recipient on receipt of the option. The options carry rights to dividends but no voting rights. Options may be exercised at any time from the date of vesting to the date of their expiry. The number of options granted is calculated in accordance with the performance-based formula approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting and is subject to approval by the remuneration committee. The formula rewards employees to the extent of the Group’s achievements judged against quantitative criteria which are explained in detail in the Remuneration Committee Report. 200 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The vesting period for each share option plan is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of seven years from the vesting date the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 2019 2018 LTIP 2019 Number of options Number of options As at 1 January 0 Granted during the year 188,856 Exercised during the year 0 Forfeited during the year (9,081) As at 31 December 179,775 Vested and exercisable at 31 December 0 2019 2018 LTIP 2018 Number of options Number of options As at 1 January 94,105 0 Granted during the year 89 107,599 Exercised during the year 0 0 Forfeited during the year 0 (13,494) As at 31 December 94,194 94,105 Vested and exercisable at 31 December 0 0 No options expired or were exercised during the periods covered by the above tables. The options outstanding at 31 December 2019 have a weighted-average contractual life of 2.5 years. The outstanding share options for the LTIP 2018, which were granted on 6 June 2019, will expire on 7 June 2021. The share price at grant date for the 94,105 options was €53.13. The outstanding share options for the LTIP 2019, which were granted on 19 August 2019, will expire on 20 August 2022. The share price at grant date for the 188,856 options was €46.32. The assessed fair value at grant date of options of the LTIP 2018 as 31 December 2019 was €54.48 per option. The assessed fair value at grant date of options of the LTIP 2019 granted during the year ended 31 December 2019 was €46.32 per option. The fair value of share options with non-market performance conditions has been calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of options with market-related performance conditions has been measured using the Monte Carlo model. The calculation takes into account the exercise price, the term of the option, the share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying share, the expected dividend yield, the risk free interest rate for the term of the option and the correlations and volatilities of the peer group companies. The requirement that the employee has to save in order to purchase shares under the share purchase plan has been incorporated into the fair value at grant date by applying a discount to the valuation obtained. The discount has been determined by estimating the probability that the employee will stop saving based on historical behaviour. The inputs used in the measurement of the fair values at grant date of the equity-settled share-based payment plans for 2019 and the previous year were as follows: LTIP 2019 in € million 2019 2018 Fair value at grant date 8.3 Expected volatility (weighted-average) 30,36% Expected life (weighted-average) 36 Months Expected dividends 0,5 Risk-free interest rate 0,47% 201 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes continued LTIP 2018 in € million 2019 2018 Fair value at grant date 5.0 5.0 Expected volatility (weighted-average) 21,45% 21,45% Expected life (weighted-average) 24 Months 36 Months Expected dividends 0,5 0,5 Risk-free interest rate 0,89% 0,89% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 202 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 63. Board of Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. The members of the Board of Directors are as follows: Executive Directors Stefan Borgas Ian Botha Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt James Leng Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein-Berleburg David Schlaff Celia Baxter John Ramsay Janet Ashdown Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Andrew Hosty Karl Sevelda Fiona Paulus Employee Representative Directors Franz Reiter Michael Schwarz 64. Material events after the reporting date In January 2020 RHI Magnesita has refinanced its USD 400.0 million revolving credit facility in order to further strengthen the capital structure and extend the debt maturity. The new revolving credit facility has been converted to EUR, increased to €600.0 million and the maturity has been extended to 2025. On January 28, 2020 the Group acquired Missouri Refractories Co, Inc. (MORCO) in order to strengthen its position in the North American refractory market. The purchase price amounted to USD 9.8 million. The site is strategically located in the Midsouth of the United States, a region that is rapidly growing in importance for RHI Magnesita. It produces over 400 high-quality monolithic mixes, which serve a multitude of industries, including steel, cement, lime and glass. The outbreak of the coronavirus COVID-19 will likely have an impact on RHI Magnesita’s customer industries as well as on supply chain and production. Considering that the spread of the virus accelerated during the first quarter 2020, this event was classified as a nonadjusting event for accounting purposes. Given the uncertainties on scope and length as well as the ongoing developments, the Group cannot give any accurate or reliable estimates on potential quantitative impacts currently. This may result in an overall challenged and volatile market environment. The assessment on the ability of the group to operate as going concern is disclosed under Note (1). After the reporting date on 31 December 2019, there were no other events of special significance which may have a material effect on the financial position and performance of the RHI Magnesita Group. 203 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Company Financial Statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2019 (before appropriation of result) in € million Notes 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Financial non-current assets (A) 815.3 915.5 Deferred tax assets 7.4 0.0 Total non-current assets 822.7 915.5 Current assets Receivables from group companies 28.5 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents (B) 0.1 0.1 Total current assets 28.6 0.1 Total assets 851.3 915.6 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital (C) 49.5 48.3 Additional paid-in capital (D) 361.3 305.5 Legal and mandatory reserves (E) 197.9 209.9 Other reserves 95.0 78.7 Treasury shares (F) (18.8) 0.0 Result for the period (J) 139.0 158.1 Shareholders' Equity 823.9 800.5 Current liabilities Other current liabilities (G) 27.4 115.1 Total current liabilities 27.4 115.1 Total equity and liabilities 851.3 915.6 Company Statement of Profit or Loss for the period 1 January to 31 December 2019 in € million Notes 2019 2018 General and administrative expenses (14.7) (8.5) Result before taxation (14.7) (8.5) Net financial result (H) (1.5) 0.0 Income tax 7.4 0.0 Net result from investments (I) 147.8 166.6 Net result for the period (J) 139.0 158.1 204 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Movements in Shareholders’ Equity Other Legal and mandatory reserves reserves Additional Equity Share Treasury paid-in Cash flow Currency Mandatory Retained attributable to in € million capital shares capital hedges translation reserve earnings Net result shareholders 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 (5.0) (73.8) 288.7 78.7 158.1 800.5 Appropriation of prior year result 158.1 (158.1) Net result 139.0 139.0 Acquisition with noncontrolling interests without change of control 0.1 (4.6) (19.0) (23.5) Issue of ordinary shares related to the integrated tender offer of Magnesita 1.2 55.8 57.0 Shares repurchased (18.8) (18.8) Share-based expenses 4.1 4.1 Dividends (98.8) (98.8) Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity (6.1) (1.4) (28.1) (35.6) 31.12.2019 49.5 (18.8) 361.3 (11.0) (79.8) 288.7 95.0 139.0 823.9 Other Legal and mandatory reserves reserves Additional Equity Share paid-in Cash flow Currency Mandatory Retained attributable to in € million capital capital hedges translation reserve earnings Net result shareholders 31.12.2017 44.8 165.7 0.1 (54.7) 288.7 263.5 (89.3) 618.8 Effects of initial application of IFRS 15 (net of tax) (6.0) (6.0) Effects of initial application of IFRS 9 (net of tax) 1.8 1.8 01.01.2018 44.8 165.7 0.1 (54.7) 288.7 259.3 (89.3) 614.6 Appropriation of prior year result (89.3) 89.3 Net result 158.1 158.1 Acquisition with non-controlling interests without change of control 0.1 (10.7) (52.1) (62.7) Issue of ordinary shares related to the integrated tender offer of Magnesita 3.5 139.8 143.3 Share-based expenses 1.0 1.0 Dividends (33.6) (33.6) Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity (5.2) (8.4) (6.6) (20.2) 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 (5.0) (73.8) 288.7 78.7 158.1 800.5 205 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2019 General RHI Magnesita N.V. (the “Company”), a public company with limited liability under Dutch law is registered with the Dutch Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce under the number 68991665 and has its corporate seat in Arnhem, Netherlands. The administrative seat and registered office is located at Kranichberggasse 6, 1100 Vienna, Austria. The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. (ISIN code NL0012650360) are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and are included in the FTSE 250 index. Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Company uses the option of Section 362, subsection 8, of Part 9, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code to prepare the Company financial statements on the basis of the same accounting principles as those applied for the Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation is based on recognition and measurement requirements of accounting standards adopted by the EU (i.e. only IFRS that is adopted for use in the EU at the date of authorisation) as explained further in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant accounting policies Financial fixed assets Investments in Group companies in the Company Financial Statements are accounted for using the equity method. Net result from investments The share in the result of investments comprises the share of the Company in the result of these investments. Fixed assets (A) Financial fixed assets The financial fixed assets comprise investments in: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Country of core Name and registered office of the company activity Share in % Share in % Didier Werke A.G., Wiesbaden, Germany Germany 12.5 12.5 RHI Refractories Raw Material GmbH, Vienna, Austria Austria 25.0 25.0 RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria Austria 100.0 100.0 RHI Magnesita Trading B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands Netherlands 100.0 100.0 The investments have developed as follows: in € million 2019 2018 At beginning of year 915.5 569.3 Effects of the initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 0.0 (4.2) Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control (23.5) (59.2) Capital contributions 107.0 262.1 Changes from currency translation and cash flow hedges (7.5) (13.6) Changes from defined benefit plans (28.1) (6.5) Equity settled transaction 4.1 1.0 Dividend distribution (300.0) 0.0 Net result from investments 147.8 166.6 Balance at year-end 815.3 915.5 As part of the finalisation of the ITO in 2019 (as described in Note (4) of the Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company issued and contributed a total of 1,140,658 new ordinary shares, with a fair value of €56,950,485, to RHI Magnesita GmbH. In July 2019 the Company made a capital contribution of €50,000,000 to RHI Magnesita Trading B.V. 206 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The following list, prepared in accordance with the relevant legal requirements (Dutch Civil Code, Book 2, Sections 379), shows all companies in which RHI Magnesita N.V. holds a direct or indirect share of at least 20% (with the exception of the RHISA Employee Trust): 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 1. RHI Magnesita N.V., Arnhem, Netherlands Fully consolidated subsidiaries 2. Agellis Group AB, Lund, Sweden 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 3. Baker Refractories Holding Company, Delaware, USA 43. 100.0 43. 100.0 4. Baker Refractories I.C., Inc., Delaware, USA 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 5. Baker Refractories, Las Vegas, USA 43. 100.0 43. 100.0 6. Betriebsund Baugesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 D.S.I.P.C.-Didier Société Industrielle de Production et de 7. Constructions, Valenciennes, France 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 8. Didier Belgium N.V., Evergem, Belgium 71.,104. 100.0 71.,104. 100.0 9. Didier Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 10. Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, Germany 1.,56. 100.0 1.,56. 100.0 11. Dutch Brasil Holding B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 110. 100.0 110. 100.0 12. Dutch MAS B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 13. Dutch US Holding B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 110. 100.0 110. 100.0 14. FE VERA , Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 15. Feuerfestwerk Bad Hönningen GmbH, Hagen, Germany 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 16. FireShark Refractories GmbH, Vienna, Austria 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 17. GIX International Limited, Dinnington, United Kingdom 114. 100.0 114. 100.0 18. INDRESCO U.K. Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom 17. 100.0 17. 100.0 19. Intermetal Engineers Private Limited, Mumbai, India 52. 99.9 20. INTERSTOP (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, PR China 107. 100.0 107. 100.0 21. Liaoning RHI Jinding Magnesia Co., Ltd., Dashiqiao City, PR China 1) 55. 83.3 55. 83.3 22. LLC RHI Wostok Service , Moscow, Russia 55.,73. 100.0 55.,73. 100.0 23. LLC RHI Wostok , Moscow, Russia 55.,73. 100.0 55.,73. 100.0 24. Lokalbahn Mixnitz-St. Erhard Aktien-Gesellschaft, Vienna, Austria 93. 100.0 93. 100.0 207 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2019 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 25. LWB Holding Company, Delaware, USA 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 26. LWB Refractories Belgium S.A., Liège, Belgium 44.,113. 100.0 44.,113. 100.0 27. LWB Refractories Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG, Hagen, Germany 34.,56. 100.0 34.,56. 100.0 28. LWB Refractories Hagen GmbH, Hagen, Germany 113. 100.0 113. 100.0 29. LWB Refractories Holding France S.A.S., Valenciennes, France 113. 100.0 113. 100.0 30. M.E. Refractories Company FZE i. l., Dubai, United Arab Emirates 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 31. Magnesit Anonim Sirketi, Eskisehir, Turkey 2) 55. 100.0 55. 100.0 32. Magnesita Asia Refractory Holding Ltd, Hong Kong, PR China 29. 100.0 29. 100.0 33. Magnesita Finance S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 34. Magnesita Grundstücks-Beteiligungs GmbH, Hagen, Germany 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 35. Magnesita International Limited, London, United Kingdom 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 36. Magnesita Malta Finance Ltd., St. Julians, Malta 37.,113. 100.0 37.,113. 100.0 37. Magnesita Malta Holding Ltd., St. Julians, Malta 44.,113. 100.0 44.,113. 100.0 38. Magnesita Mineração S.A., Brumado, Brazil 33.,49. 100.0 33.,49. 100.0 39. Magnesita NAM Insurance Company, Delaware, USA, i.l. 25. 100.0 25. 100.0 40. Magnesita Refractories (Canada) Inc., Montreal, Canada 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 41. Magnesita Refractories (Dalian) Co. Ltd., Dalian, PR China 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 42. Magnesita Refractories Company, York, USA 25. 100.0 25. 100.0 43. Magnesita Refractories Mexico S.A. de C.V., Monterrey, Mexico 3.,4. 100.0 3.,4. 100.0 44. Magnesita Refractories GmbH, Hagen, Germany 113. 100.0 113. 100.0 45. Magnesita Refractories Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 46. Magnesita Refractories Middle East FZE, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 47. Magnesita Refractories S.C.S., Valenciennes, France 29.,113. 100.0 29.,113. 100.0 48. Magnesita Refractories S.R.L., Milano, Italy 113. 100.0 113. 100.0 49. Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil 11. 100.0 11. 85.2 50. Magnesita Resource (Anhui) Company. Ltd., Chizhou, PR China 32. 100.0 32. 100.0 51. Mezubag AG, Freienbach, Switzerland 107. 100.0 107. 100.0 52. Orient Refractories Limited, Mumbai, India 13. 66.5 13. 66.5 53. Premier Periclase Limited, Drogheda, Ireland 13. 100.0 13. 100.0 54. Producción RHI México, S. de R.L. de C.V., Ramos Arizpe, Mexico 86.,114. 100.0 86.,114. 100.0 55. Radex Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Leoben, Austria 110. 100.0 110. 100.0 56. Rearden G Holdings Eins GmbH, Hagen, Germany 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 57. Refractarios Argentinos S.A.I.C.M., San Nicolás, Argentina 49.,59. 100.0 49.,59. 100.0 58. Refractarios Magnesita Chile S/A, Santiago, Chile 49.,57. 100.0 49.,57. 100.0 59. Refractarios Magnesita Colombia S/A, Sogamoso, Colombia 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 60. Refractarios Magnesita del Perú S.A.C., Lima, Peru 49.,59. 100.0 49.,59. 100.0 61. Refractory Intellectual Property GmbH & Co KG, Vienna, Austria 62.,73. 100.0 62.,73. 100.0 62. Refractory Intellectual Property GmbH, Vienna, Austria 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 63. Reframec Manutenção e Montagens de Refratários S.A., Matozinhos, Brazil 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 64. RHI Argentina S.R.L., Buenos Aires, Argentina 13.,114. 100.0 13.,114. 100.0 65. RHI Canada Inc., Burlington, Canada 114. 100.0 114. 100.0 66. RHI Chile S.A., Santiago, Chile 17.,114. 100.0 17.,114. 100.0 67. RHI Clasil Private Limited, Mumbai India 1) 114. 53.7 114. 53.7 68. RHI Dinaris GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 102. 100.0 102. 100.0 208 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 69. RHI Finance A/S, Hellerup, Denmark 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 70. RHI GLAS GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 102. 100.0 102. 100.0 71. RHI India Private Limited, Navi Mumbai, India 11.,114. 100.0 11.,114. 100.0 72. RHI ITALIA S.R.L., Brescia, Italy 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 73. RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria 1. 100.0 1. 100.0 74. RHI Magnesita Distribution B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands 75. 100.0 75. 100.0 75. RHI Magnesita Trading B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands 1. 100.0 1. 100.0 76. RHI Marvo Feuerungsund Industriebau GmbH, Gerbstedt, Germany 77. 100.0 77. 100.0 77. RHI MARVO Feuerungsund Industriebau GmbH, Kerpen, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 78. RHI MARVO S.R.L., Ploiesti, Romania 55.,108. 100.0 55.,108. 100.0 79. RHI Normag AS, Porsgrunn, Norway 55. 100.0 55. 100.0 80. RHI Refractories (Dalian) Co., Ltd., Dalian, PR China 55. 100.0 55. 100.0 81. RHI Refractories (Site Services) Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom 18. 100.0 18. 100.0 82. RHI Refractories Africa (Pty) Ltd., Sandton, South Africa 55.,105. 100.0 55.,105. 100.0 83. RHI Refractories Andino C.A., Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela 114. 100.0 114. 100.0 84. RHI Refractories Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., Singapore 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 85. RHI Refractories Egypt LLC., Cairo, Egypt 55.,108. 100.0 55.,108. 100.0 86. RHI Refractories España, S.L., Lugones, Spain 10.,12. 100.0 10.,12. 100.0 87. RHI Refractories France SA, Valenciennes, France 3) 106. 100.0 106. 100.0 88. RHI Refractories Ibérica, S.L., Lugones, Spain 106. 100.0 106. 100.0 89. RHI Refractories Italiana s.r.l., Brescia, Italy; i.l. 106. 100.0 106. 100.0 90. RHI Refractories Liaoning Co., Ltd., Bayuquan, PR China 1) 55. 66.0 55. 66.0 91. RHI Refractories Mercosul Ltda., Sao Paulo, Brazil 108.,114. 100.0 108.,114. 100.0 92. RHI Refractories Nord AB, Stockholm, Sweden 106. 100.0 106. 100.0 93. RHI Refractories Raw Material GmbH, Vienna, Austria 1.,55.,73. 100.0 1.,55.,73. 100.0 94. RHI Refractories Site Services GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 95. RHI Refractories UK Limited, Bonnybridge, United Kingdom 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 96. RHI Refratários Brasil Ltda, Contagem, Brazil; i.l. 13.,38. 100.0 13.,38. 100.0 97. RHI Sales Europe West GmbH, Urmitz, Germany 10.,106. 100.0 10.,106. 100.0 98. RHI Trading (Dalian) Co., Ltd., Dalian, PR China 55. 100.0 55. 100.0 99. RHI Ukraina LLC, Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine 55.,108. 100.0 55.,108. 100.0 100. RHI United Offices America, S.A. de C.V., Monterrey, Mexico 86.,101. 100.0 86.,101. 100.0 101. RHI United Offices Europe, S.L., Lugones, Spain 86. 100.0 86. 100.0 102. RHI Urmitz AG & Co. KG, Mülheim-Kärlich, Germany 9.,10. 100.0 9.,10. 100.0 103. RHI US Ltd., Delaware, USA 13. 100.0 13. 100.0 104. RHI-Refmex, S.A. de C.V., Ramos Arizpe, Mexico 86.,114. 100.0 86.,114. 100.0 105. RHISA Employee Trust, Sandton, South Africa 4) . 0.0 0.0 106. SAPREF AG für feuerfestes Material, Basel, Switzerland 114. 100.0 114. 100.0 107. Stopinc Aktiengesellschaft, Hünenberg, Switzerland 10.,55. 100.0 10.,55. 100.0 108. Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 109. Veitsch-Radex America LLC., Delaware, USA 103. 100.0 103. 100.0 110. Veitsch-Radex GmbH & Co OG, Vienna, Austria 73.,111. 100.0 73.,111. 100.0 111. Veitsch-Radex GmbH, Vienna, Austria 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 112. Veitsch-Radex Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria 73. 100.0 73. 100.0 209 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2019 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 113. Vierte LWB Refractories Holding GmbH, Hagen, Germany 27.,56. 100.0 27.,56. 100.0 114. VRD Americas B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 55.,73. 100.0 55.,73. 100.0 115. Zimmermann & Jansen GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 Subsidiaries not consolidated due to minor significance . 116. Dr.-Ing. Petri & Co. Unterstützungsgesellschaft m.b.H., Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 117. Grayhill MDMM Holding Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 118. Guapare S.A, Montevideo, Uruguay 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 119. Magnesita Refractories A.B., Stocksund, Sweden 113. 100.0 113. 100.0 120. Magnesita Refractories PVT Ltd, Mumbai, India 56.,113. 100.0 56.,113. 100.0 121. Magnesita Refractories S.A. (Pty) Ltd., Sandton, South Africa 44. 100.0 44. 100.0 122. MAG-Tec Participações Ltda. Ltda., Contagem, Brazil; i.l. 49. 98.7 49. 98.7 123. Metal Data Participações Ltda., Contagem, Brazil, i.l. 49. 100.0 49. 61.3 124. Metal Data S.A. – Mineração e Metalurgia, Contagem, Brazil; i.l. 49.,123. 100.0 49.,123. 100.0 125. MMD Araçuaí Holding Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil, i.l. 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 126. Refractarios Especiales Y Moliendas S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina; i.l. 57. 100.0 57. 100.0 127. Refractarios Magnesita Uruguay S/A, Montevideo, Uruguay 49. 100.0 49. 100.0 128. RHI Réfractaires Algérie E.U.R.L., Sidi Amar, Algeria 87. 100.0 87. 100.0 Equity-accounted joint ventures and associated companies . 129. Krosaki Magnesita Refractories LLC, Delaware, USA, i.l. 42. 40.0 42. 40.0 130. Magnesita Envoy Asia Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 3. 50.0 3. 50.0 131. MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG, St. Jakob, Austria 108.,133. 50.0 108.,133. 50.0 132. Sinterco S.A., Nameche, Belgium 56. 70.0 56. 70.0 Other immaterial investments, measured at cost . 133. MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH, St. Jakob, Austria 108. 50.0 108. 50.0 1) In accordance with IAS 32, fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests are shown under liabilities. 2) Further shareholders are VRD Americas B.V., Lokalbahn Mixnitz St. Erhard Aktien-Gesellschaft and Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH. 3) Further shareholders are Didier-Werke AG, RHI Dinaris GmbH and RHI GLAS GmbH. 4) Controlling influence due to contractual terms and conditions. i.l. in liquidation 210 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Current assets (B) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are at RHI Magnesita N.V.’s free disposal. Equity (C) Share capital The Company’s authorised share capital amounts to €100,000,000, comprising 100,000,000 ordinary shares, each of €1 nominal value. During 2019 the Company issued 1,140,658 new shares to the relevant shareholders of Magnesita Refratários S.A. as agreed in the terms of the Integrated Tender Offer. As at 31 December 2019, RHI Magnesita N.V.’s issued and fully paid-in share capital consists of 49,477,705 ordinary shares (31.12.2018: 48,337,047 ordinary shares). (D) Additional paid-in capital Additional paid-in capital comprises premiums on the issue of shares less issue costs by RHI Magnesita N.V. (E) Legal and mandatory reserves Cash flow hedges The item cash flow hedges include gains and losses from the effective part of cash flow hedges less tax effects. Further information on hedge accounting is included in Note (56) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Currency translation Currency translation includes the accumulated currency translation differences from translating the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries as well as unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which are part of a net investment in a foreign operation, net of related income taxes. If foreign companies are deconsolidated, the currency translation differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as part of the gain or loss from the sale of shares in subsidiaries. In addition, when monetary items cease to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, the currency translation differences of these monetary items previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. The cash flow hedges reserve and the currency translation reserve are legal reserves and are restricted for distribution. Mandatory reserve The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. No distributions, allocations or additions may be made, and no losses of the Company may be allocated to the mandatory reserve. (F) Treasury shares In year 2019 the Company repurchased 400,000 shares from the market for a total cash consideration of €18.8 million. 211 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2019 Current liabilities (G) Other current liabilities in € million 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Trade payables 0.5 5.1 Payables to group companies 1.0 105.6 Dividend payable 24.5 0.0 Accrued liabilities 1.4 4.4 Total current liabilities 27.4 115.1 Accrued liabilities include two outstanding disputes relating to the delisting in Austria and the demerger to the Netherlands. As at 31 December 2019, the resulting liabilities are estimated at €0.5 million. The other current liabilities are due in less than one year. The fair value of other current liabilities approximates the book value, due to their short-term character. (H) Net financial result The 2019 net financial result mainly consists of €1.4 million interest expense from intercompany financing transactions. (I) Net results from investments In year 2019 the full year results of the investments amount to a profit of €147.8 million (€166.6 million) and are recognised in the Company Statement of Profit or Loss. (J) Net result for the period In 2019, there are no differences in the result between the Company Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements. Proposed appropriation of result It is proposed that pursuant to Article 27 clause 1 of the articles of association of the Company the result shown in RHI Magnesita N.V. income statement be appropriated as follows: in € million 2019 Profit attributable to shareholders 139.0 In accordance with Article 27 clause 1 to be transferred to reserves 0.0 At the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders 139.0 For 2019, the Board of Directors has recommended not to pay a dividend for the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V., subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, on 18 June 2020. This decision will be reviewed later in the year once the outlook becomes clearer. (I) Treasury shares In 2019, the Company repurchased 400,000 shares from the market for a total cash consideration of €18.8 million. Other notes Number of employees The average number of employees of RHI Magnesita N.V. during 2019 amounts to nil (2018: nil). Other information Information regarding auditor's fees, number of employees of RHI Magnesita Group and the remuneration of the Board of Directors is included in Note (60) to (62) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Material events after the reporting date In January 2020 the Company registered a branch office in Vienna. As of February 2020, the branch has 47 employees. Information regarding the outbreak and the impact of COVID-19 is provided under Note (64) in the Consolidated Financial Statements. After the reporting date on 31 December 2019, there were no other events of special significance which may have a material effect on the financial position and performance of the RHI Magnesita N.V. 212 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Vienna, 31 March 2020 Board of Directors Executive Directors Stefan Borgas Ian Botha Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt James Leng Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein-Berleburg David Schlaff Celia Baxter John Ramsay Janet Ashdown Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Andrew Hosty Karl Sevelda Fiona Paulus Employee Representative Directors Franz Reiter Michael Schwarz 213 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Other information Provisions of the articles of association on profit and distributions The stipulations of Article 27 and 28 of the Articles of Association concerning profit and distributions are: 27 Profit and distributions 27.1 The Board may resolve that the profits realised during a financial year will fully or partially be appropriated to increase and/or form reserves. With due regard to Article 26.2, a deficit may only be offset against the reserves prescribed by law to the extent this is permitted by law. 27.2 The allocation of profits remaining after application of Article 27.1 shall be determined by the General Meeting. The Board shall make a proposal for that purpose. A proposal to make a distribution of profits shall be dealt with as a separate agenda item at the General Meeting. 27.3 Distribution of profits shall be made after adoption of the annual accounts if permitted under the law given the contents of the annual accounts. 27.4 The Board may resolve to make interim distributions and/or to make distributions at the expense of any reserve of the Company, other than the Mandatory Reserve. 27.5 Distributions on shares may be made only up to an amount which does not exceed the amount of the Distributable Equity. If it concerns an interim distribution, the compliance with this requirement must be evidenced by an interim statement of assets and liabilities as referred to in Section 2:105 paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Company shall deposit the statement of assets and liabilities at the Dutch Trade Register within eight days after the day on which the resolution to make the distribution is published. 27.6 Distributions on shares payable in cash shall be paid in euro, unless the Board determines that payment shall be made in another currency. 27.7 The Board is authorised to determine that a distribution on shares will not be made in cash but in kind or in the form of shares, or to determine that shareholders may choose to accept the distribution in cash and/or in the form of shares, all this out of the profits and/or at the expense of reserves, other than the Mandatory Reserve, and all this if and in so far the Board has been designated by the General Meeting in accordance with Article 6.1. The Board shall set the conditions under which such a choice may be made. 28 Release for payment Distributions of profits and other distributions shall be made payable four weeks after adoption of the relevant resolution, unless the Board or the General Meeting at the proposal of the Board determine another date. 214 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Independent auditor’s report To: the general meeting and the board of directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. Report on the financial statements 2019 Our opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. (‘the Company’) give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and the Group (the company together with its subsidiaries) as at 31 December 2019, and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2019 of RHI Magnesita N.V., Arnhem, the Netherlands. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: • the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2019; • the following statements for 2019: the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows and Changes in Equity; and • the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2019, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise: • the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2019; • the Company Statement of Profit or Loss for the period 1 January to 31 December 2019, and • the Notes, comprising significant accounting policies applied and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. We have further described our responsibilities under those standards in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of RHI Magnesita N.V. in accordance with the European Union Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities, the ‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). Our audit approach Overview and context RHI Magnesita N.V. is a worldwide producer of refractory products. Refractory products are used in all the world’s high-temperature industrial processes. The Group is comprised of several components and therefore we considered our group audit scope and approach as set out in the section ‘The scope of our group audit’. We paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the operations of the Group, as set out below. As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where the board of directors made important judgements, for example, in respect of significant accounting 215 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In Note (10) of the consolidated financial statements the Company describes the areas of judgement in applying accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. Given the significant estimation uncertainty and the related higher inherent risks of material misstatement in the impairment assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets, the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the accounting for the plant rationalisation programme, we considered these matters as key audit matters as set out in the section ‘Key audit matters’ of this report. Furthermore, we identified the implementation of IFRS 16, the new leasing standard, a key audit matter. Other areas of focus, that were not considered key audit matters, were the migration to a single instance of SAP, which mainly relates to the migration of legacy Magnesita SAP instance to the former RHI SAP instance as well as the implementation of a target operating model which consists of the transfer of functions in local entities to centralised Global Business Support (“GBS”) centres. We ensured that the audit teams at both group and component level included the appropriate skills and competences which are needed for the audit of an international industrial products company. We therefore included experts and specialists in the areas of amongst others forensics, IT and corporate income tax, as well as experts in the areas of valuation and employee benefits, in our team. The outline of our audit approach was as follows: Materiality • Overall materiality: €14.0 million. Audit scope • We conducted audit work in 15 locations. • Site visits were conducted to 9 countries – Brazil, the Netherlands, United States, China, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Argentina and Austria. • Audit coverage: 85% of consolidated revenue, 85% of consolidated total assets and 81% of consolidated profit before tax. Key audit matters • Recoverability of deferred tax assets • Accounting for the plant rationalisation programme • Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets • Implementation of IFRS 16, leasing Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality, which is further explained in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’. Based on our professional judgement we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole and on our opinion. 216 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Overall group materiality €14.0 million (2018: €13.8 million). Basis for determining We used our professional judgement to determine overall materiality. As a basis for our judgement we materiality used 5% of adjusted profit before tax. We adjusted profit before tax for impairment and restructuring changes which were considered unusual or infrequently occurring items. Rationale for benchmark We used profit before tax adjusted for unusual or infrequently occurring items as the primary benchapplied mark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis, we believe that profit before tax adjusted for unusual or infrequently occurring items is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. In prior year we used earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) as materiality benchmark due to the high number of non-recurring items and the former Magnesita business not being fully integrated yet. In 2019, the non-recurring items are mainly limited to asset write downs and restructuring costs and those were factored in, in our benchmark. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between € 1,1 million and € 8,3 million. We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the audit committee of the board of directors that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €0.7 million (2018: €0.7 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. The scope of our group audit RHI Magnesita N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we, in aggregate, provide sufficient coverage of the financial statements for us to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the management structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets in which the components of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required to be performed at component level by the Group engagement team and by each component auditor. We have audited the complete financial information of 15 components, of which 3 components are individually financially significant to the Group:  RHI Magnesita GmbH, Austria;  RHI US, USA and;  Magnesita Refratários S.A., Brazil. The remaining 12 components, of which we conducted audits on the complete financial information, were selected to achieve appropriate coverage. We also selected 13 components to achieve appropriate coverage on financial line items in the consolidated financial statements and to build an element of unpredictability in our audit. 217 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the financial line items: Revenue 85% Total assets 85% EBIT 84% EBITDA 86% Profit before tax 81% None of the remaining components represented more than 3% of total group revenue or total group assets. For those remaining components we performed, among other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those components. The group engagement team performed the audit work for the parent company RHI Magnesita N.V. as well as the GBS office activities in Spain on areas such as fixed assets, cash and cash equivalents and aspects of accounts receivable and accounts payable. In addition, the group engagement team performed the audit work over the headquarter related activities in Vienna. This includes group consolidation, inventory valuation, the adoption of IFRS 16, financial statement disclosures, remuneration disclosures and a number of complex items, such as goodwill impairment testing, share based compensation and compliance of accounting positions taken by the Group in accordance with EU IFRS. Where component auditors performed the work, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether we had obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. We issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit scope. These instructions included amongst others our risk analysis, materiality and scope of the work. We explained to the component audit teams the structure of the Group, the main developments that are relevant for the component auditors, the risks identified, the materiality levels to be applied and our global audit approach. We had individual meetings and/or calls with each of the in-scope component audit teams during the year including upon conclusion of their work. During these calls and meetings, we discussed the significant accounting and audit issues identified by the component auditors, the reports of the component auditors, the findings of their procedures and other matters, which could be of relevance for the consolidated financial statements. The group engagement team visits the component teams and local management partly on a rotational basis. In the current year, the group audit team visited the RHI Magnesita finance functions in Austria, the Netherlands, Spain, Brazil, China and the U.S. given the size of these operating locations. We also visited the locations in Switzerland, Germany, Spain and Argentina. We reviewed selected working papers of the component auditors. Our component auditors in Austria visited one of the group’s German locations. By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the Group’s financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements. Our focus on the risk of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations Our objectives The objectives of our audit are: In respect to fraud:  to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud;  to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate audit responses; and  to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. 218 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In respect to non-compliance with laws and regulations:  to identify and assess the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements due to non-compliance with laws and regulations; and  to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error when considering the applicable legal and regulatory framework. The primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations lies with executive directors with the oversight of the board of directors. Our risk assessment As part of our process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud risk factors with respect to financial reporting fraud, misappropriation of assets and bribery and corruption. We evaluated the fraud risk factors to consider whether those factors indicated a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In addition, we performed procedures to obtain an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable for the Group. We identified provisions of those laws and regulations, generally recognised to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements such as the financial reporting framework and tax, environmental and labour related laws and regulations. As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by board of directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We refer to the key audit matters for examples of our approach related to areas of higher risk due to accounting estimates where management makes significant judgments. Our response to the risks identified We performed the following audit procedures to respond to the assessed risks:  We performed data analysis of high-risk journal entries and evaluated key estimates and judgements for bias by RHI Magnesita N.V., including retrospective reviews of prior year’s estimates. Where we identified instances of unexpected journal entries or other risks through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each identified risk. These procedures also included testing of transactions back to source information.  We inquired with executive directors, other members of management and the board of directors as to whether they have any knowledge of (suspected) fraud, their views on overall fraud risks within the Group and their perspectives on the Groups mitigating controls addressing the risk of fraud.  We assessed the matters reported on the Group’s whistleblowing and complaints procedures with the entity and results of management’s investigation of such matters.  With respect to the risk of fraud in revenue we performed testing over the existence of recorded revenue transactions and, where applicable addressed the risk for improperly shifting revenues to an earlier or later period.  With respect to the risk of bribery and corruption across various countries, we performed specific inquiries with (local) management in order to identify higher risk areas.  We incorporated an element of unpredictability in our audit.  We considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and evaluated whether any findings or misstatements were indicative of fraud.  We obtained audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations generally recognised to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  As to the other laws and regulations, we inquired with executive directors and/or the board of directors as to whether the entity is in compliance with such laws and regulations and inspected correspondence, if any, with relevant licensing and regulatory authorities. Identified (indications) of fraud During our audit, the Company disclosed to us instances of (indications of) fraud, which we followed up with our forensic specialists. We communicated those (indications of) fraud to the relevant local audit teams who performed sufficient and appropriate audit procedures supplemented by audit procedures performed at the group level. These procedures include amongst others obtaining an understanding of Company’s assessments and validating aspects of the investigations performed by the Company. Where appropriate, we consulted our forensic specialists. 219 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the audit committee of the board of directors. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comment or observation we made on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. Given the non-recurring nature of the key audit matters related to the finalisation of the Purchase Price Allocation in respect of the acquisition of Magnesita Refratários S.A. and the Implementation of IFRS 15, the new revenue standard as considered in the 2018 auditor’s report, these have not been disclosed as key audit matters in 2019. 220 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Recoverability of deferred tax assets • Refer to Note (8), (10), (17) and (45) of the consolidated financial statements The Group capitalised deferred tax assets on tax loss carryWe have requested and obtained evidence for the existence and forwards and deductible temporary differences arising on various accuracy of the tax loss carry-forwards and assessed the expiration items for the amount of €181.9 million. Reference is made to Note dates per jurisdiction. In addition, together with local tax special(17) of the financial statements. ists, we have assessed per tax jurisdiction the level of potential offsetting of the deferred tax assets with the deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets are capitalised based on the assumption that sufficient taxable income will be generated against which loss Furthermore, we have critically assessed the underlying assumpcarry-forwards and other deductible temporary differences can be tions of the forecasted taxable income through agreeing the foreoffset. This assumption is based on estimates of the current and the casted future taxable profits with approved business plans in a tax estimated taxable results, and any future measures implemented jurisdiction. We also assessed the past performance against the by the company in several jurisdictions concerned that will have an expected future tax profits in the business plans used by the effect on income tax. The Group also has losses and other tempoGroup, by using our knowledge of the Group and the industry in rary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recogwhich it operates. In addition, we have considered the local expiry nised in these consolidated financial statements. period together with any applicable restrictions in recovery for each individual jurisdiction. Due to the inherent level of uncertainty, the potential limitations in the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the significant judgeWe assessed and corroborated the adequacy and appropriateness ment involved, we considered the recoverability of deferred tax of the disclosure made in the consolidated financial statements. assets to be a key audit matter for our audit. Based on the audit procedures performed, we found the Group’s estimates and judgment used in the recoverability assessment of the deferred tax assets to be supported by the available evidence. Accounting for the plant rationalisation programme • Refer to Note (8), (34) and (39) of the consolidated financial statements The Group incurred €46.7 million of restructuring expenses and We performed enquiries of management and inspected the latest €65.4 million of asset write-downs in 2019, primarily related to the strategic plans and minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors. plant rationalisation programme. Reference is made to Note (34) of We evaluated the appropriateness of the Group’s judgements the financial statements. These amounts are reported as adjusted regarding the preconditions of IAS 37 with regard to restructuring items in the Group’s alternative performance measures. provisions and asset impairment in accordance with IAS 36. In the second half of 2019, the Board of Directors approved a plant We tested the mechanical accuracy of the provisions and assessed rationalisation programme resulting in the plant closure in Hagen, the integrity of key inputs, for example through recalculating the Germany and partial shut-down of the plant in Trieben, Austria. amounts recorded for severance based on agreed upon social This resulted in restructuring and asset write down cost of €69.0 plans and or other (publicly available) evidence. For the amounts million. recorded we reconciled the amounts calculated to the booking entries. In addition, restructuring and write-down expenses amounting to €20.0 million are related to the Porsgrunn plant in Norway. The With regard to the asset impairments we have assessed the approdeclining Fused magnesia prices in the fourth quarter of 2019 priateness of the calculations made by the company and reconresulted in a trigger to reassess the provision for onerous contracts ciled the recorded asset write-downs to the general and sub ledger as well as in write-down expenses of non-current assets. accounts. For assets to be transferred to alternative locations we validated management’s assumptions based on the nature of the Our key audit matter was focused on the recognition of the restrucasset. turing cost and the expected cost to be incurred (see Note (34) to the financial statements) as well as the accuracy of the asset writeWe assessed the completeness and accuracy of disclosures within 221 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Key audit matter Our audit work and observations downs and impairment charges. When calculating the exit costs, the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs. management has estimated future settlement and exit costs where these are not yet known. Based on the audit procedures performed, we found the Group’s estimates and judgement used in the accounting for the plant We consider this to represent a key audit matter reflecting the level rationalisation programme be supported by the available evidence. of judgement applied by management in the assumptions used to determine the extent of provisioning required and the magnitude of the recorded cost. Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets • Refer to Note (8), (10), (11), and (12) of the consolidated financial statements The Group capitalised goodwill for €117.5 million, mainly related to As part of our audit procedures, we have evaluated and challenged the acquisition of Magnesita Group. In addition, the company the composition of management’s future cash flow forecast and capitalised intangible assets for €319.0 million. These assets form process applied to identify and define cash-generating units, calpart of cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) to the extent that they indeculate the recoverable amount, test for impairment, calculate the pendently generate cash inflows. If and to the extent to which capital cost rate and the growth rate as well as the calculation these CGUs include goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite model. useful lives or show sign for impairment, the recoverable amount is assessed. Annual planning process data is used to make assumpWe have reconciled the assumed future cash flows used in the tions on the discount rates, profitability as well as growth rates, and budget planning with the information included in the forecast sensitivity analyses are carried out with regard to any accounting made by the directors. effects. The assessment did not result in an impairment. With the support of our valuation specialists, we have evaluated We identified the impairment assessment as a key audit matter due management’s assumptions such as revenue and margin, the disto significant estimates and assumptions about the discount rates, count rate, terminal value, operational and capital expenditure. We profitability as well as growth rates. have obtained corroborative evidence for these assumptions. We performed analyses to assess the reasonableness of forecasted revenues, margins and expenditures in line with the level of activity forecasted and corroboration to contracted revenue for the coming years and price trends and obtained further explanations when considered necessary. We compared the long-term growth rates used in determining the terminal value with economic and industry forecasts. We have re-performed calculations, compared the methodology applied with generally accepted valuation techniques, assessed appropriateness of the cost of capital for the company and comparable assets, as well as considered territory specific factors and assessed appropriateness of disclosure of the key assumptions and sensitivities underlying the tests. Based on the audit procedures performed, we found the assumptions to be reasonable and supported by the available evidence. 222 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Implementation of IFRS 16, Leases • Refer to Note (2) and (13) of the consolidated financial statements As described in Note (2) and (13) of the consolidated financial We performed inquiries of management to obtain an understandstatements the Group has adopted IFRS 16, Leases. The disclosures ing of the IFRS 16 implementation process. on the effects of initial application and reconciliations can be found in Note (2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of We have obtained a schedule of all lease contracts in the scope of December 31, 2019, Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the IFRS 16, as identified by the Group. We evaluated the accuracy and amount of €62.0 million were recognised by the Group. completeness of this schedule by reconciling this to previously disclosed future lease commitments and based on our knowledge The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach. Acof the Group and experience of the industry in which it operates. cording to this method the lease liability is measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at using the For a sample of selected leases, we validated whether the relevant incremental borrowing rate at initial application. The recognised data was recorded correctly and in full. To the extent that discreamount of the right-of-use asset equals the lease liability. The tionary decisions were made regarding the lease term, we reviewed Group applies several practical expedients in its implementation. whether, in light of the market conditions and risks in the industry, the underlying assumptions are plausible and consistent with other The calculation of the lease term and the incremental borrowing assumptions made in the consolidated financial statements. rates used as discount rates can be discretionary and based on estimates. In addition, extensive data from the leases must be recWe compared the assumptions and parameters underlying the orded to calculate the initial effects of IFRS 16 and the developincremental borrowing rates with our own assumptions and publicment of lease liabilities and Right-of-use assets in accordance with ly available data. the standard. This data is the basis for the measurement and recognition of the lease liabilities and Right-of-use assets. Furthermore, we have assessed the adequacy of the related (IFRS 16) disclosures in the financial statements. As a result, we consider the adoption and implementation of IFRS 16 a key audit matter. Based on the audit procedures performed, we found no material exceptions with respect to the application of IFRS 16 and disclosures thereto. Emphasis of matter related to the uncertainty related to the effects of the COVID-19 virus We draw attention to Note (1) of the consolidated financial statements, the section ‘going concern and the implications of the COVID-19 (Corona) virus’ in which management has described the possible impact and consequences of the COVID-19 virus on the entity and the environment in which the entity operates as well as the measures taken and planned to deal with these events or circumstances. This note also indicates that uncertainties remain and that currently it is not reasonably possible to estimate the future impact. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Report on the other information included in the annual report In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains other information that consists of: • the section strategic report on pages 1 to 71 of the annual report; • the section governance, which includes the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 120 of the annual report; • the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 223 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information: • is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; • contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. The directors are responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the directors’ report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our appointment We were appointed as auditors of RHI Magnesita N.V. by the audit committee of the board of directors following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on 4 October 2017. Our appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of 3 years. No prohibited non-audit services To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. Services rendered The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the Company and its controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in Note (60) to the financial statements. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of executive directors and board of directors for the financial statements Executive directors are responsible for: • the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for • such internal control as executive directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, executive directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, executive directors should prepare the financial statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless executive directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Executive directors should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The board of directors is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance, which makes it possible that we may not detect all material misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. 224 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, 31 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original has been signed by E.M.W.H. van der Vleuten RA MSc Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements 2019 of RHI Magnesita N.V. In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control. • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by executive directors. • Concluding on the appropriateness of executive directors’ use of the going-concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the Group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the Group, the significance and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or specific balances was considered necessary. We communicate with the audit committee of the board of directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect, we also issue an additional report to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. We provide the audit committee of the board of directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the audit committee of the board of directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. 225 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA Alternative performance measures (“APMs”) APMs used by the Group are reviewed below come and expenses as presented in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. to provide a definition from each non‐IFRS APM to its IFRS equivalent, and to explain Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) the purpose and usefulness of each APM. Adjusted EPS is used to assess the Company's operational performance per ordinary share outstanding. It is calculated In general, APMs are presented externally to meet investors' using adjusted EBITA (as described above) and removes the requirements for further clarity and transparency of the Group's impact of certain foreign exchange effects, amortisation, oneunderlying financial performance. The APMs are also used off restructuring expenses and impairments, other non-cash internally in the management of our business performance, financial income and expenses, that are not directly related to budgeting and forecasting. operational performance. Effective tax rate for adjusted EPS is calculated by applying the effective tax rate normalised for APMs are non‐IFRS measures. As a result, APMs allow investors restructuring expenses and impairments. and other readers to review different kinds of revenue, profits and costs and should not be used in isolation. Commentary Operating cash flow and free cash flow within the Half Year Results, including the Financial Review, as Alternative measures for cash flow are presented to reflect net well as the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accomcash inflow from operating activities before certain items. Free panying notes, should be referred to in order to fully appreciate cash flow is considered relevant to reflect the cash performance all the factors that affect our business. We strongly encourage of business operations after meeting the usual obligations of readers not to rely on any single financial measure, but to carefinancing and tax. It is therefore measured before all other refully review our reporting in its entirety. maining cash flows, being those related to acquisitions and disposals, other equity-related and debt-related funding Adjusted pro-forma results at a constant currency movements, and foreign exchange impacts on financing and Adjusted and Adjusted results at constant currency The H1 investing activities. 2018 Adjusted results are, where appropriate, adjusted to reflect the purchase price allocation ( PPA ) related to the acquisition Working capital of Magnesita and other adjustments. This measure provides an Working capital and intensity provides a measure how efficient estimation of the historical financial performance of the current the Company is in managing operating cash conversion cycles. Group structure. H1 2018 figures presented at constant currency Working capital is the sum of manageable working capital, represent H1 2018 reported figures translated at average H1 composed of inventories, trade receivables and trade payables 2019 exchange rates. and other receivables and payables. Working capital intensity is measured as a percentage of last three months annualised EBITA revenue. EBIT, as presented in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, excluding amortisation and impairments. Net debt We present an alternative measure to bring together the various EBITDA funding sources that are included in the Consolidated Balance EBIT, as presented in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, Sheet and the accompanying notes. Net debt is a measure excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairments. defined in the Group’s principal financing arrangements and reflects the net indebtedness of the Group and includes all Adjusted EBITDA and EBITA cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; and any debt To provide further transparency and clarity to the ongoing, or debt-like items. underlying financial performance of the Group, adjusted EBITDA and EBITA are used. Both measures exclude other in226 R H I M AG N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Shareholder information RHI Magnesita N.V. is a public company with limited liability Investor relations department under Dutch law and was incorporated on 20 June 2017. It has 7th Floor, 125 Old Broad Street its corporate seat in Arnhem, the Netherlands, its administrative London EC2N 1AR seat in Vienna, Austria and its registered office at KranichbergUnited Kingdom gasse 6, 1120 Vienna, Austria. T: +44 20 7292 6171 The telephone number of the Issuer is +43 50 2136200. Email: investor.relations@rhimagnesita.com The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V, are listed on the Premium Corporate brokers Segment of the Offical List on the Main Market of the London Peel Hunt LLP Stock Exchange. Moor House 120 London Wall Ticker symbol: RHIM London EC2Y 5ET ISIN Code:NL0012650360 United Kingdom T: +44 20 74188900 Investor information www.peelhunt.com The Company’s website www.rhimagnesita.com provides information for shareholder and should be the first port of call for Barclays general queries. The investors section contains details on the 10 The North Colonnade current and historical share price. Annual and Interim Reports, Canary Wharf analyst presentations, shareholder meetings as well as a London E14 4BB ‘Shareholders FAQ’ section. United Kingdom You can also subscribe to an email alert service to automatically T: +44 20 7623 2323 receive an email when significant announcements are made. www.barclays.com Shareholding information Auditor Please contact our Registrar, Computershare, for all administraPricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V, tive enquiries about your shareholding, such as the loss of a Thomas R. Malthusstraat 5 share certificate, dividend payments, or a change of address: 1066 JR Amsterdam P.O. Box 90357 Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, T: +31 88 792 00 20 Bridgwater Road www.pwc.nl Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Website: https://www-uk.computershare.com T: +44 (0) 370 707 1402 Financial calendar Q1 Trading Update May 2020 Annual General Meeting 18 June 2020 Follow us Half Year Results August 2020 Q3 Trading Update November 2020 227 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA 228 RHI Magnesita Headquarters Kranichberggasse 6 1120 Vienna Austria www.rhimagnesita.com
