Communication on Progress • Human rights • Labour • Environment • Anti-corruption 2019 RENEWAL OF THE MANAGEMENT’S COMMITMENT «The renewal of our commitment in favour of Global Compact is a strong act for Andros & Cie, member of Global Compact since 2003. It anchors our company a little more each year in collective and voluntary action to contribute to a world where economic development is compatible with human rights and the protection of the planet. By focusing on preserving our roots, our people, our know-how and the environment in which we operate, we will ensure Andros’ development and sustainability. » Frédéric GERVOSON Florian DELMAS President of Andros Andros CEO 3 HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. M ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE PLAN FEWER RESOURCES HEALTHY PRODUCTS AND ENVIRONMENTALLY USED RESPONSIBLE Andros sustainable performance: A CSR foundaPACKAGING tion common to all our French and international subsidiaries. Built around 4 pillars and 12 themes, our CSR policy sets common and minimum objectives for our subsidiaries. For example, we are committed to carbon neutrality in our production workshops by LIVE BETTER PROTECT 2025 for our France Fruits activity and by 2030 for WITHIN THE COMPANY BIODIVERSITY, AND THE REGION PROMOTE our France Dairy activity, and to 100% recyclable, AGROECOLOGY compostable or reusable packaging. Coherent objectives: The Andros Sustainable Development Performance Plan, the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals Fewer resources used 8 9 > Water: a resource to be protected 8 9 > Reduce our carbon footprint 8 9 > Cleaner transport 8 9 > Less waste, better recycling Healthy products and environmentally responsible packaging 7 8 9 > Good, safe, natural and healthy products 7 8 9 > Environmentally responsible packaging Protect biodiversity, promote agroecology 7 8 9 > Sustainable farms and orchards 7 8 9 > Reconcile farming, agroecology and biodiversity 7 8 9 > Biodiversity around our factories as well Live better within the company and the region 1 2 3 4 5 6 > Protect employee health > Improve quality of life at work 6 > Our civic commitments 6 5 HUMAN RIGHTS 6 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS 1 B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 M ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Many international texts provide a framework for the protection of human rights such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) adopted in 1948 by the United Nations General Assembly. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1976) are the main legally binding international instruments. In addition to the International Bill of Human Rights, the UN has adopted seven other treaties in this area such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (1965), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (1979) and the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2006). The OECD Guidelines for Internationally Operating Businesses also recall that businesses must operate in accordance with national regulations and laws, and contribute to sustainable development. These principles state that companies must respect human rights, both in practice and through commitments in principle. They must exercise human rights due diligence to assess and manage actual or potential human rights impacts and establish remediation mechanisms. OECD SEDEX is getting a makeover this year! This platform is the first global interface for sharing environmental and social data related to supply chains. A new, more detailed questionnaire is now applicable: we are switching all our registered factories to the new SEDEX version. Production sites must show their level of commitment to human rights and detail the procedures and action plans that they have implemented. Our production sites are regularly subject to ethical audits (2 and 4 pillar SMETA audits, for example). There have never been findings of non-compliance in the area of Human Rights. 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Our supplier code of ethics was completely revised in 2019 for implementation in 2020. This document has been reinforced to take into account new CSR issues. Economic dependence, business ethics, personal data protection and animal welfare have thus been integrated or consolidated. This code will gradually be implemented in all our subsidiaries through new partnerships or extensions of business dealings with our suppliers. Our supplier code of ethics is built on 4 chapters directly inspired by the 4 components and 10 principles of the Global Compact. Coherent standards: Andros’ Supplier Code of Ethics and the Global Compact’s 10 principles 1 2 3 4 5 6 Labour standards 10 Good business practices 1 2 7 8 9 Local communities 7 8 9 Respect of environment 8 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS Andros fights against food waste Andros fights against food waste by providing unsold products free of charge to charitable associations such as Food Banks, Restos du Coeur and Secours Populaire. These food donations, intended for the most disadvantaged, represented a total of more than 2,000 tonnes in 2019 for all our French factories. Supplier code of ethics We make sure that we and our suppliers respect the ethical rules. The company ensures that all suppliers strictly respect the company’s commitments in terms of human rights when they sign the Andros Supplier Code of Ethics. 9 LABOUR 10 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT LABOUR 3 B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Year after year, Andros ensures rigorous compliance meetings. The SEC is a key player in the management with the labour standards applicable in the countries of the Covid 19 crisis: special weekly meetings were where our subsidiaries are located. Beyond local reguheld to share information, study the evolution of the lations, international standards are developed by the pandemic and jointly decide on appropriate measures. ILO to establish fundamental principles and rights at Staff representatives and union representatives are work. involved in all agreements such as the Quality of Life at Work agreement and health coverage (mutual insuThe Governing Body of the ILO has qualified rance policy). All mandatory annual negotiations have eight «fundamental» conventions in this area: been held. • Convention on Freedom of Association and ProtecEmployees benefit from extensive health coverage. In tion of the Right to Organise (1948), 2019, the coverage rate was over 97 % all expenses • Convention on the Right to Organise and Collective combined: optical, dental care, hospitalisation, general Bargaining (1949), medicine, etc. The objective for this year: the remaining • Forced Labour Convention (1930), balance at zero charge under a single plan for mana• Convention on the Abolition of Forced Labour gers and non-managers. (1957), The safety of our employees and workers on our sites • Minimum Age Convention (1973), is at the heart of our concerns. Andros continues to de• The Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention ploy the 7 golden rules to make safety everyone’s bu(1999), siness. The frequency rate of work accidents thus fell • Equal Remuneration Convention (1951), and by 23% between 2017 and 2019 at Andros SNC. • Discrimination Convention (1958) These fundamental rules (listed below) constitute a RÈGLES e D’OR sécurité au 7 RÈGLES Ethical audits carried out by external firms on behalf pour notre quotidien D’OR sécurité au quotidien pour notre sé of our clients have not detected any non-compliance foundation of safety instructions common to all sites. in these areas. The new body of staff representatives (Social and Economic Committee) for Andros SNC has Following all necessary Following all necessary Securing espect been the the site rules well established since June 2019 with monthly safety use Correct instructions of PPE when Securing Respect the rules the site safety instructions when Securing th workspace human before and traffic workspace of human before and traffic Correct use of PPE workspace handling chemical handling chemical starting a job ovement starting a job movement starting a jo products products THE 7 GOLDEN RULES 777RÈGLES 7RÈGLES RÈGLES RÈGLESD’OR D’OR D’OR D’OR ✓ Undertake Using authorised risk to a paths ✓ Appropriate ✓ Risks associated work attire, with ✓ Undertake authorisedapaths ✓ Using risk to ✓ Risks associated ✓ Appropriate with work attire, ✓ Undertake move assessment around thebefore site withknown products sleeves worn down moveassessment around thebefore withknown sleevesproducts pour pour pour notre notre notresécurité sécurité sécurité au au au quotidien quotidien quotidie site worn down assessment beginning any work Following safety measures: usingad safetysafety ✓ Ensuring holding hoc the stairs, pour rails when or routine not crosnotre before sécurité au quotidien The 7 golden rules of safety mainteevery ✓ Hearing ✓ Respectingday: and eye an enduring commitment to proactive workplace risk management preventative protecto be used tionmeasures foratthe appropriate use and all times ✓ Following safety measures: ✓ beginning any work Ensuring holding usingad thehoc safetysafety before rails when or routine stairs, maintenot cros✓ Respecting ✓ Hearing and eyepreventative tion measures to be usedfor protecatthe all times appropriate use and beginning ✓ Ensuring sa ad hoc or r ✓ Use of other specific PPE ✓ Use storage of other of specific PPE sing nance under conveyors, and cleaning etc. storage of products nanceconveyors, and cleaning sing under etc. products nance and as identified the safety as identified the safety ✓ Registration Only using vehicles or maat each ✓ Understanding notice of each postwhat to do ✓ Registration Only using vehicles at or each ma✓ Understanding notice of each postwhat to do ✓ Registration chinery installation with thebefore proper in the event of accidental installation with the before ✓ chinery proper in the event of accidental installation ✓ Isolated Worker Protective ✓ Isolated Worker Following Following Following Following all necessaryall necessary all necessary all necessary undertaking permits Respect Respect Respect Respect the maintenance sitethe the site rulesrules the site site rulesrules contact with a product or undertaking maintenance permits Securing thethe the Securing Securing Securing the contact withProtective a product or undertakin equipment chemical to be used for Correct Correct use Correct Correctuse use of PPE use of PPE of PPE of PPE equipment chemical safety to be used for safety safety safety instructions instructions instructions instructions when when when when of human of human of human and of human and and traffic and traffic traffic traffic each activity entailing inworkspace workspace workspace workspace before before before before each activity entailing inhandling handling handlinghandling chemical chemical chemical chemical movement movement movement movement dividual risks starting starting starting starting a joba job a job a job dividual risks products products products products ✓ Using ✓ Using ✓ Using ✓ Using authorised authorised paths to paths authorised authorised paths to paths to to ✓ Appropriate ✓ Appropriate ✓ Appropriate ✓work work Appropriateattire, work attire, work attire, attire, ✓ Undertake a Undertake ✓ Undertake ✓ Undertake a risk ✓ risk a riska risk ✓ Risks ✓ Risks associated ✓ Risks associated ✓ Risks associated associated with withwith with movemove around move the around around site the site the site with withwith sleeves sleeves withworn down sleeves worn worn down down assessment move around Act the site safely within the limits sleeves worn down Being aware of risks Actassessment assessment before assessment before safely before within before the limits knownknown known products known products products Being aware of risks products beginning beginning beginning beginning any any any work any work workwork ing Ensuring ✓ Following of ✓your ✓ Following ✓ Following safety safety responsibility safety Following safety when measures: measures: measures: safety and measures: ✓ Hearing ✓ Hearing and✓ and ✓ and HearingHearing eye correctly and eye eye and proteceye protecprotecprotecmanaging of yoursafety responsibility Ensuring when and and ✓ Respecting ✓preventative ✓ Respecting ✓ Respecting correctly preventative preventative Respecting managing preventative holding holding safety holding safety rails rails safety when when rails in when tion betionbe tousedto tion used betoused be at all used attimes allat times all times ✓ Ensuring ✓ Ensuring safety atEnsuring safety before safetyinbefore before measures measures for measures for the for the for the holding safety rails atwhen tion to ✓your thatatcould all times notify working your superior heights ✓ Ensuring safety notify before superior measures the en prévention > www.graphito-prevention.fr Reproduction interdite tasks pose working heights tasks that could pose usingusing the using the case stairs, the using stairs, not not the stairs, not stairs, croscrosnot croscrosad hoc hoc ad ad or hoc or ad routine or routine hoc mainte-routine ormainteroutine maintemainteappropriate appropriate appropriate appropriate use and use and use use and and of difficulty ✓ Use a✓ ✓ of Use of ✓ Use risk other other ofUse to specific other of other specific others specific PPE PPE PPE PPE specific case of difficulty sing sing undersing underunder conveyors, sing under conveyors, conveyors, conveyors, etc. etc. etc. etc. nance nance nance and and and nance cleaning cleaning cleaning cleaning and a risk storage to storage storage of others of products of products of products storage products as identified as identified as identified the the safety as identified the safety the safety safety OnlyOnly ✓ Registration ✓ Registration ✓at ✓Only using ✓ Only using using vehiclesusing vehicles vehicles or maAssisting appropriate Using or maor mavehicles with safety cautionor manotice notice notice each ✓ofUsing of each of each post each ofnotice post appropriatepost post ✓ Registration ✓ Using atwith Registration each ✓ Assisting appropriate atcaution each at each each safety ✓ Understanding ✓ Understanding ✓ Understanding ✓ Understanding whatwhat ✓ Using appropriate what to doto do what to doto do ✓ chinery chinery chinery ✓with ✓ chinery ✓with the the someone with proper properthe with the proper proper installation installation beforebefore installation installation before before in the the inevent in event the offorthe of accidental event inaccidental of accidental event of accidental ial equipment where designed isfor ✓ Isolated ✓ Worker ✓ Isolated signage Isolated Isolated ✓ Worker for any WorkerWorker Protective Protective potential Protective Protective where equipment designed is someone for signage any potential permits permits permits permits working at heights to a safety exposed equipment hazard beareas equipment toequipment equipment toused be fortoused be toused be for for for used undertaking undertaking undertakingexposed working undertaking maintenance maintenance maintenance maintenance to a safety at heights contact contact contact with with contact a hazard areas a product with product 11 a or with a or product product or or hazard hazard chemical chemical chemical chemical ✓ Risk assessment and eacheach each activity each activity ✓ Adapting activity entailing activity entailing to altered inininentailing inentailing ✓ Risk assessment and ✓ Adapting to altered case ✓ Stop activityofinsafety understanding dividual dividual risks conditions risks dividual risks dividual risks ✓ Stop activity understanding ofin case safety conditions measures of immediate to be adopted danger of immediate measures danger to be adopted nal ✓ Intervention from external ✓ Intervention from external LABOUR CODE OF GOOD Respect for human rights BUSINESS CONDUCT Andros employees have the right to have their human dignity respected and to work in an environment free from intimidation, hostility or aggression. Andros insists upon equal, respectful and dignified treatment for Our code of conduct also recalls that Andros all its staff. strives to provide a working environment free Andros, signatory of the UN Global Compact, respects human rights from harassment and discrimination. Since last and promotes the protection of internationally recognised rights. year and in accordance with the regulations, we The company is committed to creating a work environment free from harassment and discrimination for unlawful motives such as age, race, calculated the gender equality index for Andros skin colour, religion, beliefs, gender, nationality, language, political and Novandie, which obtained 94 and 93 out of opinions, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation or disability. 100 respectively. 12 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT LABOUR Andros is committed to enhancing quality of life at work Quality of life at work and health at work are major concerns shared by all internal stakeholders. The agreement on quality of life at work signed by all the social partners in 2018 (Andros SNC factories) applies to all the commitments made. Teleworking, the right to disconnect, improvement of the work environment, preservation of health capital and support for career prospects are all commitments that have been materialised for our employees. The staff cafeteria set up in 2018 now provides home-made meals and sandwiches for our employees in the plant and offices on a daily basis. Fruit and dairy desserts are free; they allow employees to discover our products and have access to a balanced diet. This space has become a place of life and conviviality where activities (especially CSR) are regularly offered to our employees. Quality of life at work is also a matter of equipment. Relaxation/rest rooms and areas are now part of everyday life for employees at Andros SNC, Novandie and Andros Confectionery during break time. Quality of life at work is also materialised through ergonomics and workstation lay-out to prevent the risk of musculoskeletal difficulties for our employees. In the face of increasingly hotter summers, Andros has implemented a Heat Wave Plan in order to protect our employees’ health during periods of extreme heat. The plan has 4 gradual levels depending on the intensity of the heat. Among the measures implemented: • 2 breaks instead of one per shift, • more water rounds, • provision of cooling vests, • working hours adjusted whenever possible, • shut down of non-essential heat-emitting equipment in production. 13 ENVIRONMENT 14 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. REDUCTION OF PHYTOSANITARY PRODUCTS One of our priorities remains the reduction of phytosanitary products throughout the cultivation of fruit by our partner fruit farmers. This work is carried out jointly with our fruit farming partners using agroecological and DEPHY approaches. At the same time, our brands continue to develop organic products for all our businesses. We thus offer 6 references in juice and 5 in jam. In addition to our fruit desserts and jams, Andros Frozen Desserts offers a selection of «Mon Bio Gourmand», sorbets and ice creams with organic French ingredients: organic pear from Occitanie, organic apple from Aquitaine, organic apricot from Roussillon, organic lemon from Corsica. If an organic ingredient is not available on the French market, we do not produce the reference for the year in question. Andros Confectionery continues to sharply increase its share of organic business: +145% growth in organic ranges between 2018 and 2019. BIODIVERSITY Novandie is implementing a partnership with the Conservatory of Natural Species in favour of preserving the biodiversity of endemic species around the Auneau plant. We are supporting our partner fruit farmers toward more environmentally friendly cultivation methods that limit the quantity of input (phytosanitary products, fertilisers) and therefore promote the protection of biodiversity. Reintroducing living organisms into soil biodiversity In the framework of supporting our producers in our dedicated orchards, 48 hours of training about the principles of agroecology were provided in 2019. For example, this training makes it possible to work on stopping chemical weeding and reintroducing plant cover (grass cover) to protect soil biodiversity. We are thus experimenting with conservation agriculture on 65 hectares, making soil health the primary focus in plant production. Experimental orchard, raspberry plantation with plant cover and beehive 15 ENVIRONMENT ZERO PESTICIDE RESIDUE* To guarantee quality when the fruit leaves the orchard, Andros closely supports its partner fruit farmers in the Zero Pesticide Residue* approach. We are continuing this approach with a range of ZPR fruit desserts (6 references). Our organic juice and jam are also ZPR. * Andros guarantees a residue level of less than 0.000001% within the limit of quantification of the targeted molecules Andros is committed to the preservation of pollinators In April 2018, Andros launched its first no added sugar certified Bee Friendly® apple reference. 2019 saw the expansion of the no added sugar Bee Friendly® range with the commercialisation of 2 new references. That year also marked a new step validated by the signing of a 3-year partnership to support the Bee Friendly® association. This exacting label is built around specifications of 27 strict criteria on traceability, agricultural practices, insecticides, GMOs and beehives. A blacklist of banned molecules ensures the absence of neonicotinoids that are responsible for the massive decline of bees. The Bee Friendly® approach is sanctioned by independent external audit. 16 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT In the Andros Confectionery plant, heavy fuel oil has been ENVIRONMENT replaced by biofuel made from biomass. This substitution allows us to reduce our impact on global warming by 3,500 tonnes of CO2 per year. CARBON In the face of climate change, a single and ambitious objective for all our subsidiaries: carbon neutrality for our direct emissions. This strong ambition requires reducing our emissions as much as possible before offsetting what cannot be reduced. To do this, we are investing in low or less carbon-intensive energies and at the same time raising awareness among teams regarding good practices. In 2019 we calculated the carbon footprint of the entities subject to regulations; we have already reduced our emissions by -11.9% for Andros SNC (2011-2018) and -25.4% for Novandie (2011-2018). Savings in CO2 emissions over 2 years: -12,402 tCO2/year, that is to say -33% Investment on the Biars site: 27 million euros Cold Storage Photovoltaic roofing -135 tCO2 Heating with natural gas (LNG) Energy Sustainable drilling -5 543 tCO2 Storage generation and well management Hot water production Local Production sites Recovery -3 717 tCO2 sphere Biogas Water treatment plant Offices -2 850 tCO2 Community 2019: implementation year of the fruit division energy performance plan for an upcoming 33% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2022. TRANSPORT We are also taking action with our indirect emissions: those of the carriers we use to transport our raw materials and products from field to fork. For the 3rd year in a row, we are renewing our trust in the TK’Blue programme, which is a benchmark for carriers. This tool allows us to measure the environmental impact of our carriers and to select eco-responsible carriers for the same service. Construction of a new storage facility on the site of the historic headquarters in 2019. Capacity: 54,000 pallets. 9 daily Brive-Biars truck return trips have thus been eliminated, ie. 220 tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided each year. 17 ENVIRONMENT WATER Water is a precious resource for our production activity area and our factories. Our water consumption per tonne of finished products fell by 18.5% between 2014 and 2019 in our fruit, confectionery and frozen dessert divisions thanks to investments in our equipment, the installation of service metres and the consolidation of good practices. Protecting water resources also involves treating wastewater before returning it to the natural environment. The good performance of our waste water treatment plants continues to remain stable with a purification yield of 99.16% for our French plants. A new wastewater treatment plant on the Biars site will further lower our discharge values in the nautrual environment. WASTE The best waste is the one that is not produced. Priority is therefore placed on reducing line losses and combatting food waste in general. For example, Andros Confectionery reduced its organic waste by 30% in 2019 and Andros Biars Fruits by 16%. In the event of of waste being generated, we strive to find a recycling channel for all recoverable waste. 34 recycling channels are in place in our fruit division. 187 tonnes of fruit stones from our historic factory were used as fuel in 2019 to produce heat in a town in Aveyron: waste becoming a resource for another stakeholder, a fine example of the circular economy! To reuse our waste, we must start by sorting it well. All our sites have implemented rubbish sorting. 18 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT ENVIRONMENT PACKAG ING For an issue that focuses on high expectations from all stakeholders, Andros responds with ambitious objectives validated in 2019 for all our subsidiaries. There are 3 axes: • Towards less packaging: The first axis is to decrease the amount of all packaging (weight reduction, elimination of elements, reuse). Andros Chilled Dairy has saved the equivalent of more than 6 million yoghurt pots since 2017 by reducing the thickness of the plastic pots. Regarding Andros Gourmand et Végétal, 3 new references were launched in 2019 in 400-g jars. The shareable jar uses 2 times less packaging than the individual jars. • Towards recyclable packaging to reduce the environmental impact generated by packaging at the end of its useable life. 76% of Andros Fruits packaging sold to consumers is already recyclable (glass, metal, cardboard, PET plastic, etc.). • Towards recycled or sustainably produced raw materials (FSC/PEFC cardboard and paper, bio-plastic). Our cardboard packaging (header cards and consolidation boxes) already includes a large variety of recycled fibres. 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION 20 • ANDROS ANNUAL GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In 2017 Andros set up an anti-corruption and anti-insiinto the Company Rules and Regulations and made der influence programme complying with legal requireavailable to everyone on the staff information boards. ments (Sapin II Law on transparency, the fight against Whistleblowers are invited to report any breach to their corruption and modernisation of economic life). This superiors or by email (conformite@andros.fr). programme gives examples of corruption and insider We have carried out work on risk mapping to identify influence so that all employees remain vigilant. This areas for improvement. Training in the fight against corcode has been developed as an educational tool enaruption was also given to the subsidiaries’ management bling partners to identify the behaviours to be avoided teams to raise awareness among employees. Lastly, and the reflexes to adopt in the event of a risk situation our General Terms and Conditions, our code of ethics for Andros. and our good business practices, which govern our The anti-corruption programme has been integrated business dealings, recall the obligations in terms of the fight against corruption. Anti-corruption and anti-insider influence compliance programme Code of Conduct EXTRACT FROM ANDROS SNC COMPANY RULES AND REGULATIONS B WHISTLEBLOWERS Anyone, whether an Andros employee or not (external or casual worker), confronted in France or abroad with corrupt practices or insider influence, or having doubts about the legality of the practices, is invited to contact his superior, the general management or the legal department in order to resolve any difficulty as well as possible. Anyone, whether an Andros employee or not, can also raise the alarm using the procedure described below on the essential condition that this alarm is raised in an impartial manner and in good faith. The use of the alarm system is optional and must remain limited to reporting situations that could significantly expose Andros to considerable risk. C ALARM PROCEDURE If an individual wishes to use the alarm procedure, he can send a warning to the following email address: conformite@andros.fr 21 Z.I 46 130 BIARS SUR CERE tel: +33 (0)5.65.10.10.10
