UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS 5 June, 2020 Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS www.thommessen.no Oslo 5 June, 2020 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‑Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS Sverre Tyrhaug Managing Partner OUR OFFICES Oslo Bergen Stavanger London Haakon VIIs gate 10 Vestre Strømkaien 7 Kirkegata 2 Paternoster House, 2nd floor PO Box 1484 Vika PO Box 43 Nygårdstangen NO-4006 Stavanger 65 St Paul’s Churchyard NO-0116 Oslo NO-5838 Bergen T +47 51 20 80 00 GB-London EC4M 8AB T +47 23 11 11 11 T +47 55 30 61 00 T +44 207 920 3090 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 2 Contents Our commitment ...................................................................................... 4 Ethics, compliance and anti‑corruption .............................................. 5 Human rights ............................................................................................. 6 Diversity ....................................................................................................... 7 Labour and working environment ........................................................ 9 Environment ............................................................................................10 Corporate social responsibility ............................................................11 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 3 Our commitment At Thommessen, we seek – together with our an advisor to Norwegian and international clients – to shape the business sector of the businesses, we want to contribute to them future and to safeguard corporate values and the developing and choosing sound and sustainable rule of law. solutions. Knowledge is our key resource and is our main contribution to developing a more A well-functioning business sector is a sustainable sustainable business sector. Along with helping business sector. The UN sustainable development our clients attain their objectives, we are also goals for 2030 define 17 areas relating to climate actively pursuing internal measures to become a and the environment, as well as economic and more sustainable firm ourselves. social affairs, where there is still global scope for improvement. At Thommessen, we have selected We have joined the UN Global Compact to further four goals where we believe we can contribute strengthen our sustainability commitment. Joining the best: the UN Global Compact means that we are doing our utmost to run our business in conformity with Reaching the sustainable development goals ten principles in the areas of and anti-corruption requires businesses to take an active role. As human rights, labour and the environment. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 4 Ethics, compliance and anti‑corruption An important basis for our services are our Thommessen opposes corruption in any own ethical values. At Thommessen, we set the form. Corruption threatens the rule of law, highest standards for ourselves. Therefore, we it undermines all business activities and free have established and adopted our own Code competition. Thommessen has established of Ethics. We act in an ethical, sustainable and Anti-Corruption Guidelines that provide detailed socially responsible manner and comply with all information about the legal background and applicable laws and regulations. Thommessen’s examples on how to act in compliance with this. Code of Ethics shall guide all of us through the main topics of ethical behaviour. It states ACTIONS PERFORMED our values and gives explanations for several situations that may arise. • We have established our own Code of Ethics, Anti-Money Laundering Procedures and We are well experienced with advising our clients Anti‑Corruption Guidelines. and business partners on ethical behaviour, and are eager to improve their ethical standards. • One of our partners is a member of the As legal advisors, we are expected to practise Norwegian Bar Association’s expert group on what we preach, and we live and act by the same money laundering. standards. Compliance in all areas is important to us, as PLANS GOING FORWARD well as to our clients and business partners. • We aim to review the firm’s Code of Ethics. Thommessen as a law firm, is subject to the Money Laundering Act. We have established our • We aim to include anti-corruption and ethical own Anti-Money Laundering Procedures, which behaviour in our standard contracts with describe required controls and other actions in business partners and clients. detail. • We will continue to closely monitor new regulations and establish new procedures in order to ensure compliance. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 5 Human rights Thommessen respects and promotes internationally recognized human rights. We always comply with “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights” from the United Nations and with “The European Convention on Human Rights” from the European Union. No exceptions are permitted irrespective of any reason at any time. We also consider the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO Conventions). Thommessen respects the personal dignity, privacy, and personal rights of every individual. No discrimination of any kind, e.g. based on race, ethnic background, culture, religion, age, disability, sexual identity, world view or gender, is tolerated. We are also committed to being an active partner for our clients in their efforts to ensure respect for human rights. ACTIONS PERFORMED • We are compliant with “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights” from the United Nations and with “The European Convention on Human Rights” from the European Union. • All employees in Thommessen have the right to give notice of criticism in the workplace. We have established new notification routines to ensure that case management is objective, efficient and neutral. PLANS GOING FORWARD • Continue to respect and promote internationally recognized human rights, both within the firm and towards our clients. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 6 Diversity Social diversity is a strategic priority for • #ShesGotThis is an NGO addressing Thommessen, and we strive to be an attractive gender stereotypes and unconscious bias. workplace and employer for all, irrespective Thommessen is one of its founding partners, of race, ethnic background, culture, religion, and we have assisted #ShesGotThis in a range age, disability, sexual identity, world view or of legal issues in its start-up phase. The gender. Our strategy includes specific targets organisation also serves as a key advisor for increasing the proportion of women among in our efforts to increase our proportion of our managing associates and partners. In order female managing associates and partners. The to reach these targets, we have introduced a founders have also launched Equality Check, a number of measures in relation to recruitment, community-based platform where employees management training, flexibility for staff with can leave anonymous reviews about equal small children, etc. opportunity, company culture, work/life balance and the management’s commitment At Thommessen, we have also recognized the to diversity. Thommessen encourages all importance of unconscious discrimination (bias). employees to leave their assessment of We have, among other things, structured the Thommessen. recruitment process and developed a recruitment tool together with an assessment and talent • From January 2020, Thommessen is an measurement company, Cut-e, where we evaluate official partner of the Norwegian Women’s candidates against predefined characteristics Football Association. We wish to take part identified through various personality and in developing Norwegian women’s football, ability tests. Through this process, we reduce especially linked to increased professionalism unconscious discrimination in the recruitment and competence enhancement. At and selection process. Thommessen, we are committed to highlighting female talents – both in the legal We have established a designated Women’s profession and in football. The agreement Committee, which supports the management allows the Norwegian Women’s Football in its efforts to improve our gender balance Association to access a learning tool for football and increase retention of female lawyers. The players based on VR technology, provided by Committee is also charged with facilitating Be Your Best. female staff bonding by holding monthly lunches and other professional and social events. The We support the youth organization Big Women’s Committee is appointed annually and Enough Global – a platform for young people comprises representatives from both Oslo and who are passionate about making a change. Bergen. The goal of the organization is to help young people with a multi-cultural background to We have chosen to prioritize gender balance in realize how great their potential is, as well as our strategy, with specific objectives: showing the community that young people • 50 % female managing associates during 2020. need to be accommodated. In addition, they We believe this is crucial to ensure continued work to carry out projects that will benefit the organic growth of the number of female society. In 2020, the organization will work partners in the future. to increase ethnic diversity in the business community. • Ten female partners by the end of 2021. • As of June 2020, we have seven female ACTIONS PERFORMED partners. Since 1 Jauary 2019 until June 2020, • Founding partner of #ShesGotThis. we have included seven partners of which three are women. • Encourages all employees to leave their assessment of Thommessen in the Equality I relations to our work with social diversity, we Check platform. support several NGO’s: UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 7 • Official partner of the Norwegian Women’s • We have routines for close follow-up of Football Association. employees before, during and after parental leave and other leaves of absence in order to • We support the youth organization Big Enough work against pipeline leakage and to facilitate Global, that focuses on diversity in their recent flexible career paths. project. • We are changing the way we work by educating • In January 2020, we hosted a panel talk on all employees in project management. This ties female lawyers and how to increase the the teams closer together and helps to weed number of female partners and senior lawyers. out “unnecessary anytime performance”. Over 200 participants from different law firms and in-house legal departments attended. PLANS GOING FORWARD • We identify female talents annually, and put together a career plan. • Increase female representation among the partners and on managing associate and • We have our own Women’s Committee senior associate levels. that works closely with the management to identify challenges, solutions and initiatives • Move from annual employee interviews to that motivate women to choose a career in quarterly development interviews with a focus Thommessen. on career guidance. • Each year we map the salary level of our • We are planning a webinar together with employees, to be able to close any potential Big Enough Global on how a multicultural gender pay gap. The findings are presented to background can be an advantage in the all employees every year. We are happy to say profession as a lawyer. that we did not find a gender pay gap in 2019. • Together with Big Enough Global we will review Next pay gap analysis will be in June 2020. our communication towards students and • Good leadership is crucial to attracting, evaluate if we need to communicate differently developing and retaining our employees in to attract more applicants with a multicultural general, and our female talents in particular. background. All partners and others in key management positions must complete leadership development courses. We are currently offering leadership training for all managing associates. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 8 Labour and working environment Thommessen aims to be a great place to work. ACTIONS PERFORMED That is why we always take our employees seriously and treat them with respect. • Required HSE course. Health and safety is an important factor for good • Occupational Health Service and Psychological work. We encourage our employees to find a Assistance. fair work/life balance. We assist with a healthy • Workplace evaluation. working environment through personally tailored work places, sports and other social events. • Reimbursement of training expenses. We are committed to meeting the health, • Business activities and measures (corporate safety and environmental (HSE) requirements sports teams). of the Working Environment Act. This involves • Work environment survey. developing good routines for internal control and development of the company’s psychosocial • Employee evaluation and employee and physical work environment, so that our development. employees at all times have satisfactory working conditions. • Internal hospitalization. • Work leave/study leave. PLANS GOING FORWARD In the autumn of 2020, we are implementing quarterly “pulse checks” to gain insight into the well-being of our employees. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 9 Environment Thommessen contributes to a sustainable society • Thommessen is a control member of Green Dot through innovative and targeted legal services. Norway (Grønt Punkt Norge). We are concerned that our advice and choice of solutions show consideration for the vulnerability • Thommessen’s office in Bergen has been of society, and we actively use our expertise in certified as “Miljøfyrtårn” since 2008. sustainability and climate risk both in our legal • As a measure to reduce paper consumption, advice and in connection with running our own we have switched from one-sided to two-sided business. printing by default. In five months we saved Thommessen’s impact on the environment can be 244,566 printed sheets of paper. divided into two parts: • In 2021, Thommessen will move into a new 1. The impact of our legal advice. We are the office building (“VIA”). VIA is classified as “go-to” strategic advisors for businesses a “BREEAM” building (BRE Environmental seeking assistance in managing both risks and Assessement Method) and will be certified as opportunities relating to climate change and “Excellent” under the Norwegian classification other aspects of sustainable development. BREEAM-NOR. By integrating sustainability into our legal • We always demand goods and services that advice in all industries and practice areas, we involve the lowest possible environmental add long-term value for our clients. impact. 2. The impact our business brings directly with • In 2019, we introduced several new measures the use of resources, pollution and waste to improve our selecting sorting of waste. as a result of our employees’ activity in the • We encourage environmental considerations working relationship. This influence is limited, when making work related travels. but both desirable and fully possible to improve through specific measures. We are • We have arranged several seminars and taking steps to reduce energy consumption, webinars on sustainability and climate risk waste, procurement, transport and paper to share our knowledge on the topic with consumption. Norwegian businesses. ACTIONS PERFORMED PLANS GOING FORWARD • We have established a dedicated team within • We aim to be a climate neutral law firm by the firm helping us become more sustainable. 2023. • We have established a multidisciplinary • We plan for a certain degree of re-use of group of lawyers focusing specifically on existing furniture when the company moves sustainability and climate risk in our legal into new premises in 2021. advice. • Even more focus on digital working methods • We have joined the UN Global Compact in order to save the consumption of paper and to further strengthen our sustainability less work related travelling. commitment. • During 2020, we will establish an environmental account for Thommessen’s business. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 10 Corporate social responsibility Thommessen takes its social responsibility Thommessen contributes to developing seriously. Our social involvement is not only tomorrow’s lawyers through guidance and reflected in the work we do, but also through the teaching in legal subjects. We also contribute NGOs we support. We support several ambitious to raising competence among today’s lawyers CSR and pro bono initiatives with: by arranging seminars and courses within our expertise areas. Thommessen also has a • Sharing Knowledge comprehensive trainee programme and other Knowledge is our key resource and is our main student programmes for law students who are contribution to enabling NGOs to pursue their potential future employees. mission under optimum conditions. • Financial Support ACTIONS PERFORMED With financial support, we help NGOs and • We provide MSF with both legal pro bono other initiatives to be able to do their job. services and financial support. • Pro Bono Services • We support social entrepreneurship through To contribute to access to legal advice for all Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation. Lex Mundi is a for NGOs and other initiatives, we assist with global network of leading independent law pro bono legal assistance. firms, with Thommessen as its exclusive Norwegian member. Every year, we provide our main CSR partner, Doctors Without Borders (Médécins Sans • Running trainee programme and other student Frontiers (“MSF”)), with both legal pro bono programmes for law students services and financial support. MSF is a neutral and independent medical aid organisation which • We arrange several seminars with various saves lives and alleviates suffering in more than themes within our expertise areas. seventy countries every year. Thommessen has • We contribute to legal and social development an ambassador group of committed lawyers who through, among other things, having members assist MSF with legal advice. Several ambassador in the Norwegian Bar Association’s law committee group members have deepened their and the women’s committee. acquaintance with MSF by visiting its head office in Brussels. Thommessen representatives have also accompanied MSF to Lebanon, to observe its PLANS GOING FORWARD essential work in closed camps. • Continue to be MSF’s main CSR partner. • Look for other relevant CSR partnerships in order to further strengthen our commitment. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2020 | Advokatfirmaet Thommessen AS – Norway 11
