Containerized medical solutions, at the right time, at the right place COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Sept 2019 To: Sept 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) 03-09-2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Hospitainer bv reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Rolof Mulder CEO Hospitainer Hospitainer B.V. Tel: +31 (0)55 519 17 13 COC: 29044772 Griftsemolenweg 19-21 Fax: +31 (0)55 519 17 14 VAT: NL805005055B01 8171 NS Vaassen info@hospitainer.com Bank: NL52INGB00069895 83 The Netherlands www.hospitainer.com BIC/Swift: INGBNL2A 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Our company has taken the following actions: • Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities • Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Appointment of a confidant for employees. • Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products Labour Our company has taken the following actions: • Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • Comply with minimum wage standards • Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment Our company has taken the following actions: • Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances • Successfully recieved ISO 14001 (environment) certification. Anti-Corruption Our company has taken the following actions: • Assess the risk of corruption when doing business, according to our Anti-corruption policy that was determined this year. • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners and clients. • Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment, by our Code of Business conduct. • We introduced a thorough Due-diligence procedure in 2019 and train our staff to follow these procedures. • We introduced Rules of Conduct for giving and Accepting Gratuities 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES How we measure the outcomes. • Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism • Register of incidents is discussed every quarter by management, and where needed measures are taken • We monitor energy consumption and adjust where necessary and possible • Through the Due diligence procedure we decide whether to do business or not. • Meetings every three months on impact of actions so far. www.hospitainer.com | Page 2 of 2
