Sustainability Report 2019 Index 02 Chairman’s Letter 04 Global Organization 06 Sustainability in Tenaris 10 Economic Overview 14 Health and Safety 22 Environment 36 Innovation and the Value Chain 44 Human Resources 52 Community Relations 60 Governance, Risk and Compliance 65 Annex I: GRI Content Index 68 Annex II: Sustainable Performance Indicators 71 Corporate Information 1 Chairman’s Letter Since we published our 2019 annual results in February, a day, ensuring that social distancing rules are respected and the world has changed completely. The rapid spread of the using home working where possible. Whenever someone is COVID-19 virus and the measures adopted to contain it have detected as having potential symptoms, they are immediately precipitated a global crisis that is unprecedented in the speed isolated and sent home or for medical treatment. and severity with which it has affected the economy and our everyday lives. The recovery from this crisis will take time and Second, we are acting rapidly to ensure the financial stability will hasten change in many fields. of the company. We have closed industrial facilities and introduced furlough schemes to reduce operating costs. We The impact on the energy sector is particularly severe and there are downsizing our fixed cost structure, reducing salaries at all will be a lasting impact on trade, travel and the way we interact levels, redoubling our focus on working capital management, with each other. Never before we have seen demand for energy and reducing or postponing all investments except those collapse so much and so fast, driving prices in the US down to essential for the long-term sustainability and positioning of levels unseen in the past. the company. In this context, we are also proposing to limit this year’s dividend to the interim distribution we made earlier Oil and gas companies will struggle to maintain financial in November. sustainability through this unforeseen chain of events, and investment in exploration and production will be reduced to a Third, as we have done in past crises, we are supporting level comparable only to that of the 1999 crisis. It is difficult to our communities, where the everyday lives of families and foresee the timing of the recovery in the oil demand, and the neighbours have been deeply affected. We are using our extent of the structural changes that the sector will go through. global capabilities, including our regional offices in China, to strengthen local health providers with the supply of medical Over the next two years, the sustainability of our operations equipment, protective gear and infrastructure as well as will be tested as never before. Our sales and our level of providing critical support for affected persons. A USD 6 million operations will be deeply affected, while the competitive fund has been established for this purpose. environment in which we operate will be transformed in a way that today is difficult to anticipate. Fourth, we are doing all we can, with the resilience and ingenuity of our people, to fulfil our commitments and In the long term, the world will resume a growth path, and the strengthen our relationships with customers and suppliers. need for a reliable supply of energy will be essential for recovery. They will be essential for our future and they should feel that While we need to be prepared for the future, we also need to act we are at their side during this period. swiftly and resolutely in facing the challenges of today. With the current reality in front of us, our achievements in We are focusing on four main lines of action: 2019 may seem somewhat distant, but they have contributed to providing a solid platform from which to confront this crisis First, we are taking comprehensive measures to protect our and prepare for the market recovery ahead. I will, therefore, people by assuring a safe working environment that will allow briefly summarize the most relevant of these. a gradual return to production when conditions allow in the countries where we operate. We are testing the temperature We have strengthened our positioning in two key markets for of all persons who enter our facilities, providing appropriate the future. The acquisition of IPSCO in the United States gives protective gear, fully disinfecting common areas several times us more local production capabilities, including a steel mill, 2 with a wider range of products and geographical reach. This In December, seven years after the inauguration of our will strengthen our Rig Direct® service strategy, reducing lead Roberto Rocca Technical School in Campana, the first times and improving service efficiency. group of 50 students graduated. In a moving ceremony, we reflected on the importance of raising educational standards In the Middle East, we strengthened our position in Saudi and providing opportunities to the aspiring young. Our Arabia through the integration of Saudi Steel Pipe, while in educational programs are designed to make a difference at Abu Dhabi, we successfully won a long-term contract valued all levels throughout our communities. at USD 1.9 billion to supply the majority of ADNOC’s OCTG requirements over the next five years. We worked hard through the year to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. On sales of USD 7.3 billion, our free We are making investments in digital technologies to transform cash flow margin was 16% as we reduced working capital by the efficiency of our operations and provide customers with over USD 500 million. At year end, our net cash position had digital integration efficiencies under our Rig Direct® program. risen to USD 980 million. Even after the acquisition of IPSCO These investments are contributing to lower industrial and following the close of the year, we still have a positive net cash supply chain costs and closer collaboration with key customers. position at the end of the first quarter of 2020. Our safety indicators have improved significantly over the past As we face this new crisis, which will change many aspects of two years, with the lost time injury frequency rate halving our industry, we are taking the steps necessary to strengthen to an annual average of 1.1 lost time accidents per million our position as a leader in the eventual recovery. manhours worked. No fatal accident has been recorded this year. This reflects both a constant management focus over the During these most difficult times, I would like to give special years, and the cultural change we have been able to extend to thanks to our employees, who are showing exemplary solidarity our 45 facilities around the world. and resilience as well as a capacity to act fast throughout the world. I am proud of them. I would also like to thank our As we look at the global climate agenda, we look forward to customers, suppliers and investors for their ongoing support. leading the steel industry’s response to the challenge. Today, we have relatively low levels of CO2 emissions compared with Sincerely, our competitors, but we recognize the immensity of the “net zero” challenge. This will require collaboration across our entire industry value chain and has become a key focal issue on our agenda. Paolo Rocca April 29, 2020 Over the past year, we have invested in particulate emissions collection systems to improve air quality at our steel mills in Argentina and Mexico. In other parts of our industrial system, such as our Bay City mill, we already have industry-leading emissions levels. Investments such as these improve working conditions for our employees and minimize the environmental impact of our operations on our communities. 3 Global Organization At December 31, 2019 SALES BY REGION 5% Asia Pacific Middle East & Africa 19% 10% 47% Europe North America Grande Prairie Nisku Edmonton Red Deer South Calgary Bienfait AlgomaTubes America Prudential St. John’s 19% Toronto Pittsburgh Bakersfield Denver West Virginia SALES BY MARKET Oklahoma City Hickman Midland Conroe Houston Westwego Bay City Freeport Monterrey Poza Rica Reynosa Guadalajara Tamsa Ciudad del Carmen 10% 83% Mexico City Dos Bocas Industrial Oil and Villahermosa Comalcalco and other Gas Maracaibo Caracas TuboCaribe 7% Barrancabermeja Barcelona Hydrocarbon Bogotá Villavicencio Processing and Power Generation Quito Machachi Shushufindi Natal TOP CUSTOMERS Lima • ADNOC • ENI • Pemex • Chevron • Equinor • Pioneer Natural Sta. Cruz de la Sierra Rio das Ostras • ConocoPhillips • ExxonMobil Resources Confab • Continental • ONGC • Saudi Aramco Rio de Janeiro Resources • Pan American • Shell Mendoza • Ecopetrol Energy • YPF Siderca Santiago Montevideo Villa Mercedes Siat SERVICE AND DISTRIBUTION Senillosa Neuquén NETWORK IN 30 Comodoro Rivadavia Río Gallegos Punta Arenas COUNTRIES 4 Hammerfest INTEGRATED QUALITY (ISO 9001:2008) Tananger Stavanger AND HEALTH, Aberdeen SAFETY AND Esbjerg Copenhagen Moscow ENVIRONMENT Amsterdam Aksai Luxembourg (ISO 14001 Paris Essen Lugano Campina OHSAS 18001) Ploiesti Dalmine Silcotub Aktau MANAGEMENT Bucharest Beijing Baku Seoul SYSTEMS Yulin Algiers NKKTubes Erbil Qingdao Alexandria Basra Cairo Dammam Bahrain Dubai Saudi Steel Pipe Abu Dhabi Bangkok Songkhla Ho Chi Minh Lagos Accra Onne Takoradi Singapore Batam Sorong SPIJ Jakarta Luanda Darwin Dampier Perth Manufacturing Centers Service Centers R&D Centers Commercial/Administrative Offices 5 Sustainability in Tenaris Tenaris is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of steel Tenaris is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, pipe products and related services for the world’s energy industry a commitment to translate Ten Principles deriving from the and other industrial applications. Our customers include most Universal Declaration of Human Rights into daily business of the world’s leading oil and gas companies, and we operate activity. Tenaris’s Human Rights Policy pledges to conduct an integrated network of steel pipe manufacturing, research, all company operations in a manner that is consistent with finishing and service facilities with industrial operations in the human rights principles. Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. We believe the steel industry and Tenaris can and must play Although our operations are largely focused on serving the oil an important role in addressing the planet’s growing concerns and gas industry, we also supply pipes and tubular components about climate change. The industry has joined efforts to report for low-carbon energy applications such as geothermal wells, and take action on reducing CO2 emissions, with Tenaris waste-to-energy (bio-energy) power plants, hydrogen storage playing a leading role in these initiatives. In 2018 and 2019, and refueling stations, and wind farms. worldsteel named Tenaris a Sustainability Champion for “leading the way in creating a truly sustainable steel industry Through an integrated global network of manufacturing, and society” in relation to its work in 2017 and 2018. R&D and service facilities, and a team of 23,000 people worldwide, we work with our customers to meet their needs Today, Tenaris uses the least CO2 -intensive steel production in a timely manner, observing the highest levels of product route for its steelmaking operations, and is evaluating performance and reliability. technologies and strategies that could potentially reduce its carbon emissions to meet global goals, including the Paris Our core values of safety, health, environment, quality and Agreement. We allocate a significant part of our capital transparency guide our daily activity. They are clearly reflected investments to improving safety, reducing the environmental in our QHSE policy (www.tenaris.com/en/sustainability/), impact of our operations, and advancing educational which, together with our Code of Conduct (www.tenaris.com/ standards and opportunities in our communities. en/sustainability/governance-and-ethics/), is embedded in all aspects of our business processes. Now in its sixth edition, this At the same time, we acknowledge that climate change report reflects how those values translate into concrete indicators poses clear and present risks for our operations, as well as of our performance. Its preceding publication, the Health, Safety opportunities. We also understand that as an industry leader, and Environment (HSE) report, was first published in 2009 we need to develop and incorporate the best technologies presenting information dating back to 2004. available into our operations to address those risks and improve our competitiveness as a supplier to our customers. Tenaris is a long-term project that goes back over six decades. Since we opened our first mill on the banks of the Parana Our Health, Safety and Environment, and Quality River in Campana, Argentina, in the early 1950s, our prime Management systems are designed according to the latest objectives have been to grow alongside the communities where versions of the ISO 14001, ISO 9001, and OHSAS 18001 we work and live, to give our employees opportunities for standards. Today, 94% of our production sites are working professional development, to minimize our environmental under management systems certified according to these footprint, and be a reliable partner for our customers. Health, Safety and Environment standards. 6 A signatory to the World Steel Association's Sustainability Charter and Policy, Tenaris has also been recognized as a Steel Sustainability Champion. Our reporting, in context Material topics have been defined covering our whole value Tenaris is committed to strengthening a corporate culture of chain, from the sourcing process, product manufacturing and integrity, transparency and rational decision-making. We aim delivery of services, up to the end use of our products. They to disclose and communicate transparently all issues that can also include information gathered through our stakeholders’ affect, either positively or negatively, our stakeholders, both network as well as our internal strategy and objectives. internal and external to our organization. We consider it relevant to highlight how our actions are This report has been prepared taking into account the contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development guidelines established by worldsteel, the UN Global Compact Goals defined by the UN in 2015, as shown in the table overleaf. and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Please see the GRI Content Index in the annex at the end of this report. This report has been approved by our board of directors on April 29, 2020, as part of our 2019 Annual Report, and sets We have identified, evaluated and prioritized those topics that out the non-financial information required to be disclosed as can materially impact our ability to achieve our objectives in part of the company’s reporting requirements in accordance a sustainable manner in accordance with the aforementioned with Luxembourg law. (1) guidelines and our own risk assessment. The indicators we present in this report have been carefully selected to show the most relevant aspects of our performance in the areas of Economics; Health and Safety; Environment; Innovation and the Value Chain; Human Resources; Community Relations; and Governance, Risk and Compliance. (1) Article 1730-1 of the Luxembourg law of August 10, 1915, on commercial companies, as amended, and Articles 68 and 68bis of the Luxembourg law of December 19, 2002, on the commercial and companies register and on the accounting records and annual accounts of undertakings, as amended. 7 Health Environment Innovation and Safety à RESOURCES à RESOURCES à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES • Code of Conduct for Suppliers. • Code of Conduct for Suppliers. • R&D initiatives to make production • Risk-minimization throughout the • Risk-minimization throughout the processes more efficient and reliable. supply chain. supply chain. • Innovation for product development. • Contractor safety management. • Use recycled steel scrap and • Use of digital technologies for industrial, carbon-efficient energy sources. supply chain and customer integration. à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES • Safety-oriented culture. à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES à OUTPUTS • Reinforcement of safety leadership. • Decrease of CO2 intensity. • Investment in R&D to manufacture • Accident prevention initiatives focusing • Efficient use of energy. high quality products with increased on behavior. • Responsible use of water and maximized reliability. • Catastrophic risk evaluation. recycling rates. • Development of Dopeless® technology • Health protocol to ensure fit-to-work level. • Efficient use of materials and co-products. and Rig Direct® service model that contribute to a safer workplace with à OUTPUTS à OUTPUTS reduced environmental footprint. • Committed workforce to ensure a safe • Minimized environmental footprint in • Development of PipeTracer® to allow and healthy working environment. operations, products and services. pipe-by-pipe identification and • Safe processes, products and services. • Maintained license to operate; digitalization of technical specifications. long-term relationships with our communities. • Product stewardship: environmental product declarations. • Circularity and material efficiency for products and co-products. 8 Human Community Governance, Resources Relations Risk and Compliance à RESOURCES à RESOURCES à RESOURCES • Recruitment of employees from • Promotion of local institutions. • No use of conflict minerals. different cultures and backgrounds, • Establishment of technical schools • Code of Conduct for Suppliers. fostering diversity. and teacher training materials. • Risk-minimization throughout the supply chain. à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES • Prevention of forced labor and child labor. • Continuous training of employees. • Strengthening technical education • Promotion of local suppliers, fostering • Career development based on merit. standards in local communities and the development of local value chains. • Promotion of all forms of diversity at support local students to develop the workplace. their skills. à PROCESSES AND ACTIVITIES • Code of Conduct. • Engagement of employees in • Code of Conduct, Policy on Business volunteering initiatives in our immediate Conduct and Code of Ethics. à OUTPUTS and broader communities. • Critical Risk Committee. • Empowered workforce, engaged in the • Business Conduct Compliance Program development of the industry. à OUTPUTS to foster ethical and transparent conduct. • More learning opportunities and • Anti-bribery procedures. better educational results for local • Climate Action Program. communities, from elementary to higher education, with a focus on à OUTPUTS technical education. • Development of long-term relationships • Preservation of our community identity with customers and vendors, promoting and heritage through artistic and transparency and economic growth. cultural initiatives. 9 Economic Overview We report on our operational and financial performance in Despite lower demand in key markets, we maintained the rest of our annual report (ir.tenaris.com/financial-andoperating margins and cash flow at a level able to support sustainability-reports/reports). Here we have included our strategic investments in strengthening our market position and main financial indicators and the distribution of economic industrial system, including investments to improve our safety value generated. and environmental performance, while maintaining dividend payments to shareholders. Shareholders’ net income, however, In 2019, our sales declined 5% compared with 2018, reflecting decreased 15% for the year, reflecting a decline in operating lower levels of drilling activity in Canada and the USA income and lower returns on our investment in Ternium. and lower sales in the Middle East and Africa following an exceptional level of line pipe sales for East Mediterranean With a free cash flow margin for the year of 16% of sales, we gas pipelines in 2018. During the year, we strengthened our ended the year with a net cash position on our balance sheet of local content and our position in the Saudi Arabian market USD 980 million, after paying USD 484 million in dividends through the integration of Saudi Steel Pipe; we set up a joint and USD 133 million for our investment in Saudi Steel Pipe. venture with Severstal to build a welded pipe mill in Russia, and strengthened our position in the U.S. market with the acquisition of IPSCO, completed in January 2020. Financial indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In USD millions (except otherwise stated) Net sales 6,903 4,294 5,289 7,659 7,294 Operating income 166 (59) 335 872 832 EBITDA 1,219 598 943 1,536 1,372 EBITDA margin % 18% 14% 18% 20% 19% Net income attributable to owners of the parent (80) 55 545 876 743 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 11,713 11,287 11,482 11,783 11,989 Cash flow from operations 2,215 864 (22) 611 1,528 Capital expenditures 1,132 787 558 349 350 Research and development expenditures 89 69 64 63 61 Dividends 531 484 484 484 484 Net financial position 1,849 1,441 647 485 980 Return on equity % -1% 0% 5% 8% 6% Return on capital employed % 2% -1% 3% 8% 7% FCF Margin % of net sales 16% 2% -11% 3% 16% 10 Tenaris employs digital technologies to deliver value to its customers, using its decades of experience at the forefront of industry. Economic value SUPPLIERS generated and USD 4.3 B distributed 2019 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS EMPLOYEES USD 12 M USD 1.4 B ECONOMIC VALUE RESEARCH & GENERATED CAPEX DEVELOPMENT USD 7.4 B USD 350 M USD 61 M CAPITAL TAXES PROVIDERS USD 511 M USD 527 M 11 Using technologies such as virtual reality to learn tasks, seen here for overhead crane operators, offers a near-world experience without any level of physical risk, allowing us to train employees efficiently. Capital expenditure In 2019, our capital expenditures amounted to USD 350 million, Key indicators in line with those of the previous year. Investments were mostly concentrated in the automation and digitalization of our industrial processes, as well as in improving safety and environmental issues, product differentiation and competitiveness. Capital expenditure In USD millions This year, a key focus was on reducing the environmental 1,200 1,132 impact of our operations on our communities, and investments were made in improving air quality at our steel 1,000 shops. A new dust collection system was installed at Tamsa in 800 Mexico, while a significant investment was made in expanding 787 600 the dust collection system at Siderca in Argentina scheduled 558 400 for completion in 2020. 200 349 350 Additionally, we have made major investments in new non0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 destructive controls as well as in controls to expand our product and pipe tracking capabilities in several plants. Capital expenditures These investments will boost the competitiveness of our industrial system in addition to improving working conditions to meet more stringent quality and HSE requirements. 12 Tenaris’s values act as a road map, establishing culture, ideals and goals, which are reinforced through regular interaction between supervisors and their teams. 13 14 Health and Safety à Our commitment To improve health and safety, aiming to achieve zero injuries and occupational illnesses throughout our industrial system. 50% REDUCTION à Our objectives LOST TIME INJURY • Consolidate a strong health and safety-oriented culture, assessing and FREQUENCY RATE controlling risks, adapting tasks to people and people to their responsibilities COMPARED • Achieve a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate target below 1, including contractors WITH 2017 • Ensure that 100% of our employees, including contractors, are fully fit for work USD à Our actions Our core values of safety, health, well-being and care for the environment are embedded in our mission to achieve sustainable quality and transparency 42 MILLION throughout our daily activities. In 2019, approved capital expenditure projects INVESTED IN in the area of safety accounted for 18% of the total of the company’s approved HEALTH AND SAFETY projects, while 8% was earmarked for environment. IN 2019 As part of the company’s Industrial Transformation Plan, we have prioritized risk reduction, improving working conditions in terms of indoor air quality and ergonomics within the context of our Health Management System, and reducing our overall environmental footprint. 55,000 SAFE HOURS HELD 6,000 SUPERVISORS RECEIVE WEEKLY SAFETY UPDATES TO SHARE WITH SHOP FLOOR EMPLOYEES 15 During the major maintenance plant shutdown and repairs at Tamsa in 2019, safety prevention activities were reinforced with the engineering team. 16 Changing a safety culture means securing the commitment of everyone involved at all levels. This means that Management needs to be closer to the line, as this is where the most relevant incidents occur. Everybody has to have the same level of Antonio Caprera Chief Industrial Officer awareness of safety at our facilities, from directors down to operators, including contractors. ” Safety: essential to our routine Putting safety at the heart of industrial growth and transformation has meant investing efforts in training and Safety is our number one priority. As stated in our Quality, communications, including a Safety Leadership course held Health, Safety and Environment Policy (www.tenaris.com/en/ for over 800 Shift Leaders, to improve risk management, sustainability/), the health and safety of the people working awareness and communication. Some 50,000 hours of specific at our facilities and using our products and services is of training have been given in the last two years, with a direct paramount importance to us. Tenaris is oriented towards positive impact on safety indicators. creating and sustaining a safety culture capable of delivering zero accidents. As most incidents and accidents are the result of unsafe behavior when executing work-related tasks, we are using We believe that all accidents and work-related injuries and the observations recorded in our database, which tracks illnesses can and must be prevented. Thus, we are constantly incidents, accidents, anomalies and unsafe behaviors, as input implementing initiatives to raise awareness and ensure full for company-wide communications campaigns. These include compliance with procedures, standardizing practices and the weekly mailing of infographics about a given incident, technologies to minimize exposure to health and safety risks. translated into 10 languages, to 6,000 employees around the world. One of our most relevant achievements in 2019 The new approach to safety has also involved redesigning has been the improvement in our safety indicators, the Working Instructions detailing the steps involved in with significant reductions in the Lost Time Injury each task undertaken at the mill. We have reviewed over 1,700 risk analyses all over the world, leading to an increase Frequency Rate (LTIFR) which fell to 50% of the in operator involvement and adding new features such as level it was at two years ago, even as activity at our critical element checklists. With the Engineering department, industrial facilities has increased. work has focused on evaluating and reducing potential risks in the workplace, such as tasks involving work at height, confined spaces, exposed areas, and the movement of cranes Transformation for life and vehicles, as part of a major USD 40 million worldwide In 2017, the company launched its Three-year Industrial investment plan. Transformation Plan, which includes a strategy to establish a resilient safety culture focused on people’s behavior, requiring We have actively taken part in benchmarking activities with the hands-on involvement of leaders at all levels, as a strong other industrial companies, and we have been recognized on safety performance engaging workers is only sustainable if several occasions for groundbreaking safety-oriented initiatives driven by management. and concrete results by worldsteel. 17 The infographics provide shift leaders with a tool to help them discuss, analyze and ponder what happened in the mills with their teams. They can identify the risks described, discuss what should have been done to mitigate them, remind people to Giovanni Brembilla Global Health & Safety Director follow the rules, and propose practices to prevent specific safety events from recurring. ” Finally, we have been revisiting processes with contractors to We are also members of the World Steel Association’s safety help them offer their own personnel the same training as Tenaris groups with other leading steel producing companies, employees receive, the best way of ensuring that a single safety developing guidelines for safety management in different areas. culture is shared among everyone working with the company. We continue to develop the Process Safety Management Communications program focusing on design and engineering at facilities, The systematic communication of safety issues on the shop equipment maintenance, ensuring effective alarms and control floor plays a key role in keeping safety awareness and alertness points, and reinforcing procedures and training as part of a high. This year we developed a series of communications disciplined approach to personnel certification. This program pieces for over 5,000 people at our operations in different dovetails with another on Catastrophic Risk Analysis to countries, from Safety Updates and posters to videos, detect and prevent unexpected events with a serious impact including over 60 different weekly newsletters and 16 monthly on our people, facilities or the environment. So far, we safety infographics and animations to raise awareness and have completed the evaluation phase and defined a series of share lessons learned. mitigating actions, currently at the implementation stage. Shop floor and site communication routines are an established Safety programs include contractors practice, with structured meetings involving workers and We include all contractors working at our sites in the contractors held by managers, coordinators and supervisors, Tenaris Safety Management System to ensure our prevention complementing our successful company-wide Safe Hour programs are truly effective. In 2019, we introduced a new program introduced in 2012. IT tool to record and monitor key contractor indicators such SAFE HOUR: ROUTINES FOR IMPROVEMENT The Safe Hour routine, a weekly opportunity for managers and workers to chat about safety issues, highlighting safe and unsafe behaviors and conditions, continues to be one of the mainstays of our safety culture drive in the mill. These are dialogues focusing on exchanging ideas and points of view to promote a real understanding of safety issues, enshrining the company’s commitment to ensuring the safety of our personnel. 18 A Tenaris employee uses a remote control device to operate overhead cranes, minimizing risks by keeping at a safe distance from the operation. 19 A USD 27 million investment in improving our capture and emission treatment system at our Tamsa steel shop has not only resulted in more sustainable steelmaking processes but also better air by reducing fugitive emissions within the facilities. Luca Benigni Senior Director of Engineering, We’ve increased productivity and improved Tamsa conditions for all our colleagues at the steelworks.” Safe Hours are an opportunity to review the tasks scheduled and discuss safety behaviors and possible risks, reinforcing the company's safety regulations and keeping people out of harm's way. 20 as performance, working hours, fit-to-work level and safety indoor air quality, noise and vibrations in accordance with the scores with the aim of getting our contractors to comply with strictest international standards. the same safety standards as our employees. Improving air quality We reviewed the risk assessment for all Tenaris varnishing Health and well-being areas, analyzing the paint used in order to design appropriate technical control measures for new paint to protect Tenaris’s comprehensive occupational health program enshrines worker health. At the Tamsa mill in Mexico, investments the company’s commitment to providing a healthy workplace, in technology have reduced fumes from the steel-making with equipment and technologies to ensure the quality of process, resulting in improved indoor air quality and overall working life, good health and the well-being of its workforce. environmental conditions at the plant. The process is currently being applied at Siderca and should be completed The Health Management System foresees periodic workplace later this year. monitoring and risk analysis instances to evaluate and control a range of activity-related factors with the potential to affect The results of our health monitoring program prompted employee health, including chemical, biological, physical, a renewed approach to employee health management, ergonomic and psychological risks. including the creation of a health protocol to ensure that all employees get periodic medical check-ups and are certified Our Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) define corporate as fit to work with no long-term health risks arising from procedures and guidelines to maintain acceptable levels of work-related activities. Key indicators Investment in Health, Safety and Environment In USD million Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 70 10.0 4.0 9.0 60 3.5 42 8.0 3.0 50 7.0 37 2.8 15 25 6.0 2.5 40 5.0 2.3 2.4 2.0 30 33 4.0 4.7 4.8 4.2 4.2 1.5 1.8 20 3.0 21 3.1 1.0 19 2.0 1.1 10 10 13 1.0 0.5 0 5 0.0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Health and Safety Methodology: Number of accidents with and Methodology: Number of accidents with Environment and Energy without lost days (not including First Aid) per million lost days per million hours worked (includes hours worked (includes employees and contractors). employees and contractors). 21 22 Environment à Our commitment To reduce our environmental footprint within our communities and value chain, working with our partners and peers to address the climate change challenge and meet global targets for CO2 emissions reduction. 1.18 TN CO2 EMISSIONS / Steel is an essential material for our daily lives, used everywhere and for a TN STEEL variety of products, yet steelmaking is a highly energy-intensive process and produces significant quantities of different kinds of emissions, the most relevant being particulates and carbon dioxide. The social, financial and physical risks of climate change and the global challenge of reducing greenhouse gas emissions are driving steel industry leaders, including Tenaris, to find new solutions for reducing their footprint by improving energy efficiency and using new technologies to meet the global objective of achieving a low carbon society. 70% RECYCLING CONTENT IN New technologies and practices bring benefits that are both economic and OUR STEEL environmental, from materials recycling as part of the circular economy, to harnessing cleaner energy. Achieving greater energy and material efficiency, increasing scrap recycling and employing natural gas as a bridge fuel on the way to renewables and new technologies, such as hydrogen, are best achieved with an ongoing industry commitment to working together. As an industry leader, Tenaris believes that its responsibility to reduce the 98.4% MATERIAL environmental impact of its activities is also an opportunity to embrace EFFICIENCY innovation and technological change, engaging its partners in the value AT STEELMAKING chain to add their efforts to achieve a cleaner future. SITES 18% REDUCTION IN WATER WITHDRAWAL VS 2018 VALUES 23 Environmental protection is part of our mission, vital for sustaining our business in the long term and our license to operate. This is what guides our actions and reinforces our role as producers of a more sustainable steel. ” Carolina Bengochea Global Environmental Director Energy and climate action A more environmentally-responsible operational model à Our commitment Aware of the contribution made by steel to global CO2 levels, To reduce the intensity and overall level of our CO2 emissions by but also its role in building the infrastructure housing the using energy resources efficiently, implementing best available communities where we operate, Tenaris is committed to technologies, and using carbon-efficient sources of energy. reducing emissions and achieving greater energy efficiency throughout its operations. à Our objectives • Increase the efficiency of energy use To increase the use of scrap in the steelmaking process, the • Reduce the intensity of CO2 emissions by implementing the company is evaluating different alternatives and innovative best available technologies at our facilities solutions for application at different sites. • Provide products and services which contribute to minimizing emission levels Other initiatives being pursued include ways of optimizing water, natural gas and electricity use, as well as the à Our actions introduction of LED lighting, complemented by employee World steel production accounts for around 8% of training and awareness programs, new procedures and greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels, making guidelines, infrastructure modifications, and systems the reduction of CO2 emissions an urgent priority for the modelling to identify further opportunities for improvement. industry. The key actions focus on optimizing energy and material efficiency by increasing the use of steel scrap and Tenaris has joined worldsteel’s “Step Up Program”, developing innovative technologies to cut emissions. designed to support the steel industry in its approach to more environmentally-responsible operational models by Our steel is based mostly on recycled steel, which also applies benchmarking operating technologies, and has implemented to the Koppel steelmaking facility we acquired in January 2020. a range of actions to improve efficiency at its mills focusing on We work continuously to improve our energy, material efficiency the use of raw materials, energy input, yield, and maintenance. and emission levels, as well as studying different actions and investments to further reduce our footprint. At Tenaris, we have achieved recycling content levels of 70% in our steel by using electric arc furnaces to recycle steel scrap, while our ironmaking process in Argentina is based on Direct Reduction, fueled by natural gas, to-date the cleanest method of producing steel from iron ore. 24 A CO2 awareness session for operations, engineering and supply chain employees was held to understand the scope of possibilities available to decrease CO2 emissions. Reducing CO2 emissions The CO2 emission intensity from our four sites with Tenaris has been recognized by the World Steel Association’s steel-making processes, was 1.18 tn. CO2 / tn. of cast steel Climate Action Program for complying with CO2 emissions in 2019, almost 2% lower than 2018. This is well below the reporting requirements over the last ten years, essential input global steelmaking weighted average reported by the World for the data collection program forming part of the steel Steel Association. Total emissions amounted to 3.4 million industry’s global approach to climate change. tons of CO2 , 14% lower than in 2018, reflecting a lower level of production in addition to the lower emission intensity For 2018 and 2019, we calculated CO2 emissions in relation to level. These values include scope 1 (direct), scope 2 (upstream electricity use, based on factors reflecting the local conditions related to electricity) and scope 3 (upstream related to raw in the countries where we operate, and the particular situation material) emissions. Excluding scope 3 emissions, total of our sites according to whether we use our own power plants emissions from these four sites were 2.2 million tons of CO2 . or local electricity sources. 25 In Mexico, a new combined cycle natural gas-fired power plant Environmental Product Declaration began operations in 2017, with a lower emission factor than the In 2018, Tenaris re-certified a number of Environmental national system, which is supplying 95% of the electricity needs Product Declarations (EPD) stating the performance of of our Tamsa site. In Argentina, we have been using a gas-fired certain products in environmental terms based on their Life combined cycle power plant, temporarily stopped in 2019, but, Cycle Assessment. The latest EPDs measure the impact of steel for comparative purposes, we maintained the emission factor pipe on air emissions, energy use, climate change, the recovery for this plant rather than the local electricity supply, which has a of co-products, and water use. The EPD for OCTG pipe was lower emission factor due to Argentina’s low-carbon energy mix calculated for an average ton of seamless OCTG pipe from based on gas, hydroelectric and nuclear sources. Dalmine, Siderca, Silcotub and Tamsa: this Tenaris EPD was the first one of its kind published for seamless OCTG pipes. In Italy, our gas-fired combined cycle plant provides steam for district heating supplying the local community in addition to The latest OCTG EPD shows that the product’s Global electricity to run our Dalmine facility. Warming Potential indicator has improved by 7% compared with the previous year’s score. These metrics, and those of two Taken as a whole, our welded and seamless pipe production other EPDs for line pipe and steel structural solutions, show activity, which not only takes place at our steelmaking sites that over 60% of the company’s GHG emissions are from but also at other facilities, has total CO2 emissions (scope 1 upstream processes, and 30% from pipe manufacturing, while and 2) of 2.7 million tons in 2019, compared to 2.9 million transportation only has a limited impact on the overall total. tons in 2018. The fall reflects a lower level of production, This information serves to steer our main actions towards while emission intensity remained stable at around 0.80 tons improving the consumption and type of raw materials we use, CO2 per ton of steel pipe. and achieving efficiency in the steelmaking process. GREEN STEEL WORKSHOP Tenaris's mill in Dalmine, Italy, was chosen by the European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP) as one of the hosts for the Green Steel by EAF two-day workshop on sustainability in the steel industry in November 2019. The event drew representatives from the steel industry, technology companies and research institutes to discuss scrap management, decarbonization, energy efficiency, and the circular economy. The focus was on using electric arc furnaces (EAF) in steel production to reach CO2 reduction targets and a “Carbon Neutral” economy by 2050. The upgrade to the steel shop emissions capture and treatment system at our Tamsa mill involved the installation of an extensive network of flues and pipes for emissions abatement. 27 Over the last few years, we have been working to reduce the levels of particulate emissions at our sites. 28 Our emissions capture and treatment system project is part of our commitment to develop a long-term sustainable business as it meets the three key criteria: environmental, social and economic. ” Emireth Hernández Regional Manager for Environment, Mexico Air quality The continuous monitoring of our steel shop stacks shows that particulate material emissions have fallen consistently à Our commitment over the last few years, thanks to better systems introduced To minimize emissions, contributing to good air quality to control treatment systems, and to the investments we have in the communities where we operate. made. Values fell from 100 g/ton of product in 2016 to 40 g/ton in 2018, and to 33 g/ton in 2019 as a weighted average à Our objectives value for our four sites. These achievements bear witness to • Comply with local and internal emissions requirements, our commitment to reducing our environmental footprint, monitoring activities to measure performance ensuring healthy working conditions and cleaner air for both • Eliminate fugitive emissions from steelmaking processes employees and the communities where we operate. à Our actions We recently launched a 5-year investment program in Argentina The steelmaking process generates emissions from particulate and Mexico to reduce the emission of volatile organic compounds matter and other pollutants: we have thus established (VOC) from varnishing and painting activities in regions where corporate procedures setting limits on stack emissions and we use higher proportions of solvent-based products. monitoring requirements. Internal limits have been defined according to the best technologies available to improve This involves not only a change in the chemical products processes beyond local legal compliance levels, as not all used, but also the modification of our production lines thanks countries where we produce have the same requirements. to an investment plan covering the next 5 years. Siderca has begun the change of two out of seven lines, planned for implementation by mid-2020; Bay City has started operating Reducing steel shop emissions a thermal oxidizer for its water-based varnishing line after a Over the past year, we have invested USD 27 million in USD 1.2 million emissions-reducing investment, while Tamsa our Tamsa facility in Mexico to upgrade the capture and is following the same path. treatment system for steel shop emissions, adding new filters and enhanced extraction capabilities. With the Siderca and Bay City modifications already made, we expect to see a 16% reduction in VOC emitted per year for A further investment of USD 18 million is ongoing at our pipe varnishing operations compared with 2017 data. Siderca facility in Argentina to improve our capture capabilities and install a new filter system. 29 Circularity and materials efficiency combines locally-sourced steel scrap with direct reduced iron produced on site using natural gas to provide the metal à Our commitment charge necessary for operations. Differences in processes and To implement circular economy concepts throughout our raw materials arise from local availability and scrap market industrial system. conditions. During 2019, we consumed 2,300,000 tons of recycled steel scrap at our plants. à Our objectives • Maximize recycling rates at our facilities Material management • Maximize scrap availability and use Our overall level of material efficiency at our steelmaking • Reduce the amount of materials sent to landfill sites reached 98.4% in 2019, higher than the steel industry by recycling, reusing and revalorization average of 96.3% reported by worldsteel for 2018. We reuse and recycle residue and co-products to cut waste: during 2019, à Our actions counting all our production sites, we reduced the amount As a permanent resource, steel is fundamental to achieving of waste sent to landfill from 12% of our total amount of a circular economy: it can be recycled infinitely without losing residues and co-products, to 10%. This small variation is any of its properties, a way of saving iron, energy, coal and nonetheless encouraging as we operate in many different other materials, producing less CO2 emissions, and preventing countries with different realities, and reflects the many actions useful material from ending up in landfill as waste. undertaken by each region to reduce waste and increase recycling. Slag, the major waste co-product, is reused and recycled in a number of areas such as building materials, Recycling scrap fillers, road surfacing, and concrete. Our life-cycle approach to scrap recycling helps to minimize the environmental footprint of our operations, also one of At Dalmine, we are investigating a new way to process ladle the main opportunities the steel industry has to reduce CO2 slag to minimize emissions and improve product quality to emissions, based on current technology. Scrap can be made allow for further recycling. Scale is reused in the cement into new steel as closed material loop recycling, avoiding the industry, as are co-products from the Siderca direct reduction production of primary steel. We trust that governments in the plant. We continue to invest in research to improve internal countries where we operate will recognize these benefits and and external recycling for different residue streams. allow steel scrap recycling to occur efficiently by avoiding its classification as a waste stream. Our Silcotub site has joined an EU-financed project to evaluate and test different residues and alternative raw materials to feed As a whole, steel produced at our sites in Dalmine, Siderca, the electric arc furnace. The project will be ongoing for the next Silcotub and Tamsa, has a recycled content of 70% calculated four years with different partners, looking to find ways to further according to ISO 14021 standards. These values are only work with the EAF to achieve circular, low-emission steel. possible due to the use of electric arc furnaces (EAF), permitting recycled scrap to maintain its steel quality characteristics. We continuously work to develop Reduce, Recycle, Reuse (3R) initiatives throughout our sites and offices, from campaigns The recycled content value is a weighted average taken for to encourage a paperless workspace, reduce single-use plastics the four sites based on steel bar production, with higher or use biodegradable materials instead of plastics, to thread values achieved by our European sites Dalmine and Silcotub: protector recycling, thus increasing opportunities for Tamsa combines hot briquetted iron with scrap, while Siderca circularity in our industry. 30 Scrap recycling is fundamental to reducing carbon emissions in steelmaking today. Recycling MORE THAN 2,300,000 80,000 350,000 TONS TONS TONS OF SCRAP OF SCALE OF SLAG 21,000 7,000 2,000 TONS TONS TONS OF IRON OF WOOD OF PLASTIC 31 The new water recycling circuit at Siderca began operations in 2018 and has already reduced surface water intake by 25%. 32 33 Water management The Bay City seamless pipe mill in Texas, U.S., was designed to achieve stringent environmental à Our commitment performance standards in terms of nitrogen oxide To ensure the responsible management of water. air emissions, particulate materials, volatile organic compounds and also CO2 emissions, and has qualified à Our objectives • Minimize water intake in water-scarce areas where we have as a minor source of emissions. The mill reuses 95% water-intensive operations of its water consumption, and the remainder is treated • Meet water-discharge quality targets and sent to a local wastewater treatment plant. • Implement the best water-management technologies for new lines On average, some 75% of the water we use comes from surface à Our actions water and 20% from subsurface, and the remainder comes from Water of all types plays a major role in steel manufacturing local networks. At Siderca in Argentina, 95% of our intake processes, although very little of it is consumed, being reused comes from surface water as the site was specifically designed or returned to source; often, water that is recycled back to work off an open water circuit on the shores of the Parana into rivers and other sources is cleaner than when extracted. River. However, as part of our drive to reduce our impact on the Tenaris is fully aware of its responsibility for managing water environment by changing the way we manage water resources, resources, and is constantly evaluating how best to conserve our Siderca rolling mill invested in a new water recycling and reuse water. and treatment circuit to recycle and reduce intake which began operating at the end of 2018, leading to an overall 25% reduction in surface water intake. Siderca continues to invest Improving use and management in upgrading its water-management systems. We have evaluated water-stress levels in those areas where we have operations, focusing efforts on facilities requiring high Reducing our water footprint is not only about our sites but water-use rates for steel seamless pipe making, rolling and heat also our products: our Dopeless® connections do not need to be treatment, given that processes for welded pipe and finishing cleaned with water while running in the field, whereas standard plants require much less water. “dope” threads need 10-20 liters of water per connection. Most of our intensive water-use facilities lie in areas of low or Biodiversity and habitat restoration in Piombino medium water-stress risk, where we have put into place systems In Italy, at our Piombino industrial site, we remediated two which recycle high percentages of water. existing landfills, reclaiming two areas of about 25,000 m 2 and planting several endemic species in the area, followed We permanently monitor effluent discharge in line with local by periodic monitoring. and internally-mandated standards. The rewilding project, which began in summer 2016, has In the United States, our Bay City mill works with a 95% watercreated two fresh water wetland areas attracting dozens of recycling rate system, while blowdown is treated at the local rare endemic botanical specimens, the right habitat for many wastewater treatment facility. This concept is also being applied animals typical of the Tuscan coastal area. The last animal at our new seamless pipe processing facility in Colombia to census included sightings of some 50 different bird species, recycle all the water used with no industrial discharge. wild mammals and dozens of amphibians and insects. 34 Key indicators Tenaris sites including steel shops: All Tenaris sites (pipe and steelmaking): Tenaris sites including steel shops: CO2 emissions CO2 emissions Scope 1 + 2 Energy Intensity GJ/ton steel 5 2.00 4 1.20 Million ton CO2 ton CO2 / ton steel Million tons tons CO2 / ton steel pipe 25 4.5 1.80 3.5 1.00 4 1.60 20 1.5 3 20.5 20.0 3.5 1.3 1.40 1.2 2.8 0.80 18.5 18.2 18.3 3 1.20 2.5 2.9 2.7 15 2.5 1.1 1.00 2 0.60 0.9 2.2 2.5 2.1 2 2.4 0.80 10 2.2 1.5 0.40 1.5 1.8 1.8 0.60 1 1 0.40 5 0.20 0.5 0.20 0.5 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1+2 Mton CO2 Scope 1+2 Mton CO2 Methodology: worldsteel methodology Energy Scope 3 Mton CO2 Intensity Production Mton pipes Sites covered: Dalmine, Siderca, Silcotub Intensity ton CO2 / ton steel Intensity ton CO2/ton pipe (Calarasi), Tamsa worldsteel intensity ton CO2 / ton steel Sites covered: Arcore, Costa Volpino, Piombino, Methodology: worldsteel Sabbio, Siat, AlgomaTubes, Bay City, Confab, Sites covered: Dalmine, Siderca, Silcotub Dalmine, Hickman, NKKTubes, Prudential, Siderca, (Calarasi), Tamsa Silcotub, SPIJ, Tamsa, TuboCaribe S1: Scope 1: direct emissions S2: Scope 2: indirect related to electricity emissions S3: Scope 3: indirect emissions related to raw materials use Tenaris sites including steel shops: Residues & co-products All Tenaris sites: water withdrawal Material Efficiency reuse or recycling at all sites intensity % % Tenaris sites m3/ton pipe 100 100 30 98.3 98.4 98.5 98.7 98.4 28 89 25 80 80 79 81 82 78 23 20 21 60 60 20 18 15 40 40 10 20 20 8 5 6 6 6 5 12 10 9 11 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Methodology: worldsteel Reused / recycled materials Water withdrawal Sites covered: Dalmine, Siderca, Silcotub Waste disposal Water withdrawal excluding Siderca (Calarasi), Tamsa Sites covered: Aberdeen, Arcore, Campina, Costa Methodology: worldsteel Volpino, Qingdao, Sabbio, Siat (VA), Siat (VC), Sites covered: Dalmine, Siderca, Tamsa, Silcotub, AlgomaTubes, Bay City, Confab, Conroe, Dalmine, Siat, Confab, Hickman, Bay City, AlgomaTubes, Onne, Hickman, McCarty, NKKTubes, Prudential, Prudential, SPIJ, NKKTubes, TuboCaribe Siderca, Silcotub (Calarasi), Silcotub (Zalău), SPIJ, Tamsa, TuboCaribe 35 36 Innovation and the Value Chain à Our commitment USD To offer customers product and service solutions to enhance safety, efficiency and reliability, and to minimize our environmental footprint through the supply chain. à Our objectives 61 • Develop and improve our product and service portfolio MILLION INVESTMENT • Increase the efficiency and reliability of our production processes to meet IN R&D IN 2019 the needs of our customers with industry-leading technology and sustainable manufacturing • Shorten the supply chain, leveraging digital technologies and our global and local infrastructure, to reduce costs and environmental impact, at the same time promoting local industrial development 450 RIGS à Our actions SUPPLIED UNDER THE Tenaris is committed to meeting the needs of its customers for industry-leading RIG DIRECT® MODEL products and services for a wide range of applications which also address safety WORLDWIDE IN and environmental concerns. We are constantly developing innovative solutions DECEMBER 2019 and setting higher standards in terms of efficiency so that we can contribute to sustainable practices, ranging from ensuring well integrity for oil and gas operations, to offering highly reliable tube components for use in airbags, and – more recently – highly machined materials for use in large hydrogen storage vessels. 360 PEOPLE Our products are manufactured in accordance with the most stringent industrial WORKING standards. Under ISO 9001 and API Q1 specifications, the Tenaris quality IN R&D management system guarantees the reliability of both our products and the processes involved in the manufacturing operation. This ensures that our products comply with customer requirements throughout the value chain, from the acquisition of raw materials to the delivery of the final product. 4,734 PEOPLE BENEFITED FROM PROPYMES ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 37 We are very pleased that, here in the Middle East, ADNOC has recognized the value that we can bring with Rig Direct® solutions. We work closely with ADNOC staff and management, contributing to safer and more efficient operations. ” Renwar Berzinji Commercial Vice President, Middle East, North Africa, & India Innovation as a foundation for growth Since acquiring Hydril in 2007, we have expanded the range of our Wedge connections beyond the original Series 500 Innovation has always been intrinsic to Tenaris’s growth connections to include Series 600 connections, designed for and business strategy. Traditionally, we have focused the most complex offshore drilling applications. Currently, we on product development; more recently, we have been are introducing Series 400 connections designed for increased devoting equal attention to employing digital technologies efficiency in shale drilling applications. and process innovation to streamline our business processes and ways of working with our customers, as well as in our Our Dopeless® technology simplifies pipe handling and running manufacturing facilities. while minimizing the environmental footprint at the well: no dope is necessary for storage or running, and there is no need In 2019, we invested USD 61 million in R&D, reaching a to use water to clean the thread for inspection activities. total of USD 392 million over the last five years. We carry out Research and Development activities with a global team Also over the past year, we have expanded our range of of 360 people in R&D centers in Argentina, Italy, Japan and connectors used to anchor conductor and surface casing Mexico, coordinated from our main technology office in strings to the wellhead in mainly offshore applications. Amsterdam. Our product developers and researchers work As a complement to our high performance TenarisHydril closely with our technical sales teams, who have first-hand BlueDock® range of connectors, we developed the recently knowledge of customer needs on the ground. introduced EasyDock™ for less demanding shallow water and onshore applications. Unmatched range of premium connections The key differential setting Tenaris apart in premium When we first introduced our BlueDock® connectors for use connections is its range of TenarisHydril Wedge connections in Brazil’s deepwater wells some 10 years ago, we became the and its environmentally-friendly Dopeless® technology. first pipe-maker to provide a completely integrated pipe and TenarisHydril Wedge connections offer advantages in terms of connector offer for complex offshore applications. Now, these running efficiency and high operational torque, compared with connectors are increasingly being used in complex deepwater more standard premium connection performance features. applications around the world based on their proven fatigueresistance performance. 38 Investment in industrial efficiency has also included the use of automation for repetitive tasks to make manufacturing processes safer and healthier for workers. Unique quality control for safer airbags High-strength large steel vessels for hydrogen storage Automotive suppliers require absolute reliability for high Although hydrogen has long been recognized as a potential performance tubular components used in airbags so as not alternative to decarbonizing certain industrial and to compromise on safety. As a leading supplier in this market transportation activities, the cost of producing and using segment, Tenaris has developed a complete range of products hydrogen, either from natural gas or renewable energy, to comply with the most demanding specifications. has hindered its development. However, as these costs have recently been falling, hydrogen is increasingly being Recognizing that the non-destructive testing (NDT) process considered for various applications. is critical, we developed the VITRIS™ robotic system as an innovative approach to automate the NDT process, making Tenaris has developed an optimized chemical composition and use of different and complementary NDT methods to improve thermomechanical process to produce large-diameter seamless overall detection performance and reduce false alarms. This cylinders for hydrogen storage, with outstanding mechanical system is unique in the market, and provides enhanced quality properties and fatigue resistance. In collaboration with Sandia assurance for a critical component of airbags used by the National Labs in the U.S., Tenaris undertook a research study automotive industry. to acquire an in-depth understanding of the interaction between 39 Tenaris is constantly seeking to improve the reliability and performance of its products: our quality management system and its testing requirements play a key role in achieving this. 40 hydrogen and carbon steels in a high-pressure hydrogen In the past two years, we have added 12 new service centers atmosphere (1,000 bars). This study allowed us to understand and yards at strategic locations near our customers’ operations precisely the degree to which hydrogen embrittlement affects around the world to support our Rig Direct® service. The fatigue properties, a critical factor in storage station design. acquisition of IPSCO Tubulars in the U.S. has allowed us to complement our operations in the south with a greater presence Rig Direct®: digital integration and lower in the north of the country, bringing us closer than ever before environmental impact to our customers and enabling us to respond more quickly to Tenaris is leading a transformation of the way that the oil and their needs while reducing our total energy footprint. gas industry, particularly in North America, has traditionally been supplied with its well casing and tubing requirements. Implementing Industry 4.0 technologies in our With our Rig Direct® service, we partner with our customers production processes throughout the lifecycle of their drilling projects, shortening the At Tenaris, technological innovation is a key aspect of our supply chain from the mill to the well, making sure we produce industrial system. Over the last years, we have started the digital only the products they need, when and where they are needed. transformation of our manufacturing centers by incorporating By reducing lead times and inventories, we also reduce the new working methodologies based on design thinking. environmental impact with less material produced and scrapped. We are increasing customer integration and the efficiency of Our newest production center in Bay City, Texas, our Rig Direct ® service through the use of digital integration is the world’s most advanced pipe production facility, tools. Our Rig Direct ® portal is a web-based platform that featuring digital, automation and machine learning aims to streamline business processes by connecting Tenaris technologies. We are now gradually implementing these and its customers within a dedicated digital space. Here, we manage areas such as product dispatches, monitoring trucks technologies in the rest of our production facilities. travelling from Tenaris service yards to customer rig sites, and invoicing. Rig Direct ® increases the transparency of all administrative aspects from call-out to delivery invoicing. In terms of industrial digitalization, Tenaris has been working on the application of artificial intelligence and data analytics Our PipeTracer® tool is a unique tracking and traceability in our production processes, robotics and predictive analytics. application allowing operators to identify each Tenaris pipe with Our Connected Factory project, for example, utilizes advanced its individual quality characteristics on-site using mobile devices. analytics to create real-time data models to optimize energy This means that both operators and Tenaris have access to all consumption, reduce reworks and predict manufacturing relevant technical pipe information, avoiding both the need to defects. This project will itself transform the way we use data perform manual pipe measurements and the risk of duplicating in our industrial management, offering multiple opportunities inspection services, which in turn reduces handling, errors and to improve efficiency and increase competitiveness. workload, thus making operations safer and more efficient. To further improve operational safety, we have been using We complement our supply chain and digital integration video analytics, asset and people location, drones, telemetry services with professional technical support, ranging from the and pedestrian detection systems. For digital workforce selection of materials in well planning, to on-site assistance to development, our teams have been developing robotic process promote well integrity. automation including pipe counters, digital assistants and wearable technologies. 41 Strengthening local supply networks of future generations of engineers and technicians prepared to work in industry. In 2019, the Propymes Technical Gene While many companies have sought to globalize their supply Program impacted 1,074 students, providing 873 hours chains, at Tenaris, we have been strengthening our local value of training. chain, providing support to help suppliers in countries where we operate, achieve and maintain competitiveness by adopting The ProPymes Institutional Assistance program provides global quality, safety and environmental standards. expert strategic advice to owners and managers, aimed at ensuring a level playing field in their local markets. We use ProPymes: sustaining local suppliers our network to help them reach out to potential customers In association with our sister companies Ternium and worldwide, fostering investments in productivity to increase Tecpetrol, we have developed the ProPymes program to capacity by using low-cost financing programs. We help them support SMEs working in our value chain in Argentina optimize processes, logistics and layout, support product and other countries. development through our Industrial Research Center, and work with them to implement and improve QHSE systems. The idea is to help them build sustainably and globally competitive operations by providing them with industrial Assuring quality and ethical standards assistance and training programs, ranging from using Working with Exiros, a specialized procurement company automation technology and optimizing industrial facilities, whose ownership we share with our sister company, Ternium, to new HSE protocols and HR management strategies. we carry out a rigorous selection process to ensure that all our suppliers meet the standards enshrined in our QHSE Through ProPymes, Tenaris supports over 900 enterprises policy and Code of Conduct, and comply with local laws and in Argentina by developing training programs based on regulations in force. We require all our partners in business sharing knowledge and best practices to meet the needs of to observe the same high standards we follow internally SME managers and employees. In 2019, 4,734 people benefited governing ethical behavior, legal compliance, and health, from 285 programs, breaking the yearly record and totaling safety and environmental responsibilities. 1,857 programs since the program’s inception in 2002. We know that more efficient processes and systems decrease Leveraging on the Technical Gene program supported by the demand for materials and reduce manufacturing costs, Tenaris (see the chapter on Community Relations), which while more responsible HSE practices also lead to cost savings provides secondary schools with support for infrastructure by increasing productivity. We conduct supplier HSE audits and equipment, teacher training, and school administration and work with them to manage long-term risks and help them as well as on-the-job internships to help develop technical stay ahead of the curve when it comes to future regulatory secondary education, ProPymes facilitates the development change in these areas. 42 Our ProPymes program helps local suppliers grow by offering industrial assistance and training programs. The audits allow us to categorize our service suppliers according to the HSE risk level of their activities. Since 2012, Key indicators we have audited around 75% of the 1,463 active service suppliers classified as high HSE risk suppliers, which is a prior requisite for the award of a service contract. A further Investment in R&D Tenaris suppliers by country (*) 900 non-high risk suppliers have also been audited to assess In USD million Country Local Suppliers Total their HSE performance. The audit is based on a standard 100 suppliers from suppliers abroad self-assessment process designed by Tenaris specifically for 89 Argentina 2,088 456 2,544 suppliers wishing to provide services to Tenaris. During 80 Brazil 1,252 154 1,406 2019, 394 new audits were performed, and improvement plans 69 Canada 506 216 722 60 64 conducted when gaps were detected. 63 61 Chile 1 1 China 151 23 174 40 Colombia 527 197 724 Tenaris purchases most of its supplies through Exiros. In 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indonesia 185 83 268 December 2019, Exiros had a total of 33,830 registered suppliers, 20 Italy 1,294 247 1,541 of which 15,959 were active during the year, with 12,958 Japan 176 23 199 0 Kazakhstan 2 39 41 supplying Tenaris. Exiros has a quality system certified under 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mexico 1,480 444 1,924 ISO-9001 standards. Nigeria 128 66 194 Romania 861 394 1,255 Saudi Arabia 236 106 342 Uruguay 12 106 118 USA 1,278 227 1,505 Total 10,177 2,781 12,958 (*) 79% of our suppliers are local. 43 44 Human Resources à Our commitment To foster a respectful working environment by engaging and motivating our people to be considerate and creative, aligning career development with business goals. 2.7 MILLION HOURS à Our objectives HOURS OF TRAINING • Embed sustainability values through transparent and effective processes, DELIVERED IN 2019 helping employees shape their professional careers • Encourage continuous learning and feedback through concrete tools • Respect and promote diversity in all its forms, focused on gender, generation and culture à Our actions Tenaris embraces diversity as a prerequisite for a more inclusive and equitable 93 NATIONALITIES workplace, where different and contrasting opinions and perspectives come REPRESENTED IN together to solve problems and achieve goals. Ethnic, gender, racial and cultural OUR TEAM diversity are intertwined in the company’s DNA, reinforcing its unique approach to growth and globalization. With a workforce drawn from different cultures, tolerance, open-mindedness and adaptability are a reality in the office and on the factory floor, as employees are actively encouraged to cooperate in maintaining an environment respectful of each other’s differences. 95% SUPERVISORS RECEIVED UPWARD FEEDBACK 91% PARTICIPATION IN LAST ENGAGEMENT PULSE SURVEY (DECEMBER 2019) 45 Employees acquire new skills through extensive training, with this team successfully threading premium connections on Corrosion Resistant Alloys at Qingdao for the first time. 46 It is our responsibility to ensure our teams have the proper tools, knowledge, experiences, and motivation to develop and grow. ” Paola Mazzoleni Chief Human Resources Officer Rules for organizational health Training and empowerment The Tenaris Code of Conduct prohibits unlawful discrimination in employment relationships, granting all people the right to Sharing knowledge and building networks apply for a position in the company, or to be considered for a new For Tenaris, a vital part of motivating employees is the specialized post on the criteria of merit, without arbitrary discrimination. training offered at all levels to match people’s development goals, from mill operators to senior management, ensuring that we are The company’s Human Resources Policy champions equal cultivating the internal expertise and knowledge needed to face opportunities by ensuring that hiring, promotion, transfer, future market challenges. Customized training, partnerships notice periods, dialogue, rights and protection, as well as other with academia, and performance evaluation programs are employment decisions are taken without regard for race, color, continuously fine-tuned to draw out individual talent and religious belief, gender, age, disability, national origin or sexual creativity, putting employees at the heart of these so that they orientation. Compensation and remuneration are based on each can shape their own learning and professional development. person’s duties, personal performance, competence and behavior. Front and center of our training efforts is TenarisUniversity, Tenaris is subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. which is responsible for knowledge management and In February 2020, the Board of Directors approved the organizing the training materials used throughout the company’s annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement company. A powerhouse for knowledge development at all (see www.tenaris.com/en/sustainability/governance-and-ethics/). levels, it deepens people’s understanding of and commitment to corporate values, and is responsible for organizing and Our people, their enthusiasm, ideas, efficiency and skills, are developing our highly popular international leadership and our most valued asset, drivers for innovation which is the management development programs TenarisUniversity precursor for business growth. As a global industry leader, Induction Camp, Management Development Program, we face a world dynamic tempered by economic uncertainty, Advanced Management Program, Leadership Program. technological disruption and trade conflict: nurturing the competence and determination of our teams is more important In line with the company’s innovative shift towards employee than ever before to unlock a more sustainable future. empowerment, the TenarisUniversity model was upgraded in 2018 to complement the prevalent prescriptive learning, giving In Human Resources, two principal areas of activity dovetail employees more opportunities to manage their own knowledge to ensure that employees are truly empowered to pursue their acquisition process with a wide range of material, videos and personal development objectives, and that these accompany e-learnings at their disposal. the company’s overall business strategy. We have crafted online training and development plans offering opportunities for people The 2018 model introduced the Degreed platform and phone to shape their growth path within the company, from technical app in line with the company’s approach to promoting behaviors workshops to international management programs. In parallel, such as personal initiative, independence and accountability. Just we hold surveys to provide constant feedback and evaluation, in 2019, nearly 50,000 training hours were logged on the new giving us the input needed to maintain a healthy workplace. on-line platform. 47 The Global Industrial Workshop recognized the crucial role played by factory floor employees, responsible for driving and guiding our operations on the shop floor at both our mills and service centers: Oh man, it was amazing! Just to be chosen for this opportunity was amazing! And to be recognized for what we do here, at Tenaris Bay City!” Tinell Dolton, Operator, Bay City. “It was the first time I “At a personal level, this “More than a work experience, traveled to another country.” will be an unforgettable it’s a life experience.” Artemio Rodríguez, Operator, Tamsa. experience.” Porfirio Gonzalez Rodríguez, Technical Cosmin Galea, Technical Leader, Silcotub. Leader, Tamsa. Increasing participation on the factory floor These initiatives were complemented by the gradual extension As part of the drive to increase the participation and of our Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) from our managerial empowerment of factory-floor employees, in September 2019, and administrative employees to our factory floor workers in our Bay City mill hosted the company’s first-ever Global Argentina, Canada, Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia and the USA Industrial Convention for hourly workers and technical over the past year and a half. We are greatly encouraged by the leaders, a week-long course for 66 shop-floor employees from willingness of our factory floor employees to participate and seven countries who shared work successes and challenges actively contribute to improving the way we are working and with company technical leaders. They also engaged in managing our industrial system. highly technical discussions about materials, equipment and processes while touring the mill, which is Tenaris’s most technologically-sophisticated plant to-date. 48 I’m personally passionate about the concept of Engagement, which is about bringing out our best version of ourselves at work. And as the manager of a talented team and HR professional, I want to know how we as supervisors can have a positive Dana Barbara ” Senior Director, Talent Attraction impact on our team’s engagement. and Development Feedback and engagement These processes form part of a comprehensive and consistent value proposition deployed at local and global levels to The company’s performance management process has evolved support the three pillars of our corporate culture: awareness, over the past years into one which promotes the development accountability and independence. Each instance is about of a continuous feedback culture centered on permanent identifying team and individual needs with a view to helping dialogue to focus on people’s personal goals and growth management design and apply corrective solutions. opportunities. Employees are encouraged to provide upward feedback on their supervisors as well as on collaborators and Attracting top candidates in every location supervisors from other areas other than their own with whom As Tenaris continues to grow in new regions, attracting, they have worked on projects and initiatives during the year. developing and retaining the talent needed by the company is This year, we have also urged them to have more frequent crucial. A major element of the company’s drive to retain talent feedback sessions with their supervisors to discuss their has been the Career Opportunities Portal, listing not only development needs and options as well as their objectives. positions currently open but also encouraging employees to proactively seek growth opportunities, promoting internal job These initiatives are complemented by our Employee Opinion rotation to enrich their professional profiles. Survey (EOS) process, held on a biennial basis with the last one conducted in 2018. To reinforce the engagement of To recruit the best profile for each position and ensure that our employees and ensure a regular dialogue between our any potential unconscious bias in hiring decisions is overcome, managers and their teams to address concerns and suggestions, Human Resources has incorporated validated methods to locate we initiated a series of six-monthly “pulse” surveys. The pulse candidates who identify themselves with our company values surveys ask specific questions about people’s engagement and and demonstrate a passion for working in this industry. The their opinions of their area's work priorities; their answers give new tools streamline the selection process by using performance managers the opportunity to shape action plans for their teams prediction markers to gain objectivity and reduce unconscious and area to drive further engagement. bias on the basis of internal benchmarking studies. We have now had three pulse surveys since the 2018 Our efforts to recruit and retain talents and match the right EOS, each with a high level of participation and showing profile for the positions available within the company, together signficant employee satisfaction. In the last pulse survey, the with actions on promoting employee engagement are somehow participation rate was 91%, with 85% expressing satisfaction reflected in the relatively low employee resignation rate, which with the company as a place to work. in 2019 fell to 4.8% for salaried employees and 3.7% as a whole across the company. 49 Our professors used case studies to deliver their academic knowledge on psychology, strategy and leadership, complemented by senior Tenaris executives who shared their experiences so we could combine theoretical knowledge with Mandy Jia ” Senior Human Resources Manager, practical experience for use in real-life situations. China, participant in the Advanced Management Program AMP: THE CHANCE TO PARTNER WITH ACADEMIA FOR GREATER INSIGHT The tiered international management programs developed by to drive organizational change in the company as they rise in TenarisUniversity in association with academia and centers of their careers. Classes were given by prominent industrialists excellence, such as Rice University in the U.S. and the international and academics: the Rice professors from the Jones Graduate Institute for Management Development (IMD) in Switzerland, School of Business, and Tenaris experts. continue to be sought after by our senior professionals as they pursue the latest developments in management know-how. As a leadership-building initiative, the focus was on how to make the most of market opportunities and digital The latest edition of the week-long Advanced Management transformation from a strategic perspective by learning Program was held in December at Rice University in Houston for how to drive innovation, creating efficiencies for both the 52 global senior managers, and centered on giving them the tools company and its customers. 50 Key indicators Total hourly and salaried employees Salaried employees by gender Managers by gender In thousands of people In thousands of people In number of people 30 10 1,500 25 23.2 1,131 1,133 21.8 22.9 8 7.4 7.4 1,200 1,093 21.6 7.1 1,014 1,067 19.4 15.8 6.4 6.7 1,021 1,008 20 14.4 15.9 5.7 5.7 974 14.9 5.4 917 955 6 4.9 5.1 900 13.0 15 4 600 10 7.4 7.0 7.4 2 300 5 6.4 6.7 1.7 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.7 110 97 112 119 125 0 0 0 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Dec ´17 Dec ´18 Dec ´19 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Dec ´17 Dec ´18 Dec ´19 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Dec ´17 Dec ´18 Dec ´19 Hourly Male Male Salaried Female Female Employee participation in TUIC, Total training hours per salaried Total training hours per hourly MDP, AMP and LP courses employee employee Participants per course 60 140 121 Year TUIC MDP AMP LP 54 120 50 2015 180 56 52 35 50 2016 145 123 42 40 44 100 89 84 2017 65 54 104 40 39 75 80 71 2018 133 113 48 38 30 32 2019 183 105 52 39 60 20 TUIC: TenarisUniversity Induction Camp 40 43 40 MDP: Management Development Program 10 35 20 33 33 AMP: Advanced Management Program LP: Leadership Program 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Including on-the-job training Excluding on-the-job training Resignation rate Employees by nationality Managers by nationality 10 Mexican Others 9 Argentine 9% 8 American 38% 7 Others 5% Argentine 6 5.4 Italian Romanian 4.9 5.0 Romanian 4% 5 4.3 4.8 4 American 3 Brazilian Mexican 2 Colombian 16% 1 Canadian 0 Indonesian Japanese 2% Japanese 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 5% Brazilian Italian 16% 2% Canadian Indonesian 2% Percentage of salaried employees resigning 1% Colombian from the company in previous 12-month period. 51 52 Community Relations à Our commitment USD To drive growth and development in the communities where we work and live, promoting a culture which rewards merit and encourages enterprise, as much academic as in terms of personal effort. 11.7 MILLION à Our objectives COMMUNITY • Contribute to improving all levels of education in our immediate and broader INVESTMENT communities, with a focus on technical education IN 2019 • Help preserve our community’s identity and heritage • Encourage creativity and innovation through culture USD • Foster integration through voluntary work à Our actions Our community program reflects over seven decades of industrial tradition 8.1 MILLION worldwide, with a special focus on Latin America. The principle guiding our work INVESTMENT is that an industrial project like ours can only be sustainable if community and IN EDUCATION industry grow together. IN 2019 We focus our community action on three main areas: education, culture and volunteer work. Our eight global strategic programs are locally implemented, taking into account the particularities of each community where we operate: Roberto Rocca Technical Schools, Technical Gene, AfterSchool Program, Merit Awards, Roberto 27,594 BENEFICIARIES Rocca Education Program, Film Festivals, Photo Library, and Volunteers in Action. OF OUR GLOBAL AND LOCAL EDUCATION We believe that education is the key to prosperous community growth and PROGRAMS have developed educational programs covering the entire school cycle, from elementary to higher level, helping children to fulfil their potential and become active contributors to society. In 2019, 70% of our USD 11.7 million Community Relations budget was invested in education. As a multi-cultural and multi-lingual company, we enrich and broaden people’s 224,365 BENEFICIARIES cultural horizons in the communities where we work, fostering diversity and OF OUR GLOBAL inclusion by promoting cultural activities. We also encourage our employees to AND LOCAL volunteer for community activities aimed at helping those in need with a special CULTURAL focus on refurbishing schools, as a way of cultivating pride and integration in PROGRAMS our communities. 53 On my industrial internship in my last year, my job was to check the time errors on the machines. Everybody congratulated me on how well I did. I learned to work independently. ” Estefanía Heidenrich Graduating student ETRR, class of 2019 Education at all levels We believe that academic excellence is fostered by gifted teachers who are truly committed to both students and Developing high standards of technical education community. In 2015, the ETRR pioneered a comprehensive The Roberto Rocca Technical Schools program (ETRR, for teacher performance assessment system, involving student its acronym in Spanish), which operates purpose-built schools, surveys, on-the-ground class observation, and school was launched to educate high school students from our committee evaluation. The ability to benchmark and guide communities using innovative teaching methods and the latest improvement is a key feature of our teacher development plan technology in both classroom and laboratory. The schools, which rewards performance, attendance, the use of technology named after one of the company’s founders, dedicated to and training. During 2019, 91 teachers were evaluated, and promoting technical education and enterprise, offer students 3,251 training hours provided as part of their continuous different levels of scholarships, depending on their needs. development. Teachers at the school also led community projects building furniture for a local library and training The first School, inaugurated in 2013 in the city of Campana, other teachers in robotics. Argentina, has a capacity of 420 students while our sister company Ternium opened a second technical school in 2016, which now has As creativity and self-expression are vital to our students’ 384 students in the town of Pesquería, Nuevo León, Mexico. all-around development, we organized the second Literary Contest for the Roberto Rocca Technical School Network as In 2019, both schools saw their first classes graduate after seven part of our literary activity program. The winning pieces were years of study in Argentina and three years in Mexico. Many of presented at the International Book Fair in Monterrey, Mexico. these students are the first in their families to finish high school and go on to university. Strengthening technical education community-wide The Technical Gene program provides support for Like their peers in European countries, ETRR students in infrastructure and equipment, as well as teacher training, Campana receive 1,300 hours of teaching per year, as well as school management and on-the-job training internships for 200 hours of industrial internships. high-school students, sharing teaching and learning practices and concepts developed in the Roberto Rocca Technical In order to help students develop Industry 4.0 skills, in Campana Schools program. It offers high-school students from our we adapted the Project Based Learning teaching methodology to local communities the opportunity to develop Industry 4.0 encourage them to think in different ways, fostering innovation skills using specific tools to guide their learning. In addition to and teamwork, as well as other personal abilities including infrastructure and equipment, the focus is on training students, critical thinking and communication skills. In 2019, we trained 25 developing technological projects and bringing schools closer to teachers to use this methodology; students produced 220 projects industry, an approach including on-the-job internships. they subsequently exhibited, putting some into practice to benefit their local communities. Our groundbreaking robotics curriculum was taught to children aged between 11 and 18, and we had students competing in the Argentine National Robotics League. 54 An end-of-year event at the Porolissum Gymnasium School in Zalău, Romania, for the participants of our AfterSchool program which helps develop socio-emotional skills and STEM competencies. Launched in 2006, Technical Gene now runs in 9 In Campana, over 200 students from technical schools built countries and 12 communities, involving 3,500 people. eight smart bus stops for the community to improve safety Industrial internships at Campana, Zalău, Dalmine conditions for users, including data screens, WiFi, USB plugs and an anti-panic button. and Pindamonhangaba: 179 students from 9 high schools completed more than 23,344 training Starting at a young age internships hours in our mills in 2019. The AfterSchool Program (ASP) was designed for communities with considerable school dropout rates. Last year, in the 7 countries hosting the program, 1,257 children In Italy, we implemented the industrial internships scheme for aged between 6 and 12 enrolled in these activities, up from the first time at our Dalmine industrial facility for 47 students 1,114 the previous year. Focused on STEM subjects (Science, who completed 110 hours each, while in Campana, a maths Technology, Engineering, Maths), the ASP offers primary project was launched to improve skills among 616 students school children extra hours of quality education four days a and 22 teachers at six technical high schools. week to encourage them to commit to learning and further their personal development in the longer term. 55 During 2019, we strengthened the AfterSchool model with at undergraduate and graduate level in countries where we have new maths content and related Project Based Learning a major presence. In 2019, the program funded 15 fellowships methodologies. After just one year, the results showed for students studying for their PhDs at universities outside their students had improved their maths level from that of a low country, and 417 scholarships for undergraduate students at level at a low performing school to the equivalent of a medium universities in their home countries. We also reinforced our level at a mid-performing school, amounting to the progress of relationships with universities based in the UK, The Netherlands an entire year. Pupils not only improved their maths abilities and Germany: we have two PhD fellows currently carrying but also developed other life skills and a sense of purpose out their industrial practices at our R&D centers, and received after attending the program for several years: 84% of students five visits from other PhD fellows, held three webinars and are reported improvements in their perseverance abilities, 83% pursuing quarterly follow-up activities with each one. that they had sharpened their critical thinking, and over 75% said they were keen to pursue STEM careers. Culture and tradition Last year was the 10 anniversary of our AfterSchool program th in Blytheville, Arkansas, the original inspiration for the Opening up new horizons and remembering global initiative subsequently improved and revamped for our origins implementation in six countries. For Tenaris and its sister companies in the Techint Group, art and culture are a source of innovation as well as a means of Encouraging educational excellence celebrating diversity and exploring humanity. The cornerstone Launched in 1976 in Argentina, the Merit Awards program of our cultural activities is our association with PROA, which, was initially designed to benefit the children of employees in addition to its activities in the community in Buenos Aires, but has long since been extended to the wider community. It provides us with invaluable expertise and experience to focuses on stimulating academic performance and commitment guide us in the selection and development of content in our among high-school students living in Tenaris communities. In global arts programs. In 2019, Tenaris earmarked 23% of its 2019, we awarded 1,606 scholarships to outstanding students community budget for cultural activities in eight countries. in nine countries, 411 more than in the previous year, and have launched a pilot project for eligible students to apply online for In 2019, together with the PROA foundation, we organized the Awards in Romania and Brazil. 16 Film Festivals in five countries: Argentina, United States, Colombia, Uruguay and Romania, attracting a total of 11,990 The Roberto Rocca Education Program awards fellowships and people to 53 screenings. This was also the first year we held Film scholarships to promote engineering and applied sciences studies Festivals in Montevideo, Uruguay and Blytheville, U.S. Our Community Relations programs help the people in the communities where we operate to develop their potential, by making the most of education and culture. Roberto Rocca Technical Merit Roberto Rocca AfterSchool Volunteers Film Photo Technical Schools Gene Awards Education in Action Festival Library Network Program 56 I’m very proud to receive this award, and I hope that it will inspire excellence in many more students in Batam. ” Galuh Intan Merit Awards, Indonesia In Italy, staff at the Fondazione Dalmine, which opened At our photo libraries in Campana, Pindamonhangaba, in 1999 next to our mill in Bergamo, work to compile and Veracruz and Montevideo, we collect and preserve preserve the historic heritage of our industrial facilities around photographic data recording the history of the locations and the world. The archive not only holds exhibitions, but also communities where we operate, under the guidance of the houses thousands of objects and memorabilia telling the story PROA Foundation. of the last hundred years of industry in the region. Tenaris is the main sponsor of the contemporary art The Fondazione Dalmine per le Scuole program (Dalmine foundation PROA in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and also Foundation for Schools), offers elementary and high school supports the Galleria d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea students hands-on workshops to study the region’s past and (GAMeC) in Bergamo, Italy. The GAMeC in Bergamo where present: over 4,500 students took part in 2019. Tenaris has its Dalmine mill opened in 1991 in the grounds of a 15th century convent and hosts a wide variety of local and international exhibitions. A BEACON OF CULTURAL EXCELLENCE Founded in 1996, the PROA Foundation regularly invites internationally renowned artists to display and discuss works that foster critical thinking and creativity. Fully supported by Tenaris and its sister companies, the building was revamped in 2008, part of the drive to renovate the La Boca district as a cultural hub in Buenos Aires. PROA runs school educational programs based on its current art shows, as well as workshops and other activities open to the general public. Last year PROA welcomed 105,300 visitors, held four major international exhibitions and coordinated art labs and workshops as part of PROA21. PROA also conducts educational programs for schools based on its shows, as well as workshops and other open-door activities for the community. In Pindamonhangaba, Brazil, 170 Tenaris volunteers refurbished the Prof. Antônio Falcão secondary school attended by 280 students. Volunteering: making a difference Bridging the gaps For almost three decades, Toni Ruttiman, who is a constant Volunteers in action source of inspiration for us at Tenaris, has worked to unite We are committed to making a difference and strengthening communities, helping to bring together the lives of more than a sense of pride in belonging to the communities where we two million people in Latin America and in South East Asia, operate. Tenaris employees and their families regularly by building suspension bridges with collaboration from those volunteer to improve local school infrastructure, joining who then benefit from them. So far, he has built 835 bridges students, their relatives, school teachers and neighbors in this in 13 countries, with support from Tenaris which has donated initiative. In 2019, a total of 1,659 volunteers in 10 countries 2,043 tons of material to his singular, but far-sighted mission. joined efforts to transform schools, putting in 10,956 hours of volunteer time. The activities involved 971 Tenaris employees working together with members of the local community to refurbish school buildings, lead classroom readings and share vocational talks to students in schools in vulnerable areas, not only an opportunity to improve infrastructure but to strengthen personal relationships. 58 Key indicators Investment in the community Technical Gene Roberto Rocca Education Program In USD million Students and teachers involved Students involved 4,000 600 126 596 3,500 500 3,374 3,000 11.9 11.7 11.7 114 468 400 432 446 2,500 2,650 417 141 9.5 9.5 8.1 2,000 78 2,138 300 7.4 2,002 6.7 1,500 1,776 6.0 200 5.1 1,000 100 500 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total community Teachers Total education Students AfterSchool program Merit Awards program Roberto Rocca Technical School (ETRR) performance PISA tests Students involved Students involved % 1,400 1,800 100 90 1,200 1,257 1,500 1,606 80 1,000 1,114 1,429 81 1,358 1,381 70 OECD 1,200 73 800 1,195 60 64 67 average 900 50 55 56 749 600 675 652 40 600 400 30 300 20 200 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Arg. ETRR OECD Arg. ETRR OECD Maths Language 59 60 Governance, Risk and Compliance Tenaris is a company established in 2001 in Luxembourg to Risk management consolidate the Techint Group’s pipe and tubes business. In As part of our commitment to sound corporate governance, addition to controlling 60.45% of the shares in Tenaris, the Tenaris has established a process of risk identification and Techint Group has controlling interests in Ternium, the leading management. At the helm of the process is our Critical steel producer in Latin America; Tecpetrol, an oil and gas Risk Committee (CRC), tasked with assisting the board of company; Techint, an engineering and construction company; directors, the audit committee and the CEO with the oversight Tenova, supplying equipment and technologies for iron and steel and monitoring of risks, the development of mitigating and mining; and Humanitas, a research hospital network in Italy. actions, and the monitoring of action plans. The company’s shares trade on the Italian Stock Exchange and Risks are identified and managed by management. The CRC the Mexican Stock Exchange, and in addition, the Company’s facilitates the identification and assessment of critical risks, ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Responsibility the development of mitigating actions, and the monitoring for the management of the company lies with its board of of action plans. Critical risks are escalated through existing directors, currently comprising 11 directors, of which five reporting lines and decisions are not dissociated from other qualify as independent directors under applicable U.S. securities management decisions. regulations, and four qualify as independent under the company’s articles of association. Our Chairman and CEO is The CRC focuses on risks considered critical to the company’s Paolo Rocca, the grandson of the founder of the Techint Group. assets, operations or reputation. We have categorized risk factors according to the potential area impacted, the likelihood The company’s board of directors has an audit committee of their occurrence and the severity of eventual impact. The currently consisting of four independent members. Their main risks we have identified include major accidents that could charter sets forth, among others, the audit committee’s purpose be caused by natural disasters, cybercrime and climate change. and responsibilities, including oversight responsibilities related to the integrity of the company’s financial statements; the We manage climate-related risks and opportunities in an effectiveness of the company’s system of internal control, risk integrated way involving different areas of the Company. Our management and internal audit over financial reporting; and Environmental and Industrial teams continuously analyze the independence and performance of the company’s external the environmental impact of our operations and define auditors. In addition, the audit committee is required to review and implement mitigation actions, including research and material transactions with related parties in order to determine development on production processes, capital expenditures whether their terms are consistent with market conditions or and operating practices. Additionally, our Planning and are otherwise fair to the company and/or its subsidiaries. Commercial teams also review the potential impact of climate change on the business of our oil and gas customers and For further details of our corporate governance, including consequent demand for our products and services. our board of directors, audit committee, senior management and major shareholders, please refer to our Annual Report at Regarding climate change, as well as minimizing our own ir.tenaris.com/financial-and-sustainability-reports/reports. emissions, we have drawn up actions to raise awareness and 61 foster a broader industry response. These include cooperating Tenaris’s Business Conduct Compliance Officer (BCCO) with local governments on rational policies to help achieve is responsible for implementing the Business Conduct the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, raising Compliance Program aimed at identifying and mitigating business awareness. Being proactive in efficient energy corruption risks, managing third-party risk and fostering a management and CO2 mitigation, we continue to participate culture of compliance, ethical behavior and transparency. in global steel industry actions. The company regularly issues, renews and validates its codes, More recently, the CRC has focused its attention on the main policies, procedures and standards aimed at ensuring antiactions and mitigation plans to tackle the consequences of the bribery compliance, in keeping with national laws against global coronavirus pandemic and ensure business continuity. corruption and bribery, and other international laws such It is also focusing on the financial impact on the company of a as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK collapse in demand for its products, including the cancellation Bribery Act and the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating of existing orders, following the collapse in oil prices in the Bribery of Foreign Public Officials. wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Tenaris’s Business Conduct Compliance Program is a single, Business Conduct: committed to Compliance risk-based approach to how the company develops structures Tenaris is committed to building a corporate culture of and implements anti-bribery compliance and adherence to transparency and integrity based on ethical behavior and ethical business, inherent to interaction with public officials, compliance with law. Our Code of Conduct is the cornerstone governmental entities, communities, other public and private of this effort. Since it was first published in 2003, it has been corporations, business partners and third-party employees. reviewed periodically to bring it up to date with the latest trends, and new provisions have been introduced when necessary. In The Business Conduct Compliance Program develops a variety addition, a Policy on Business Conduct was introduced in 2012. of preventive actions within the following ten core compliance areas: Risk Assessment and Planning, Normative Framework, The current Code of Conduct, updated in 2018, includes explicit Advising and Guidance, Communications, Training, language on the protection of data privacy, the promotion of fair Certifications, Third Parties, Monitoring and Audit, Discipline and transparent economic competition, and the strengthening and Remediation, and Benchmarking and Profession. of a respectful workplace environment, in particular, respect for human and labor rights: no form of abuse, coercion, Tenaris understands that high standards of integrity and discrimination or slave labor are tolerated in our activities. transparency can only be achieved by setting common rules among its employees, officers and directors but also among In addition, we have adopted a code of ethics for financial the third parties with which it interacts during the course of officers which applies specifically to our principal executive business. Since commitment and compliance of such common officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer rules by Tenaris’s suppliers becomes essential for securing or controller, or persons performing similar functions and is Tenaris’s goals and expectations on ethical, transparent and intended to supplement the Company’s code of conduct. rightful behavior, Tenaris has developed a Code of Conduct for Suppliers applicable to suppliers and their respective During 2019, Tenaris senior management members were employees, officers, directors or authorized representatives, required to retrain and certify their compliance with the Code in all dealings and transactions involving Tenaris. Diligent of Conduct and the Policy on Business Conduct. and consistent compliance with the provisions of the Code 62 of Conduct for Suppliers will be considered for the selection, Remuneration Policy and Report retention and evaluation of suppliers. In the past year, Luxembourg issued the Luxembourg Law of August 1, 2019, (amending the Luxembourg Law of May These activities are based on regular risk evaluations to 24, 2011) (“the Shareholders’ Rights Law”) on the exercise identify and focus on critical factors and best practices, with of certain rights of shareholders in general meetings of listed a view to developing and applying them with special attention companies, which transposes EU Directive 2017/828 of the paid to education and risk prevention. European Parliament and of the Council of May 17, 2017, (amending Directive 2007/36/EC) regarding the encouragement During 2019, Tenaris updated ten compliance and ethicsof long-term shareholder engagement in listed companies within related internal norms, and trained 1,064 employees in person the Member States of the European Union. worldwide. Training nurtures Tenaris’s compliance culture and raises awareness to help in taking reliable decisions and In compliance with the Shareholders’ Rights Law, the Company’s to prevent bribery, corruption issues or any other actions board of directors will consider at its meeting to be held on disregarding company controls. We also trained 320 third-party April 29, 2020, a Compensation Policy setting forth the principles employees based in high-risk countries. and guidelines for purposes of determining the compensation payable to the members of the Company’s board of directors The company regulates and standardizes its processes to evaluate, and the managing director or chief executive officer and a select and hire representatives or associated persons, such as Compensation Report describing the compensation paid to commercial intermediaries, customs agents, permitting assistants, directors and the chief executive officer for the performance advisors and/or law firms. Procedures include the regulation of their duties during the year ended December 31, 2019. In of due diligence processes, internal authorization controls accordance with the Shareholders’ Rights Law, the Compensation and standard provisions to ensure third-party commitment to Policy and the 2019 Compensation Report, both of which will following Tenaris’s anti-bribery and anticorruption policies. be available on the Company’s website, will be submitted to the non-binding vote of the shareholders at the next general meeting Tenaris believes that the effective involvement and responsibility of shareholders of the Company to be held on June 2, 2020. of each employee, every day, is critical to the pursuit of an ethical culture. As part of the Business Conduct Compliance The Compensation Policy reflects Tenaris’s values, considering Program, we promote awareness-raising activities and the characteristics of the industry where it operates. The communicate relevant guidelines, policies and procedures directors and chief executive officer play a key role defining throughout the organization, through newsletters, flyers, the Company’s corporate strategy, and are often faced with banners, stories and notices published on our intranet, as well as critical decisions affecting the Company’s present and future. management meetings and other educational materials aligned Its Compensation Policy seeks to: with industry best practices. In 2019, we issued 76 Business • attract, motivate and retain individuals of caliber and experience; Conduct Compliance communications items with a global reach • encourage long-term decision making; within the company. • align compensation with performance and shareholders’ return; • ensure maximum transparency. Regular monitoring and audit activities are performed to verify In this way, Tenaris seeks to continue encouraging long-term compliance and to gauge our response capacity worldwide. shareholder engagement. 63 Compliance Line discriminatory behavior, and the recognition of people’s rights Tenaris has a Compliance Line available 24/7 to allow to freedom of association and collective bargaining. employees, customers, suppliers and other interested parties to report any conduct contrary to the Code of Conduct or its Ours is a long-term industrial project, where we are sure that the principles. The Compliance Line operates according to the only way to succeed and prosper is to build long-lasting relations procedures designed by our Internal Audit function under the with all our stakeholders, including our employees, investors, direct supervision of our Audit Committee. All information customers, contractors, suppliers, as well as the communities reported through the Compliance Line is regarded as strictly where we operate and the industry where we belong. confidential to the extent allowed by applicable legislation. As part of our risk assessment of suppliers, commercial In 2019, complaints had a substantiation rate of 46% and led intermediaries, representatives and other third-party to disciplinary actions, including dismissals and terminating contractors, we have: (i) adopted a due diligence review to verify commercial relationships. The reports have also helped that third-party contractors comply with essential human rights to improve the Company’s internal control environment. regulations and have not infringed any applicable laws regarding Although complaints can be anonymous, in 75% of cases the slavery, forced or child labor; (ii) included in our general complainants identified themselves. terms and conditions for the purchase of goods and services, a commitment by third-party contractors to comply with Tenaris Compliance Line is available in nine languages and applicable laws, rules and regulations on human rights, including reports may be submitted in person, online, by email or a prohibition of all forms of slavery, forced labor or child labor; through our toll-free numbers accessible in 34 countries. and (iii) implemented a code of conduct for suppliers based on United Nations recommendations, which contemplates a specific Human Rights section concerning “Labor and Human Rights.” Tenaris is committed to conducting operations in a way consistent with human rights principles by fostering and promoting respect The Code of Conduct for Suppliers applies to all of Tenaris’s for the fundamental rights and dignity of people. suppliers, and its acceptance (or where applicable, the acceptance of equivalent standards) is a condition for entering into any Our Human Rights Policy was introduced in 2009 and contractual agreement to provide goods or services with Tenaris. amended in 2018. The Policy states that Tenaris acts in compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human In 2020, Tenaris will assess the need for a new training program Rights, the principles articulated in the International Labor for our procurement department personnel directly involved in Organization’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and reviewing and monitoring due diligence responses provided by Rights at Work and the United Nations Global Compact, and suppliers and third parties. all human rights laws, rules and regulations applicable in the jurisdictions where it conducts its business. Tenaris is also Our company values and respects the cultures and traditions of subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. the communities in which it works, and actively works to take into account the health, safety, environment, human rights and Much of the information included in this report expresses economic well-being of those communities in all its operations. our commitment to help our employees and business partners understand and carry out activities in accordance with In February 2020, the board of directors approved the company’s these principles. They include respect for human freedom annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, available on and dignity, the prohibition of child labor, forced labor and www.tenaris.com/en/sustainability/governance-and-ethics/. 64 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosures Description Page 100 series GENERAL DISCLOSURE 102 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 71 102-4 Countries where the organization operates 4; 5 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 61 102-6 Markets served 4; 6 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6; 45 102-9 Organization’s supply chain 42 102-10 Significant changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, 10 ownership, or its supply chain 102-12 Externally developed charters, principles, or initiatives 6 102-13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organizations 6 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 4; 6 102-18 Governance structure 61 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 61 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 6 102-47 List of material topics 8 102-50 Reporting period 10 102-51 Date of most recent report 10 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI standards 7 102-55 GRI content index 65 200 series ECONOMIC INDICATORS 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 6 climate change 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 10 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 10 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 61 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 61 and procedures 65 GRI Disclosures Description Page 300 series ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 301 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 30; 35 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 30; 41 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 35 302-3 Energy intensity 35 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 35 303 Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 34 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 34 303-3 Water withdrawal 34; 35 303-4 Water discharge 34 303-5 Water consumption 34 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct GHE Scope 1 35 305-2 Energy indirect GHE Scope 2 35 305-3 Other indirect GHE Scope 3 35 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 35 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 35 305-7 NOx, SOx and others 29 306 Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 34 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 30 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 42 66 GRI Disclosures Description Page 400 series SOCIAL INDICATORS 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 49; 51 403 Occupational Health & Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 15 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 17 403-3 Occupational health services 21 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 18 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 21 403-6 Promotion of worker health 21 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 18 directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 15 management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 15 403-10 Work-related ill health 15 404 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 45; 51 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 49 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 49 development reviews 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 51 412 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 64 413 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 53; 59 and development programs 414 Suppliers Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 42 67 Sustainable Performance Indicators Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 PRODUCTION Cast steel Million tons 2.9 3.3 2.9 Seamless pipes Million tons 2.3 2.8 2.6 Welded pipes Million tons 0.5 0.8 0.7 SAFETY Investment in Health and Safety USD million 15 25 42 Investment in Environment and Energy USD million 33 21 19 Injury Frequency Rate Ratio 4.8 4.2 3.1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Ratio 2.4 1.8 1.1 ENVIRONMENT CO2 emissions from sites with steel shops Scope 1 emissions CO2 million tons 1.51 1.72 1.55 Scope 2 emissions CO2 million tons 0.86 0.74 0.67 Scope 3 emissions CO2 million tons 1.32 1.50 1.20 Intensity Ton CO2 /ton cast steel 1.28 1.20 1.18 CO2 emissions from all sites Scope 1 emissions CO2 million tons 1.71 1.99 1.78 Scope 2 emissions CO2 million tons 1.08 0.95 0.88 Intensity Ton CO2 /ton pipe 0.97 0.82 0.81 Water withdrawal Water withdrawal Million m3 59.3 72.5 59.5 Intensity of water withdrawal at all sites m3 water/ton pipe 21 20 18 Intensity of water withdrawal excluding Siderca m3 water/ton pipe 6 5 6 Estimated water consumed at all sites m3 water/ton pipe 4 3 3 Co-products and waste Material efficiency at sites w/steelshops % 98.5 98.7 98.4 Residue & co-products reuse or recycle at all sites % 78.7 81.2 81.7 Waste disposal at all sites % 9.3 11.4 10.3 HUMAN RESOURCES Total hourly and salaried employees Salaried Thousand people 6.7 7.0 7.4 Hourly Thousand people 14.9 15.9 15.8 Total Thousand people 21.6 22.9 23.2 Salaried employees by gender Male Thousand people 5.1 5.4 5.7 Female Thousand people 1.6 1.7 1.7 68 Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Managers by gender Male No. of people 955 974 1,008 Female No. of people 112 119 125 Total No. of people 1,067 1,093 1,133 Training Training hours per salaried employee Hours per salaried employee 32 44 54 Training hours per hourly employee Hours including on-the-job 84 89 121 training Training hours per hourly employee Hours excluding on-the-job 40 33 43 training Resignation rate % salaried LTM 4.9 5.0 4.8 Employees by nationality Mexican People 5,317 5,803 5,592 Argentine People 5,394 5,584 5,542 Italian People 2,091 2,151 2,149 Romanian People 1,874 1,861 1,823 American People 1,555 1,902 1,732 Brazilian People 1,378 1,287 1,372 Colombian People 995 1,081 1,045 Canadian People 838 950 705 Indonesian People 505 555 616 Japanese People 410 400 401 Others People 1,248 1,393 2,223 Managers by nationality Argentine % 37 38 38 Italian % 17 17 16 Mexican % 15 16 16 American % 7 6 5 Brazilian % 5 4 5 Romanian % 4 4 4 Canadian % 3 3 2 Colombian % 1 2 2 Japanese % 2 2 2 Indonesian % 1 1 1 Others % 8 7 9 69 Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 COMMUNITY Education investment USD million 6.0 7.4 8.1 Other community investment USD million 3.5 4.3 3.6 Total community investment USD million 9.5 11.7 11.7 Technical Gene No. of students 2,138 2,650 3,774 Technical Gene No. of teachers 141 114 126 Roberto Rocca Education Program No. of students 432 446 417 After School Program No. of students 749 1,114 1,257 Merit Awards Program No. of students 1,429 1,195 1,606 ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL Net sales USD million 5,289 7,659 7,294 Operating income USD million 335 872 832 EBITDA USD million 943 1,536 1,372 EBITDA margin % of net sales 18 20 19 Net income attributable to owners of the parent USD million 545 876 743 Equity attributable to owners of the parent USD million 11,482 11,783 11,989 Cash flow from operations USD million (22) 611 1,528 Capital expenditures USD million 558 349 350 R&D investments USD million 64 63 61 Dividends USD million 484 484 484 Net financial position USD million 647 485 980 Return on equity % 5 8 6 Return on capital employed % 3 8 7 FCF Margin % of net sales -11 3 16 70 Corporate Information Registered Office 26, Boulevard Royal Luxembourg (352) 26 47 8978 tel (352) 26 47 8979 fax PRINCIPAL OFFICES Argentina Av. L. N. Alem 1067, 27th Floor (C1001AAT) Buenos Aires Argentina (54) 11 4018 2100 tel (54) 11 4018 1000 fax Italy Piazza Caduti 6 Luglio 1944, 1 (24044) Dalmine, Bergamo Italy (39) 035 560 1111 tel (39) 035 560 3827 fax Mexico Edificio Parque Reforma Campos Eliseos 400, 17th Floor (11560) Mexico City, Mexico (52) 55 5282 9900 tel (52) 55 5282 9962 fax USA 2200 West Loop South, Suite 800 (77027) Houston, Texas USA (1) 713 767 4400 tel (1) 713 767 4444 fax 71 www.tenaris.com ©Tenaris April 2020. All rights reserved.
