This is MRV's purpose and what drives us for 40 years building houses and housing solutions, integrating people and making true the dreams of many Brazilians, transforming their lives and their future. “Build Early in our history, we learned that our products had a power Dreams that to change lives and people, especially our customers, what we did made our employees and partners proud, as it also Change the transformed their lives and helped them make their dreams true. World” MRV's growth showed that we could go beyond the walls of our ventures and our Company, work to improve neighborhoods, provide empowerment for the population, and support local suppliers and social organizations. We had the power to transform cities, expanding their infrastructure, building squares, schools, police stations, health stations, among other improvement actions that allowed the society to access fundamental rights and guarantees. With the trust of our customers, employees and By 2030 MRV will be 51 years old and we want this partners, today we are changing Brazil. We are the milestone to be celebrated throughout society and by largest and best construction company in Latin us, as we recognize that throughout its history the America, present in 23 states plus the Federal Company has always been guided by the needs of District. We have already made true the dream of Brazilian society and acted to foster sustainability. over one million Brazilians and, with the impressive number that every 3 minutes, we hand over a In order to achieve these results by 2030, we need property key to a new owner and 1 in 200 Brazilians immediate action and we have been working for some lives in a MRV product. years to align the SDGs with our activities, seeking to increase our ability to contribute to their Our past makes us proud and the future achievement. encourages us! We want to change the world and the next decade will be key to that. By 2030, the This year, I am convinced that MRV is consolidating as 2nd stage of promotion of the Sustainable a sustainable company. We have created an Executive Development, which will be organized by Board of Institutional Relations and Sustainability that companies, institutions, people and governments will be at the forefront of our sustainability efforts represented at the UN, should be completed. With over the next decade. our adherence to the UN Global Compact and our commitment to the 2030 Agenda, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) guide our actions and our strategy for growth and friendliness with our planet and our community. In addition, with the support of professionals from Usinas Solares Fotovoltaicas MRV (MRV Photovoltaic all departments of the company, we built our Solar Power Program) program will add to the Brazilian Corporate Sustainability Vision (Visão 2030 MRV), energy matrix an installed power generation capacity which uses the SDGs as strategic guiding factors for of 40 GWh by 2025, which is equivalent to supplying a the development of our business in the coming city with 70,000 inhabitants for one year. Vizinho do years. We are structuring a culture of sustainability Bem MRV (Good Neighbor) program was implemented capable of promoting environmental, social and in 12 projects, promoting improvements in the economic gains for all our related audiences. neighborhood through 77 community training courses, 10 supported social projects and R $ 2 million invested To record how we act and practice sustainable in the program over the last 2 years. actions, we mention two cases of MRV Usinas Solares Fotovoltaicas MRV and Vizinho do Bem In addition, Vizinho do Bem MRV not only treats the MRV, in which we seek to demonstrate our ability neighborhood residents with respect and consideration to act in actions that bring short, mediumand in the process of building a new venture, but also long-term results, contributing to Visão 2030 MRV. includes Escola Nota 10, an MRV program already implemented in 170 construction sites, benefiting over 4,500 people with literacy, vocational training and digital inclusion courses. The report in which we present the results of the work of MRV's team demonstrates the protagonism of the Company and its efforts in the search for the SDGs in Brazil and is an Making dreams come inspiration to other organizations. This publication is an invitation for a dialogue true is our passion, between the 3 sectors of society, on the paths that we must follow in the next decade and a transforming the world demonstration of the contribution that the private sector can make to a new process of is our ideal. We wish sustainable economic and social development for you all a great reading. a better Brazil and a better world. Eduardo Fischer and Rafael Menin MRV Engenharia is the largest building company in Latin America, a pioneer in the homebuilding market. Since 1979 it has been A new dedicated to the construction of housing developments, offering its clients the best and most modern services in the market, with approach to the objective of providing families with comfort, convenience and efficiency. new Without forgetting environmental and social issues, MRV is challenges constantly seeking to innovate, developing economic, creative and intelligent environmental solutions, maintaining the high-quality MRV and Sustainable standard of its properties. Currently more than one million Development Goals Brazilians live in the more than 400 thousand properties delivered by the company. The key to a new apartment is delivered to a customer every three minutes. Due to its size, the number of people it impacts and However, a leadership position goes beyond an transacted resources it coordinates, the company inside-out view , that is, observing what the knows that its sustainability goes beyond the limits company does and connecting these actions to the of the business: MRV's sustainability is directly SDGs. MRV proposes to reverse this logic. Considering linked to Brazilian sustainability! that the SDGs are goals embraced by all of society, the company is seeking to understand what role it is Therefore, MRV seeks to be an exponent of expected to play as a corporate citizen. Thus, it corporate sustainability. Currently, the company is proposes to adopt an outside-in view , in other part of the Brazilian Commission of the UN’s Global words: to understand what contribution is expected Compact, of Ethos Institute’s Institutional from it, to enable the achievement of the SDGs, and, Committee and is included in the portfolio of B3’s from there, to build its strategy to generate positive (Brazilian Stock Exchange) Corporate Sustainability environmental, economic and social results, Index (ISE). Aware of these commitments, MRV effectively contributing to the Global Goals. reports every year on the evolution of its actions aimed at achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Inside out Approach Outside in Approach Today’s internally focused approach to goal setting is By looking at what is needed externally from a global not enough to address global needs. perspective and setting goals accordingly, businesses will bridge the gap between current performance and required performance. The SDGs represent an unprecedented political consensus on what level of progress is desired at the global level SDGs Combined Impact of Current Global and Societal Needs Business Goals Performance Gap Business goals: Business goals: There’s a gap between Set internally. Based current business Set based on external societal or on historical data, current trends performance and SDGs global need. SDGs and future projections on the required performance in Based on science and external company’s performance. addressing global needs data. Benchmarked against Benchmarked against the needs performance and goals of industry of society that your business can peers address. SDGs Source: SDG Compass Guidelines for Implementing SDGs in Business Strategy This new approach is innovative and presents a series of challenges to materialize, of which we highlight: ▪ Absence of national quantitative values for most SDGs and their targets; and ▪ Lack of clear and objective indicators, which makes it difficult to establish correlations between the SDGs and the housing sector. With this new vision, MRV will be able to expand the alignment between its business and sustainability, generating more and more shared value with its operations. MRV's Sustainable Development Goals and Value Chain Real Estate Supply Chain Land Acquisition Real Estate Project and Commercialization, Mobilization Construction use and occupation MRV has incorporated into its land MRV seeks to design and build houses with efficient All MRV suppliers must comply MRV ventures contribute to the acquisition processes the use of materials, water and energy. The company with labor rules and are reduction of the housing deficit in assessment of climate and wants to reduce the negative environmental impact of encouraged to participate in Brazil and the vulnerability of lowenvironmental risks to reduce the construction and expand the positive effects of its education and environmental income populations. The company environmental impact of its education and infrastructure improvement programs impact reduction programs. MRV also seeks to contribute to developments and increase its in cities. also works with its suppliers to sustainable cities, improving local resilience develop and absorb innovations. infrastructure and enabling the reduction of water and energy consumption. SDGs impacting some stages of the Value Chain SDGs with impacts on the entire value chain Several Goals are influenced by MRV's performance as a whole. Examples are issues related to gender equality, combating corruption and providing decent working conditions. The company is structuring its governance and management to increase its positive impact in relation to the SDGs. The 2030 Agenda is comprised of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and its 169 targets. It is a global action that brings together inter-sector efforts (government, society and the private sector) to overcome the global challenges. The main objective of the SDGs is the eradication of poverty through the interrelationship of environmental, social and economic topics The 2030 Agenda of sustainability. The pursuit of the 2030 Agenda is the most inclusive process in the history of the United Nations and aims primarily to put the world on a sustainable path. MRV's effort to align its actions The SDGs include, globally, nationally and sector-wide goals. with the SDGs has already Global actions are translated into national plans, policies, extended over some of years. In initiatives and actions, which in turn become adaptable to the 2018, a diagnosis was made to realities of each sector. Because of their representativeness in all define the Goals and Targets countries, companies can contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by deepening discussions on country targets, proposing more adherent to the company's strategies and working together with governments and civil business. society on practical actions to achieve the targets, and by supporting the definition of national performance indicators. This year it was necessary to review the process, due to the publication of Ipea’s (Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic Research) report, which presents a proposal for adapting the Global Goals to Brazilian reality. In this document it was defined that 167 of the 169 SDG Targets are relevant to the country. In MRV Vision addition, the wording of many Targets was changed to bring them 2030 closer to the Brazilian reality. With this new framework, the construction of the MRV Vision MRV's effort to align its actions with 2030 began, that is, the company's proposal for an effective the SDGs has already extended over contribution to the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. This some years. In 2018, a diagnosis construction was carried out with the support of all the company's was made in order to define the departments, which presented their vision on the best way for MRV to operate, in order to strengthen the integration of Goals and Targets most adherent to sustainability in the business. the company's business. As a result, MRV’s Vision 2030 Projections were built, detailing the main information needed to guide MRV's professionals' actions towards sustainability. The Projections consist of the following: SDG Brazilian Target ▪ Drafting of the target appropriate to Brazilian reality, as published by the Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic How to read Research (Ipea); projections Relationship with the MRV business ▪ The relationship seeks to align the goal with MRV’s business activities: MRV's value chain linked to each Target, as follows: ▪ Land acquisition; ▪ Real Estate project; ▪ Construction; ▪ Supply chain mobilization; ▪ Real estate commercialization; and ▪ Real estate use and occupation; MRV departments with the highest contribution to the Target’s achievement; and Synthesized presentation of the connections among MRV's activities and the Target. MRV Vision 2030 MRV Vision 2030 Curve of Reach ▪ Presents MRV's intention to contribute to ▪ The likelihood of achieving the Vision by the target, highlighting that parts of the 2030 depends on two main factors the company's distance to the Vision and the business should be mobilized to achieve the pace at which it is evolving to achieve it. To Vision. this effect, it was sought to identify which evolution curve best suited the process envisaged. The possible mapped curves Justification were: ▪ Explains the reasons for preparing the MRV ▪ Linear curve: constant trajectory towards the Vision; 2030 Vision for the target and, whenever possible, demonstrates through data that the ▪ Exponential curve: trajectory with increasing Vision is in accordance with the company's acceleration towards the Vision; participation in the market or in society. ▪ Logarithmic curve: trajectory with decreasing acceleration towards the Vision; ▪ Cyclical curve: trajectory in cycles, with stages of growth and others of setbacks Milestones for achieving the MRV towards the Vision. Vision 2030 ▪ For MRV professionals to be able to track their performance on each target, intermediate milestones will be created, according to the Vision's achievement curve. Theory of This tool was developed to contribute to social project design, elucidating the project’s logic and explaining what will happen Change between the beginning of the project/program and the long-term impacts. The Theory of Change is a strategic In this approach, the connection between the activities carried out tool that helps companies and and the achievement of the goals is better understood, organizations map the processes, contributing to the planning and evaluation, since it is possible to measure the progress towards medium and long-term goals. activities and results of projects and programs, indicating the path that To elaborate the Theory of Change Matrix it is necessary to define must be followed to achieve the the relationship between resources, target public, activities, change desired. products, results and impacts. Theory of Change Resources Target Activities Public Resources and inputs needed to operate the Public who received Main Program / Project the intervention activities Product Results Impacts Future situation after Immediate outputs of Medium-term results the intervention of activities the Project. Long-term results. Theory of Change Refer to the resources allocated to the project; it must be what is necessary for the execution of the Resources actions contemplated. Target The focus of the implemented actions, i.e., those that should be prioritized and that will receive the activities developed. Public Refer to what the project does, i.e., they are the main activities, at the macro level, aimed at the Activities desired transformations. Theory of Change Products Are the outputs achieved immediately due to performed activities. Are the shortand medium-term effects generated directly in the lives of the participants through Results the performed activities. These are called end results, complex transformations that occur indirectly in the long term affecting Impacts the participants’ lives. In this document we consider impacts the goals linked to the SDGs. After defining these elements, it is necessary to Two MRV actions were defined to serve as a pilot verify whether the expected change (results and in the use of the tool, the MRV Vizinho do Bem impacts) is being achieved. The construction of program and the MRV Solar Power Plant indicators that reflect each element of the Theory programs. of Change is a fundamental step that allows this The built matrices and their details will be monitoring. presented in last chapter of this document. We used the Theory of Change Matrix as a tool to establish the causal link between two MRV programs and their contribution to the SDGs, making clear the intermediate links in this process. This process was carried out by listening to those involved in the projects, allowing them to get to know different views on the actions. Priority Targets Target 6.3 Brazilian Target By 2030, improve water quality in water bodies by Related departments reducing pollution, eliminating discharges and ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) minimizing the release of hazardous materials and ▪ Innovation substances, halving the proportion of untreated effluent discharges and substantially increasing safe ▪ Projects local recycling and reuse. ▪ Facilities ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the Goal and the MRV business Value Chain Links ▪ The need to protect water resources is inherent to (X) Land acquisition MRV's activities due to the eventual proximity of its (X) Real estate project real estates to water bodies, as well as the generation (X) Construction of effluents during construction and after occupation ( ) Supply chain mobilization of dwellings. ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 6.3 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase in the proportion of treated wastewater, ▪ The reduction of the effluent generated by the reducing the volume of untreated effluents housing units aims at minimizing the load received discharged into the public network. by the ETEs, mitigating the risks associated with ▪ Improvement and/or maintenance of the the lack of treatment of this material. environmental quality of water bodies in the area of ▪ The proposed dialogues aim at articulating joint influence of housing units. actions in a collaborative way aiming at integration ▪ Approach and dialogues with governments, of the real estate with the effluent treatment environmental agencies, concessionaires and civil systems, as well as the involvement of society. society, aiming at contributing to the management of domestic effluents and environmental preservation Range curve Target 6.3 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) Commitments ▪ Revitalization and recovery of the surroundings of the ▪ Ethos Institute developments ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) Compliance Indicators ▪ Investment in Urban Infrastructure ▪ Number of STP deployed ▪ Private Social Investment Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Decanting of water from the concrete mixer Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Technologies ▪ Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) Target 6.4 Brazilian Target By 2030, substantially increase water use Related departments efficiency across all sectors, ensuring sustainable ▪ SSMA (Occupational Health, Safety and Environment) removals and fresh water supply to substantially reduce the number of people suffering from ▪ Innovation scarcity. ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business (X) Land acquisition ▪ MRV is concerned with the rational and (X) Real estate project sustainable use of water in its real estates and, (X) Construction therefore, seeks the optimization and efficiency of ( ) Supply chain mobilization the resource for its preservation and guarantee of ( ) Real estate commercialization availability for other users in the region. (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 6.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Efficient use and substantial increase in recycling and ▪ The rational and sustainable use of water resources safe reuse of water. considers interdisciplinary aspects related to their availability, preservation and maintenance of quality. ▪ Substantial increase in the efficiency of water use at In addition to these aspects, the use should be guided the building site and in water consumption after by the capacity to meet human demands and protect occupation of the developments. water ecosystems and their relationship to the environment. Regardless of the water source, building ▪ Sustainable withdrawals and supply of fresh water site or completed dwelling, MRV should offer modern (ground and surface). water use control and monitoring equipment, with a view to efficient use and reuse, supported by awareness programs. Range curve Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2018 Reduce by 2% water consumption per residential unit. ▪ 2019 Reduce by 2% water consumption per residential unit. Target 6.4 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Water saving plans Commitments Projects ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ ISO 14001 (Environmental management) Indicators Compliance ▪ Water Saving Plans ▪ Private Social Investment (Reduction of Consumption and Reuse) Seals ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Technologies ▪ Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) ▪ Water reuse system Target 6.b Brazilian Target Support and strengthen the participation of local Related departments communities, prioritizing social control to improve water and sanitation management. ▪ Facilities ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Relationship with clients ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Value Chain Links ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) (X) Land acquisition ▪ MRV Institute ( ) Real estate project ( ) Construction Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ( ) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization ▪ Since the elaboration of its projects, by means of advanced technologies and communication channels (X) Real estate use and occupation with the customer, either during the construction stage or finished housing, MRV's concern with environmental preservation is remarkable. Target 6.b 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Support and strengthen the participation of local ▪ In the context of new or already implemented communities to improve water and sanitation projects, diagnose areas that are sensitive to management. environmental degradation of water resources and ▪ Implementation and/or contribution to sociothat may lack coverage or treatment of domestic environmental programs that promote the effluents. integration, involvement and mobilization of ▪ Verify similar initiatives conducted by organized and communities close to their real estates, with a view non-organized civil societies, community associations to actions for the preservation and conservation of and municipalities to enter into partnership water resources, as well as adequate and safe agreements and/or contracts for the improvement or sanitation. maintenance of existing programs. Range curve Target 6.b MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) Commitments ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Private Social Investment ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian Projects Stock Exchange) ▪ Sustainability Ruler Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Indicators ▪ Number of projects with Vizinho do Bem program. Target 7.1 Brazilian Target By 2030, ensure universal, reliable, modern and Related departments affordable access to energy services. (Target kept ▪ Commercial unchanged) ▪ Equipment ▪ Quality Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Innovation Value Chain Links ▪ Projects ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Sustainability (X) Real estate project ▪ Financial Planning (X) Construction ▪ Strategic Management (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization Aspects of connection between the MRV ( ) Real estate use and occupation Goal and business ▪ MRV is concerned with the comfort and convenience of its clients, therefore, it continuously seeks to ensure the supply of affordable, safe and reliable energy. Target 7.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Modernization of its housing units with the use of ▪ Point out locations where MRV has significant new technologies. operations and in regions with energy supply ▪ Implement and/or invest in renewable energy shortage. generation programs with low social and ▪ Evaluate the obtaining of financial resources environmental impact, proven economic viability through credit lines and other sources accessible and robustness to meet the demands of needy for the real estate economic viability. communities. ▪ Evaluate partnerships with companies with proven experience in the sector and sustainable Range curve projects. Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2022 100% of projects launched with clean energy. Target 7.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Plans for electric energy savings using photovoltaic ▪ Climate Change Policy energy. ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Projects Commitments ▪ Low-cost social power supply projects (e.g. ▪ Ethos Institute construction of a small solar plant for the City of Meninos (SSVP). ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Photovoltaic plants for self-consumption and real ▪ ISO 9001 (Quality management) estates. ▪ ISO 14001 (Environmental management) Compliance Indicators ▪ Resolution 482 (ANEEL) ▪ Financial economy indicator Seals ▪ Total amount in kWh of energy generated in MRV ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) projects of energy generated. ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) ▪ Quantity of CO2 avoided. Technologies ▪ Solar Ptant ▪ Photovoltaic panels ▪ Site www.mrvsolar.com.br Target 7.2 Brazilian Target Until 2030, maintain a high share of renewable energy Related departments in the national energy matrix. ▪ Innovation ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Commercial ▪ Equipment Value Chain Links ▪ Facilities ▪ Quality ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Financial Planning (X) Real estate project ▪ Strategic Management (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization Aspects of connection between the MRV ( ) Real estate use and occupation Goal and business ▪ The search for clean and reliable energy, which brings safety to MRV's clients, necessarily involves the evaluation and adoption of alternative sources. Target 7.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To ensure the growing trend of implementing ▪ Reconcile the use of energy, from alternative and renewable energy sources in MRV's operations, renewable sources (e.g. solar and wind), with other according to availability and technical feasibility, sustainable initiatives aimed at minimizing the social to meet demands in common areas and and environmental impacts caused by hydroelectric apartments. generation. Range curve Target 7.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Plans for electric energy savings with photovoltaic ▪ Climate Change Policy energy. ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Commitments ▪ Ethos Institute Indicators ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian ▪ Financial economy indicator. Stock Exchange) ▪ Number of people impacted. Compliance ▪ Amount of energy generated by MRV in kWh. ▪ Resolution 482 (ANEEL) ▪ Quantity of CO2 emission avoided in tons. Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Technologies ▪ Solar Plant ▪ Photovoltaic panels Target 7.b Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, expand infrastructure and improve technology to deliver modern, sustainable energy services for all. ▪ Innovation ▪ Financial Planning ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Commercial ▪ Equipment Value Chain Links ▪ Strategic Management ▪ Facilities ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Quality (X) Real estate project (X) Construction Aspects of connection between the MRV (X) Supply chain mobilization Goal and business (X) Real estate commercialization ▪ Renewable energy generation technologies are ( ) Real estate use and occupation making great strides around the world. For this reason there is a clear intention by MRV to intensify the use of these in its real estates, as well as to establish partnerships with companies that may bring knowledge and financial contribution. It is expected, therefore, continuous studies of the feasibility of adopting sources alternative to solar.. Target 7.b 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase investment in infrastructure expansion and ▪ Reduction of the cost of energy and inputs (commercial technological improvement of modern and agreements and special credit lines); sustainable energy (Survey and evaluate the ▪ Exchange of technology for safe and reliable power proportion of the annual amount invested in supply. Renewable Energy ($) in MRV's annual revenues). ▪ Seek financial support for the development and implementation of infrastructure and technologies for sustainable development with a view to providing modern energy services. Range curve Target 7.b MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Cost of the photovoltaic plant, per real estate, per ▪ Sustainability Policy housing unit. ▪ Climate Change Policy ▪ Cost of the photovoltaic plant per kWp installed. Commitments ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Photovoltaic plants for self-consumption and real ▪ Global Compact estates. ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Lighting of sheds with translucent tiles Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Technologies ▪ Solar Plant ▪ Photovoltaic panels Target 8.1 Brazilian Target Register average annual per capita economic growth of Related departments 1.6% between 2016 and 2018; and 2.55% between ▪ Strategy 2019 and 2030. ▪ Controllership ▪ Fiscal Relationship with the MRV business Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ( ) Real estate project ▪ Civil construction is an activity that moves many ( ) Construction resources in the economy, thanks to the intensive use ( ) Supply chain mobilization of labor and its extensive production chain. MRV is (X) Real estate commercialization the largest residential building company in Latin ( ) Real estate use and occupation America, which is why it is a very important player in the performance of the building sector, capable of positively influencing the recovery of the Brazilian economy in the next decade. Target 8.1 2030 MRV vision Justification MRV's annual revenue should grow to contribute to the ▪ Billing as well as the GDP of the entire MRV Value expected increase in GDP per capita by 2030. Chain (sum of the aggregated values at each link in the chain) was considered. Range curve Target 8.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Policy ▪ Risk Management Policy ▪ Corporate Strategy Actions Programs ▪ My Home My Life Program Indicadores ▪ MRV Annual Revenue ▪ MRV's revenue growth Target 8.2 Brazilian Target Achieve higher levels of productivity through Related departments diversification and added value, technological ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) modernization, innovation, management, and worker qualification, with a focus on labor-intensive sectors. ▪ Innovation ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Building in Brazil is a labor-intensive activity. The (X) Real estate project investment in technology and qualification of the (X) Construction workforce is necessary to increase the productivity of (X) Supply chain mobilization your team and promote economic and social (X) Real estate commercialization progress ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 8.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase productivity per worker through ▪ The increase in MRV productivity is sought through qualification and increased industrialization of the combination of the three factors described in production processes; Vision 2030 MRV. Because these factors are ▪ Promotion of innovation inside and outside MRV interdependent, the company needs to evolve in all through support to external innovative institutions to achieve the expected results. (educational institutions, suppliers and startups); ▪ Development of corporate management to promote productivity. Range curve Target 8.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Professional Qualification Program ▪ Human Resources Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Technologies Projects ▪ Construction system with concrete walls ▪ Investment in studies for Sustainability Innovation ▪ Technical Assistance 2.0 ▪ Research partnerships to promote sustainable performance in the civil building sector Indicators ▪ Standardization of typology of apartments for optimization of shapes ▪ Productivity Index per Employee ▪ Labor Relations Monitoring ▪ Average time of construction ▪ IP Project 2.5 ▪ Network accredited technical assistance Target 8.3 Brazilian Target Promote development with the generation of decent Related departments work; formalization; the growth of small businesses, ▪ Sustainability small and medium-sized companies; entrepreneurship ▪ Human Resources and innovation. ▪ DAE (Employee and Contractor Support Department) ▪ Compliance Relationship with the MRV business Value Chain Links ( ) Land acquisition Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ( ) Real estate project (X) Construction ▪ MRV has more than 22 thousand employees and (X) Supply chain mobilization more than 8 thousand suppliers. The company is ( ) Real estate commercialization committed to encouraging and guiding its its supply ( ) Real estate use and occupation chain to comply with legislation and to pursue socioeconomic development for all, following MRV's example, and offering professional qualification to its employees and neighboring communities. Target 8.3 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV will maintain its commitment to full ▪ MRV invests in the training of its employees and compliance with legislation and worker rights already has actions to promote the education and policies. employability of residents neighboring its real estates ▪ MRV expects to bring education to employees and and the development of its suppliers, which need to residents of neighboring communities to all of its be expanded by 2030. developments. ▪ Programs to support the formalization and growth of Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV's suppliers will be strengthened. MRV vision ▪ 2030 Vizinho do Bem Program in all MRV Range curve sites with significant impacts to the neighborhood. Target 8.3 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Programs ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Policies ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Órbi Connects ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy Projects ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Investment in studies for Sustainability Innovation ▪ Integrity Due Diligence Policy ▪ Slave Labor and Human Trafficking Clinic of UFMG Commitments ▪ Third-party and partner chain compliance monitoring ▪ Global Compact ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) Compliance ▪ Inspection of compliance with labor legislation by Labor Compliance ▪ OHSAS 18001 Certification Target 8.3 MRV status in 2019 Indicators ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) units implemented ▪ Number of students trained in Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) courses ▪ Number of employees trained in identifying risks of violation of decent work standards ▪ Monitoring compliance by third-party, according to the rules of the Due Diligence and Integrity Policy Target 8.8 Brazilian Target Reduce the level of noncompliance with labor Related departments legislation, with respect to registration, working ▪ Sustainability conditions, health and safety standards at work, with ▪ DH (Human Development) emphasis on workers in vulnerable situations ▪ Compliance ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Legal Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ( ) Real estate project ▪ MRV has more than 22 thousand employees and (X) Construction more than 8 thousand suppliers. The company is (X) Supply chain mobilization committed to ensuring compliance with all labor ( ) Real estate commercialization legislation in its supply chain. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 8.8 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV will maintain its commitment to full ▪ The company invests a lot in the subject in order to compliance with legislation and worker rights comply with the Brazilian legislation and maintain its policies in its activities and those of its suppliers commitment to shareholders and international bodies of respect for labor rights. Range curve Target 8.8 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Confidential Channel ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy ▪ Audit Reports ▪ Non retaliation policies against whistleblowers ▪ Anti-corruption policy Indicators ▪ Risk Management Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) units Commitments implemented ▪ Global Compact ▪ Number of students trained in Escola Nota 10 (Education ▪ Ethos Institute in Construction Sites) courses ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Injury rates Compliance ▪ Assessments ▪ Inspection of compliance with labor legislation by the ▪ Volume of labor fines DAE ▪ Maintenance of OHSAS certification ▪ OHSAS 18001 Certification ▪ Handling of complaints from the Confidential Channel ▪ Actions to mitigate risks identified in Audit Reports Target 8.10 Brazilian Target To sustainably expand access to banking and financial Related departments services for all. ▪ Sustainability ▪ MRV Institute Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ▪ The Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) (X) Real estate project Program offers digital inclusion courses, which give (X) Construction students the knowledge to access banking services in (X) Supply chain mobilization ATMs and mobile phones. ( ) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 8.10 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Offer digital inclusion courses in all construction ▪ One of the main restrictions to banking is the inability sites with a Grade 10 School, offering students to deal with devices that interface between user and (employees, suppliers and neighboring bank. Digital inclusion programs have the potential to communities) conditions to access banking services break down these barriers and increase access to in ATMs or mobile phones. banks by the population. Range curve Target 8.10 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Number of students trained in digital inclusion ▪ Sustainability Policy courses ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Actions Programs ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) Target 9.2 Brazilian Target By 2030, promote inclusive and sustainable economic Related departments activity and highly technologically complex activities, ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) with a focus on increasing productivity, employment ▪ Innovation and GDP, and improving working conditions and the appropriation of productivity gains. ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability ▪ DAE (Employee and Contractor Support Department) Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal Value Chain Links and business ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Construction in Brazil is an activity with high (X) Real estate project environmental and social impact. The investment in (X) Construction technology and qualification of the workforce is (X) Supply chain mobilization fundamental for the increase of eco-efficiency in the ( ) Real estate commercialization company. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 9.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase productivity per worker through ▪ Increased productivity and eco-efficiency in MRV is qualification and increased industrialization of sought by combining the three factors described production processes. above. Because these factors are interdependent, the ▪ Promotion of sustainable innovation inside and company needs to evolve in all to achieve the outside MRV through internal research and support expected results. to external innovative institutions. ▪ Development of corporate management to promote productivity and eco-efficiency. Range curve Target 9.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Professional Qualification Program ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Technologies ▪ Órbi Connects ▪ Construction system with concrete walls ▪ Labor Relations Monitoring Projects Indicators ▪ Investment in studies for Sustainability Innovation ▪ Productivity index per worker ▪ Research partnerships to promote sustainable ▪ Average time of construction performance in the civil building sector ▪ Water volume in construction / m2 ▪ Standardization of typology of apartments for optimization of shapes. ▪ Energy use in construction / m2 ▪ Waste generated / m2 Target 9.a Brazilian Target Facilitate the development of sustainable and resilient Related departments infrastructure in developing countries through ▪ Strategy increased financial, technological and technical support ▪ Innovation for African countries, the least developed countries, ▪ Supplies landlocked developing countries and small island ▪ Sustainability developing states. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal (Target kept unchanged) and business ▪ With the Solar Plant program, MRV is contributing to Relationship with the MRV business the development of photovoltaic energy infrastructure in Brazil. Value Chain Links ▪ MRV delivers all projects with electricity, water and ( ) Land acquisition sewage network duly connected to the public (X) Real estate project network. (X) Construction ▪ Compliance with the considerations that will mitigate (X) Supply chain mobilization the impact related to population growth in the region, through the construction of schools, health ( ) Real estate commercialization posts, basic health units and road improvements. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 9.a 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Promote the generation of clean energy in the ▪ MRV is committed to providing all its new more than 159 municipalities where MRV developments with clean energy by 2022. The operates, supplying 100% of the new real estates. commitment must be maintained until 2030. Range curve Target 9.a MRV status in 2019 Projects Enabling factors ▪ Urbanization of the neighborhood of its real estates Policy and cities where MRV is present ▪ Sustainability Policy Commitments Indicators ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Real estates with installed photovoltaic plants ▪ Global Compact ▪ Photovoltaic energy generated in MRV ventures ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Urbanization cost per unit Compliance ▪ Cost with consideration ▪ Municipal legislation ▪ Total construction performed ▪ Amount invested with Private Social Investment Actions Programs ▪ MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Program Target 9.b Brazilian Target Support national technological development, research Related departments and innovation, through public policies that ensure a ▪ Innovation favorable institutional and regulatory environment to, ▪ Supplies among other things, promote industrial diversification ▪ Sustainability and add value to commodities. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ One of MRV's challenges is to increase the technological intensity of its processes and products. Value Chain Links The company has been investing in the improvement of its construction system to increase productivity per ( ) Land acquisition worker and reduce the environmental impacts of its (X) Real estate project construction. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 9.b 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Through open innovation actions, MRV will foster ▪ MRV invests in technological development the research and development of technologies for through internal support to high technology the building sector. The company expects to companies and through actions in partnership to increase the eco-efficiency of its operations and foster open innovation (e.g.: Órbi Connects, Tree products by. Lab.) ▪ MRV's investment in innovation will be compatible Range curve with national private investment in research and development. Target 9.b MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Investment in innovation initiatives ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Number of partnerships with startups Actions Programs ▪ Innovation in Sustainability ▪ Partner Registration ▪ Investment in innovation ▪ MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Program Projects ▪ 1% of net revenue invested in research and development ▪ Órbi Connects ▪ Tree Lab ▪ Development of new materials and processes based on the replication of best practices on building sites Target 11.1 Brazilian Target By 2030, ensure access for all to decent, adequate and Related departments affordable housing, basic services and urbanize ▪ Strategy precarious settlements in accordance with the goals assumed in the National Housing Plan, with special ▪ Real estate development attention to groups in vulnerable situations. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Brazil has a housing deficit of 7.8 million homes. Most of MRV's developments are aimed at the Value Chain Links population that does not yet own property. In this sense, the company assists in solving the problem, (X) Land acquisition contributing to the achievement of the goals of the (X) Real estate project National Housing Plan. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ MRV's activities do not include projects for the urbanization of precarious settlements. (X) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV intends to continue contributing to the ▪ MRV is the largest builder of low-income houses in elimination of the housing deficit in Brazil. In this Latin America and will continue to focus on this way, the company will continue to produce real market segment. However, the company is estate for the low-income population, following the conducting a review of its strategy to reduce its company's diversification strategy. dependence on public resources directed at financing low-income housing. Range curve Target 11.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ MRV dwelling (urban / rural) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Total number of units produced ▪ Production of real estates in the My House My Life Actions Program Projects ▪ MRV's participation in the My House My Life Program ▪ New MRV Business Platform: expansion of the product portfolio Target 11.3 Brazilian Target By 2030, increase inclusive and sustainable Related departments urbanization, improve capacities for planning, social ▪ Strategy control and participatory, integrated and sustainable ▪ Real Estate Development management of human settlements in all units of the federation. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ The company works to improve the urbanization of its surroundings to improve the region, favoring Value Chain Links residents and contributing to the valorization of its (X) Land acquisition products. (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV actively participates in public hearings to (X) Construction collaborate with the definition of best practices in the (X) Supply chain mobilization elaboration of the Municipal Master Plans. ( ) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.3 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Develop models of urbanization in the neighborhood ▪ MRV carries out urbanization improvements in the and cities of the real estates, capable of promoting neighborhood and cities of its developments, but each local sustainability, maintaining the viability of the work has its own way of doing these actions. projects. ▪ With a structured process, the company will be able to be more effective in conducting the projects and will be able to invest in actions that bring positive socioRange curve environmental returns without imposing a prohibitive burden on the real estates. Target 11.3 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Dwelling MRV ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ MRV's participation in urban planning forums Compliance ▪ Investment in urbanization in areas of influence of ▪ Urbanization improvements to compensate local MRV's developments impacts ▪ Improvements made after validation with neighboring residents to MRV's real estates Actions Programs ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) Target 11.6 Brazilian Target By 2030, reduce the per capita negative environmental Related departments impact of cities by improving air quality indices and ▪ Strategy solid waste management; and ensure that all cities ▪ Real Estate Development with more than 500,000 inhabitants have implemented air quality monitoring systems and solid waste management plans. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ▪ MRV is concerned with the correct disposal of solid Relationship with the MRV business waste, both in the construction and real estate use stages and understands that to achieve this goal it is Value Chain Links necessary to increase the proportion of solid urban waste regularly collected and correctly disposed of. ( ) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project (X) Construction ( ) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.6 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Maintain and improve the efficient and ▪ The reduction of waste generated by building sites sustainable management (proper disposal) of and housing units has the purpose of avoiding greater solid waste, in order to provide adequate ecological damage, in addition to reducing risks to disposal of solid waste generated by its real public health associated with the poor disposal of estates: solid urban waste. ▪ Establish new partnerships with recycling entities; Range curve ▪ Develop indicators and propose a Solid Waste Disposal Index (IDRS). ▪ Reduce utilization by 5% Consumption of buckets per unit produced in the real estates; ▪ Maintain sustainable certifications (OHSAS 18.001, ISO 14.001). Target 11.6 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) Commitments ▪ MRV + Green (Green Houses) ▪ Ethos Institute Programs ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Urbanization of the surroundings of the real estates ▪ Global Compact ▪ Reuse of Waste (reuse and reduction of rubble) Compliance ▪ Partnerships with recycling entities in several ▪ Municipal legislation municipalities to properly dispose of unused materials ▪ Certification standards (ISO 14.001) ▪ Construction Waste Management ▪ National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS) ▪ Selective Collection (ENP) Indicadores ▪ Proportion of solid urban waste regularly collected with adequate final destination. Target 11.a Brazilian Target Support economic, social and environmental Related departments integration in metropolitan areas and between urban, ▪ Strategy peri urban, rural and twin cities, considering territories of traditional peoples and communities, through inter▪ Real Estate Development federative cooperation, reinforcing national, regional Aspects of connection between the MRV and local development planning. Goal and business ▪ Good urban planning allows MRV to build developments that contribute to sustainable urban Relationship with the MRV business development. Value Chain Links (X) Land acquisition ( ) Real estate project ( ) Construction ( ) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.a 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Project Development from Master Plans ▪ MRV has accumulated experience in ▪ Actively participate in public hearings to collaborate construction in 159 municipalities. Thus, the with the definition of best practices in the company can offer its knowledge so that cities elaboration of the Municipal Master Plans. can develop plans with better access to citizenship and sustainability for the entire population. Range curve Target 11.a MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ MRV's Municipalities with master plan ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Participation in meetings of the collaborative actions Compliance for the construction of the Municipal Master Plans. ▪ Federal Allotment Law ▪ Investments in infrastructure Actions Projects ▪ Urban improvement projects Target 12.2 Brazilian Target By 2030, achieve sustainable management and efficient Related departments use of natural resources. ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) (Target kept unchanged) ▪ Production ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Supplies Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV ( ) Land acquisition Goal and business ( ) Real estate project (X) Construction ▪ The concern with the rational use and preservation (X) Supply chain mobilization of non-renewable resources for the enjoyment of ( ) Real estate commercialization future generations is the focus of MRV's policies (X) Real estate use and occupation and procedures. Thus, the consumption of these materials is monitored in order to propose measures that result in efficient use and lower social and environmental impact. Target 12.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Carry out a life cycle assessment, considering the ▪ The rational use and preservation of non-renewable cost of materials on site and their financial return, resources is employed and continuously improved in and the cost of materials classified into categories. MRV's real estates. The consumption of these ▪ Implement measures for the selection of suppliers, materials is measured and monitored in order to who have environmental responsibility and rational obtain greater efficiency in consumption. use of natural resources. ▪ Expand the use of pre-molded components, aiming at reducing waste, and the rational use of resources and inputs used in construction. Range curve Target 12.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Waste Management ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Reuse, recycling and reuse of waste Commitments ▪ Supplier management ▪ Standard NBR ISO 14.040:2014 Environmental ▪ CDP Supply Chain Management Life Cycle Assessment ▪ CDP Climate Change, CDP Water and CDP Forest Compliance Projects ▪ Act No.12.305/10 (National Policy on Solid Waste) ▪ Studies on eco-efficiency of building systems Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of water, energy and carbon in MRV apartments ▪ Solid Waste Management Plan Seals Indicators ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) Technologies ▪ Amount of waste generated per square meter built ▪ Use of industrialized or pre-molded components ▪ Amount of waste recycled Target 12.6 Brazilian Target Encourage companies, especially large and Related departments transnational companies, to adopt socio▪ Sustainability environmental responsibility parameters and ▪ Supplies practices and to integrate information about these practices into their systems, databases and reporting ▪ Compliance cycles. ▪ IR (Investor Relations) Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Value Chain Links ▪ MRV wants its partners and suppliers to be aligned ( ) Land acquisition with its environmental policy. To this end, it is ( ) Real estate project committed to assisting and promoting the (X) Construction development of the civil construction production chain, through its examples, as well as the (X) Supply chain mobilization adoption of contractual requirements and ( ) Real estate commercialization agreements in the context of sustainable practices. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 12.6 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Encourage suppliers and partners, especially large ▪ Commitment to sustainable development must and transnational companies, to adopt social and involve the entire production chain. Therefore, it is environmental responsibility parameters and essential that suppliers and partners, especially large practices that integrate this information into ones, adopt sustainability practices aimed at systems, databases and reporting cycles. implementing social and environmental responsibility ▪ Publish the MRV Report for the Sustainable programs and initiatives aligned with the company's Development Goals good practices and values. Range curve Target 12.6 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Goals ▪ Integrity Policy ▪ MRV Sustainability Report ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy Commitments Indicators ▪ Global Compact ▪ No indicators available ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) ▪ CDP ▪ Ethos Institute Target 12.8 Brazilian Target By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have relevant Related departments information and awareness about sustainable ▪ Sustainability development and lifestyles in harmony with nature, in ▪ Customer Relationship line with the National Environmental Education Program (ProNEA). ▪ MRV Institute Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal Relationship with the MRV business and business ▪ MRV is committed to developing awareness Value Chain Links education actions aimed at sustainable development. ( ) Land acquisition The Sustainable Dweller Program consists of the ( ) Real estate project orientation of new owners of the houses on quality ( ) Construction of life and sustainability. ( ) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 12.8 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Ensure that people in the areas of direct influence ▪ MRV believes that everyone's engagement and of the real estates have relevant information and involvement with environmental issues is of awareness about sustainable development and fundamental importance in ensuring a healthy lifestyles in harmony with nature, in line with the environment for future generations. By National Program for Environmental Education recognizing the importance of sustainable (ProNEA). development, MRV invests, shares, contributes and engages in actions that allow everyone to participate and have access to environmental education. Range curve Target 12.8 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Natureza Viva Solidarity Network (Governador Commitments Valadares/MG) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Voluntary Delivery Point (VEP) ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) Seals Indicators ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) ▪ No indicators available Target 12.a Brazilian Target Support developing countries to strengthen their Related departments scientific and technological capacities towards more ▪ Innovation sustainable patterns of production and ▪ Sustainability consumption. Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Value Chain Links ▪ Ranking first among the largest construction companies in the country (ITC Portal Revista ( ) Land acquisition Infra) and record holder in Latin America (see (X) Real estate project agro & business Direct Look), MRV understands (X) Construction that it has a relevant role in the dissemination of ( ) Supply chain mobilization good practices and results, with the objective of ( ) Real estate commercialization contributing to the sustainable development of ( ) Real estate use and occupation companies in the sector. Target 12.a 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Carry out technological exchanges with ▪ Support the civil building sector in South America in construction companies in developed countries, accordance with the premises of Sustainable supporting scientific research and technologies Development, contributing to the strengthening of aligned with sustainable production standards. scientific and technological capacities towards more ▪ Close partnerships with technological centers of sustainable patterns of production and consumption. universities in South American countries in order to seek technologies focused on sustainable measures of production and consumption. Range curve Target 12.a MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ No indicators available ▪ Sustainability Policy Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Actions Projects ▪ Studies for Sustainability Innovation ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development Goals ▪ MRV Sustainability Report Target 16.5 Brazilian Target Substantially reduce tax evasion, corruption and Related departments bribery in all its forms. ▪ Risk Management ▪ Compliance Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Legal Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal (X) Land acquisition and business (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV operates in such a way as to maintain levels of (X) Construction governance and management excellence. The (X) Supply chain mobilization company constantly monitors its exposure to risks in (X) Real estate commercialization relation to ethics and corruption and has policies and ( ) Real estate use and occupation practices involving employees, suppliers and partners for prevention and detection of harmful acts. Target 16.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV will continue to combat tax evasion, ▪ MRV Engenharia is a reference in Sustainability, this corruption and bribery, strengthening its position of excellence is the result of the constant structures for compliance with the culture of search for good management practices, transparency integrity. and corporate governance. The constant improvement and participation in governance institutions are important aspects for MRV, Range curve conforming its business to the new international environment. Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2019/2020 Structuring the company to meet the requirements for obtaining the Pro-Ethical Company brand Target 16.5 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Compliance ▪ Anti-Corruption Law 12.846/13 Codes ▪ Code of Conduct Technology Policy ▪ Culture of Integrity (Distance Education) ▪ Sustainability Policy Actions ▪ Compliance Policy Programs ▪ Integrity Due Diligence Policy ▪ Integrity Program ▪ Related Party Transaction Policy ▪ Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy ▪ Confidential Channel ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy Projects ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Sustainability Report ▪ Conflict of Interest Policy Commitments ▪ Integrity Week ▪ Global Compact ▪ Training on Prevention of Corruption ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Integrity Pocket Guide ▪ Novo Mercado (B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) Indicators ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Confidential Channel reports. ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Due Diligence of third parties and partners. ▪ Conformity assessment of the terms of commitment signed with the municipalities. Target 16.6 Brazilian Target Develop effective, accountable and transparent Related departments institutions at all levels. ▪ Risk Management ▪ Internal Audit Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Compliance ▪ Sustainability Value Chain Links ▪ Customer Relationship (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project (X) Construction Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization ▪ MRV acts in order to maintain levels of excellence in (X) Real estate use and occupation governance and management, shaping itself as an effective, accountable and transparent organization at all levels and with all its stakeholders. Target 16.6 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV seeks to be among the most prominent ▪ As an industry leader and seeking to consolidate a companies in terms of corporate responsibility and leadership position also as a sustainable company, transparency. the company needs to take steps to gain international prominence in the field. Range curve Target 16.6 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Codes Commitments ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Global Compact Policy ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Novo Mercado da B3 S.A. Brazil, Stock Exchange, ▪ Compliance Policy OTC (B3) ▪ Integrity Due Diligence Policy ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Related Party Transaction Policy ▪ Ethos Integrity Pact ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy ▪ Ethos Integrity WG ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy ▪ Integrity WG Global Compact Brazil Network ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Technology ▪ Conflict of Interest Policy ▪ Culture of Integrity (Distance Education) ▪ Risk Management Policy Target 16.6 MRV status in 2019 Actions Indicators Programs ▪ Publication of Sustainability Report ▪ Annual Audit Plan ▪ Participation in Corporate Sustainability Indexes ▪ Integrity Program ▪ Ethos Indicators Response ▪ Risk Management Plan ▪ Independent audit of governance structures ▪ Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) ▪ Corporate Risk Matrix ▪ Conformity assessment of the terms of commitment ▪ Confidential Channel signed with the municipalities. Projects ▪ MRV Sustainability Report ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development Goals ▪ Integrity Week ▪ Training on Prevention of Corruption ▪ Integrity Pocket Guide ▪ Elaboration of the corporate risk matrix Target 16.7 Brazilian Target Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and Related departments representative decision-making at all levels. ▪ DH (Human Development) (Human Development) ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV Institute ▪ Sustainability Value Chain Links (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal (X) Construction and business (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ Companies are being called upon to become more (X) Real estate commercialization transparent and to operate with respect for the (X) Real estate use and occupation different groups involved in their activities. MRV has initiated a diversity program and is structuring an action plan to consider diversity issues in its decisions. Target 16.7 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Structure the Diversity program to ensure ▪ Since the target does not define parameters to be responsive, inclusive, participatory and achieved and MRV does not yet have an action plan, a representative decision-making at all levels. vision of intentions has been developed. ▪ Diversity as a fundamental part of achieving business results and diversity indicators to be considered for strategic decision making. Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2020 Create actions to promote diversity Range curve Target 16.7 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Programs ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Inclusion Program for Carriers of Disabilities (PCD Policy Quotas) ▪ Personnel Management Policy Projects ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion ▪ Integrity Policy ▪ Women's Day Celebration Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Sign language course ▪ Recruitment and Selection Processes ▪ Filling the IMGI Graphic ▪ LGBT pride day Indicators ▪ International Down's Syndrome Day ▪ Pounds Day ▪ Number of employees with disabilities ▪ National Day for the Struggle of Carriers of Disabilities ▪ Personnel Management Cycle ▪ Career Committee Target 16.10 Brazilian Target Ensure public access to information and protect Related departments fundamental freedoms in accordance with national ▪ Communication legislation and international agreements. ▪ DH (Human Development] ▪ Customer Relationship Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Value Chain Links ▪ MRV adhered to the Global Compact and assumed the ( ) Land acquisition commitment to disclose and comply with socially and (X) Real estate project environmentally responsible initiatives in all building (X) Construction company activities. (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ Since the signing of the Pact, MRV Engenharia has ( ) Real estate commercialization committed itself to fundamental and internationally ( ) Real estate use and occupation accepted values defined in 10 Principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of the International Labor Organization on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Target 16.10 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Improve MRV's transparency by improving the quality ▪ As a signatory of the Global Compact, MRV is of the documents disclosing information about the committed to compliance with human and labor company. rights. ▪ Ensure compliance with human and labor rights at ▪ In addition to the Global Compact, MRV is also a MRV, following commitments assumed. publicly-held company and a member of the ISE, which demands transparency in the disclosure of its information and increased openness to dialogue Range curve with its stakeholders, which increases the demand for even greater transparency. Target 16.10 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Projects ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ MRV Sustainability Report Policy ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development ▪ Sustainability Policy Goals ▪ Information Disclosure Policy ▪ Announcement of Progress ▪ Compliance Policy ▪ MRV Sustainable Site ▪ Integrity Policy ▪ Marketing Policy Indicators ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy ▪ No indicators available. Commitments ▪ Global Compact ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) ▪ Ethos Institute Target 16.b Brazilian Target Promote and enforce non-discriminatory and Related departments affirmative laws and policies. ▪ Compliance ▪ DH (Human Development) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Personnel Department Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal (X) Land acquisition and business (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV has a diversity promotion program, whose (X) Construction action plan is being prepared to make its operations, (X) Supply chain mobilization management positions and leadership more diverse. (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 16.b 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Promote the principle of inclusion, equity and non▪ Since the target does not define parameters to be discrimination, promoting internalization in MRV. achieved and MRV does not yet have an action ▪ Full awareness of all levels of MRV in relation to plan, a vision of intentions has been developed. non-discriminatory guidelines and practices. ▪ To develop internal leaderships to raise employees' awareness and represent the company's principles Milestones for achieving the 2030 of equal and inclusive treatment. MRV vision ▪ 2020 Forums and Lectures to raise employees' awareness of non-discrimination and inclusion; ▪ 2025 Significant reduction in cases of discrimination Range curve in the Confidential Channel ▪ 2030 Diversity policy fully internalized in MRV. Employees clearly recognizing discriminatory behaviors and acting in a preventive manner to minimize their occurrence. Target 16.b MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Programs ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Inclusion Program for Carriers of Disabilities Policy ▪ Diversity Program ▪ Personnel Management Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion ▪ Sign language course ▪ LGBT pride day ▪ International Down's Syndrome Day ▪ Pounds Day ▪ National Day for the Struggle of Carriers of Disabilities ▪ Personnel Management Cycle ▪ Career Committee Non-priority Targets Target 1.1 Brazilian Target By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people Related departments everywhere, measured as people living on less than ▪ DP (Personnel Department) PPC$3.20 per capita per day. ▪ DH (Human Development) ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ▪ MRV has a compensation guideline that aligns the (X) Real estate project positions and their respective functions to the earnings, also counting on a benefits package. (X) Construction ( ) Supply chain mobilization ▪ MRV's priorities include offering employees and ( ) Real estate commercialization residents of the communities where it operates (X) Real estate use and occupation opportunities for personal and professional development, with a focus on increasing people's employability and productivity, bringing gains to the business and society. Target 1.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Always consider as wage floor at MRV the minimum ▪ According to the OECD, the purchasing power parity wage provided for in art. 84, caput, point IV, of the of the Real against the Dollar for 2018 was 2.029. Brazilian Federal Constitution, and if this is below Thus, the per capita income per day should be the extreme poverty line, the value parameterized R$6.49. Considering that an average family has 4 by the agencies that follow the evolution of the people, the worker's remuneration should be SDGs will be considered. R$25,96, which represents a minimum monthly gain ▪ Increase the number of technical training and of R$571,12. professional development actions for employees, ▪ In 2019, MRV's lowest wage is R$998.00, 74% higher interns and trainees and neighboring communities. than the reference value for the extreme poverty line. Target range curve Target 1.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Employee Benefits Program ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) Commitments ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Ethos Institute Indicators ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Number of employees at the building site Compliance ▪ Number of benefits granted to employees by position ▪ Collective Bargaining Convention ▪ Collective bargaining agreements with trade unions Target 1.2 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, halve the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in income and non▪ DP (Personnel Department) monetary poverty according to national definitions. ▪ DH (Human Development) ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business ▪ MRV has a compensation guideline that aligns the ( ) Land acquisition positions and their respective functions to the ( ) Real estate project earnings, also counting on a benefits package. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ MRV's priorities include offering employees and ( ) Real estate commercialization residents of the communities where it operates opportunities for personal and professional (X) Real estate use and occupation development, with focus on increasing people's employability and productivity, bringing gains to the business and society. Target 1.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Always consider as wage floor at MRV the minimum ▪ According to the World Bank, the poverty line is $5.50 wage provided for in art. 84, caput, point IV, of the per day per capita. Brazilian Federal Constitution, and if it is below the ▪ According to the OECD, the purchasing power parity poverty line, the value parameterized by the of the Real against the Dollar for 2018 was 2.029. agencies that follow the evolution of the SDGs will Thus, the per capita income per day should be be considered. R$11.16. Considering that an average family has 4 ▪ Increase the number of technical training and people, the worker's remuneration should be professional development actions for employees, R$44,64, which represents a minimum monthly gain interns and trainees and neighboring communities. of R$982,08. ▪ Provide more quality housing for the low-income ▪ The absence of housing is one of the elements that population, reducing their vulnerability. make up the multidimensional approach to poverty. The expansion of MRV's activities contributes to addressing this problem. Target range curve Target 1.2 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs Policy ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Employee Benefits Program ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Commitments ▪ Global Compact Indicators Compliance ▪ Average income of employees in relation to the ▪ Collective Bargaining Convention poverty line ▪ Number of employees in building site ▪ Collective bargaining agreements with trade unions ▪ Number of benefits granted to employees by position ▪ Number of low-income individuals who were clients of the organization ▪ Number of single low-income households that were clients of the organization Target 1.4 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, ensure that all men and women, particularly the poor and people in situations of vulnerability, have ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) access to social services, basic infrastructure, new ▪ Projects technologies and means of production, information and communication technologies, financial services ▪ Engineering and security in equitable access to land and natural ▪ Commercial resources. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV is committed to generating positive social and Value Chain Links economic impacts in the regions where it operates, therefore, it invests in urban infrastructure, which ( ) Land acquisition involves the construction of health centers, (X) Real estate project renovation of schools, paving of roads, among other ( ) Construction improvements. ( ) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 1.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Within the viability of the projects, offer housing ▪ Brazilian rules require that developments built, with quality infrastructure, meeting the demands of including for the low-income public, are connected to the public authorities and communities in the areas basic infrastructure, including sanitation and in which MRV operates and contributing to electricity. MRV's ventures influence the reduction of sustainable cities. vulnerability of those who acquire them. ▪ In 2018, 230 million were invested in infrastructure in the neighborhoods and municipalities of MRV’s real Target range curve estates. Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2019 Annual Construction Target ▪ 2020 Annual Construction Target Target 1.4 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Investment in Urban Infrastructure Commitments ▪ Global Compact Indicators Compliance ▪ Number of units produced per year ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process ▪ Number of infrastructure counterparts built ▪ Municipal Master Plans ▪ Construction and urbanization costs Seals ▪ Urbanization carried out within budget (%) ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Target 3.8 Brazilian Target Ensure, through the Unified Health System (SUS), Related departments universal health coverage, access to quality essential ▪ Medicine health services at all levels of care, and access to safe, effective and quality essential medicines and vaccines that are incorporated into the list of products offered Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal by SUS. and business ▪ The MRV candidate / collaborator is advised to keep his/her vaccination card updated, and is directed to Relationship with the MRV business the health center if he/she has a delayed vaccine. This contributes to the health of MRV's team, Value Chain Links reducing risks for the company. (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project (X) Construction ( ) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation[1] Target 3.8 2030 MRV vision MRV status in 2019 ▪ Intensify vaccination campaigns. Enabling factors Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Vaccination requirement on employee days Range curve Actions Program ▪ Vaccination Program Indicators Justification ▪ Annual vaccination campaigns carried out ▪ Number of employees vaccinated ▪ MRV asks the candidate/collaborator to update the vaccine card, which contributes to his/her immunization. A greater number of vaccinated employees bring gains to society and MRV. Target 4.3 Brazilian Target By 2030, ensure equity (gender, race, income, territory Related departments and others) of access and permanence to quality vocational and higher education, free or at affordable ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) prices. ▪ Sustainability ▪ DH (Human Development) Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Value Chain Links Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ▪ MRV's priorities include offering employees and ( ) Real estate project residents of the communities where it operates (X) Construction opportunities for personal and professional (X) Supply chain mobilization development, with focus on increasing people's ( ) Real estate commercialization employability and productivity, bringing gains to the ( ) Real estate use and occupation business and society. Target 4.3 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase the number of technical training and ▪ Investment in training, education and qualification professional development actions for are fundamental guidelines of MRV's business, employees, interns and trainees and neighboring which allow the professional development of communities. employees and the communities where the ▪ To increase the number of teenage apprentices, company operates. MRV believes that education meeting the quota required by the and qualification are pillars for the social Apprenticeship Act. transformation of society and enable the construction of more attractive work environments and wellbeing for employees. Range curve Target 4.3 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs ▪ Leadership Academy Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 Construction site (Education in ▪ Personnel Management Policy Construction Sites) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Professional Qualification Programs ▪ Trainee MRV Commitments ▪ Apprenticeship Program (Minor Apprentice) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Distance education Seals Indicators ▪ Obra Verde MRV (MRV Green Building Seal) ▪ Hours of training held annually (educational and Technologies technical) ▪ Distance learning course hours ▪ Platform Develop (Platform for Training and Distance ▪ Number of courses held annually Education) ▪ Annual number of participants in the MRV Trainee Program ▪ Number of teenage apprentices hired ▪ Number of people benefited from the Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Program Target 4.4 Brazilian Target By 2030, substantially increase the number of Related departments youngsters and adults who have the necessary skills, especially technical and professional, for employment, ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) decent work and entrepreneurship. ▪ DH (Human Development) ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV Institute Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ( ) Land acquisition ( ) Real estate project ▪ MRV's priorities include offering employees and (X) Construction residents of the communities where it operates (X) Supply chain mobilization opportunities for personal and professional ( ) Real estate commercialization development, with focus on increasing people's ( ) Real estate use and occupation employability and productivity, bringing gains to the business and society. Target 4.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase the number of technical training and ▪ Investment in training, education and qualification professional development actions for employees, are fundamental guidelines of MRV's business, which interns, trainees and neighboring communities. allow the professional development of employees ▪ To increase the number of teenage apprentices, and the communities neighboring the real estates. meeting the quota required by the Apprenticeship MRV believes that education and qualification are Act. pillars for social transformation and enable the construction of more attractive work environments and wellbeing for employees. Range curve Target 4.4 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs ▪ Leadership Academy Policy ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Professional Qualification Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Trainee MRV Commitments ▪ Apprenticeship Program (Minor Apprentice) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Distance education Seals Indicators ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) ▪ Hours of training held annually (educational and Technologies technical) ▪ Distance learning course hours ▪ Platform Develop (Platform for Training and Distance Education) ▪ Number of courses held annually ▪ Annual number of participants in the MRV Trainee Program ▪ Number of teenage apprentices hired ▪ Number of people benefited from the Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Target 4.5 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, eliminate gender and race inequalities in ▪ MRV Institute education and ensure equity of access, permanence ▪ Institutional Relations and success at all levels, stages and modalities of ▪ DH (Human Development) education for groups in situations of vulnerability, especially carriers of disability, rural populations, Aspects of connection between the MRV itinerant populations, indigenous and traditional Goal and business communities, teenagers and youths in compliance with social and educational measures and people on the ▪ MRV Institute materializes MRV's commitment to streets or in detention. Sustainability and Education. It supports projects that stimulate the development of children and teenagers living in socially vulnerable communities. In addition, Relationship with the MRV business MRV is a partner of GPA (Company responsible for the administration of the Public-Private Penitentiary Value Chain Links Complex of Ribeirão das Neves – MG/BR) and of the ( ) Land acquisition Rede Cidadã (Social Assistance Entity), with the ( ) Real estate project execution of the Socio-Learning Program in the Prison (X) Construction System, offering opportunities for professional and (X) Supply chain mobilization personal training. ( ) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 4.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Continuously expand the Educate to Change ▪ One of the pillars of MRV Engenharia's business is program to increase the volume of projects Social Responsibility, which is why the Company is contemplated or the transfer amount. always seeking solutions and initiatives that promote ▪ Run the Socio-Learning Program in the Prison social transformation, sustainable development and System, increasing the number of beneficiaries. the wellbeing of society. Investment in initiatives that promote access to education and professional training is an opportunity for MRV to expand its social impact on the communities in which it operates and Range curve on society. Target 4.5 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Beneficiaries of educational programs of the MRV ▪ Sustainability Policy Institute Commitments ▪ Number of direct beneficiaries of the Socio-Learning Program in the Prison System ▪ Global Compact ▪ Number of people benefited from the Escola Nota 10 Actions Program (Education in Construction Sites) Programs ▪ Educar para Transformar – Instituto MRV (Educate to Transform MRV Institute) ▪ Socio-learning Program in the Prison System (GPA Partnership and Rede Cidadã) ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Projects ▪ Biblioteca Viva (Living library Project) ▪ Projeto Avante (Avante Project) Target 5.1 Brazilian Target Eliminate all forms of gender discrimination at its Related departments intersections with race, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, territoriality, ▪ DP (Personnel Department) culture, religion and nationality, especially for girls ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) and women in rural, forest, water and urban ▪ DH (Human Development) peripheries. Aspects of connection between the MRV Relationship with the MRV business Goal and business ▪ MRV is committed to providing workers with a Value Chain Links work environment that provides opportunities for (X) Land acquisition professional development and that promotes (X) Real estate project gender equality and respect for diversity. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 5.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Develop initiatives to increase the number of ▪ The search for gender equality and diversity is MRV's women in MRV operations; commitment to the sustainable development of ▪ Promote awareness actions on gender equity and society, in addition to following the guidelines of the diversity with MRV's employees and suppliers; indexes in which the company participates, the covenants it has signed and the company's ▪ Develop a gender equality program and other shareholders. measures that promote equal opportunities. ▪ MRV has more than 22,000 direct employees and 5,442 outsourced employees. Of the total, 82% are men, and 18% are women, whose participation increased 117% on building sites in the last year. The Range curve number of women in leadership positions in MRV has also grown, specifically in management positions. Target 5.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Programs ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Programa de Integridade MRV (MRV Integrity Policy Program) ▪ Personnel Management Policy Projects ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Diversity and Inclusion Workshop ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion Commitments ▪ Women's Day Celebration ▪ Global Compact ▪ Personnel Management Cycle ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Integrity Pocket Guide Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Partnership with NGO Women in Construction ▪ Recruitment and Selection Processes Target 5.1 Indicators ▪ Number of women in leadership positions in MRV ▪ Number and percentage of employees by gender and employee category ▪ Number of employees by gender and region ▪ Number of employees by gender and employment contract ▪ Mathematical ratio of basic wage and remuneration between women and men ▪ Number of complaints regarding gender discrimination in the Confidential Channel ▪ Projects aimed at monitoring and strengthening gender equality and non-discrimination. Target 5.5 Brazilian Target Guarantee the full and effective participation of women Related departments and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in the public sphere, in its political and ▪ DP (Personnel Department) economic dimensions, considering the intersections ▪ Education in Construction Sites (Human Development) with race, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, territoriality, culture, religion and nationality, especially for women in rural, forest, water Aspects of connection between the MRV and urban peripheries. Goal and business ▪ MRV is committed to providing workers with a work environment that provides opportunities for Relationship with the MRV business professional development and that promotes gender equality and respect for diversity. Value Chain Links (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 5.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Promote initiatives aimed at increasing the ▪ The search for gender equality and diversity is MRV's number of women in leadership positions in commitment to the sustainable development of MRV; society, in addition to following the guidelines of the ▪ Promote initiatives aimed at career development indexes in which the company participates, the for women, with the objective of accelerating covenants it has signed and the company's leadership training; shareholders. ▪ Promote awareness actions on gender equity and ▪ MRV has more than 22,000 direct employees and diversity with MRV's employees and suppliers; 5,442 outsourced employees. Of the total, 82% are ▪ Develop a gender equality program and other men, and 18% are women. In 2018, the number of measures that promote equal opportunities.. women in leadership positions at MRV grew, specifically in management positions. Range curve Target 5.5 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs Codes ▪ MRV Integrity Program ▪ Code of Conduct Projects Policy ▪ Diversity and Inclusion Workshop ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Women's Day Celebration ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Personnel Management Cycle Commitments ▪ Integrity Pocket Guide ▪ Global Compact ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) Indicators Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Proportion of women, in relation to men, in ▪ Recruitment and Selection Processes managerial and leadership positions in MRV ▪ Relationship between women's / men's pay Target 6.1 Brazilian Target By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe Related departments and affordable drinking water for all. ▪ Engineering ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) Value Chain Links ▪ Projects ( ) Land acquisition ▪ Release management (X) Real estate project (X) Construction Aspects of connection between the MRV ( ) Supply chain mobilization Goal and business ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation ▪ MRV is concerned with the rational and sustainable use of water in its real estates and, therefore, seeks the optimization and efficiency of the resource for its preservation and guarantee of availability for other users in the region. Target 6.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To provide drinking water services managed in a ▪ Access to safe drinking water is a human right and safe manner to all clients served by MRV. despite being one of the largest freshwater holders in ▪ Assist in the provision of safe, managed drinking the world, Brazil has been experiencing water stress water services to communities. in its most populated regions. Achieving universal and equitable access to safe and clean water is one of the ▪ Provide access to safe and clean water for all most important goals to be achieved by 2030. workers in the workplace throughout the production chain. Milestones for achieving the 2030 Range curve MRV vision ▪ 2018 2% reduction in water consumption ▪ 2019 2% reduction in water consumption Target 6.1 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs Policy ▪ Water Saving Plans ▪ Resolution n° 64/292 (Human right Projects to water and sanitation). ▪ Morador Sustentável (Sustainable Dweller) Commitments ▪ CDP Water Indicators MRV Compliance ▪ Proportion of real estates that provide drinking water ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process services managed in a safe manner. ▪ Municipal Master Plans ▪ Number of residents (clients and non-clients) who Seals are served by safely managed drinking water services ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) due to the influence of MRV. ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) ▪ Provision of and access to safe drinking water for all workers in the work environment throughout the chain (facilities, water analysis). Target 6.2 Brazilian Target By 2030, achieve access to adequate and equitable Related departments sanitation and hygiene for all, and end open ▪ Engineering defecation, with special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations. ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) ▪ Projects Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Release management Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal ( ) Land acquisition and business (X) Real estate project (X) Construction ▪ MRV is concerned about the wellbeing of its clients ( ) Supply chain mobilization and the communities where it is present, so the (X) Real estate commercialization provision of basic sanitation among other (X) Real estate use and occupation urbanization and infrastructure services to all clients is of vital importance. Target 6.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase investment in basic sanitation in order to ▪ According to WHO the investment of U$1.00 complement and accompany the perspective of (~R$3.76) in sanitation, generates a return of U$9.00 universalization of basic sanitation in the country. (~R$33.84) for the economy of a country. ▪ Maintain coverage of 100% of clients and ▪ According to Plansab, Brazil should invest about communities served by MRV in all projects. R$508 billion by 2033 to universalize water sanitation services in the country. MRV allocated R$ 71.5 million for this purpose in the areas where it operates. Range curve Target 6.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Projects Policy ▪ Urban improvement projects. ▪ Sustainability Policy Compliance Indicators ▪ Law n° 11.445/2007 Sanitation Law ▪ Law n° 9.433/1997 Water Law : (PNRH) ▪ Population served by MRV that uses safely managed sanitation services (real estates). ▪ NR 24 and NR 18 ▪ Investment in water and sanitation and financial ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process return (added value and service availability). ▪ Municipal Master Plans Seals ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Target 7.3 Brazilian Target By 2030, increase the rate of energy efficiency Related departments improvement of the Brazilian economy. ▪ Projects ▪ Sustainability Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Supplies ▪ Technical Assistance Value Chain Links ( ) Land acquisition Aspects of connection between the MRV (X) Real estate project Goal and business (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ MRV is the first construction company in Latin America ( ) Real estate commercialization to bring large-scale photovoltaic solar energy to the (X) Real estate use and occupation economic real estate segment. Intends, by 2022, that 100% of its housing units will be launched with clean energy supply. Target 7.3 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Expand sustainability certifications for the ▪ Due to the enormous potential that Brazil has for construction sites and real estates. solar energy generation, the investment and dissemination of the use of this and other ▪ Reduce energy consumption by including efficient alternative, clean and efficient sources is essential to equipment and expanding the supply of clean ensure a safe, reliable, accessible and sustainable alternative energies. energy system. ▪ Expand the energy efficiency of MRV's real estates. ▪ According to a survey by the Brazilian Chamber of Civil Construction Industry (CBIC) conducted with consumers, more than 80% approve innovations in the sector. In relation to economy, the measures for Range curve rationalization of energy and water consumption, the use of sunroof and thermal comfort are, in this order, the most appreciated. Marcos para alcance da meta ▪ 2022 – Clean energy offer for all new projects launched Target 7.3 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ MRV Solar Power Plants Program ▪ Climate Change Policy ▪ Plans for electric energy savings through the use of ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy photovoltaic energy Compliance Projects ▪ Resolution 482 (ANEEL) ▪ Low-cost social power supply projects (e.g. construction of a small solar plant for the Lar dos Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Meninos SSVP). ▪ Lighting of sheds Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Indicators Technologies ▪ Monitoring the use and reduction of energy use over ▪ LED time. ▪ Presence Sensor ▪ Use of efficient equipment and supply of clean ▪ Photovoltaic Plates alternative energy ▪ Equipment with high energy efficiency ▪ Sustainability certifications of construction sites and real estates ▪ MRV Solar (portal for measuring the savings generated by panels in real estates) Target 8.4 Brazilian Target Related departments Increase the efficiency of the use of global resources in ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) consumption and production, and strive to decouple ▪ Projects economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the Sustainable Production and ▪ Supplies Consumption Action Plan (PPCS). ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) ▪ Sustainability Aspects of connection between the MRV Relationship with the MRV business Goal and business ▪ With the use of Building Information Modeling BIM, Value Chain Links MRV improves construction planning, reducing waste (X) Land acquisition generation. (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV maintains a strict control of materials, consumption is monitored to better use them and (X) Construction reduce environmental impact. (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ Due to the concern with the rational use and ( ) Real estate commercialization preservation of non-renewable resources, ( ) Real estate use and occupation environmental criteria are part of the supplier selection system. Target 8.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Maximize reuse and recycling, reduce consumption ▪ It is estimated that between 40% and 75% of natural of natural resources, expand the use of pre-molded resources are consumed by civil construction in the components and Life Cycle Analysis of Materials. world, in Brazil alone the sector generates 25% of the ▪ Implement the mapping of suppliers that have the total waste of the entire industry. MRV adopts a set ISO 14001; ISO 45001; SA 8000; NBR 16.001 of actions aimed at rational use and reduction, aiming certifications, and that voluntarily participate in the CDP Supply Chain (MIDAS). at the preservation of non-renewable resources. ▪ Search for new certifications and stamps, (e.g. Smart City) that act in favor of sustainable buildings. ▪ Prepare booklets that show the impacts of construction choices by the consumer. Milestones for achieving the 2030 Range curve MRV vision ▪ 2018 Reduce use by 5% Consumption of buckets per unit produced in the real estates ▪ 2019 Reduce use by 5% Consumption of buckets per unit produced in the real estates Target 8.4 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ CDP Supply Chain. ▪ Sustainability Policy Commitments ▪ NBR ISO 14040:2014 -ACV Indicators ▪ NBR ISO 14001 ▪ Materials used per built unit, broken down by Compliance volume, weight, category and origin (recycled or not). ▪ Act No.12.305/10 (PNRS) ▪ Number of suppliers selected on the basis of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) environmental criteria in relation to the total ▪ Waste Management Reuse, recycling and reuse of number of suppliers. waste ▪ Environmental compliance with laws, certifications Seals and standards. ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) ▪ Monitoring of the sustainable construction methods used, demonstrating the change in consumption Technologies over time. ▪ Pre-molded components. ▪ Building Information Modeling BIM Target 8.5 Related departments Brazilian Target ▪ DP (Personnel Department) By 2030, reduce the unemployment rate and other forms of underutilization of the labor force by 40%, ▪ Education in Construction Sites (Human Development] ensuring decent work, with emphasis on equal pay for ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) work of equal value. Aspects of connection between the MRV Relationship with the MRV business Goal and business ▪ Civil construction is a labor-intensive sector. MRV has a Value Chain Links large number of employees, in addition to operating an (X) Land acquisition extensive supply chain. (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV is committed to providing workers with a work (X) Construction environment that provides opportunities for (X) Supply chain mobilization professional development and that promotes gender (X) Real estate commercialization equality and respect for diversity. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 8.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Expansion and implementation of the HSE ▪ The company is committed to ensuring sustainability Management (OHSAS 18001) in construction sites, conditions, encouraging gender equity, supporting meeting MRV standardization and mandatory legal diversity, respecting labor legislation by ensuring requirements; decent work for all and providing opportunities for ▪ Structure the Diversity program to ensure development and growth with equality. responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels. ▪ Expansion of the training programs offered to the communities where the company operates, to increase the hiring of these residents. Target range curve . Target 8.5 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Inclusion Program for Carriers of Disabilities ▪ Human Resources Policy ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy Indicators Compliance ▪ Labor legislation ▪ Number of employees ▪ OHSAS 18001 ▪ Number of carriers of disability hired ▪ Inspection of compliance with labor legislation by the DAE ▪ Ratio of basic wage and remuneration of women to men for each category of employees, by significant Seals locations of operation. ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) ▪ Mathematical ratio of basic wage and remuneration between women and men Target 8.6 Brazilian Target Related departments Achieve a reduction of 3 percentage points by 2020 and ▪ DP (Personnel Department) 10 percentage points by 2030 in the proportion of youngsters not in employment, education or vocational ▪ Education in Construction Sites (Human Development) training. Aspects of connection between the MRV Relationship with the MRV business Goal and business ▪ In order to contribute to the preparation and Value Chain Links development of youngsters for the job market, MRV (X) Land acquisition hires teenage apprentices. The idea of the project is to (X) Real estate project offer low-income youth the opportunity to qualify and (X) Construction achieve opportunities to enter the job market, through (X) Supply chain mobilization theoretical and practical courses, to be held in MRV's (X) Real estate commercialization facilities. MRV also offers Internship and Trainee ( ) Real estate use and occupation Programs. Target 8.6 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase hiring of youngsters through the ▪ Investment in training, education and qualification Apprenticeship Program, meeting the quota of are fundamental guidelines of MRV's business, which apprentices required by the current legislation. allow the professional development of employees and communities surrounding the real estates. MRV believes that education and qualification are pillars Target range curve for social transformation and enable the construction of more attractive work environments and wellbeing for employees. Target 8.6 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Number of apprentices hired by the Apprenticeship ▪ Human Resources Policy Act ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Number of trainees in MRV operations Compliance ▪ Apprenticeship Act (Act 10.097/2000) Actions Programs ▪ Internship Program ▪ Professional Learning Program ▪ Prison System Learning Program Target 8.7 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2025, eradicate labor in conditions analogous to ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) slavery, trafficking in persons and child labor, especially ▪ Legal in its worst forms. ▪ Education in Construction Sites (Human Development) ▪ Compliance Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Risk Management ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) ▪ Supplies Value Chain Links ( ) Land acquisition ( ) Real estate project Aspects of connection between the MRV (X) Construction Goal and business (X) Supply chain mobilization ▪ MRV Engenharia restrains any violation of human rights ( ) Real estate commercialization in its productive activities. In the process of selecting ( ) Real estate use and occupation suppliers and service providers, inspections are carried out in order to prevent working conditions analogous to slavery, child labor and other forms of violation of rights. Target 8.7 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Maintain inspection of MRV's operations in order to ▪ MRV is committed to preventing and eliminating any prevent conditions of labor analogous to slavery, situation of human rights violations in its relations child labor and other forms of violations of rights. with its suppliers. Target range curve Target 8.7 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Compliance Codes ▪ Inspection of compliance with the labor legislation by the DAE ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Supplier contracts with labor legislation compliance Policy clause ▪ Risk Management Policy ▪ OHSAS 18001 ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Personnel Management Policy Actions ▪ Compliance Policy Programs ▪ Integrity Due Diligence Policy ▪ Confidential Channel ▪ Relationship Policy with Suppliers, Service Providers and ▪ Integrity Program Intermediary Agents ▪ Stakeholder Relations Policy Indicators Commitments ▪ Global Compact ▪ Percentage of contracts with clauses of compliance with labor legislation ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) ▪ Percentage of suppliers audited by the DAE ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Whistleblowing on violation of the dignity of work Target 9.4 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, modernize infrastructure and rehabilitate ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) economic activities to make them sustainable, with ▪ Production focus on the use of renewable resources and increased ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) adoption of clean and environmentally friendly industrial technologies and processes. ▪ Sustainability Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ With the Solar Plant program, MRV is contributing to the development of photovoltaic energy Value Chain Links infrastructure in Brazil. (X) Land acquisition ▪ MRV is committed to generating positive social and economic impacts in the regions where it operates, (X) Real estate project therefore, it invests in urban infrastructure, which (X) Construction involves the construction of health centers, ( ) Supply chain mobilization renovation of schools, paving of roads, among other improvements. ( ) Real estate commercialization ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 9.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Within real estates feasibility, offer housing with ▪ Brazilian rules require that developments built, quality infrastructure, meeting the demands of the including for the low-income public, be connected to public authorities and communities in the areas in basic infrastructure, including sanitation and which MRV operates and contributing to sustainable electricity. MRV's ventures influence the reduction of cities. vulnerability of those who acquire them. ▪ In 2018, 230 million were invested in infrastructure in MRV's neighborhoods and municipalities. Target range curve ▪ The MRV Solar Power Plants program supports the structuring of the necessary infrastructure for distributed power generation systems, favoring the expansion of clean energy generation in Brazil. Target 9.4 Technologies MRV status in 2019 ▪ MOVE (Mode for Vulnerability Evaluation) Enabling factors Actions Policy Programs ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Climate Change Policy ▪ Compensation of Greenhouse Gases ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Greenhouse Gas Inventory Commitments ▪ MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Program ▪ Global Compact ▪ Investment in Urban Infrastructure ▪ CDP Water Projects Compliance ▪ Adaptation and Climate Vulnerability (Project for ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process adaptation to new environmental conditions) ▪ Municipal Master Plans ▪ Resolution 482 (ANEEL) Indicators Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Number of infrastructure counterparts built ▪ Environmental Viability Assessment ▪ Construction and urbanization costs Seals ▪ Urbanization carried out within the budget (%) ▪ Number of real estates with photovoltaic panels ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) installed Target 9.5 Brazilian Target Relationship with the MRV business Strengthen scientific research and improve the Value Chain Links technological capabilities of companies, encouraging (X) Land acquisition innovation by 2030, with view to increasing the use of (X) Real estate project scientific and technological knowledge in national (X) Construction socioeconomic challenges and in socioenvironmental (X) Supply chain mobilization inclusive technologies; and increase the aggregate (X) Real estate commercialization productivity of the economy. (X) Real estate use and occupation a) To increase the number of research and Related departments development workers per million inhabitants to ▪ Innovation 3,000; ▪ Financial Planning b) To increase to 120,000 the number of technicians ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) and researchers engaged in R&D in companies; and ▪ Supplies ▪ Sustainability c) Increase public and private spending on research and Aspects of connection between the MRV development to 2.00% of GDP. Goal and business MRV supports the development of innovations throughout its production chain and seeks to engage startups to improve its systems and production processes and customer service. Target 9.5 2030 MRV vision Justification Structure relationships with suppliers and startups to ▪ MRV has a set of challenges to improve its promote innovations that promote reduction of costs productivity and reduce costs and business risks, and waste, increase construction speed and improve which can be solved with innovations. the quality of projects and customer service. ▪ MRV works with the open innovation method, in which it supports innovative companies and participates in entrepreneurship hubs to promote Target range curve and incorporate innovations into the business. Target 9.5 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Financial expenditure on innovation ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Financial expenditure on innovation, in proportion to Commitments revenue. ▪ Global Compact ▪ Return on Investment in Innovation Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Technologies ▪ Concrete maturity sensor ▪ New coatings ▪ New construction methods Actions Programs ▪ Órbi Connects ▪ TREE lab Target 10.1 Brazilian Target By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income Related departments growth for the 40% of the poorest population at a rate higher than the average income of the 10% richest. ▪ Sustainability ▪ MRV Institute Aspects of connection between the MRV Relationship with the MRV business Goal and business ▪ MRV's priorities include offering employees and Value Chain Links residents of the communities where it operates ( ) Land acquisition opportunities for personal and professional (X) Real estate project development, with a focus on increasing people's (X) Construction employability and productivity, bringing gains to the (X) Supply chain mobilization business and society. ( ) Real estate commercialization ▪ The MRV Institute materializes MRV's commitment to ( ) Real estate use and occupation Sustainability and Education. It supports projects that stimulate the development of children and teenagers living in socially vulnerable communities. Target 10.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Increase the number of technical training and ▪ One of the pillars of MRV Engenharia's business is professional development actions for employees, Social Responsibility, which is why the Company is interns, trainees and neighboring communities. always seeking solutions and initiatives that promote social transformation, sustainable ▪ Continuously expand the Educate to Change development and the wellbeing of society. Investing program to increase the volume of projects in initiatives that promote access to education and contemplated or the transfer value. vocational training is an opportunity for MRV to increase its social impact on the communities in which it operates and on society. These long-term Target range curve initiatives have a direct impact on the generation of opportunities and income for families. ▪ By offering training and education to people inside and outside the company, MRV enables them to obtain better quality jobs with higher remuneration. Target 10.1 MRV status in 2019 Indicators Enabling factors ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) units Policy implemented ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Number of students trained in Escola Nota 10 Commitments (Education in Construction Sites) School courses ▪ Global Compact ▪ Developments with the Vizinho do Bem Program Seals implemented ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) ▪ Empowered population in the Vizinho do Bem Programs Actions ▪ Number of employees at the building site Programs ▪ Collective bargaining agreements with trade ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) unions ▪ Apprenticeship Program (Minor Apprentice) ▪ Long Distance education ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Call Notice for Projects Incentives Target 10.2 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all in order to reduce ▪ MRV Institute inequalities regardless of age, gender, disability, race, ▪ Sustainability ethnicity, nationality, religion, economic or other status. . Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV is committed to the development of the communities where it operates and to corporate Value Chain Links social responsibility, which is why it develops the ( ) Land acquisition MRV Vizinho do Bem Program and created the MRV ( ) Real estate project Institute, the social arm of the Company. In addition, (X) Construction it promotes several actions that contemplate the (X) Supply chain mobilization inclusion of carriers of disability and the Learning (X) Real estate commercialization Program in the Prison System. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 10.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Enlarge the MRV Vizinho do Bem Program ▪ Sustainability is an essential element of MRV's business, so promoting social inclusion and reducing ▪ Expand the Inclusion Program for Carriers of inequality are key elements and commitments for Disabilities good performance and results. MRV understands ▪ Expand the Educate to Change Program to increase that building a better world requires the the volume of projects contemplated contribution of everyone, involving companies, public authorities and the third sector. Therefore, ▪ Expand the Socio-Learning Program in the Prison MRV understands how important its role in this System, increasing the number of beneficiaries. transformation is. Target range curve Target 10.2 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Number of employees on the building site. ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Number of benefits granted to employees by ▪ Sustainability Policy position Commitments ▪ Number and percentage of employees by employee ▪ Global Compact category and ethnicity ▪ Number of carriers of disability hired Actions ▪ Number and percentage of employees by employee Programs category and gender ▪ Employee Benefits Program ▪ Collective bargaining agreements with trade ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) unions ▪ Inclusion Program for Carriers of Disabilities ▪ Average wage offered by MRV in relation to the ▪ Learning Program country's average wage for the respective positions ▪ Prison System Learning Program of its employees (by gender and age). ▪ Escola Nota 10 (Education in Construction Sites) Target 10.3 Brazilian Target Ensure equal opportunities and reduce inequalities in Related departments results, including through the elimination of discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promote ▪ DH (Human Development) appropriate legislation, policies and actions in this ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) regard. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV seeks to have a diverse workforce, encouraging Value Chain Links gender balance, race/color, sexual orientation and inclusion of carriers of disability. The Company (X) Land acquisition already has an Inclusion Program for Carriers of (X) Real estate project Disabilities and is structuring actions of the Diversity (X) Construction Program to expand the vision and practices that (X) Supply chain mobilization promote equal opportunities. (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 10.3 2030 MRV vision Target range curve ▪ Promote the principle of inclusion, equity and nondiscrimination, promoting internalization in MRV. ▪ Structure the Diversity Program to ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels. ▪ Make diversity part of business results and indicators of diversity be considered for strategic Justification decision making. • Companies are being called upon to become more ▪ Develop and implement policies aimed at both transparent and to operate with respect for the equal opportunities and equality of positions . different groups involved in their activities. MRV has initiated a diversity program and is structuring an action plan to consider diversity issues in its decisions. Target 10.3 MRV status in 2019 Actions Programs Enabling factors ▪ Integrity Program Codes ▪ Inclusion Program for Carriers of Disabilities ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Diversity Program Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Personnel Management Cycle ▪ Integrity Policy ▪ Career Committee Commitments ▪ Global Compact Indicators ▪ Ethos Institute Compliance ▪ Number and percentage of employees by employee category and ethnicity ▪ Labor legislation Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Number of carriers of disability hired ▪ Recruitment and Selection Processes (dh) ▪ Number and percentage of employees by employee category and gender Target 10.4 Brazilian Target Reduce inequalities through the adoption of fiscal, tax, Related departments wage and social protection policies. ▪ DAE (Employee Support Department) ▪ DP (Personnel Department) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ DH (Human Development) Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV (X) Land acquisition Goal and business (X) Real estate project (X) Construction ▪ MRV has a guideline for the compensation of its (X) Supply chain mobilization employees, all of whom benefit from the (X) Real estate commercialization remuneration policy based on the Hay Group (X) Real estate use and occupation methodology, which aligns the positions and their respective functions to earnings, with a broad package of benefits, some of which are also extended to their dependents, which may vary from city to city, in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. Target 10.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Maintain equal pay guidelines and policies ▪ MRV's priorities include offering its employees a according to positions; pleasant work environment with equal opportunities, contributing to increased productivity and wellbeing. ▪ MRV conducts wage surveys with companies in the domestic market to ensure competitiveness and the Target range curve correct leveling of the values practiced. ▪ MRV adopts guidelines and practices to ensure equal opportunities and wage leveling according to the respective positions. Target 10.4 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Codes ▪ Mathematical ratio of basic wage and remuneration • Code of Conduct between women and men. Policy ▪ Benefits granted to employees. • Personnel Management Policy Compliance • Labor legislation Commitments • Global Compact • Ethos Institute Actions Programs ▪ Hay Group Methodology (alignment of salaries and positions) Target 11.5 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, significantly reduce the number of deaths and ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) the number of people affected by natural disasters of ▪ Projects hydro meteorological and climatological origin, as well ▪ Production as substantially reduce the number of people living in ▪ Risk Management risk areas and the direct economic losses caused by these disasters in relation to gross domestic product, ▪ Sustainability with special attention paid to the protection of lowAspects of connection between the MRV Goal income and vulnerable persons. and business ▪ MRV conducts Climate Vulnerability and Environmental Viability studies to make decisions Relationship with the MRV business about land acquisition, so that new developments have reduced vulnerability to climatic events. Value Chain Links ▪ MRV is committed to generating positive social and (X) Land acquisition economic impacts in the regions where it operates, (X) Real estate project therefore, it invests in urban infrastructure. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Within the viability of the projects, contribute to ▪ In order to reduce the risks of natural disasters make the cities more sustainable. generated by climate change, it is important that ▪ Map areas of risk of natural disasters occurring on companies assess how they can be impacted and site and in the neighboring areas of the integrate risk management into their planning, in developments to be built by MRV. order to increase the company's resilience. ▪ Design and build housing in a manner consistent ▪ Brazilian rules require that all developments built are with the risks of natural accidents identified in the connected to basic infrastructure, including sanitation area of the development and neighborhood. and electricity. In 2018, MRV invested 230 million in infrastructure in the neighborhoods and municipalities of its developments, influencing the reduction of vulnerability of those who acquire them. Target range curve Target 11.5 MRV status in 2019 Technologies Enabling factors ▪ Climates forum ▪ MOVE (Model for Vulnerability Evaluation) Policy ▪ Sustainability Policy Actions ▪ Climate Change Policy Commitments Programs ▪ Global Compact ▪ CDP Climate Change ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ CDP Supplier Engagement Compliance ▪ CDP Supply Chain ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process ▪ Integrity Program ▪ Municipal Master Plans Projects Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Adaptation and Climate Vulnerability (Project for adaptation to new environmental conditions) ▪ Environmental Feasibility Study Seals ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) Target 11.5 MRV Indicators ▪ Percentage of land bank land valued with MOVE ▪ Number of MRV real estates affected by events directly linked to climate change ▪ Direct economic losses caused by climate change, including damage caused by disasters to MRV real estates ▪ Number of infrastructure counterparts built ▪ Construction and urbanization costs ▪ Urbanization carried out within budget (%) ▪ Number of municipalities where MRV is present that are under water stress, consequently mapping construction sites that are also under water stress Target 11.7 Brazilian Target By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive, Related departments accessible and green public spaces, in particular for ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) women, children and teenagers, the elderly and carriers of disability, and other vulnerable groups. ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) ▪ Production ▪ Technical Assistance Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Value Chain Links ▪ MRV is committed to generating positive social and (X) Land acquisition economic impacts in the regions where it operates, (X) Real estate project therefore, it invests in urban infrastructure, which (X) Construction involves the construction of health centers, ( ) Supply chain mobilization renovation of schools, paving of roads, among other ( ) Real estate commercialization improvements. (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 11.7 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Within the viability of the projects, meet the ▪ Brazilian rules require that all developments built demands of public authorities and communities in are connected to the basic infrastructure, including MRV's areas of operation, contributing to make the sanitation and electricity. MRV's ventures influence cities more sustainable. the reduction of vulnerability of those who acquire ▪ Expand the Vizinho do Bem Program (Sustainable them. Neighborhood). ▪ In 2018, MRV invested approximately R$ 222 ▪ Maintain communication channels with clients and million in infrastructure and urbanization the community in order to monitor satisfaction improvements, of which R$ 24.6 million was levels and the economic and social impacts of their invested exclusively in public spaces such as parks investments in these spaces. and squares, improving the quality of local life. Target range curve Target 11.7 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Indicators Policy ▪ Quantity of public spaces for use by all, and with ▪ Sustainability Policy accessibility to the PNE's, in the neighborhoods Compliance (surroundings) of the real estates and communities where they are inserted. ▪ Caixa’s Manual for Contracting the Legal Process ▪ Financial investment in the improvement and ▪ Municipal Master Plans construction of parks, squares or other public spaces. Actions ▪ Feedback from communities on the positive socioenvironmental impacts of establishing these Programs spaces. ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) Projects ▪ Projects for urban improvement Target 12.4 Brazilian Target By 2020, achieve environmentally sound management Related departments of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle ▪ Production in accordance with internationally agreed milestones, and significantly reduce their release into the air, water ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) and soil to minimize their negative impacts on human ▪ Supplies health and the environment. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ The Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) seal has criteria which promote environmentally Value Chain Links appropriate management of the waste generated ( ) Land acquisition during production in all building sites. ( ) Real estate project ▪ MRV adopts a set of actions aimed at the (X) Construction reduction, optimization and management of ( ) Supply chain mobilization waste. ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 12.4 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Maintain and expand the waste management ▪ Chemical wastes represent a very small proportion of system, with the objective of contemplating the the company's total volume, even so, MRV seeks to environmentally adequate management of all reduce its generation and find ways to recycle them chemical products and all waste. and give them better final destination. ▪ Seek ways to reduce sending waste to sanitary ▪ In Brazil, the civil building sector generates about 25% and industrial landfills, by reducing waste of the total waste of the entire industry. generation and promoting reuse and recycling. ▪ Compared to 2017 in 2018, the volume of buckets per unit built was reduced by 38%, generating savings of R$ 1.8 million. Target range curve Target 12.4 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs ▪ Sustainable Dweller Program Policy Projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Voluntary Delivery Point (VEP) Commitments ▪ Waste Reuse ▪ ISO 14001 ▪ Construction Waste Management ▪ OHSAS 18001 Indicators Compliance ▪ Act No. 12.305/10 (PNRS) ▪ Environmentally sound management of waste and chemicals. ▪ Resolution n° 307/2002 CONAMA ▪ Life Cycle Analysis (Chemical Products and ▪ Resolution n° 348/2004 CONAMA Waste). ▪ Quantity of hazardous waste generated: Hazardous Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) waste treated, by type of treatment and untreated ▪ Solid Waste Management Plan waste. ▪ Inventory of chemical products: Control substances Seals according to GHS / UN and control of quantity of ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) flammable products. Target 12.5 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through the Circular Economy and its waste prevention, ▪ Projects reduction, recycling and reuse actions. ▪ Production ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Supplies Value Chain Links Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal ( ) Land acquisition and business (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV has a solid waste management system, which (X) Construction adopts, among other strategies, the vision of (X) Supply chain mobilization Circular Economy. ( ) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation ▪ The company has partnerships with suppliers, in search of solutions for the reduction of waste generation. Target 12.5 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ MRV intends to be a reference company in Circular ▪ The civil building sector is one of the main sectors in Economy, for having processes with low waste the world economy, and it is estimated that between generation, besides high capacity for reuse and 20% and 50% of natural resources which generate recycling of materials. solid waste are exploited by the sector. Waste can ▪ Promote and expand awareness and training generate immeasurable environmental impacts, so it programs for employees and residents of real must be controlled, monitored and managed. estates in preventing the generation and correct ▪ MRV has already generated savings of R$ 1.8 million disposal of waste. by reducing the use of buckets per unit built and can benefit from improved management. Target range curve Milestones for achieving the 2030 MRV vision ▪ 2018 Reduce by 5% the consumption of buckets per unit produced ▪ 2019 Reduce by 5% the consumption of buckets per unit produced Target 12.5 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs Policy ▪ Sustainable Dweller Program ▪ Sustainability Policy Projects Commitments ▪ Voluntary Delivery Point (VEP) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Waste Reuse Compliance ▪ Construction Waste Management ▪ Act No. 12.305/10 (National Policy on Solid Waste) MRV Indicators ▪ Resolution n° 307/2002 CONAMA ▪ Quantity of residual material in weight/volume: ▪ Resolution n° 348/2004 CONAMA Generated, Recycled, Reused. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Amount of waste that is deposed (no reuse, not ▪ Solid Waste Management Plan recycled). Seals ▪ Amount of waste (weight/volume) by type and ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) method of disposal. ▪ Monitoring of waste reduction (by efficiency in the use or use of alternative material). Target 13.1 Brazilian Target Build resilience and adaptive capacity to risks and Related departments impacts resulting from climate change and natural ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) disasters. ▪ Projects ▪ Production Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Sustainability ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) Value Chain Links ▪ Supplies (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 13.1 Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ▪ MRV conducted a study of the analysis of vulnerability ▪ Thus, MRV has the possibility of evaluating the to climate change for some of its real estates, creation of adaptation projects through vulnerability considering an area of 4 km² around each of them. The analysis, assessing the degree to which a natural or analysis considered the current scenario (2016) and human system is capable of dealing with the adverse future projections for the year 2030. All the effects of climate change, the analysis of climate risk explanatory variables selected to characterize the is part of the vulnerability index, which allows effects and adaptive capacity were georeferenced and assisting the planning of future investments and normalized to make them spatially comparable and ensuring a governance model that has sustainability aggregate in a weighted compound vulnerability index. and economic competitiveness as its core. Vulnerabilities by type of potential impact (flooding, sliding, dengue and heat waves) were calculated using ▪ MRV works to reduce the impact of climate change, the Model of Vulnerability Evaluation (MOVE). having projects for compensation, mitigation, development of its employees and value chain on the subject and PLR goals. Target 13.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To make MRV a carbon neutral company in relation ▪ As climate change advances, there is an urgent need to 100% of its emissions. to develop and implement adaptation strategies. ▪ Expand the MRV Solar Power Plants Program to Adopting plans based on the identification of risks provide the greatest number of people with clean and opportunities caused by climate change, making and low-cost energy. investments in socio-environmental protection and ▪ Establish partnerships with suppliers in order to improving the resilience of socio-environmental risks expand the development of the chain through proposals for actions related to the reduction of in operations, are effective actions for the GHG emissions. management of risks associated with climate ▪ Use vulnerability and climate risk analyses when change. making decisions about the planning of real estates. Milestones for achieving the 2030 Target range curve MRV vision ▪ 2018 2% of MRV's relative water and energy consumption (per housing unit); ▪ 2018 In 1% the emissions related to scope 1 of greenhouse gases (per unit built). Target 13.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Policy Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Environmental Feasibility Study (EVA) ▪ Risk Management Policy Seals ▪ Climate Change Policy ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) Commitments ▪ MRV + Verde (Green Houses) ▪ GHG Protocol Technologies ▪ ICO2 (B3) ▪ Climate Forum ▪ ISE ▪ Model of Vulnerability Evaluation (MOVE) ▪ Global Compact ▪ Climate Forum ▪ Energy and Climate Group Global Compact ▪ Business Initiative in Climate IEC Target 13.1 Actions Programs ▪ Training of 100% of employees on Climate Change ▪ CDP Climate change (DDSMA, Corporate TV, Intranet and CDP Education). ▪ CDP Water ▪ Climate Vulnerability Project ▪ CDP Forests ▪ Participation in the development of the project ▪ CDP Supply Chain Integration of the SDGs in the Brazilian Electricity Sector: Indicators and Goals Global Compact ▪ Carbon Management Plan ▪ Participation in the LAC Climate Week of the UNFCCC ▪ MRV Solar Power Plants Program The Ambition Loop: How Business and Government Projects Can Advance Policies that Fast Track Zero-Carbon ▪ Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) Water, Energy and Carbon from Economic Growth MRV apartments ▪ Train members of the areas involved in the Carbon ▪ Purchase of Carbon Credits Pricing project to enable an enlightened position ▪ Carbon Pricing Study before a proposal for a carbon pricing instrument for Brazil (PMR Project) Global Compact ▪ MRV Valuation ESG study including carbon pricing scenario ▪ Development of a Supply Chain to reduce emissions Target 13.1 Actions Indicators Projects ▪ Climate Change Adaptation Project: Action to increase ▪ Relationship between emissions and neutralization resilience in Brazil and adaptation in the value chain of emissions. ▪ MAC curve project to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ▪ Methods and technologies for optimizing the use of materials on building sites. ▪ Brazilian Conference on Climate Change: In partnership with the Ethos Institute, WWF, among other ▪ Power generation capacity of MRV solar power institutions, the Brazilian Conference on Climate Change plants will promote a space for neutral and open dialogue ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce between the private sector, government and civil emissions, and feedback on the benefits generated. society. MRV is one of the coordinating institutions of ▪ Analysis of the benefits generated by planning based the Cities and Waste group and we also participate as on the analysis of vulnerability and climate risk. collaborators of the Energy group. ▪ Monitoring the evolution of suppliers participating in the CDP Supply Chain Program Target 13.3 Brazilian Target Improve education, raise awareness and human and Related departments institutional capacity on climate change, its risks, ▪ Sustainability mitigation, adaptation, impacts, and early warning. ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) ▪ DH (Human Development) Relationship with the MRV business Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Value Chain Links (X) Land acquisition ▪ MRV's MRV Carbon Management Plan has guidelines compatible with those of the National Policy on (X) Real estate project Climate Change. (X) Construction ▪ Training, awareness, education of its employees (X) Supply chain mobilization (DDSMA, Corporate TV, Intranet, CDP Education and (X) Real estate commercialization Jornal da Obra), dwellers (Morador Sustentável), neighborhood (Voluntary Delivery Point PEV) and for (X) Real estate use and occupation its suppliers through newsletters and CDP Supply Chain. ▪ Awareness of stakeholders through the participation of panels in events on the theme Target 13.3 2030 MRV vision Target range curve ▪ Maintain clear and transparent communication, helping to identify the resources needed to implement the company's climate policies, adaptation strategies and environmental investments. ▪ Collaborate with the establishment of knowledge Justification networks on disaster risk management and climate change. ▪ Education, awareness and training on climate change ▪ Promote training and educational activities to are some of the guidelines of the National Policy on clients, investors, employees and suppliers on Climate Change, which bring to Brazilian legislation climate change risks and means of reducing natural obligations provided for in the 2030 Agenda and its disasters. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). ▪ As a relevant player and interested in the fight against Climate Change, MRV intends to be a protagonist in the building sector in order to support the achievement of the Brazilian targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Target 13.3 MRV status in 2019 ▪ Training of employees on Climate Change (DDSMA, Corporate TV, Intranet, CDP Education) Enabling factors ▪ Sustainable Dweller Program Policy ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Climate Change Policy Indicators Compliance ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce emissions, ▪ National Policy on Climate Change (Law 12.187/2009, and positive feedback on the benefits generated. art. 5, item XII) ▪ Number of employees trained by MRV on Climate Change (DDSMA, Corporate TV, Intranet, CDP Actions Education). ▪ Number of residents covered by the Sustainable Programs Dweller Program (awareness raising for residents). ▪ MRV Integrity Program ▪ Number of newsletters sent with the theme annually ▪ MRV Carbon Management Plan ▪ Monitoring the evolution of suppliers in the CDP Supply ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce Chain Program emissions ▪ CDP Supply Chain Target 15.1 Brazilian Target Relationship with the MRV business ▪ 15.1.1br By 2020, conservation shall be ensured Value Chain Links through the systems of conservation units provided for in the Law on the National System of (X) Land acquisition Conservation Units (SNUC), and other categories of (X) Real estate project officially protected areas such as Permanent Preservation Areas (APPs), Legal Reserves (RLs) and (X) Construction indigenous lands with native vegetation, at least ( ) Supply chain mobilization 30% of the Amazon, 17% of each of the other ( ) Real estate commercialization terrestrial biomes and 10% of marine and coastal ( ) Real estate use and occupation areas, mainly areas of special importance for biodiversity and ecosystem services, and the demarcation, regularization and effective and Related departments equitable management, assured and respected. ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) ▪ 15.1.2br By 2030, ensure the conservation of continental water ecosystems and their biodiversity, ▪ Projects and strengthen sustainable fisheries in these ▪ SSMA (Health, Safety and Environment) environments, eliminating overfishing and illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing and ▪ Sustainability eliminating subsidies that contribute to IUU fishing. Target 15.1 Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ▪ MRV respects Brazilian environmental legislation, including laws related to officially protected area categories (SNUC, APP, RLs). ▪ The Climate Friendly Program aims to offset MRV's greenhouse gas emissions through the purchase of carbon credits and has as one of its objectives to mitigate climate change and protect ecosystems ▪ MRV carries out recovery and revitalization actions in the municipalities of its real estates, in the last nine years it has planted more than 1.2 million trees in the cities where it operates. Target 15.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Assess, prevent and reduce negative impacts on ▪ Sustainable management is an important strategy soil and areas protected by the legislation. for maintaining the benefits offered by ecological ▪ Carry out public and private partnerships that services, which include materials for human promote the preservation of ecosystems, in consumption, aesthetic values and leisure. alignment with the legislation and the SDGs. ▪ MRV pays attention to the green areas in the Area ▪ Identify relevant ecosystems and develop Directly Affected by the real estates, seeking to strategies and initiatives aimed at integrating reduce to a minimum the risk of damage to these measures for maintenance and restoration. areas. ▪ The company carries out the planting of trees to compensate for both suppression of vegetation in the construction of the real estate and Greenhouse Gases emissions. Target range curve Target 15.1 Actions MRV status in 2019 Programs Enabling factors ▪ MRV Carbon Management Plan Policy ▪ Offsetting MRV's greenhouse gas emissions ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Recovery and revitalization of surroundings ▪ Climate Change Policy Commitments Indicators ▪ Global Compact ▪ Percentage of land bank lands with Environmental Compliance Feasibility Studies ▪ Law 12.651/2012 (Forest Code) ▪ Total number of seedlings purchased by the company ▪ Law 9.985/2000 (SNUC) ▪ Total number of trees planted by the company ▪ Municipal Master Plans ▪ Observance of the legislation of protected areas to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) APP's, RLs, control of conditions of environmental ▪ Environmental Feasibility Study licenses and vegetation suppression obtained in the installation phase that require the identification and ▪ Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory mapping of species protected by law. Seals ▪ Obra Verde (Green Construction) Target 15.2 Brazilian Target Related departments By 2030, eliminate illegal deforestation in all Brazilian biomes, expand the area of forests under sustainable ▪ Sustainability environmental management and recover 12 million ▪ DI (Real Estate Development) hectares of forest and other forms of degraded native ▪ Projects vegetation, in all biomes and preferably in Permanent ▪ Production Preservation Areas (APPs) and Legal Reserves (RLs) and, in areas of alternative land use, expand the area of planted forests by 1.4 million hectares. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ▪ Through environmental studies (EIV Neighborhood Relationship with the MRV business Impact Study; RCA / PCA Environmental Control Report; obtaining the prior license), MRV identifies Value Chain Links and establishes control over ecosystems; Biomes, RLs (X) Land acquisition and APPs. (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV conducts vulnerability and environmental (X) Construction feasibility studies, which map vulnerable and ( ) Supply chain mobilization sensitive areas, to support decision making on ( ) Real estate commercialization whether or not to purchase land. ( ) Real estate use and occupation Target 15.2 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Assess, prevent and reduce negative impacts on soil ▪ Sustainable management is an important strategy for and areas protected by legislation. the maintenance and continuity of the benefits ▪ Carry out public and private partnerships that offered by ecological services, which include promote the preservation of ecosystems, in materials for human consumption, aesthetic values alignment with the legislation and the SDGs. and leisure. ▪ Identify relevant ecosystems and develop strategies ▪ MRV is attentive to the green areas in the Area and initiatives aimed at integrating measures for Directly Affected by the real estates, seeking to maintenance and restoration. reduce to a minimum the risk of damage to these areas. ▪ The company carries out the planting of trees to compensate for both suppression of vegetation in the Target range curve construction of the real estate and the Greenhouse Gases emissions. Target 15.2 MRV status in 2019 Actions Enabling factors Programs Policy ▪ Offsetting emissions through the purchase of carbon credits from REDD+ projects ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Climate Change Policy Indicators Commitments ▪ Global Compact ▪ Percentage of land bank lands with Environmental Feasibility Studies Compliance ▪ Total number of seedlings purchased x total number of ▪ Forest Code trees planted by the monthly company ▪ Municipal Environmental Analysis ▪ Monthly investment in the value of trees planted by ▪ CDP Supply Chain the company ▪ Environmental Licensing ▪ Observance of the legislation of protected areas to Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) APPs, RLs, control of environmental and vegetation suppression license conditions, obtained in the ▪ EVA (Environmental Feasibility Study) installation phase that require the identification and Seals mapping of species protected by law. ▪ Obra Verde MRV (Green Construction) ▪ Annual suppressions carried out with authorizations from existing bodies Technologies ▪ Climates forum Target 16.1 Brazilian Target Significantly reduce all forms of violence and related Related departments mortality rates everywhere, including by reducing ▪ DH (Human Development) by one-third the female homicide and homicide rates of children, teenagers, youth, blacks, indigenous people, women and LGBT people. Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business ▪ Companies are being called upon to become more Relationship with the MRV business transparent and to operate with respect for the different groups involved in their activities. MRV has Value Chain Links initiated a Diversity Program and is structuring an (X) Land acquisition action plan to consider diversity issues in its (X) Real estate project decisions. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 16.1 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Structure the Diversity Program to ensure ▪ Since the target does not define parameters to be responsive, inclusive, participatory and achieved and MRV does not yet have an action plan, a representative decision-making at all levels. vision of intentions has been developed. ▪ Diversity as a fundamental part of achieving business results and diversity indicators to be considered for strategic decision making. Target range curve Target 16.1 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Projects ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Awareness of diversity and inclusion Policy ▪ Women's Day Celebration ▪ Personnel Management Policy ▪ Sign language course Commitments ▪ Filling the IMGI Graph ▪ Global Compact ▪ LGBT pride day ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Personnel Management Cycle ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE of B3 – Brazilian ▪ Career Committee Stock Exchange) Indicators ▪ Indicators not available Target 16.8 Brazilian Target Expand and strengthen Brazilian participation in global Related departments governance institutions. ▪ Risk Management ▪ Compliance Relationship with the MRV business ▪ Legal Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal Value Chain Links and business (X) Land acquisition (X) Real estate project ▪ MRV participates in several debate groups to discuss issues of global relevance, such as Climate (X) Construction Change, Diversity and the fight against corruption. (X) Supply chain mobilization The company seeks to take to the forums its (X) Real estate commercialization perspective, as a Brazilian company, to contribute (X) Real estate use and occupation to the development and implementation of actions to address these issues. Target 16.8 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ Continue to participate in initiatives that promote ▪ MRV Engenharia is a reference in Sustainability, this ethics and integrity and contribute to the position of excellence is the result of the constant achievement of the SDGs. search for good management practices, transparency and corporate governance. The constant improvement and participation in governance Target range curve institutions are important aspects for MRV, conforming its business to the new international environment. Target 16.8 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Codes Commitments ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Global Compact Policy ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Novo Mercado (B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) ▪ Compliance Policy ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Integrity Due Diligence Policy ▪ Ethos Institute ▪ Related Party Transaction Policy Compliance ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy ▪ Anti-Corruption Law 12.846/13. ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy Technology ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ Culture of Integrity (Long Distance Education) ▪ Conflict of Interest Policy Target 16.8 Actions Indicators Programs ▪ Number of DDI performed. ▪ Integrity Program ▪ Number of consulting compliance analyses. ▪ Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) ▪ Number of institutional letters for insertion of ▪ Confidential Channel anticorruption clauses and compliance ▪ CDP Supply Chain recommendations. Projects ▪ Number of critical cases reported involving significant ▪ Sustainability Report risks related to corruption. ▪ Integrity Week ▪ Number of meetings in which the company participated, with the SDG theme ▪ Training on Prevention of Corruption ▪ Integrity Pocket Guide Target 17.9 Brazilian Target Strengthen international support for the effective and Related departments targeted implementation of capacity building in developing countries to support national plans to ▪ Sustainability implement all sustainable development goals, including ▪ Institutional Relations through North-South, South-South and triangular cooperation Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal and business Relationship with the MRV business ▪ MRV participates in several debate groups to discuss issues of global relevance, such as Climate Value Chain Links Change, Diversity and the fight against corruption. The company seeks to take to the forums its (X) Land acquisition perspective, as a Brazilian company, to contribute (X) Real estate project to the development and implementation of actions (X) Construction to address these issues. (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 17.9 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To be a reference company in the alignment ▪ MRV Engenharia is a reference in Sustainability, this between the business purpose and the Sustainable position of excellence is the result of the constant Development Goals, serving as an example to other search for good management practices, transparency companies on how to promote this alignment. and corporate governance. The constant improvement and participation in governance institutions are important aspects for MRV, conforming its business to the new international environment. Target range curve Target 17.9 MRV status in 2019 Actions Programs Enabling factors ▪ CDP Supply Chain Codes ▪ CDP Education ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Integrity Program Policy ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce ▪ Sustainability Policy emissions ▪ Compliance Policy ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy Projects ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy ▪ Sustainability Report ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ MRV Report for the SDGs Commitments ▪ Global Compact ▪ Ethos Institute Indicators ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Number of meetings in which the company ▪ Novo Mercado (B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) participated, with the SDG theme ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Access to the SDG MRV Report Technology ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce emissions, and positive feedback on the benefits ▪ Culture of Integrity (Distance Education) generated Target 17.16 Brazilian Target Strengthen the global partnership for sustainable Related departments development, complemented by multisector partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, ▪ Sustainability expertise, technology and financial resources, to ▪ Institutional Relations support the achievement of sustainable development goals in all countries, particularly in developing Aspects of connection between the MRV countries. Goal and business ▪ MRV participates in several debate groups to Relationship with the MRV business discuss issues of global relevance, such as Climate Change, Diversity and the fight against corruption. The company seeks to take to the forums its Value Chain Links perspective, as a Brazilian company, to contribute (X) Land acquisition to the development and implementation of actions (X) Real estate project to address these issues. (X) Construction (X) Supply chain mobilization (X) Real estate commercialization (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 17.16 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To be an active company in its value chain and in ▪ MRV Engenharia is a reference in Sustainability, this forums to exchange experiences and participate in position of excellence is the result of the constant projects to promote the SDGs with other relevant search for good management practices, players. transparency and corporate governance. ▪ The company believes that the achievement of the SDGs will only be possible with the intense exchange of knowledge and the promotion of partnerships, Target range curve both capable of accelerating and increasing the achievement of results necessary to achieve the SDGs. Target 17.16 MRV status in 2019 Actions Programs Enabling factors ▪ CDP Supply Chain Codes ▪ CDP Education ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ Integrity Program Policy ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce ▪ Sustainability Policy emissions ▪ Compliance Policy ▪ MRV Vizinho do Bem (Sustainable Neighborhood) ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy Projects ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy ▪ Sustainability Report ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development Commitments Goals ▪ Global Compact ▪ Ethos Institute Indicators ▪ Number of meetings in which the company ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) participated, with the SDG theme ▪ Novo Mercado (B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) ▪ Access to the SDG MRV Report. ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce Technology emissions, and positive feedback on the benefits ▪ Culture of Integrity (Distance Education) generated. Target 17.17 Brazilian Target Encourage and promote effective partnerships in the Related departments public, public-private, private and civil society spheres, based on the experience of the strategies for mobilizing ▪ Sustainability the resources of these partnerships. ▪ Institutional Relations Aspects of connection between the MRV Goal Relationship with the MRV business and business Value Chain Links ▪ MRV participates in several debate groups to discuss issues of global relevance, such as Climate (X) Land acquisition Change, Diversity and the fight against corruption. (X) Real estate project The company seeks to take to the forums its (X) Construction perspective, as a Brazilian company, to contribute (X) Supply chain mobilization to the development and implementation of actions (X) Real estate commercialization to address these issues. (X) Real estate use and occupation Target 17.17 2030 MRV vision Justification ▪ To be an active company in its value chain and in ▪ MRV Engenharia is a reference in Sustainability, this forums to exchange experiences and participate in position of excellence is the result of the constant projects to promote the SDGs with other relevant search for good management practices, transparency players. and corporate governance. ▪ The company believes that the achievement of the SDGs will only be possible with intense exchange of knowledge and the promotion of partnerships, both Target range curve capable of accelerating and increasing the achievement of the results necessary to achieve the SDGs. Target 17.17 MRV status in 2019 Enabling factors Actions Codes Programs ▪ Code of Conduct ▪ CDP Supply Chain Policy ▪ CDP Education ▪ Sustainability Policy ▪ Integrity Program ▪ Compliance Policy ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce ▪ Public Power Relationship Policy emissions Projects ▪ Anti-Corruption Policy ▪ Sustainability Report ▪ Supplier Relationship Policy ▪ MRV Report for the Sustainable Development Commitments Goals ▪ Global Compact ▪ Ethos Institute Indicators ▪ Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) ▪ Number of meetings in which the company ▪ Novo Mercado (B3 – Brazilian Stock Exchange) participated, with the SDG theme ▪ Afin (Alliance for Integrity) ▪ Access to the SDG MRV Report Technology ▪ Development of the Supply Chain to reduce emissions, and positive feedback on the benefits generated ▪ Culture of Integrity (Distance Education) MRV Institute MRV Institute is a non-profit organization, with its own governance, maintained exclusively with MRV resources for the promotion of social transformation through education. Presentation Annually, 1% of MRV's net profit is transferred to the Institute and converted into projects, programs and partnerships, managed with the company's standards of transparency, effectiveness and efficiency, seeking to generate the greatest positive impact for the served population. Mission Vision Promote the social transformation of our To achieve positive and lasting country through education, the main transformations in society, contributing to a foundation for the development of a nation, better future for the communities where we preparing citizens for life and training the operate. achievers of the future. Institute’s Activities The MRV Institute has three operation pillars: Educate to transform Your child, our future MRV volunteers Selection and development of Donation of educational materials and The internal volunteer program transforming social projects in the area books for the children of MRV Group supports actions to promote of education. Two editions employees. The program promotes education. Between 2015 and of the program were held in 2018. The the provision of school supplies to 2018, approximately 2,000 MRV theme of the 3rd edition was children and teenagers between the employees dedicated 9,700 hours Education for Transformation with a ages of 6 and 14 and the Kit to volunteer activities. The 267 focus on Sustainable Development . In Leiturinha for children of to 5 years actions, were carried out in 82 it, each of the four selected projects old, encouraging the habit of reading. cities, benefiting 133 institutions. received R$80,000. The 4th edition of the program, with the theme . Resolution of local problems through education, eight projects were In total, between 2015 and 2018 the MRV Institute invested R$15.5 selected and received a contribution of million in programs, projects and partnerships, which directly benefited R$ 30,000 each. 108,645 people, and 325,935 indirectly. MRV Institute and the SDGs The diagnosis of MRV's relationship with the SDGs, carried out in 2018, also included the MRV Institute and indicated a strong relationship with SDG 4 (Quality Education) and weak relationship with other 8 Goals. The area of each icon represents the intensity of alignment between it and the activities of the organization. In this year's mapping, it was observed that the MRV Institute has not only a strong relationship with SDG 4, but it is the only player involved with four of its targets within MRV. They are: TARGET 4.1 TARGET 4.6 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys’ complete By 2030, ensure that all youngsters and adults are primary and secondary education that is literate, having acquired basic knowledge in reading, equitable, of good quality at the appropriate writing and mathematics. age, ensure free provision in the public network, TARGET 4.7 and lead to satisfactory and relevant learning results. By 2030, ensure that all students acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to promote sustainable TARGET 4.2 development, including, among others, through By 2030, ensure comprehensive early childhood education for sustainable development and sustainable development, access to quality childcare and lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a education for all girls and boys, so that they are culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship, prepared for primary school. and appreciation of cultural diversity and the contribution of culture to sustainable development. The MRV Institute thus has the important role of contributing to the achievement of extremely important goals for Brazil, in themes disconnected from MRV's business. By doing so, the Institute helps to expand the company's capacity to act in favor of Sustainable Development, and in the effective search for compliance with the 2030 Agenda in Brazil. MRV Vizinho do Bem is a relationship and community development program that proposes a new approach to guide the interaction with the communities neighboring the company’s construction sites. The relationship is guided by constant dialogue Theory of with the community, articulation of spaces for social interaction and implementation of social and environmental actions. Change: establishing a The Community Relationship allows MRV to direct its investment to the demands of the real estates in line with the demands of the link between actions and neighboring communities, which enables a structured and long-term impacts strategic corporate action in the territories where it operates. Approximation to the community also results in: MRV Vizinho do Bem ▪ company’s brand and reputation strengthening with the neighbors of construction sites and other players; Program ▪ development of coordinated work between various corporate departments; ▪ alignment with the main requirements of social responsibility and sustainability; ▪ creation of a channel for direct dialogue with surrounding communities; ▪ prevention, treatment or mitigation of conflicts, 1. Knowing – Social Diagnosis minimizing possible losses in productivity and 2. Involving – Feedback and supporting real estates’ sustainability. Social Action The Program’s first experiment was held in the state of Rio de Janeiro, in the municipality of São 3. Acting – Action Plan Gonçalo, in partnership with the Social Service of The first phase aims to get to know the community Rio de Janeiro’s Construction Industry (Seconci-Rio). focus of the social investments, as well as to establish The positive results of this experience led to the the necessary link for the dialogue to flow in a clear expansion of the Program to other cities in the state and transparent manner. Thus, the activities and to the city of Campinas. MRV is currently proposed in this phase aim to obtain information that expanding the Program to other construction sites will enable the community to be portrayed, which will and municipalities. benefit from the community relationship actions. The MRV Vizinho do Bem Program focuses on the From the proposed mapping it is possible to elaborate promotion of sustainable communities, a regional social cartography, pointing out its emphasizing the strengthening of local capacities potentialities, weaknesses and needs. Such mapping and the articulation of spaces for social interaction will be the basis for the Action Plan to be and dialogue for the construction of a common implemented or strengthened (if any activity that can purpose between the real estate and its be enhanced is under way) and is the result of a neighborhood. The program has three phases: broad and participatory community consultation. Once the results of the first phase are Citizenship actions that offer health, leisure and systematized, the activities aimed at the effective cultural activities and the possibility of registering for involvement of the population in the formulation professional training, in addition to moving the and implementation of the Action Plan are started. community around, with view to approaching and The second phase (Involving) encompasses the strengthening the bond between the parties involved. following activities: This action can be considered a milestone in the implementation of actions focused on community 1. Feedback to the community: means that the relations in the territory in which the real estate project data collected in the previous phase will be is located. presented to the community, when they will be confirmed and validated by the population. The The third phase (Acting) refers to the Action Plan moment of feedback is characterized as a implementation, which indicates the interventions to framework for articulation, which also serves as a be carried out in the territory. They are basically related moment to reinforce the relationship and a trigger to six axes of action: to deepening the dialogue for the Action Plan’s Strengthening small businesses and productive groups preparation. Existing economic activities in the territory are 2. Social Action: preferably to be carried out in a enhanced by means of courses in microlocation close to the local community and that is entrepreneurship. recognized by its population. Technical and professional training Strengthening of social organizations Courses to qualify local labor force for insertion in An action that takes place through the launching of the civil construction labor market. regional/local calls for proposals to support projects and ideas aimed at the social development of the Citizenship and social actions community. The registered projects are voted and Actions that offer a wide variety of services to the prioritized by the community, so the investments community: access to health exams, promotion of direction are decided in conjunction with the education classes, documents issuance, among population that will be benefited. In addition to others. Monthly meetings are also held with the financial support, training workshops are offered in various leaders to exchange experiences, engage management and fundraising, to ensure the project’s and empower community action. sustainability after the call for tenders has been appealed. Education for sustainability Development of new opportunities Activities aimed at preserving the environment, sustainability awareness and concepts of smart Actions that refer to partnerships that can be cities. established throughout the implementation of the project may also include solutions to demands that arise from listening to the population in the established communication channels. The activities of the MRV Vizinho do Bem Program have the potential to generate long-term impacts adhering to many SDGs. Achieving these goals by 2030 requires that the interventions undertaken produce shortand medium-term results that support the generation of long-term impacts. Theory of Based on dialogues with various representatives of the program's Change: establishing a stakeholders, the MRV Vizinho do Bem’s Theory of Change was created. It allows the observation of how the activities are link between actions and converted into social, environmental and economic impacts in long-term impacts the short, medium and long term. Once the causal links of the impact are explained, it is possible to organize a management system for the Program, capable of monitoring performance and Explaining the program's contribution to verifying its effectiveness in the pursuit of the SDGs. the SDGs The analysis of the Good Neighbor Theory of Change shows us how it serves the different target audiences, generating products that impact the local economy (through the professional qualification of residents, for example), society (through open calls for NGOs, for example) and even the environment (with the recovery of squares and green areas, for example). The sum of these products over time generates results linked to the improvement of the community, the relationship between the population of the neighborhood, MRV's team and Let us look, for example, at target 8.3, linked to SDG 8 residents of the new real estates. Direct economic and one of the 27 prioritized by MRV. In its Brazilian gains are also expected for residents, through the version, the goal is understood as: Promote appreciation of real estate in the region and the development with the generation of decent work; emergence of new opportunities for income formalization; the growth of small businesses, small generation, with the strengthening of local and medium companies; entrepreneurship and businesses and greater training of the population. innovation In order to make the connection between the The MRV 2030 Vision will establish the company's medium-term results and impacts of the Program, desired outcome for this goal. With this objective in it is fundamental to rescue the approach of the mind, the teams involved with the MRV Good Neighbor MRV 2030 Vision. The Good Neighbor Program Program will be able to assess whether the various generates results that are associated to 10 SDGs. professional qualification and support actions for local But it is not enough that MRV knows only that companies contribute sufficiently to achieve this goal. connection. It needs to understand the This clarity will allow professionals to plan actions and participation she wants and wants to have in each target audiences in order to achieve the SDGs. SDG and what contribution the Good Neighbor Program can make to it. MRV Vizinho do Bem Program Partnerships with commercially aligned suppliers and consultants Entity or consultancy to carry out the management and implementation of the Program Physical space for attendance and performance of the activities Dissemination/communication materials Resources Technical team: supervision, service team, instructors and social mobilizer Own resource of engineering MRV Partner Resource Material and didactic resources for activities Telephone line to contact the community Neighbors of MRV’s Real Estate (commerce, NGOs, community associations, public facilities and residents) Public Social players in the community Neighboring Community Residents New Residents of MRV's developments MRV Vizinho do Bem Program Socioeconomic mapping/diagnosis Return meetings Holding of Goodness Day and social actions Implementation of the Action Plan with the axes: 1. Strengthening small businesses 2. Technical and professional training (including Grade A School) 3. Citizenship and social actions Activities 4. Development of new opportunities 5. Strengthening of social organizations 6. Education for Sustainability Periodic meetings with local leaders Shifts of attendance Articulation with technical partners Articulation with financial partners MRV Vizinho do Bem Program Social Cartography Action Plan by territory Strengthened small businesses with greater capacity to generate income Persons qualified to conduct activities in civil construction Social projects financially supported and trained to maintain community development activities Product Opportunities generated for inclusion in the labor market MRV's project neighbors informed about the construction progress MRV's neighbors served promptly to solve their needs Technical partners engaged to contribute to interventions in the communities served Business partners mobilized to contribute with social responsibility actions MRV Vizinho do Bem Program Improvement of MRV's relationship with the neighbors of its Real Estates MRV image enhancement Appreciation of MRV Real Estates Healthy relationship of the construction team with the neighbors of the developments Results Conflict prevention and resolution with dialogue The neighbors of the real estates have access to sports, educational, cultural and socio-environmental projects Technical and commercial partners work together and in synergy to promote social transformation in the communities served MRV is recognized as a citizen company by its neighbors Transformation of the construction industry's view of the importance of social responsibility allied to business Neighbors of the real estates inserted in the labor market Income generation opportunities Impacts MRV is the first construction company in Latin America to produce projects in the economic segment with large-scale photovoltaic solar energy system. It confirms MRV's commitment to creating innovative solutions that contribute to sustainable development. The buildings have photovoltaic systems capable of producing Theory of electricity to be used by the condominium. Photovoltaic modules Change: establishing a are installed on the roofs of the towers and blocks of the real estates, converting solar energy into electricity. link between actions and The electricity generated is used in the common areas of the long-term results condominium and, in some specific projects, also in the apartments. When the amount generated is greater than the MRV Solar Power amount consumed, the energy is injected into the local utility's Plant distribution network and converted into energy credits, which can be used within 60 months. The credits are used on the condo's monthly energy bill. This system has positive gains both for residents and the environment, as well as it is a clean energy generation source, it also makes possible financial savings for the condominiums, which can create a reserve fund for reinvestments in improvements in the project itself. Furthermore it brings residents closer to sustainable technologies, demonstrating their benefits and helping to build a culture of sustainability. MRV has committed to launching 100% of its enterprises with clean energy supply by the year 2022. This initiative is a significant contribution to the diversification of the Brazilian energy matrix. Thereby the company contributes to the Nationally Determined Contribution of the Paris Agreement to expand the use of renewable sources in addition to hydropower in the Brazilian energy matrix to a 28% to 33% stake by 2030 and sends signals to the government of support for sustainability and climate policies to fight climate change. The MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Program Theory of Change establishes the relationship between program efforts and short-, mediumand long-run results produced directly or indirectly. So with MRV Solar Power Plants Program Matrix, we associate longterm impacts with the SDGs and their goals. As a direct product, the Program generates clean energy for the residents of MRV's projects. In the medium run, it is expected that these residents will benefit from the appreciation of their real estate, and the company will experience gains in reputation and brand appreciation and that there will be a growing share of clean energy sources in the Brazilian electricity matrix. Theory of These results collaborate with several SDGs, as they increase the Change: establishing a supply of clean energy (SDG 7), create sustainable infrastructure in cities (SDG 9 and 11) and assist in fighting climate change (SDG link between actions and 13). long-term results Again, MRV Vision 2030 is critical for clarity about the program's Explaining the program’s contribution to contribution to effective company collaboration for the SDGs. the SDGs MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Plant Program Financial investment for purchasing technology and services; Resources Technical team, to assess the feasibility and implementation of projects. External: Owners and dwellers of the real estates. Public Internal: MRV stores, offices and stores MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Plant Program Analyses: Sizing Viability: Implementation of projects. Hiring/Services Activities Suppliers, operation and maintenance. Installation of photovoltaic plants. Connection of the photovoltaic system of the real estate to the local network. Measurement of energy production. Awareness campaigns on the use of clean energy. MRV Photovoltaic Solar Power Plant Program Developments with photovoltaic energy system installed Clean power generation. Product Financial savings for the owners of the real estates. Improvements in real estate infrastructure Savings on electricity converted into a reserve for condominiums. Awareness of MRV project dwellers and employees about the use of clean energy Market differentiation for MRV Appreciation of the MRV brand Results Real estate appreciation Diversification of the Brazilian energy matrix Reduction of energy consumption from conventional sources Impacts
