COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Year 2019-2020 Paharpur Business Centre CONTENT S. No. Content Page No. 1 Chairman’s Statement 3-5 2 What We Do 6-7 3 Mission, Vision & Policy 8-9 4 PBC’s commitment to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles 10 5 PBC’s commitment to Sustainable Development Goals 11 A. Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 12 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 13 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to 14 Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 14 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 14-15 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 15 and occupation C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 16-18 Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility 19-19 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally 19-20 Friendly Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 21 bribery Sustainable Development Goals SDG 3 Good Health & Wellbeing 22-24 SDG 5 Gender Equality 25 SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 26-27 SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities 28 SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 29-30 SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 31-32 SDG 13 Climate Change 33-34 SDG 14 Life Below Water 35 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 2 Chairman’s statement of continued commitment to UN Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles “We have always had an obligation to demonstrate compassion And make time for our people when they need it. Now is the time to make good on it.” Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2019-2020. In this report, we once again share our progress with regard to the Ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – SDG 3, 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13 & 14 and our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. PBC has endeavored to internalise the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC & Triple Bottom line principles. Our focus has rightly been on Green certified Buildings for a sustainable future. We now must also focus on Health and Wellbeing of the occupants of the building, for whom these buildings are built in the first place. “We are currently dealing with Corona Virus that’s responsible for the 2020 Pandemic Causes, an illness called COVID-19. The corona virus gains entry through your eyes, nose or mouth. It then gains entry onto your sells by latching its spiky surface proteins to receptors on normal cells, especially those in your lungs. Specifically, the viral proteins burst into cells through the receptors called ACE2 on the cells surface. Once inside, the corona virus hijacks your healthy cells and takes over command. Eventually, the virus kills some of the healthy cells. COVID-19, the illness caused by the corona virus, starts in your respiratory tract. That’s the airway between your mouth, nose, throat, and lungs. It’s the same place that the common cold attacks. But COVID-19 can become more serious than the common cold, because it’s more likely to get deeper into your respiratory tract, including into your lungs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 3 That’s because your lower airways have more ACE2 receptors. When your body spots the virus, your immune system counterattacks. One sign of that is a fever. You might have a cough too. That’s your body’s usual response to something in the airways that shouldn’t be there. For most people, the symptoms end here. More than 8/10 cases are mild. But for others, the infection gets more severe. Think of your respiratory tract as an upside-down tree. The trunk is your trachea, or the wind pipe. It splits into smaller and smaller At PBC we have, over the branches in your lungs. At the end of each branch are tiny air sacks called alveoli. This is where oxygen goes into your blood and carbon past 35 plus years dioxide comes out. experienced, that if one stay As infection reaches your lower respiratory system, including your indoors in the building for lungs, it can be hard for you to breathe. This is where serious medical around 8 hours, there is a problems can crop up. For example, many viral infections can cause 42% probability of one’s pneumonia. This infection makes your airways swell and your lungs fill with fluid. In most severe cases, fluid in the lungs can lead to acute Blood Oxygen Level going respiratory distress syndrome, or ARDS. People who get this up by 1%. This is condition are usually already in the hospital for the illness that significant, given that our caused it. brain weighs only 2% of our ARDS makes it difficult or impossible to breathe. As fluid collects in body weight but uses 20% of the lungs, they can’t carry as much oxygen to your blood. This means your blood may not supply your organs with enough oxygen to the oxygen we breathe. We survive. This can cause organs like your kidney, lungs, and liver to at PBC grow our own fresh shut down and stop working. Not everyone who has COVID -19 develops these serious complications. And not everyone needs medical air using over 7,000 indoor attention.” (Source: WEBMD) plants! COVID-19 is a Pathogen, an organism that causes disease when entering the body. All that a Pathogen needs to survive is a host. It is not a self-generating and is transported. We wish to make it difficult for this Pathogen to enter PBC. Poor air quality has been a concern in India for quite some time and has become even more important since the COVID-19 pandemic. As people return to their offices and public spaces, maintaining good indoor air quality is essential for occupant comfort, well-being, productivity and the overall public health. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 4 Most buildings in India are not equipped to establish and maintain healthy indoor air quality and need to be upgraded. Such retrofit measures, like increasing outside air and additional filtration in the air conditioning system, typically come at the cost of occupant comfort and increased energy use. Nor are there standardized approaches to retrofitting. The Covid-19 pandemic is more than a physical health issue—it’s a mental-health matter fueled by people’s concern for themselves, their families, their jobs, and the world at large. Sudden changes in lifestyle, including a widespread transition to remote work, bring challenges from a mental health perspective. Some people are suffering from isolation and loneliness, while others are overwhelmed by the need to care for others. And just about everyone is struggling to define the boundaries between work, family affairs, and personal time. As business leaders, we have always had an obligation to demonstrate compassion and make time for our people when they need it. Now is the time to make good on it. Small steps taken today to support employees’ mental and physical health will not only help individuals, but also strengthen our teams and deepen our sense of community. As part of our constant and continuous endeavor, we want Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), a safer and better work place with enhanced cleanliness, sanitation, Indoor air quality, safety and security and these aspects are designed to reduce the risk of infection, for your own benefit. Kamal Meattle Chairman Emeritus COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 5 WHAT WE DO PBC is a green mSME which has been a pioneer in the Indian real estate and service sector for over two decades now. For many years now, PBC has been walking on the path of sustainability by focusing on two major issues: 1) Ways to reduce energy in the urban maintenance without sacrificing quality (International standards) 2) To provide best air quality, which one would find up in the mountains of Gulmarg, Davos or Switzerland PBC, a more than 35 year old building built to compulsory Government Design, it is the first retrofit building in India, which is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified. Considered as a landmark building and has been a case study for building engineering community. Installed LEED Arc which allows us to keep its sustainability goals focused in real-time and not merely on the basis of a one-time green certification. It is about staying relevant at all times. It is a remarkable monitoring system that accounts for energy and water consumption, waste generation, and the human experience. It is also the first office building in India to be rated Platinum, for Health and Wellbeing for its occupants, by CIIIGBC. It is a BEE 5 star rated building and is currently operating at less than 18 Whr /hr /sqm. PBC is well-known for its exceptional indoor air quality, security and improvement of Human Productivity. It grows its own fresh air indoors with over 7,000 special indoor plants and uses Technology. It is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), and the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. It is certified for various International Standards ISO 9001:2015, 14001:2015, 22000:2005, 50001:2011, OHSAS 18001: 2007 and FSSAI. PBC, a safe and healthy heaven, offers 24 x7 Access to “Fresh Air Offices and Conference Facilities”, on plug-n-play basis. However, it’s much more than just a space of world-class amenities. It looks at different aspects that enhance the health and comfort of the building occupants, consequently leading to better business growth. It gives all the businesses, a platform to grow personally and career wise just by working in a healthy indoor environment – a twist in the commercial business centre model. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 6 PBC follows the CSR practices as per the Company Act 2013. It has a pro-active CSR/ Sustainability Committee in Place, which decides the activities; their compliance as per the Act and the end results. PBC firmly believes in the convergence of Triple Bottom Line. Led by “People First” approach, PBC’s focus has always been on Health and Wellness of the occupants. This has been an intrinsic part of PBC’s business strategy since inception. Its USP, “Indoor Air Quality” (IAQ) is a proof of it. Breathe EasyTM is a successful Start Up incubated by PBC, with a wide reference list, that now helps others implement solutions to improve Indoor Air Quality, while reducing energy usage, at an affordable cost PBC is a preferred choice for eco-business partnership for companies that undertake sustainable initiatives or planning a foray into the Indian market. Our past and present clientele includes leading multinational & fortune 500 companies from across the Globe Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Mobil, Motorola, British Telecom, SAP, Singapore, Telecom, Converse Network, GEC Alsthom, Intel, Matsushita Electric, Sun Microsystems, Alta Vista, Hitachi, Daiken, Associated Press, Symantec and more. This reflects the confidence and trust that organizations have reposed in the services and offerings of PBC. PBC aims to be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 7 VISION & MISSION VISION To stand out as an organization that takes a focused approach on ensuring consistent delivery of quality services, care for environment and people around us. Since, we believe in keeping customers as our first priority, we stay inspired from within to provide end-to-end business solutions to them. MISSION To become an eminent world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services and address customers’ needs, whilst also caring for their health and environment. We aim at creating an exquisite platform of growth and wellness for all our stakeholders. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact, our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offer a rewarding and challenging workplace to our employees. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 9 PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE COMMITMENT TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should support and respect the protection of uphold the freedom of association and internationally proclaimed human the effective recognition of the right to rights; and collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all not complicit in human rights abuses. forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should and occupation. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ANTI-CORRUPTION responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should development and diffusion of work against corruption in all its forms, environmentally friendly technologies. including extortion and bribery. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 10 PAHARPUR BUSINESS CENTRE COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING LIFE BELOW WATER GENDER EQUALITY CLIMATE ACTION RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE CITIES REDUCED AFFORDABLE AND AND COMMUNITIES INEQUALITY CLEAN ENERGY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 11 A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Government to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense— companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursue with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings help our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how these are to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also make sure that each Head of the Department clearly understands the risk emerging by not following these. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. Through this, PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunities without discrimination on any account, inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and are addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 12 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under Company’s Management Standing Instruction (MSI), we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion is not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. On the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members so that they can give their ideas/suggestions without any apprehensions. This can result in overall improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 13 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partners towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and meetings organized for subcontractors, vendors & other stakeholders. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us. This once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with requirements of labour law, OHSAS & UNGC principles. V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers who treat their employees the way we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 14 indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In PBCHR Process, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only, qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. In the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this; it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, color, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 15 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC a high performance and a truly green office building. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the SDGs & Climate Change issues and take us through this difficult phase. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC a high performance and a truly green office building. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the SDGs & Climate Change issues and take us through this difficult phase. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. PBC was featured as one of the top ten nominations, for the Hall of Fame 2017 at ACREX 2017, organized by ISHRAE and CII. The parameters were Energy Performance Index, Indoor Air Quality, Energy saving, 1 year operational data from BMS and building commissioned on or after June 2013. We qualified for the last pre condition as we have made significant changes in our equipment leading to high level of energy efficiency. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 16 Energy conservation practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider). At PBC, we take a 360 degree approach while looking at energy management. It is an on-going process. We plan and implement our interventions keeping all the aspects of business relevance in mind and constantly put in efforts to maintain them. There are huge challenges while retrofitting a building like ours as we are a 24x7 operation and we cannot take any shut down for any of our retrofit activities. PBC has experienced a reduction of maximum 30% in the electricity bills due to its energy conservation measures. We are working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency. WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. RECYCLED WATER TESTING & DATA RECORD KEEPING Water recycling is a critical element for managing our water resources. Also known as water reclamation, water recycling is the process of extracting previously used water and treating it for reuse. Currently, modern technologies have allowed the application of recycled water to enter many different areas. Reclaimed water is cleaned and redistributed for land irrigation, to recharge ground water, for industrial applications (cooling the water for power plants and oil refineries), for toilet water, to irrigate golf courses and to create artificial snow. Quality monitoring is carried out at critical points along the treatment and delivery stages of recycled water supply. Used as intended, recycled water can provide a safe substitute for drinking water in a variety of applications. In general, recycled water can be produced 'fit for purpose' and depending on a suitable level of treatment can be used in any situation. At PBC, Recycled Water is treated to meet stringent quality guidelines to ensure that both public health and the environment are protected and to minimize the risk of water borne diseases. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 17 We have Effluent Treatment Plant located at kitchen at Ground Floor. In this ETP plant, kitchen waste water get collected and cleaned. After cleaning process, ETP outlet is used for irrigation purpose only after the results of testing ETP water from NABL accredited laboratory. Frequency / schedule for testing recycled water have been revised to quarterly testing. In PBC, we measure the quality of treated recycled water, so as to ensure compliance to MOEF norms/ CPCB norms/ State Pollution Control norms. As well as, treated water is reused for external and internal building cleaning and mopping purpose after ensuring physical parameters are as per IS 10500. WASTE MANAGEMENT PBC has integrated its waste management system in its daily operations. The mantra is: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. Waste is segregated at its origin. PBC has placed separate bins for different types of waste like food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermi-culture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants. Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) norms, the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters. PBC also uses discharged water from effluent treatment plant: Discharged treated water from Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) is used in Vermi-compost Pit and for gardening purpose. PBC recycles paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, they try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc. The team is advised to reuse one-sided paper & promote communication through E-mail. VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PBC believes in environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders. Our values encourage and motivate us to have partnerships with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are as follows: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 18 LEARN & EARN PROGRAM With the objective of spreading awareness on green concepts, PBC came up with “Learn & Earn” Program, wherein students get a chance to learn and earn wisdom about making their environment green. Recently, PG Students from IIT Delhi visited PBC along with the Professors to learn about its sustainable ways. PBC shared various green initiatives related to energy and water conservation, waste management and sustainability. Mr. Barun explained them how dangerous is Indoor Air Pollution when compared with the ambient air and that is why it needs more attention. He further elaborated about the major indoor air pollutants i.e. PM 2.5, PM 10, VOC’s, etc. He explained how PBC has better indoor air quality compared to other buildings. Our CEO Emeritus, Mr. Meattle elaborated on the importance of green & healthy work spaces. He also explained how we combat pollution and grow our own fresh air with the help of more than 7,000 toxin removing plants that are grown indoors. IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc  In-house employee awareness programs TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE TO THE KEEN LEARNERS PBC believes in sharing its knowledge to enhance capabilities to create a better future, and that can happen by inculcating sustainable values in the students (the future of the world) PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school and college children. We create awareness on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 19 We demonstrate them our initiatives so as to make them aware of the viable measures. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. And, we show them how such things are possible. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 20 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anticorruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favor should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 21 SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages COVID-19 has laid bare the seemingly obvious, yet often overlooked fact that ensuring employee safety and health, not to mention customer and supply chain worker safety, is critical to executing a sustainable business strategy. PBC is constantly reinforcing the 5 golden practices:  Hand washing  Social distancing  Wear Mask  Avoid Physical Meetings  Work from Home With the future of work constantly evolving, so are the future workplaces. Thanks to the COVID, enclosed and large office spaces are now making way for flexible, open, compact and airy workspaces to ensure proper hygiene and safety of the employees. “Corona has given us a lot of shock and we have to live with that. Workplaces of the Future have to be healthy. An office of the future will be having adequate space for indulging in the nature instead of cramped spaces. It will be having a veranda, cut-out and people can move around and enjoy the sunshine. They can shelter beautifully well in the working environment. “Life is all about Wellness” “Wellness is a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” The World Health Organization Paharpur Business Centre is the First Office Building in India to get Platinum Rating under CII-IGBC “Health and Well Being Rating” system in February 2018. We have experienced that by providing superior quality of Indoor Environment Quality (IEQ) to the occupants, results in 360 degrees health and business benefits to all. Wellness results in fewer sick days and in a motivated work force. This is besides the improved energy efficiency of the building, resulting in lower OPEX, if one were to replicate the IAQ practice at PBC. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 22 This truly has been the one major paradigm shift in our Business Strategy. People working in Buildings need to keep well and it is a well known fact that indoor air is 10 times more polluted than outside or ambient air. Buildings are primarily built, for the benefit of its occupants, and we wish that all buildings existing, or to be built in the future are certified as healthy, with focus on occupant health, happiness, cognitive ability & productivity. PBC offers enhanced Health, Wellness, Productivity & Cognitive Ability of Building Occupants. From past 35 years, PBC is using plants & technology to purify the air i.e. reducing all sorts of pollutants and oxygenating the air. PBC currently has more than 7,000 indoor plants which are actively working to reduce VOCs & add Oxygen in the indoor air. Our findings show that there is a 42% probability of saturated Blood Oxygen Level (BOL) going up by 1% if one spends 8-10 hours indoors at PBC. PBC has been rated as one of the healthiest office buildings in Delhi NCR by Central Pollution Control Board (CBCB), Govt. of India and Chitranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI). Both these institutions conducted a 2 year long study on the occupants of our building and the results shows that the Air purification system has helped us in decreasing the incidences of:  Eye Irritation by 52%  Respiratory Symptoms by 34%  Headaches by 24%  Asthma by 12% Good indoor air quality has an Impact on Brain’s Functionality A study in October 2015 (by Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Center for Health and the Global Environment, SUNY Upstate Medical University, and Syracuse University) has looked at people’s experiences in “green” vs. “non-green” buildings in a double-blind study. It has revealed that when the people were moved from a conventional building to an extra ventilated green building, the cognitive performance scores were immediately improved by 61%. The goal of sustainability requires a more extended timelines for return on investment (ROI) but once initial investments are made, they can actually lead to increase profitability. YOGA SESSIONS PBC facilitates its occupants with Yoga and Gym room for motivating and encouraging health awareness. PBC also organizes yoga sessions for benefits of its occupants. Recently PBC has organized Five Minutes Yoga Protocol Yoga at Workplace , organized for 10 continuous days at Paharpur Business Centre, which not only has changed our viewpoint, over the period, towards the environment of a business centre, but has also invigorated our employees COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 23 enormously to take Yogic passion to another level of achievement by combining it with quick techniques and easy module as per corporate world for relaxing and energizing our employees. Paharpur Business Centre, Nehru Place, is far ahead in such kind of activities and has attempted various measures to ensure transformation of an employee into a good inhabitant by way of contributing to the fullest into Wellness, Cultural, Educational, Sports, Vocational training activities etc. Yog Asanas have been proven to be the one of the best practices among common persons to keep oneself calm and stress free in their routine work. Mr. Pradeep Kumar was placed as the Yoga Instructor for 10 days (from 20th January 31st January 2020) from Ministry of Ayush, Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY). Ten minutes yoga break twice (morning and evening) in a day were provided to the employees for 10 days. AWARENESS & ENCOURAGEMENT PROGRAMMES ON PHYSICAL FITNESS PBC encourages its occupants to participate in fitness programmes. A healthy employee is a productive employee. PBC encourages occupants to participate in races, group fitness activities and sports. AWARENESS AND ENCOURAGEMENT PBC has taken measures for creating awareness and encouraging its occupants on physical fitness through emails and also organizes Annual Heath Camp / medical camps, Regular BP & BOL Checkup, Quarterly Yoga Sessions and Health Talks. PBC also circulates mails to PBC Team & Clients for creating awareness related to health issues and problems and measures to resolve the health problems. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 24 SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls PBC welcomes the provisions of the UNDP Goal No. 5 and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate commitment to Women Empowerment. PBC has adopted seven steps in order to empower women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We strongly believe that our employees are our family and their families are our extended family. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family.  Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘comeon-specific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees  Extended Maternity Leaves  A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one  Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am Employee Relations & Engagement Process are very crucial aspects in PBC: where people take pride in working in an organization that is sensitive to global issues i.e. Care for Environment, Society, Inclusivity, Diversity, No discrimination, Zero Harassment, Discipline, Conflict & Dispute Resolution & Grievance handling. PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner. PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a nation as a whole. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 25  SDG 7  Ensure access to affordable, reliable,  sustainable and modern energy for all Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), a more than 35 years old building built to compulsory Government Design, it is the first retrofit building in India, which is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified. Considered as a landmark building and has been a case study for building engineering community. Installed LEED Arc which allows us to keep its sustainability goals focused in real-time and not merely on the basis of a one-time green certification. It is about staying relevant at all times. It is a remarkable monitoring system that accounts for energy and water consumption, waste generation, and the human experience. It is BEE 5 Star rated building certified in 2010 with an AAHEPI of 28Wh/hr/sqm and currently operating at 19Wh/hr/sqm. We have been able to bring this down with Energy conservation measures. The goal of sustainability requires a more extended timelines for return on investment (ROI) but once initial investments are made, they can actually lead to increase profitability. When PBC started its business it was required to follow the standard operating norms for any large commercial facility. Be it energy, water consumption, waste handling or thermal comfort, the standards were not challenging enough and the customers were also not demanding them in India. We had different ideas, out ambition was not to create another facility in Delhi but to create a world class building which could compete with the best in facilities, operating costs and wellness for its occupants. This burning ambition made us work hard on meeting international standards on energy and environment and even exceed some of them. We were one of the first existing buildings to be certified as USGBC LEED platinum and its today globally recognized for its healthy indoor air quality. One example is free cooling for buildings, which takes advantage of naturallyoccurring phenomena to control temperatures, Although the technologies involves may require initial cash outlay, the renewal resources they rely upon are freely available and reliable, which will eventually pay off. The CAPEX on using plants and technology for air purification and lowering CO2 levels in the air inside offices pays for itself by way of lower OPEX relating to Electricity bills. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 26 Another example is the energy consumption of PBC that uses Technology and over 7,000 plants to Grow its own Fresh air. The average annual energy consumption of the BEE 5 star rated building, certified USGBC LEED Platinum and CII-IGBC rated Platinum for Health and Wellbeing of its occupants is currently < 18 whr /hr /m2. This is less than half of the normal A class buildings, while the C02 levels indoors are < 600 ppm and PM 2.5 under 15 ug/m3, when the ambient (outdoors) is 350 ug/m3. We at PBC constantly try and headed towards conservation of energy and we make annual plans with budgets and resource mobilization to achieve our targets.  For the year 2019-2020, projects are kept on hold as PBC is looking for major structural changes, modernization in the infrastructure & business model.  Proper analysis is to be done prior to structural changes in accordance with various certifications and ratings systems  Building assessments – Mechanical, Electrical, Plumbing, Design, Structural etc. assessments are in progress.  Building has achieved maximum energy efficiency with the current operating systems, good practices, conservation measures and preventive maintenance of equipments.  PBC’s main motto is to sustain with the present AAhEPI that is 19 Wh/hr/sq.mt or to further implement high investment projects and reduce energy demand. Some of the high investment proposed project are: (a) Modification of Façade (b) Upgradation of Windows (c) Extension of Solar Panels (d) Increase production of solar power generation through windows COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 27 SDG 10 Reduce in-equality within and among countries PBC supports & confirm to UNDP SDG Goal No. 10. We does not believe in any kind of inequality based on caste, color, gender, religion or region and we strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace & at the time of recruitment only qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women candidates, candidates from marginal sections of the society & differently-abled. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders –Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal:  We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate.  Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners.  Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 28 SDG 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable PBC aspires to have a positive impact on the communities in which we operate worldwide and recognize our responsibility toward those who are affected – either directly or indirectly – by our operations and activities. We rely on local communities not only for our workforce but also for some of our suppliers and our ability to carry out our business. Through ongoing engagement and dialogue, we work to understand the concerns and needs of our communities, and we seek to respond by addressing local challenges in ways that build stronger communities and support the sustainability of our business. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services were provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Our key stakeholders benefited from our social initiatives were: The immediate communities, office-goers of the area, residents of nearby area, other business houses, corporate, members of Govt. Agencies i.e. DDA, Police, MCD, Fire department etc, apart from our own employees and clients of our building. PBC worked with several Government agencies / departments to improve the conditions of roads, regulating traffic movement, removal of garbage and Clean-up drives leading to a better place and improvement of surroundings and improvement of the ambient air. We encourage our employees to do voluntary social work for the economically and socially backward classes of our society. In fact this is part of our Corporate Social Responsibility programme, wherein employees voluntary help either by contributing time or money in situations of National Calamities and emergency, in order to help the Government and the authorities in controlling the extent of damage and helping in providing relief. They also voluntarily contribute to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund on an annual basis as this is one of the most credible entities where we are sure our money / contribution will be put to good use – for the poor and need of our society. Our employees also participate in social activities – Cleaning, brooming the roads and watering plants in Nehru Place Green Park, which is in the vicinity. We are also associated with two NGOs – NPG Society and TCPI and our employees extend their official time in promoting their social causes, which works to more than eight hours of paid time, twice a year. This also includes creating awareness on environment and other social issues by organizing special sessions for school children and also for the children from the nearby slum areas. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 29 Our Contribution towards Development of “Nehru Place Greens” Park (NPG) PBC Established an NGO, ‘Nehru Place Greens’ (NPG) to improve the areas surrounding our building. Surrounding area of PBC housed slums and was faced with problems of excessive garbage, poor traffic regulation, etc. In 1996, PBC got an MoU signed with Municipal Corporation of Delhi. More than 2000 trees were planted in an area of approximately 3.5 acres with the primary objective to improve the green cover and the ambient air quality. Surrounding area was cleaned & greened. Following facilities were provided by Nehru Place Greens:  Promote general welfare of the area including cleaning of the roads, garbage collection & disposal, watering & maintaining the trees, shrubs plants etc in NPG Park & surrounding area.  We also have a dedicated sweeper who cleans the approach roads on a daily basis.  Liasoning with Govt. authorities in order to maintain the roads, lighting & the general maintenance of the area.  NPG partners with Fire and Traffic department to ensure proper traffic regulation and legal parking of vehicles in the area in order to allow free access to fire tending machines in case of any emergency situation or major disaster  An Air-Cooled PortaCabin with a Public Address System.  Provided 3 guards who are traffic wardens and assist the traffic police in regulating traffic in the area.  CCTVs installed in the area to monitor the traffic and defaulters from the Porta Cabin itself.  Our traffic wardens are constantly on the move in the area to regulate traffic and are interacting on a regular basis with the crane vendor to facilitate towing of illegally parked vehicles in the area. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 30  SDG 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns RESPONSIBLE FOOD PRODUCTION It’s been our constant endeavor to encourage healthy food eating practices at PBC. Offering organic food and food from sustainable farming is in line with our values of corporate social responsibility and care for the environment. Our occupants are conscientious and we are sensitive to their requirements. We have adopted the use of organic products in our food and beverage department and are able to cater to our sensitive occupants and at the same time encourage others too, to adopt this healthy and pollution free food option. In order to do so we at PBC endeavor to sell / offer organically grown labeled / certified food items. SAFE FOOD PREPERATION MATERIALS Food preparation is a very complicated process in the food cycle and therefore each aspect of this process needs to be handled with a lot of care to ensure the finished food is fit, safe and healthy for consumption. Right from hand washing, to the washing of vegetables, lentils, rice etc, and proper care needs to be taken to ensure food does not get contaminated. Therefore in this process of food preparation the equipment used to prepare food can become a source of potentially hazardous contaminant and thus requires meticulous planning. Surfaces or boards where vegetables, meat etc are cleaned / diced / cut / chopped, knives used have to be cleaned as per documented processes and need to conform to food grade quality. Equipments such as non-stick pots and pans can leach and volatize during the cooking process. Good Hygiene & Manufacturing Practices are followed. Food, Water & Air parameters are tested regularly from certified Lab. All Food is cooked / prepared under controlled conditions & Raw material is purchased from the best suppliers / sources. We believe in using fresh cooking material and condiments & vegetables, fruits, meat, poultry items, breads, milk, curds etc is purchased on a daily basis COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 31 SERVING SIZES To ensure sustainable consumption at PBC we ensure, consuming the right amount of food is a key to good health and keeping excess weight at bay. Excessive caloric intake thru easy access to oversize meal options leads to obesity. Recent studies have proved that humans tend to eat in excess when have access to larger plates / bowls as compared to the smaller ones. Therefore it’s important to right size our food intake by reducing the size and caloric content of meals. This surely helps in restricting / minimizing the chances of unintended overeating and limiting the resources. To implement this, it’s important that the meal sizes are rightly apportioned along with the size of the dinnerware. In view of this we have an option in our cafeteria where a portion of the entrée that is 650 calories or less is sold @ a lower cost compared to the larger regular version. So we have a Mini – Thali (Plate) as an option along with the regular / large Thali (Plate) We also have plates / bowls and cups that conform to the following sizes:  Circular Plates: The diameter of a plate is no larger than 24 cm (9.5 inches)  Non-Circular plates: the total surface area of a plate does not exceed 452 cm (70 inches)  Bowls are no larger than 296 ml (10 oz)  Cups no larger than 240 ml (8 oz) Without imposing any restriction on individual choice, we offer options for a healthy diet both in terms of quantity and calorific content. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 32 SDG 13 Take urgent actions to combat climate change and its impacts Paharpur Business Centre & TCPI (The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter) PBC has been proactive in the activities of The Climate Reality Project. Our CEO, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI). The Climate Reality Project, founded and chaired by former Vice President and Nobel Laureate Al Gore, is dedicated to unleashing a global cultural movement demanding action on the climate crisis. The Climate Reality Project, Indiaan independent chapter of this international organization was established in March 2008 with the help of Al Gore and Dr. R K Pachauri. Their mission is to catalyze a global solution to the climate crisis by making urgent action a necessity across every level of society. PBC has partnered with TCPI in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives, and has also been rendering continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. This program aims at taking the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools, ultimately reaching out to 1 million children. This will inculcate climate-based solution metrics in the children and further help them in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. “Climate change is the biggest global health threat of the 21st century.” The 2018 Report of the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change When PBC started its business it was required to follow the standard operating norms for any large commercial facility. Be it energy, water consumption, waste handling or thermal comfort, the standards were not challenging enough and the customers were also not demanding them in India. We had different ideas, out ambition was not to create another facility in Delhi but to create a world class building which could compete with the best in facilities, operating costs and wellness for its occupants. This burning ambition made us work hard on meeting international standards on energy and environment and even exceed some of them. One example is free cooling for buildings, which takes advantage of naturallyoccurring phenomena to control temperatures, Although the technologies involves may require initial cash outlay, the renewal resources they rely upon are freely available and reliable, which will eventually pay off. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 33 The CAPEX on using plants and technology for air purification and lowering CO2 levels in the air inside offices pays for itself by way of lower OPEX relating to Electricity bills. Another example is the energy consumption of PBC that uses Technology and over 7,000 plants to “Grow its own Fresh Air”. The average annual energy consumption of the BEE 5 star rated building, certified USGBC LEED Platinum and CII-IGBC rated Platinum for Health and Wellbeing of its occupants is currently < 18 whr /hr /m2. This is less than half of the normal A class buildings, while the C02 levels indoors are < 600 ppm and PM 2.5 under 15 ug/m3, when the ambient (outdoors) is 350 ug/m3. We have found that increasing CO2 levels, not only increases temperature, which is the cause of Climate Change, but is a pollutant for the Human Brain, reducing our cognitive ability. Food supply, Availability of water, Health, Safety of Infrastructure, and our Cognitive ability are all at risk Climate change is stacking the deck against a healthy human population. Heat stress, air pollution, and waterborne diseases are all influenced by a changing climate. Climate change is happening because of increase in CO2 emissions and Co2 is a pollutant for the human brain, and its relationship to cognitive ability. The brain weighs only 2% of the body weight, but uses 20% of the oxygen that we breathe. Increased Co2 in the Atmosphere means Temperature increase – the cause for Climate Change. A recent finding by Harvard University, USA is that – CO2 is a pollutant for the Human Brain www.thecogfxstudy.com The Study demonstrated that improved indoor environmental quality relating to CO2 < 600 ppm and TVOC’s < 50ug /m3, resulted in substantial higher Cognitive ability. Participants who processed information, had scores that were 299% higher than in the conventional environment. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 34 SDG 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources Use of Single –use plastic at Paharpur Business Centre is strictly prohibited. At PBC, we restrict single-use by:  Avoiding use of straws  Use reusable produce bags for the dustbins installed in all the suites.  Frequent stores that use paper  Buy in bulk  Stop buying bottled water  Buy cardboard over plastic COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 35 PBC A Unique Workspace that supports your Breathe Fresh & Work Smart @ PBC Success, Happiness, Health & Wellbeing Breathe Fresh & Work Smart @ PBC Designed & Published by: Quality Assurance Paharpur Business Centre 21, Nehru Place Greens, New Delhi – 110019 T: +91-(0)-11-4120 7171 F: +91-(0) 112620 7575 E: ruchi@pbcnet.com W: www.pbcnet.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019-2020 Copyright © 2020 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Page 36
